
    
      Combination HIV prevention demonstrates significant promise in reducing burden of disease. To
      maximize its effectiveness combination prevention must be tailored to a given context and
      population. From the beginning of the global HIV epidemic, female sex workers (FSWs) have
      been found to be at heightened risk for infection. More recently the role that sex work plays
      in ongoing HIV transmission dynamics has been more clearly established in generalized
      epidemics, where previously limited attention was paid to the role of key populations. The
      greater vulnerability of FSWs is now widely understood to be associated with social and
      structural factors including the intense stigma, discrimination and violence they often face
      and the unsafe environments in which they live and work. These factors are known to limit
      both protective sexual behaviors and engagement in HIV testing, care and treatment services.
      Comprehensive, community-based HIV prevention approaches addressing the aforementioned social
      and structural vulnerabilities to HIV infection among FSWs have been shown to be effective in
      South Asia and in Latin America. However, in sub-Saharan Africa where the impact of HIV is
      the greatest, no systematic efforts to develop and evaluate the feasibility and effectiveness
      of community-based combination HIV prevention among FSWs has occurred.

      The investigators will conduct a two-arm Phase II community randomized controlled trial of a
      community-based combination HIV prevention intervention among FSWs in Iringa, Tanzania. The
      model was developed on the basis of prior formative research and mapping and utilizes an
      ongoing research infrastructure. The combination package will include integrated biomedical,
      behavioral and structural components: (1) mobile HIV testing and risk reduction counseling;
      (2) service navigation to facilitate access to treatment and retention in care; (3)
      sensitivity training for HIV clinical care providers; (4) SMS text messages to promote
      adherence to care and ART; (5) venue-based peer education and condom distribution; and (6) a
      community drop-in-center to promote cohesion and collective action to reduce stigma and
      discrimination. The investigators seek to establish base rates of key outcomes including HIV
      incidence and viral load suppression, examine the socio-structural and behavioral pathways of
      the intervention, assess feasibility, acceptability and safety, and document preliminary
      effectiveness. Should compelling indications of safety, feasibility, acceptability and
      initial effectiveness be found, study results will inform the first Phase III RCT of
      community-based combination HIV prevention among FSWs.
    
  