
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if surgical secondary cytoreduction in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy
      increases the duration of overall survival in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive
      epithelial ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      II. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phases of
      treatment increases the duration of overall survival relative to second-line paclitaxel and
      carboplatin alone in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive epithelial ovarian cancer,
      peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phase of
      treatment increases the duration of progression-free survival relative to second-line
      paclitaxel and carboplatin alone in patients with recurrent platinum sensitive epithelial
      ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer.

      II. To prospectively determine the incidence of carboplatin and paclitaxel hypersensitivity
      in these patients undergoing retreatment with both agents as first recurrence therapy.

      III. To determine if surgical secondary cytoreduction in addition to adjuvant chemotherapy
      increases quality of life (QOL) in patients with recurrent platinum-sensitive epithelial
      ovarian cancer, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube cancer, as measured by the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Ovarian (FACT-O) trial outcome index and Rand Short Form (SF)-36
      physical functioning scale.

      IV. To determine if the addition of bevacizumab to the second-line and maintenance phases of
      treatment increases QOL relative to second-line paclitaxel and carboplatin alone in patients
      with recurrent platinum-sensitive epithelial ovarian, peritoneal primary or fallopian tube
      cancer.

      TRANSLATIONAL RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To define molecular and biochemical profiles associated with the duration of
      progression-free survival in platinum-sensitive recurrent ovarian, peritoneal primary or
      fallopian tube carcinoma treated with combination chemotherapy with or without bevacizumab
      followed with or without maintenance bevacizumab therapy in the presence or absence of
      secondary surgical cytoreduction.

      II. To identify molecular determinants that predict sensitivity or resistance to carboplatin
      and paclitaxel with or without bevacizumab followed with or without maintenance bevacizumab
      therapy.

      III. To bank deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) from whole blood for research and evaluate the
      association between single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and measures of clinical outcome
      including overall survival, progression-free survival and adverse events.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 4 treatment groups. Patients who are not candidates
      for surgical cytoreduction (i.e., those for whom complete cytoreduction in the estimation of
      the investigator is impossible or a medical infirmity precludes exploration and debulking)
      are eligible to receive chemotherapy after randomization.

      Patients who are eligible for surgery undergo abdominal exploration with cytoreduction.
      Patients are then randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours or docetaxel IV over 1
      hour and carboplatin IV over 60 minutes on day 1.

      ARM II: Patients receive chemotherapy as in Arm I and bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on
      day 1.

      ARM III: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      carboplatin as in Arm I.

      ARM IV: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV as in Arm III, bevacizumab IV and
      carboplatin IV as in Arm II.

      In all arms, courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients with measurable disease achieving a clinical response (CR) receive 6-8 courses of
      therapy. Patients with stable disease or partial regression receive a maximum of 8 courses.

      Patients without measurable lesions as determined by a computed tomography (CT) scan prior to
      initiating study treatment continue therapy for 6 courses or, if cancer antigen (CA)-125
      normalizes, for 2 courses beyond CA-125 normalization, whichever is greater. Patients in Arm
      II then receive a maintenance regimen comprising bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes. Treatment
      with bevacizumab alone repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then yearly for 5 years.
    
  