
    
      1. Main Objectives:

        1. Building a risk score model and decision tree algorithm with an acceptable certainty for
           early prediction of BSI or other invasive infections caused by CRKp in CRKp carriers.

        2. Comparison of risk score model and decision tree algorithm in terms of sensitivity and
           specificity rates, positive predictive and negative predictive values

        3. Evaluation of risk score model and decision tree algorithm in terms of convenience for
           routine clinical use

      2. Hypothesis

      2.1 Main hypothesis:

      Presence of immunosuppression, invasive devices, gastrointestinal surgery within prior 3
      months, multi-site colonization beside stool, older age, diabetes as a comorbidity, admission
      to ICUs, presence of carbapenemase gene in CRKp that causes colonization, type of
      carbapenemase (eg. blaOXA-48 and blaKPC ), high SOFA score, high APACHEII score, high ECOG
      score (>2), short time interval between identification of colonization and development of BSI
      or other type of invasive infection are independent risk factors for development of
      subsequent BSI or other invasive infections in CRKp colonized participants

      2.2 Secondary hypothesis:

        1. Sensitivity and specificity rates are similar in risk score model and decision tree
           algorithm.

        2. Positive and negative predictive values are similar in risk score model and decision
           tree algorithm.

        3. Both risk score model and decision tree algorithm are feasible for usage in our daily
           practices.

      3. Study Design:

      Prospective multi-centre multinational study

      4. Setting and study period:

      Tertiary care hospitals form different parts of the world will be included in DETERMINE
      trial. Study period is scheduled to be 01.04.2020-01.04.2021 or longer until pre-defined
      sample size is attained. Each participant will be included only once at the time of first
      infectious episode (BSI or other type of invasive infections) caused by CRKp or any other
      bacteria even if more than one infectious episode is reported. Local (primary) investigators
      will collect microbiological and clinical data of participants and record these data in a
      standardized electronic case report form. Site investigators will screen all patients who are
      admitted to ICUs, burn ward, solid and bone marrow transplant units, all patients who are
      admitted to wards in which an outbreak with CRKp is detected, all patients who share the same
      room with a patient colonized or infected with CRKp by rectal swab with once a week interval
      regularly. The participants who have CRKp rectal colonization will be screened by axillary,
      inguinal and surgical wound screening as well. These patients will be followed for emergence
      of BSI or other types of invasive infection for 90 days starting from identification of
      rectal colonization (day 0). Periodic rectal screening with once a week interval will be
      applied for non-colonized patients during their hospitalization. Carbapenem resistance in
      Klebsiella pneumonia isolates will be determined according to 2015 CDC criteria.

      5. Sample Size:

      The sample size can be determined by the number of parameter included in logistic regression
      model. Ideally, the number of participants that should be involved is calculated by
      multiplying the number of parameters involved in multivariate logistic regression model with
      40. Therefore, the sample size needs to be at least 520 if all hypothesized parameters take
      place in logistic regression model (Peduzzi P., Concato J., Kemper E., Holford T.R.,
      Feinstein A.R. (1996), A Simulation Study of Number Per Variable In Logistic Regression
      Analysis, J.Clin.Epidemiology, Vol 12, 1373-1379).

      6. Follow-up

      The regular assessment of participants will be carried out during hospitalization and after
      discharge. it will be performed in once a month interval through 90-days follow-up. The
      participants will be primarily evaluated for occurrence of any type of invasive infection
      (blood stream or other type of invasive infections). The participants will be warned to apply
      to our centres until the completion of 90-day follow-up period when symptoms of infection
      develop (eg fever, chills). Also, participants will be informed to call physicians who are
      primary investigators of particular centre when they arrive to hospital clinic or emergency
      department. Primary investigators will evaluate participants and send their culture samples
      according to clinical necessity. After review of the results of cultures and clinical
      presentation, the patients will be allocated into one of three different groups constituted
      by (i) infections with carbapenem resistant Klebsiella pneumonia, (ii) invasive infections
      with other type of microorganisms and (iii) non-infectious groups. In statistical analysis,
      cases with bloodstream infection and other types of invasive infection will be grouped and
      analysed separately. If the participant is discharged before completion of the 90-days,
      he/she will be contacted in 30-days interval by telephone call to appraise the investigated
      outcomes.

      7. Microbiological Analysis:

      Antimicrobial susceptibility tests (AST) will be performed in each centre and not be
      repeated. Therefore, AST results will be obtained from hospital database. Multiplex PCR will
      be used for identification of type of carbapenemases among CRKp isolates (both isolates
      recovered in rectal swab sample and blood or other site cultures). EUCAST breakpoints will be
      applied for identification of carbapenem resistant Klebsiella pneumonia. Rectal swab
      processing and identification of CRKp colonization will be performed according to CDC
      recommendations as follows: Perirectal swabs will be placed into universals containing 5 ml
      tyriptic soy broth (Oxoid, UK) with an ertapenem 10 ug disk and send to the reference centre
      in each country for overnight incubation at 37 °C. The broth cultures are then inoculated
      onto MacConkey agar (Oxoid, UK), and lactose-fermenting colonies are identified with an
      automatized system such as API20E or Vitek-2 etc. and confirmed by MALDI-TOF Biotyper CA
      system (Bruker, Daltonics, Bremen, Germany). Carbapenem resistance will be determined
      phenotypically with ertapenem E-test (bioMerieux, France) and the isolates with a MIC value
      of > 0.5 mg/L are reported as CRKp.

      In BSIs or other invasive infections, only the first CRKp isolate of each patient will be
      included. Multiplex PCR (Polymerase chain reaction) will be applied for identification of
      type of carbapenemase genes in clinical CRKp isolates. Clonal relatedness and sequence typing
      of CRKp isolates will be determined by using MLST (Multi-locus sequence typing) method. Both
      multiplex PCR and MLST will be performed in reference centres of each country.

      8. Statistical Analysis:

      In this study, the patients who develop BSI with CRKp vs. any bacteria vs. do not develop any
      infection will be matched in a 1:1:2 ratios by using relevant parameters. The same procedure
      will be applied for the patients who develop invasive infections without bacteremia. The
      variables are expressed as absolute numbers and their relative frequencies. Continuous
      variables are expressed as mean and SD if normally distributed, or as median and
      interquartile range (IQR) if non-normally distributed. Discrete variables for the matched
      pairs were compared by McNemar's test; for continuous variables we used the Wilcoxon test.
      All the variables being associated with CRKp BSI or other invasive infections in the crude
      analysis (p <0.1) were included in a backward, stepwise multivariate logistic regression
      model, separately. Overall goodness of fit for model will be analyzed by Akiake's Information
      Criteria (AIC) and Nagelkerke's R-square. Discrimination of the model will be assessed by
      receiver-operator curve (ROC) characteristics. Internal validation of final risk score model
      and decision tree algorithm will be made with last 1/3 enrolled patients of all cohort
      (validation cohort). The data of first 2/3 recruited patients will be used to develop risk
      score model and decision tree algorithm (derivation cohort). The risk of development of
      subsequent BSI wtih CRKp vs. any other bacteria vs. patients not having any type of
      infections through 90-days follow-up in CRKp colonized patients will be assessed by cox
      proportional hazards models in separate analyzes as well as the risk of development of other
      invasive infections in the same groups through 90-days follow-up will be analyzed by the same
      statistical method.

      To develop the risk score, variables that maintain statistical significance in the
      multivariate regression model will be assigned a point value corresponding to the
      beta-coefficient divided by the lowest beta-coefficient identified in the regression model,
      and the resulting quotient will be multiplied by two and rounded to the nearest whole number.
      Summation of the points generated by the calculated risk factors will result in a
      quantitative score that will be assigned to each patient in the database. Optimal breakpoint
      will be assigned by the Youden's J statistic.

      In summary, a decision tree will be built using the following steps: (1) identification of
      the most appropriate single variable that can divide the dataset into 2 groups ("nodes"),
      best minimized impurity of CRKp BSI or other invasive infections with CRKp status in each
      daughter node, according to the Gini impurity criterion, (2) repetition of the branching
      process within each daughter node and subsequent generations of nodes and (3) cessation at
      "terminal" nodes when no additional variables achieve further reductions in node impurity by
      applying pre-defined cut-off values for branching.
    
  