
    
      The study will consist of 4 phases: a screening, an induction, randomization and follow-up
      phase.

      Screening phase: Screening assessments will be conducted within 28 days prior to initiation
      of Induction Phase treatment to determine each patient's overall eligibility. These
      assessments will include medical history; physical examination; Eastern Cooperative Oncology
      Group (ECOG) performance status (PS); 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG); echocardiogram (ECHO);
      vital signs; laboratory assessments; radiologic assessments of disease status; and an
      evaluation of the vasculature compatibility for Percutaneous Hepatic Perfusion (PHP).

      Induction phase: The initial 12 weeks of the study, all patients will receive 4 cycles of
      cisplatin/gemcitabine. Each cycle will be comprised of cisplatin dosed at 25 mg per square
      meter of body-surface area (BSA), followed by gemcitabine dosed at 1000 mg per square meter
      of BSA; dosing will occur on Days 1 and 8 of each cycle. At the completion of 3 cycles (week
      8 (+1 week)) of cisplatin/gemcitabine, an imaging scan is performed as per standard of care
      to determine if the patient has progressed on treatment or should continue receiving the
      cisplatin/gemcitabine induction therapy for one more cycle (4th cycle - prior to
      randomization). At the completion of 4 cycles (week 12 (+1 week)) of cisplatin/gemcitabine,
      patients will undergo whole-body imaging to determine the status of their disease. Patients
      with progressive disease (PD) will be discontinued from study treatment, and will receive
      further treatment to be determined by the principal investigator (PI). They will continue to
      be followed until death or the end of the study. Patients who have at least stable disease
      (SD) at imaging after induction phase of 4 cycles of cisplatin/gemcitabine (week 12 (+ 1
      week)) will go on to the next phase of the study (Randomized Treatment Phase).

      Randomization phase: Patients who have at least stable disease via imaging at the end of the
      Induction Phase will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to Melphalan/HDS treatment or to continue
      cisplatin/gemcitabine in cycles previously described in the Induction Phase, until
      progressive disease (PD) or unacceptable toxicity is observed. Patients who were randomized
      to treatment with Melphalan/HDS (dosed at 3.0 mg/kg Ideal Body Weight [IBW]) must undergo
      their first treatment within 14 days following the whole body imaging performed at end of the
      Induction Phase. For Melphalan/HDS treatment, patients will receive up to 6 treatments. Each
      treatment cycle will consist of 6 weeks with an acceptable delay for up to another 2 weeks
      before the next planned treatment to allow for additional recovery, if needed. After the
      Melphalan/HDS treatment, in the absence of disease progression, the patient should undergo a
      re-induction of CisGem. Tumor response will be assessed in both treatment arms every 8 weeks
      (+ 1 week) until PD.

      The assessment scans will be reviewed by Independent Review Committee (IRC). At any time when
      PD is observed, the patient will be removed from further study treatment; any further
      treatment will be at the discretion of the investigator. Melphalan/HDS treatment will also be
      discontinued in the event that recovery requires more than 8 weeks from last treatment. An
      end-of-treatment visit will be conducted approximately 6 to 8 weeks following the final dose
      of study treatment. Ongoing adverse events (AEs) at the end-of-treatment visit will be
      followed until the severity returns to common terminology criteria for adverse events (CTCAE)
      Grade < 1.

      Follow-up phase: In the event that disease has not progressed at the end-of-treatment visit,
      disease assessment scans will continue every 8 weeks (+ 1 week) until PD is documented.
      Patients will be contacted by phone every 6 months for survival status for the first two
      years following the completion of study treatment, then yearly thereafter until death,
      withdrawal of informed consent or they become lost to follow-up, whichever occurs first.
      Patients will be monitored for two years following the completion of study treatment for the
      development of myelodysplasia and secondary leukemia.
    
  