
    
      Alcohol Use Disorder (AUD) and insomnia are both more prevalent among Veterans than in the
      general population. While insomnia is 3-9 times more prevalent in AUD than in the general
      population, patients with comorbid AUD and insomnia suffer from higher severity of AUD with
      increased alcohol craving, reduced quality of life, impaired interpersonal functioning,
      higher risks for suicidal behavior and relapse during early abstinence. There are limited
      options to treat drinking behavior and insomnia due to side effect profile (disulfiram) or
      only modest impact on drinking outcomes (naltrexone and acamprosate). Topiramate (TOP), an
      FDA-approved medication for seizures and migraines, showed moderate effect sizes in achieving
      abstinence and decreasing craving, when compared to placebo, in a recent meta-analysis.
      However, TOP therapy did not provide clinical improvement in objective sleep or subjective
      insomnia. Furthermore, hypnotic medication treatments with trazodone, gabapentin, and
      ramelteon have shown variable impact for sleep disturbance and abstinence. By contrast, all
      four studies evaluating Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia (CBT-I) have shown a large
      magnitude of effect for treating insomnia but with minimal to no effect on abstinence. Thus,
      combining TOP and CBT-I will strengthen their recovery and improve their overall functioning.
      This combination treatment will be the first personalized intervention in treating Veterans
      with AUD and comorbid insomnia.

      A sample of treatment-seeking Veterans with AUD (N=174) will be initially treated with TOP
      200 mg a day for six weeks, and then randomized to receive either CBT-I (N=87) or Sleep
      Hygiene Education (SHE, a behavioral placebo intervention) (N=87) weekly for the next eight
      weeks. The investigators will conduct CBT-I following the standard protocol using 30-minute
      sessions to deliver its components (Sleep Restriction, Stimulus Control, Sleep Hygiene and
      Cognitive Therapy). A post-intervention visit will be conducted eight weeks after the
      intervention phase. The primary outcome measure will be the Percent Days Abstinent (as
      computed from the Time Line Follow Back interview) and the insomnia severity (as assessed
      using the Insomnia Severity Index). Also, the investigators will track other aspects of
      alcohol use, sleep and daily functioning using TLFB, PACS, sleep diaries, BDI, and the STAI
      to test whether successful treatment of drinking and insomnia will be associated with better
      clinical outcomes in AUD. It is hypothesized that in Veterans with AUD, the combination of
      TOP+CBT-I, as compared to TOP+SHE group, will lead to 1) a more significant percentage of
      days abstinent from alcohol, and 2) superior sleep-related outcomes along with pre-post
      treatment effect sizes comparable to the meta-analytic norms. If these hypotheses are
      supported, the findings will need to be validated in a larger multi-center trial. If
      validated, the findings would support: 1) including insomnia treatment as a standard
      component of the initial protocol for treating AUD comorbid with insomnia, and 2) using
      TOP+CBT-I combination treatment to manage this subpopulation of AUD patients.
    
  