
    
      The human body's blood sugar levels are tightly controlled by the hormone insulin, produced
      by the pancreas. If the pancreas produces too much insulin, then the blood sugar will fall to
      low levels (hypoglycaemia). Insulin overproduction can happen as a result of the body
      misreading a change in blood sugar levels after eating (such as after obesity surgery) or
      through tumours of the pancreas which overproduce insulin (insulinomas).

      Hypoglycaemia can cause subtle symptoms such as tiredness, poor concentration, or dizziness
      and if untreated more severe symptoms including fits, coma and death. Low blood sugars can go
      unnoticed at night and if levels fall frequently, people can lose their ability to notice
      subtle symptoms.

      People suspected of having hypoglycaemia require a series of investigations to try and
      reproduce a low blood sugar under controlled conditions. This often requires an admission to
      hospital for a few days and multiple finger pricks to test the blood sugar - which patients
      often find painful. If low blood sugars caused by too much insulin are confirmed then medical
      treatment is started in the first instance, with surgery possibly following later. The only
      way to check whether these medications are working is by home fingerprick glucose
      measurements. If people have low sugars at night or have lost their ability to notice
      symptoms of low blood sugar, it is very difficult to be sure that the medical treatment is
      working.

      The investigators plan to use continuous glucose monitoring probes to measure patient's blood
      sugar prior to and during admission for formal investigation for hypoglycaemia (alongside
      conventional fingerprick and blood testing). This might allow us to exclude hypoglycaemia as
      a cause of their symptoms, avoiding lengthy admissions.

      The investigators will also use this technology (alongside fingerprick testing) to test how
      well medical treatment is working in patients with proven hypoglycaemia.
    
  