
    
      Background HCV-related chronic hepatitis represents the most common cause of chronic liver
      disease in Italy, with an estimated prevalence of 1-1.1% in the general population, reaching
      about 15% in subjects over 50 years of age. Chronic HCV infection is the cause of 27% of
      cases of cirrhosis and 25% of cases of hepatocarcinoma. Persons with chronic hepatitis C
      present a prevalence of depressive disorders higher than that of the general population (59%
      vs. 21%). Moreover, there has been repeatedly demonstrated the presence of cognitive
      deficits, mainly concerning attentive, executive, and verbal comprehension, also in the
      absence of liver cirrhosis and comorbidities due to the use of substances, and a reduced
      quality of life. Chronic hepatitis C therapy was based on the combined use of pegylated alpha
      interferons (PEG-INF) and ribavirin, with SVR (sustained virological response, defined as
      HCV-RNA undetectable in serum at six months after the end of therapy), normalization of
      transaminases and improvement of liver histology, altogether in 60% of cases. Recently, new
      antiviral drugs with direct activity (e.g. antiprotease and antipolymer activity) have been
      introduced into hepatitis C therapeutic protocols, with the development of PEG-INF-free
      therapeutic schemes. Unfortunately, because of the excessive cost, in many Countries,
      including Italy, the access to PEG-INF-free schemas is only for patients with advanced
      fibrous stages, or who have concomitant extra-hepatic viral diseases HCV-related, or those
      already transplanted, while others are still expected to be treated with PEG-INF and
      ribavirin.

      There are frequent side effects of antiviral therapy, often of minor magnitude, but sometimes
      incompatible with the continuation of therapy or life threatening. The most common adverse
      effects are influenza-like symptoms, occurring in more than half of the patients, especially
      during the first treatment period, and psychiatric symptoms (depression, anxiety,
      irritability, insomnia), which occur around the third month of treatment from 12 to 41% of
      patients. However, in persons with chronic hepatitis C, a high lifetime prevalence of major
      depressive disorder and panic disorder, and brief recurrent depression have been observed,
      irrespective of PEG-INF treatment and the use of alcohol and narcotic drugs; such
      associations between mood and anxiety disorders and chronic hepatitis C may reflect a high
      prevalence of bipolar disorder, which is more difficult to diagnose using non-dedicated
      screening tools. Some symptoms before treatment start, such as lack of pleasure or interest,
      asthenia, loss of appetite, social withdrawal, reduced work function, and hostility, are
      highly predictive of the onset of depressive disorders during antiviral therapy. Poor
      cognitive performance prior to antiviral therapy, coupled with the only depressive symptom of
      sadness, is predictive of more severe depressive disorders during antiviral treatment.
      However, cognitive deficits found before therapy appear potentially reversible and tend to
      completely recede when there is a virological response sustained by antiviral therapy. The
      presence of severe psychopathological symptoms leads to a reduction in posology and high
      rates of discontinuation of antiviral therapy.

      Careful psychiatric and neuropsychological evaluation before, during and after antiviral
      treatment should therefore be an indispensable part of screening and HCV-related chronic
      hepatitis therapy. This project represents an innovative psychiatric and neuropsychological
      screening program for persons with chronic hepatitis C, eligible for antiviral therapy. This
      program aims:

        -  to determine which psychopathological symptoms and cognitive deficits are more frequent
           in persons with chronic hepatitis C;

        -  to verify the impact of antiviral therapy on persons' reported quality of life, and on
           the onset, aggravation, maintenance of psychopathological symptoms and/or cognitive
           deficits;

        -  to determine which psychopathological and neuropsychological symptoms are predictive to
           high compliance and the effectiveness of antiviral therapy;

        -  to verify the existence of specific psychopathological and neuropsychological patterns
           in persons with chronic hepatitis C before, during and after antiviral therapy;

        -  to produce a standard procedure for psychiatric and neuropsychological screening in
           patients with HCV-related chronic hepatitis.

      Early identification of subjects at risk of psychiatric and cognitive disorders during
      antiviral therapy will effectively treat individuals at risk of discontinuing the antiviral
      therapy itself, improving the quality of the treatment and the effectiveness of the
      treatments.

      Design Observational study on a sample of persons with chronic hepatitis C. The experimental
      cohort will consist of participants who will be admitted to new antiviral treatments. The
      control cohort will consist of subjects recruited later, for which there is no immediate
      possibility of access to new treatments (wait-list).

      Selection of the sample

      The study will be conducted at the Center for the Study of Liver Diseases at the University
      Hospital of Monserrato, Cagliari. It is intended for subjects with chronic hepatitis C
      consecutively afferent to the facility, eligible for antiviral therapy. From the whole sample
      of cases will be drawn two cohorts:

        1. approximately 50 subjects with chronic hepatitis C, selected to receive new antiviral
           therapy immediately;

        2. approximately 50 subjects with chronic hepatitis C, who are eligible to receive new
           antiviral therapy, but are on a waiting list for non-availability of the treatment.

      Statistical analysis The data analysis will be carried out after the end of the study and in
      the next 3 months, by setting up a complete database for each participant, including in an
      anonymous form the socio-demographic and anamnestic data, and the data from the assessments
      performed at baseline and in subsequent times. The sample will be analyzed for frequency of
      lifetime and current psychiatric disorders, current cognitive deficits, subjectively
      perceived Quality of Life, depressive, hypomanic and manic symptoms, and patterns of
      biological rhythms. Data analysis will be done with multivariate techniques, for evaluating
      the effect and interaction of the various factors. The presence of psychiatric disorders and
      cognitive deficits will be considered dependent variables. The psychopathological specificity
      of symptoms related to antiviral treatment will also be measured in terms of different
      frequencies of specific psychiatric/neuropsychological symptoms and specific profiles of
      response to antiviral therapy. The whole sample will be compared at the baseline with a
      normative sample extracted with a computerized matching technique (4 controls each case) by
      gender and age from the database of a Italian population study. Through matchings 1: 4 it
      will be possible to increase the sample size and increase the statistical power of the study.
      The data analyses will be performed through SPSS (Statistical Package for Social Science)
      software.

      Funding This project is a spontaneous study, without any source of funding. Ethical Aspects
      The study will be conducted in accordance with the ethical principles contained in the
      Helsinki Declaration. The final study protocol was approved by the Ethics Independent
      Committee of the Azienda Ospedaliero Universitaria di Cagliari (approval record N.
      PG/2015/16964).

      Informed consent The interviewer will give clear and comprehensive information about the
      nature and the assumptions of the study to the respondents. Participants will also be
      informed of the possibility of interrupting the interview and withdrawing the consent to the
      study at any time. Interviewees will be required to sign an informed consent form.

      Data protection The subjects enrolled in the study will be given information about data
      protection and the privacy law. The interviewer will explain that the study data will be
      placed in a database with anonymous codes to maintain confidentiality, in accordance with
      local data protection laws.
    
  