
    
      The incidence of postoperative delirium (POD) following major surgery ranges from 17% to
      61%.POD is the most frequent neurological complication that can occur in both the young and
      old, and its rate is considerably impacted by patient-related risk issues. The elderly
      population is believed to be more susceptible to POD, by virtue of being host to conditions
      such as a variety of comorbidities, malnutrition, concurrent cognitive dysfunction, frailty,
      sensorial and functional deficits, and polypharmacy.

      Risk factors for delirium may be further identified as predisposing factors and precipitating
      factors. Predisposing factors are those that are present on admission and are not changeable,
      e.g. age, number and severity of co-morbid medical conditions, sensory impairment, history of
      cognitive impairment, sleep deprivation, immobility, and dehydration.Precipitating factors
      are those that trigger delirium while the patient is hospitalized. These may be infections,
      constipation, bladder catheterisation, procedures involving instrumentation, immobility, and
      sensory impairment

      Postoperative delirium, especially in the elderly, significantly compromises patient recovery
      and imposes a heavy toll on patient well-being and the healthcare system. Postoperative
      delirium has several wide-ranging and adverse outcomes associated with it, such as mortality,
      increased length of hospital stay and increased hospital costs.

      Several tools have been developed to track changes in mental status that could point to the
      onset of delirium. Among the tools employed for this purpose are the Sedation Scale, the
      Nursing-Delirium Screening Scale (Nu-DESC), and the Confusion Assessment Method for the
      Intensive Care Unit (CAM-ICU).

      However, there is a lack of consensus on the use of an appropriate tool to evaluate delirium
      in the postoperative period. The 4A's test is a screening instrument that has been designed
      for rapid and initial assessment of delirium. It has the added advantage of evaluating not
      only delirium but also postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) which is the second most
      common complication in elderly surgical patients.

      Delirium is a condition that is presumed to be avoidable in 30%-40% of cases which emphasizes
      the importance of attention to primary prevention.5 After the onset of delirium, little can
      be done to influence its duration, severity, or the possibility of recurrence. Thus, the
      necessity for identifying those at risk of developing postoperative delirium. It is
      imperative that hospitals should implement multimodal non-pharmacologic delirium prevention
      methods to identify and monitor patients at risk of developing this morbid condition.

      There has been scant research in the developing world, including India in the sphere of
      postoperative delirium, a condition germane to practically all medical specialities and
      especially in the elderly population. Our study will research POD we expect to obtain
      evidence that will find the clinical application.

      Our study will be focused on evaluating the incidence of POD in the elderly who will be
      posted for non-cardiac surgical procedures. We will also assess the association of
      postoperative delirium with risk factors such as frailty, cognitive dysfunction, impaired
      functional status, presence of comorbidities and polypharmacy. Other postoperative adverse
      events such as sedation, pain, postoperative nausea and vomiting will be recorded. Patient's
      length of stay in the hospital (LOS), any unanticipated ICU admission and mortality within 30
      days will also be noted.

      The following parameters will be recorded in all the patients,

        1. Postoperative delirium: It will be evaluated using 4 A's test, three times in the first
           24 hours postoperatively. A score of 0 suggests absence of delirium or severe cognitive
           impairment, score 1-3 suggests presence of possible cognitive impairment, and a score >
           4 suggests the presence of delirium/ cognitive impairment.

        2. Frailty: All eligible patients will be assessed preoperatively using the 9-point CFS.
           Score varies from 1-9 with fitness level very fit to terminally ill as depicted in the
           table

        3. Cognitive dysfunction: Preoperative cognition will be assessed using the 5-point
           Mini-cog test. A score < 4 will be taken as cut-off for impaired cognitive function

        4. Impaired physical mobility: All preoperative mobile patients will be subjected to Timed
           Up and Go (TUG) test. A score of <10 s is normal and score of <20 s need assistance.

        5. Intraoperative hemodynamics (pulse, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure,
           and mean arterial blood pressure) will be recorded every 5-minutes intraoperatively and
           every 15-minutes postoperatively in the postoperative care unit (PACU) till discharge. A
           mean arterial blood pressure <65 mmHg persisting for greater than 5-minutes despite
           treatment will be defined as an episode of intraoperative hypotension.

        6. Postoperative sedation:Sedation will be assessed postoperatively using the Richmond
           Agitation and Sedation Scale. Score varies from +4 to -5 and patient will be categorised
           from combative to unarousable as depicted in table.

        7. Postoperative pain will be assessed using the 10-point Numeric Rating Scale (NRS)

        8. Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) It will be assessed using 3-point Likert scale
           (0- no nausea and vomiting, 1- nausea only, 2- vomiting)

        9. Length of stay in the hospital and any unanticipated ICU admission will be noted.

       10. All patients will be followed up postoperatively for 30-days and any occurrence of
           mortality will be noted.
    
  