
    
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an heterogeneous group of cancers classified
      together on the basis of morphology, immunophenotype, genetic alterations and clinical
      behavior. The distinction of DLBCL into cell-of origin (COO) categories, based on patterns of
      gene expression reminiscent ( germinal center B-cell- the GC group and activated B-cell- the
      ABC group-), as defined and characterized by the Lymphoma & Leukemia Molecular Profiling
      Project (LLMPP), has profound biological, prognostic and potential therapeutic implications
      and in addiction, the negative prognostic effect of myelocytomatosis oncogene (MYC), B-cell
      lymphoma 2 (BCL2) and B-cell lymphoma-6 (BCL6) alterations in DLBCL has been showed largely
      dependent on COO subtypes . Furthermore, the combination of BCL2, MYC and BCL6 alterations
      with IPI (International Prognostic Index), identifies markedly worse prognostic groups within
      individual COO subtypes. The original methods used to define these entities, performed gene
      expression profiling (GEP) using microarrays on RNA derived from frozen tissue (FT).
      Subsequently, in an attempt to determine COO in standard practice using commonly available
      formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue (FFPE) less precise but relatively inexpensive binary
      immunohistochemical (IHC) methods has been used . However in particular in non GC, the rate
      of concordance was unsatisfactory. A high degree of agreement has been demonstrated instead
      in COO determining, with a signature of 20 genes from formalin-fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE)
      tumor specimens, with Lymph2Cx kit (nCounter® Technology, NanoString Technologies), becoming
      the gold standard suggested in World Health Organization (WHO) classification . However
      recently, was demonstrated that the COO and BCL2, MYC, BCL6 status are not enough to describe
      the molecular risk of these patients, suggesting a genetic substructure that still to be
      discovered . Moreover, the tumor microenvironment and in particular the ratio of immune
      effectors and checkpoint molecules also have a prognostic role in DLBCL. Besides, elevated
      frequency of myofibroblasts, dendritic cells, and cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4) positive
      T cells correlated with better outcomes.

      In conclusion, a comprehensive genomic analysis of these patients and a deep characterization
      of the immune compartment and immune checkpoints (Nanostring, immunohistochemistry for BCL2,
      MYC, BCL6, mutation analysis, proteomic analysis etc.) joined with IPI score, will allow the
      creation of a mixed, molecular, clinical, index (MMCI) to identify extremely poor prognostic
      groups, within each COO subtype, to consider a risk-adapted treatments in future.

      It is a prospective observational study with a total duration of 36 months. The primary
      objective is the identification of new prognostic biomarkers for DLBCL patients in terms of
      progression-free survival (PFS) and able to add predictive capacity to recognized important
      clinical factors.

      The secondary objectives are:

        -  to identify new biomarkers associated with overall survival (OS) and objective response
           rate (ORR);

        -  to characterize tissue and circulating immune microenvironment of DLBCL patients by bulk
           and single cell transcriptomics;

        -  to assess the correlation between the expression of immune - checkpoint genes and mRNA
           signature;

        -  to describe the mutational status of a panel of genes relevant to DLBCL pathogenesis;.

        -  to assess the correlation between protein expression, mutational status and the mRNA
           signature.

      For each enrolled patient, immunohistochemical determinations will be performed by each
      Pathology Unit: COO (GC o ABC type according with Hans algorithm ), evaluation of CD20, CD5,
      CD10, Bcl6, Bcl2 (cut off>50%), MUM1/IRF4, c-myc (cut off>40%) and Ki67, FISH for c-myc and
      if rearranged, for Bcl2 e Bcl6). Moreover, paraffin embedded (FFPE) tumor specimens will be
      collected for RNA extraction and mRNA expression analysis and centralised at IRST-IRCCS.
    
  