
    
      ENABLE is an evidence-based concurrent oncology palliative care model that is ready for
      implementation. It can overcome the barriers created by rural geography and addresses the
      often unrecognized and unmet needs of the family caregivers. The EIT is an emerging
      conceptual model for translating evidence into practice. The central core is the linkage
      between evidence and stakeholders. Successful implementation results from the interaction of
      Intervention Program/Policy (ENABLE), Implementation Processes (community-based participatory
      research methods[CBPR] within a learning collaborative) and the Practical Progress Measures
      (RE-AIM). On-going consideration of the Multi-level Context is pivotal to successful
      implementation. This approach has the potential to have a high impact on reducing disparities
      resulting from the gap between ASCO recommendations and current oncology and palliative care
      practices in rural patients and families.

      The Urgent Need to Improve Rural Palliative and End-of-life Care for Patients and Caregivers
      According to the 2010 US Census data, nearly 60 million citizens live in rural or
      non-metropolitan areas; however, less than 10% of the 833 US palliative care programs are
      located in rural areas (data provided by the Center to Advance Palliative Care Registry).
      Rural advanced cancer patients are vulnerable and at high risk of experiencing social
      isolation and disparities in palliative care due to long distances from treatment centers,
      low population density, and limited clinical expertise (because rural primary care clinicians
      and hospices programs have relatively few terminally-ill patients.) Rural location is related
      to less and later hospice use. Hence, most rural cancer patients are unlikely to have access
      to interdisciplinary team-based palliative and hospice care recommended by ASCO2 and National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines. These patients will lack this expertise or be
      transferred to a distant site for palliation.6 Patients transferred to distant tertiary care
      settings are at high risk of spending their last days or weeks of life far from home and
      loved ones. Conversely, rural patients may suffer during their last weeks or days of life
      without the benefit of state-of-art treatments of pain or other causes of distress. A US
      palliative care report card identified rural location as high risk for little access to
      palliative care. By definition, palliative care includes family caregiver support. An
      estimated million Americans are informal caregivers defined as an unpaid individual who
      assist someone with functional impairment with activities of their daily living to some
      degree. Informal caregiving can have deleterious effects on the caregivers' physical and
      emotional health; a phenomenon referred to as caregiver burden. A recent meta- analysis
      showed that cancer caregivers in particular, compared to non-caregiver controls, exhibited
      higher levels of stress and depression, and lower subjective well-being and physical health.
      ENABLE includes the evidence-based, caregiver-specific COPE (Creativity, Optimism, Planning,
      Expert information) intervention, developed by McMillan and colleagues. COPE, based in
      problem-solving education theory, is designed to improve caregivers' creative
      problem-solving, realistic optimism, reasonable goal-setting, and knowledge/utilization of
      relevant resources. Compared to usual care, two weeks post-intervention, caregivers in COPE
      showed improvements in caregiver burden and overall QOL. COPE is the basis of the ACS
      caregiving guide and has been adapted for caregivers in other diseases.
    
  