
    
      Implementing a home visit program during pregnancy is a comprehensive and important strategic
      step to prevent adverse birth outcomes during pregnancy. Studies in the literature suggest
      that care provided at home or by one-on-one healthcare personnel can encourage healthy
      prenatal behaviors with psychosocial support, social service and nutritional support. Home
      visit programs instead of standard antenatal care (ANC) have the potential to make a
      difference. For home visits to be effective, home visitors should not only inform women about
      the risks and values of certain behaviors, but also help them develop individualized
      strategies for behavior change.

      The importance of home visits in prenatal pregnancy follow-up in the nineteen century has
      been demonstrated by many studies. Today, home visits are supported by studies in the
      literature, as it is a healthy start to life and a more promising model for reaching pregnant
      women. A Cochrane study published moderate evidence that women prefer flexible home visits
      rather than a rigid appointment system.

      Turkey Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) prior to birth by the 2018 four and older
      care-taking rate in care increased by a certain momentum until 2013, there has been a
      significant change in the ratio between said from 2013 to 2018. Although the total fertility
      rate in Turkey is 2.3, it varies according to the regions. The age at marriage for
      adolescents is 15%, and the rate of becoming an adolescent mother is 4%. Delivery methods of
      women result in 54% of cesarean delivery. 29% of women are overweight and 30% are obese.
      Turkey Statistical Institute (TSI), according to the women's smoking rate was 13.1%. There
      are a limited number of studies reflecting the smoking status of pregnant women in the
      country. In a study conducted on this subject, the rate of smoking during pregnancy was
      reported as 37% of women who smoke before pregnancy. Considering the data on women's health
      and reproductive health, new models are needed for the provision of preventive health
      services that will realize the goals of "maternal mortality" and "healthy and quality life",
      which are among the sustainable development indicators of the country. Antenatal care is an
      important key for lowering the maternal mortality rate and for a healthy and quality life in
      pregnancy. Prenatal care in Turkey is such that there will be at least four follow-ups.
      Current antenatal care guidelines recommend more contact with pregnant women. Models are
      needed to monitor and increase the results of antenatal care. For Turkey, there is a need to
      present the 'Antenatal Care Guide' published by the Ministry of Health with a model designed
      in accordance with the data and culture of the country for primary care follow-up. There is
      currently no strong evidence that home visits improve the use of routine antenatal services,
      but most studies do not yet shed detailed light on this issue.

      There are 50 different home visit models serving in different areas around the world. Main
      goals; to play a common role in maternal, child health and healthy shaping of parents' lives.
      Most of these models work on the basis of evidence. There are 16 models with maternal
      results. While some of the models have a very good effect on maternal outcome, there is
      research showing that some are lower. Each model also differs in terms of follow-up time and
      service providers. Some home visit patterns start with pregnancy and continue until the
      newborn is two years old, while some home visits may be shorter. Some models are run by
      nurses, some are assistant professionals in nurse supervision (a job title given to people
      who are trained but not professionally licensed to assist professionals in various
      professions such as education, health, engineering, and law) and non-professionals (mentor
      mothers who give birth and breastfeed) done by. In other models, social workers,
      psychologists, child mental health assistant specialists and / or assistant assistants in
      this field are managers.

      In Turkey, ANC is among the routine services in order to increase the level of maternal
      health and reduce maternal mortality, and it is applied throughout the country. According to
      the "Antenatal Care Management Guideline", pregnant women are followed up at least four times
      if there is no risk. The guide recommends that each pregnant should be followed up for at
      least four times. It is recommended to perform once between 24 weeks, third follow-up between
      28-32 weeks and fourth follow-up between 36-38 weeks.

      Today's understanding of health in Turkey and developing countries still focuses on the
      treatment of diseases and patient care. However, nurses working in primary health care,
      preventive health care, healthy individuals and healthy families have taken important steps
      to develop individual family functionality. The duration, frequency and intensity of home
      visits raise many evidence-based results. It is among the results that it decreases the risks
      especially related to lifestyle and preterm birth. Home visits during the prenatal period are
      seen as a part of continuous and comprehensive health care that enables pregnant women and
      their families to be evaluated as a whole within their own living space. In Turkey, home
      visits to pregnant women were first started to be carried out by health centers with the
      socialization law of health in 1960, and especially the pregnant women were identified by
      home visits. The family medicine system was switched to the whole country in 2010 and a new
      system was introduced with the health transformation law. Home visits are defined in the
      Family Medicine Regulation, but there are deficiencies in practice.

      In this context, the antenatal care process carried out in primary care is supported by
      pregnant home visits as a new model, increasing the satisfaction of women from the service
      procurement, getting qualified prenatal care and consequently reducing the risks, being
      educated about pregnancy and birth, postpartum periods, and normal birth. It will help the
      mother to be prepared, reduce depression and increase her self-efficacy in breastfeeding.
    
  