
    
      Breast cancer ranks first in the incidence of female malignant tumors and second in
      mortality. It is mainly classified into luminal A, luminal B, human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 positive, basal-like and other special types of breast cancer. Epidemiological
      studies have shown that the incidence of luminal A breast cancer is 44.5-69.0%, mostly in
      early-stage patients and postmenopausal women, with a low mortality rate and distant
      metastasis rate. Luminal A breast cancer is usually invasive. Although it is not sensitive to
      chemotherapy, luminal A breast cancer is sensitive to endocrine therapy. Therefore, the
      treatment of luminal A breast cancer is a combination of surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy
      and endocrine therapy.

      After surgical removal of breast cancer, follow-up should be conducted according to the
      National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines to monitor the prognosis at any time.
      Conventional follow-up is mainly based on imaging examination, but the cost of many imaging
      examinations is high, so a cost-effective examination is urgently needed.

      Circulating tumor cells are tumor cells that fall off from solid tumors (primary and
      metastatic foci) and enter the peripheral blood. In recent 30 years, circulating tumor cells
      have become one of the new tumor molecular markers. Detection of the number and protein
      expression of circulating tumor cells can diagnose the disease, judge the prognosis and
      monitor the therapeutic effect. Epithelial-mesenchymal transition and overexpression of
      epithelial cell adhesion molecule in circulating tumor cells suggest that the prognosis of
      cancer patients is not good. By comparing the number of circulating tumor cells in blood
      before and after surgery or radiotherapy and chemotherapy,whether the treatment is effective
      or not can be judged, which has important clinical research and application value. Currently,
      many clinical trials have used circulating tumor cells to monitor the prognosis in breast
      cancer. Circulating tumor cells may develop abnormalities 4-6 months earlier than
      conventional imaging examination, and PET-CT can only find subclinical lesions 4-6 weeks in
      advance. Thus, as long as circulating tumor cells of patients are abnormal, timely PET-CT
      examination will neither miss diagnosis nor delay the condition. Simultaneously, the cost of
      hospitalization can be obviously reduced.

      This non-inferiority randomized controlled clinical trial is designed to compare the
      differences in postoperative conditions between circulating tumor cell detection and
      conventional imaging examination in patients with luminal A breast cancer without lymph node
      metastasis.
    
  