
    
      Specific aim 1: To assess working memory in participants with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and
      its change in response to a 4-week course of bilateral rTMS of DLPFC.

      Hypothesis 1a: Compared to healthy individuals, participants with AD will be impaired on the
      N-back task.

      Hypothesis 1b: Compared to sham rTMS, active rTMS will result in improvement on the N-back
      task in participants with AD at 1 week and 4 weeks after the treatment.

      Specific aim 2: To assess DLPFC theta-gamma coupling during working memory performance in AD
      and its change in response to a 4-week course of bilateral rTMS of DLPFC.

      Hypothesis 2a: Compared to healthy individuals, participants with AD will be impaired on
      DLPFC theta-gamma coupling during the N-back task.

      Hypothesis 2b & 2c: Compared to sham rTMS, active rTMS will result in improvement in DLPFC
      theta-gamma coupling during the N-back task in participants with AD at 1 week and 4 weeks
      after the treatment.

      Specific aim 3: To assess DLPFC neuroplasticity using PAS in participants with AD and its
      change in response to a 4-week course of bilateral rTMS.

      Hypothesis 3a: Compared to healthy individuals, participants with AD will be impaired on
      PAS-induced neuroplasticity.

      Hypothesis 3b: Compared to sham rTMS, active rTMS will result in improvement on PAS-induced
      neuroplasticity in participants with AD at 1 week and 4 weeks after the treatment.

      Specific aim 4: To assess change in working memory, theta gamma coupling and DLPFC
      neuroplasticity at 6 months after the course of bilateral rTMS.

      Hypothesis 4: Compared to sham rTMS, active rTMS group will perform better on measures of
      working memory, theta gamma coupling and PAS- induced DLPFC neuroplasticity 6 months after
      the course of rTMS.

      Specific aim 5: To assess the change in general cognitive function at 4 weeks and 6 months
      after the course of bilateral rTMS.

      Hypothesis 5: Compared to sham rTMS, active rTMS group will perform better on measures of
      general cognitive function at 4 weeks and 6 months after the course of rTMS.

      Specific Aim 6: To assess insight in AD at baseline and any change in insight at 4 week and 6
      month post rTMS follow up. H6: Participants with AD will have impaired insight into illness
      and cognitive function and they will experience improved insight at 4 week and 6 month follow
      up points.

      Specific Aim 7: To validate a new scale for insight in AD , 'The Scale to Assess Anosognosia
      in Neurocognitive Disorders' (SAND) for its ability to assess insight at baseline and any
      change at 4 weeks and 6 month follow up points. H7: In participants with AD, SAND will be
      able to assess insight into illness and cognitive function at baseline, and will be able to
      detect change in insight at follow up points.
    
  