
    
      Patients were included in the study from May 2019 to May 2020 if they had chronic nonspecific
      low back pain of more than 12 weeks according to the French health authority (High Authority
      of Health).

      The data for this study were collected after validation by the ethics committee
      (Institutional Review Board). Initial data were collected from generation of a list of
      computerized medical records of low back pain patients who participated in the program
      between May 2018 and May 2019 and were hospitalized in the day or week area of follow-up and
      rehabilitative care : age, sex, BMI, marital status, clinical elements related to the
      low-back pain (total duration of low back pain, history of spine surgery, last spinal
      imaging, pain measured on a visual analog scale, analgesic consumption, tobacco consumption,
      physical activity, self-exercise, physiotherapy, Schober index, finger-ground distance,
      poplitates angles, heel-buttock distance) and professional situation (professional status,
      carrying heavy loads, sick leave accumulated prior hospitalization for back pain,
      professional status, occupational disease, occupational accident, disability, half-time
      therapy).

      One-year post-program data were collected by telephone after consent was received. The
      investigators collected the date of return to work, elements concerning the conditions of
      return to work (modification of the previous position, working time, type of contract, work
      stoppages related to back pain, evolution of global job satisfaction before/after program )
      and clinical elements (change in pain after the program, physical activity, self-stretching
      exercises, spine operation after the program,satisfaction of the rehabilitation program,
      benefit provided by the program).

      Reference Methodology MR-004 was applied to the study after approval by the Data Protection
      Officer (CNIL). An information letter was sent to the selected patients to comply with the
      applicable regulations (RGPD). The patient was not included if he returned the non-consent
      form.

      Program : The duration of hospitalization was 2 weeks and the care program was delivered, for
      each patient, by the same medical and paramedical team including doctors, physiotherapists,
      occupational therapists, a nurse. There was no change in the program during the 2018-2019
      year, so the hospitalized patients received the same program. The functional restoration
      program included stretching and muscle strengthening of the spine and sub-pelvic planes,
      abdominal sheathing, gymnastics, exercise re-training sessions, self-exercise training,
      balneotherapy, relaxation sessions, sessions of body awareness and ergonomics.
    
  