
    
      Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the 9th most common cancer in Australia, the 10th most common
      cancer in Western populations1. Approximately 75% of kidney cancers are clear-cell renal cell
      carcinomas (ccRCC). Current treatments for metastatic ccRCC include VEGFR tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKIs) and mTOR inhibitors and while many patients benefit from first-line VEGFR
      TKIs, progression is inevitable and these treatments remain palliative. Second-line VEGFR
      TKIs and mTOR inhibitors have some benefit but in a smaller increment than first-line
      treatment. ccRCC is highly immunogenic with benefit from adjuvant autologous vaccines,
      high-dose IL2 in selected patients and spontaneous remissions seen in a fraction of patients.
      Cytokine immunotherapy delivered durable complete responses in a subset of patients who
      survived the very high toxicity of these agents, but use of cytokine immunotherapy is
      uncommon in modern practice.

      Preclinical data and case reports suggest that denosumab, an inhibitor of RANKL signalling,
      might potentiate the anti-tumour effects of immunotherapy with pembrolizumab, an antibody
      directed against PD-1, without overlapping toxicities.

      This study aims to determine the activity and safety of pembrolizumab and denosumab in
      advanced clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), in patients with disease progression during
      or after VEGFR TKI treatment.

      Adults with unresectable or metastatic ccRCC progressing after treatment with a VEGFR TKI.
      Key eligibility criteria include target lesion(s) according to RECIST 1.1, good performance
      status (ECOG PS 0-2), no history of significant autoimmune disease, tumour sample available
      (archival or recent biopsy), and no previous treatment with immunotherapy.

      All participants will receive the study interventions of pembrolizumab and denosumab. All
      participants will receive the study interventions of pembrolizumab and denosumab.
      Pembrolizumab will be given every 3 weeks at a dose of 200mg and denosumab will be given on
      day 1, day 8, day 22 and then every 21 days (3 weekly) thereafter as a single subcutaneous
      injection. Treatment with pembrolizumab and denosumab will continue until evidence of
      clinical progression or prohibitive toxicity, or withdrawal of consent, up to a maximum
      duration of 2 years.

      70 eligible participants will be recruited from 15 sites in Australia and New Zealand over a
      2 year period.
    
  