
    
      Research Problem:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and hypothyroidism are both commonly found in clinical
      practice, and share a number of symptoms and clinical features. It has been shown that
      hypothyroid subjects are at high risk of developing sleep disorder breathing and OSA, and
      adequate thyroxine treatment may reduce the sleep disordered breathing.. However, the
      time-course and effect of treating subclinical hypothyroidism in OSA patients on the
      respiratory events during sleep is not known.

      Subclinical hypothyroidism is associated with an increased risk of coronary heart disease
      (CHD). Dyslipidemia is a known complications of subclinical hypothyroidism (2)and the effect
      of thyroxine treatment on lipid profile is controversial . Some reports suggested higher
      serum high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP), than healthy subjects ; however, the
      effect of levothyroxine is controversial .

      Research Significance:

      This project will help us to know if the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism will improve
      the symptoms and reduce the progression of OSA, which may improve patients' quality of life
      by reducing the complication of OSA (hypertension, , depression, Cardiovascular diseases,
      etc.) or may even reduce mortality.

      It will help us to know the effect of subclinical hypothyroidism treatment on of lipid
      profiles and hs-CRP.

      Research Objectives:

      Primary objective:

      • Effect of the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism on the apnea hypopnea index (AHI)
      score.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Effect of the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism on the lipid profile in patient
           with dyslipidemia.

        -  Effect of the treatment of subclinical hypothyroidism on hs-CRP

      Research Methodology:

      Patients with subclinical hypothyroidism will undergo first Polysomnography (PSG) (night 0)
      and laboratory investigations including lipid profiles and hc-CRP and then they will be
      enrolled and randomly assigned to receive either levothyroxine replacement therapy or
      identical placebo tablets in a blinded manner. The starting dose will be 25 mcg/day and the
      dose will be adjusted every 6 weeks to target TSH level between (0.25 -2.5 IU/mL). We will
      keep all patients on replacement dose for duration of 24 weeks. PSG will be performed twice
      only for OSA patient, after 12 weeks (night 1) and after 24 weeks (night 2). Lipid profile
      and hs-CRP will be done at the end of 24th weeks.
    
  