
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and the transplant-related mortality (TRM)
      and toxicity of delivering 131I-BC8 (iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8) (anti-cluster of
      differentiation [CD]45 antibody) at a starting dose of 22 Gy to the normal organ receiving
      the highest dose in combination with the non-myeloablative regimen of fludarabine
      (fludarabine phosphate) (FLU), 2 Gy total body irradiation (TBI), cyclosporine (CSP),
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched related or unrelated
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) in patients 16 to 50 years old who have
      advanced acute myeloid leukemia (AML) or high risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      II. To estimate rates of donor chimerism resulting from this combined preparative regimen and
      to correlate level of donor chimerism with estimated radiation doses delivered to
      hematopoietic tissues via antibody.

      III. To determine rates of disease relapse, graft vs. host disease, and 2-year disease-free
      survival in patients receiving 131I-BC8 antibody combined with FLU, 2 Gy TBI, CSP, MMF, and
      HLA-matched related or unrelated allogeneic HSCT.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8.

      RADIOIMMUNOTHERAPY: Patients receive therapeutic iodine I 131 monoclonal antibody BC8
      intravenously (IV) on day -12.

      CONDITIONING: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV on days -4 to -2 and undergo TBI on
      day 0.

      TRANSPLANTATION: After completion of TBI, patients undergo allogeneic peripheral blood stem
      cell (PBSC) transplant on day 0.

      IMMUNOSUPPRESSION: Patients with a matched related donor receive cyclosporine IV or orally
      (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 to 56 followed by a taper to day 180 in the absence of
      graft-versus-host disease. Beginning 4-6 hours after PBSC transplant, these patients also
      receive mycophenolate mofetil PO BID on days 0 to 27. Patients with a matched unrelated donor
      receive cyclosporine IV or PO BID on days -3 to 100 followed by a taper to day 180. Beginning
      4-6 hours after PBSC transplant, these patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil PO thrice
      daily (TID) on days 0 to 40 followed by a taper to day 96.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months
      and then annually thereafter.
    
  