
    
      Depression is a major global health problem. Major depression was ranked as the third leading
      cause of the global burden of diseases in 2004 and is supposed to occupy the first place by
      2030. Major depression is a complex and multifactorial symptom-complex while dysfunctions in
      various endocrine axes may be independent risk factors in the development of the affective
      illness. Some recent observations indicate a significant role of vitamin D regarding mood.
      Vitamin D3 receptors have been found in cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and the limbic system.
      The active form of vitamin D on the nervous system is associated with modifying the
      production and release of neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth factor (NGF) which is
      essential for neuron differentiation, as well as increasing the levels of glial cell line
      derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF). Vitamin D influence the expression of genes associated
      GABA-ergic neurotransmission. It also stimulates the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase which
      is responsible for catecholamines biosynthesis. Lately, positive influences of vitamin D upon
      patients suffering from MDD have been suggested. This area require further attention and
      confirmation as little work has been carried out in this field. So, the present study is an
      attempt to investigate the effect of vitamin D administration along with SSRIs in patients
      with MDD. The study would be a interventional one to be conducted in the department of
      Pharmacology and in the department of psychiatry, BSMMU. A total of 90 patients suffering
      from major depression will be selected according to inclusion and exclusion criteria. The
      diagnosis of patients suffering from major depression and the selection of SSRIs would be
      performed by medical officer of the Psychiatry department. After completing necessary
      formalities including informed consent of the patients, patient's data will be collected to
      measure baseline complaints of depression. The patients would be divided into two groups:
      group A and B. Group A would consist of 45 patients who will receive only SSRIs and Group B
      would consist of 45 patients who will receive SSRIs plus vitamin D (2000IU) orally once
      daily. Blood sample will be collected to measure serum vitamin D and calcium level at
      baseline. Then again blood sample will be collected to measure serum vitamin D level after 8
      weeks of vitamin D administration. Regularity of medicine intake will be ensured over
      telephone, pill count, and from the patient's compliance sheet. The study has entails almost
      no potential risk to the patients. Patients would have every right to quit the experimental
      procedure any time during the experimentations if they desire each. However, it will be
      explained to them that the results of the present study may offer better prospects for
      similar patients in future, and that the present experimentations would carry no potential
      risk towards their health or their lives provided they strictly follow the instructions
      conducted to them.
    
  