
    
      The IN•clued program for youth consists of a three-hour in-person workshop for youth which
      includes lessons about safe sex practices and self-efficacy at healthcare centers, exam room
      roleplays, and a discussion on patient rights. Youth receive a Zine, or a magazine-style
      booklet, that they may take home. They also receive a list of local healthcare providers that
      highlights those that have participated in the IN•clued healthcare provider workshop or have
      had training on working with the LGBTQ population. Program youth can also receive text
      messages with health tips and reminders to visit a healthcare center.

      Workshops take place with LGBTQ youth groups through schools, community-based organizations,
      or conferences. Each segment is led by adult facilitators or trained peer educators with
      adult facilitator support. These peer educators are from the Planned Parenthood Teen Council
      peer education program. Teen Council is a unique peer education program created in 1989 by
      PPGNHI. It is a strong and successful peer education program that trains high school youth to
      become experts in delivering inclusive, comprehensive sexual health education to their peers
      via group and community presentations. If trained peer educators are used, they implement the
      intervention with the guidance and oversight of an adult facilitator.

      Participants in the control condition receive a benign intervention, which like IN•clued,
      meets in a group setting.

      Once a site or group is defined, facilitators send implementation forms to Philliber. The
      evaluation team reviews the information and asks any needed questions which vary by group or
      site. The two groups cannot differ in any significant way (e.g., gender, SES, ethnicity, or
      special characteristic such as pregnant and parenting participants). All decisions about
      final eligibility are made by the research team. If two groups or sites are similar, they are
      approved. If they differ in a significant way, they are not eligible for the study.

      Random assignment of the groups does not technically occur until the baseline administration
      of the survey is completed as participants can be both added and subtracted from the group
      list until the time of survey administration. One facilitator at each location is informed of
      the outcome of random assignment before or during the administration of the baseline survey.
      This is done so random assignment can occur immediately after surveys are conducted as this
      is a one-time workshop and participants do not give assent to participate until this time.
    
  