
    
      The proposed study is a multi-center open label phase II study of the chemotherapy doublets
      cisplatin/vinorelbine and cisplatin/pemetrexed as adjuvant therapy in early stage
      non-squamous NSCLC.

      Eligible patients had no previous treatment for the current diagnosis of NSCLC. The two
      treatment groups of patients will be determined by gene expression profile analysis of each
      patient's tumor: one group of vinorelbine-sensitive patients and one group of
      pemetrexed-sensitive patients. The genomic expression profiling that was utilized generated a
      percentage for likelihood of chemotherapy sensitivity. Patients were directed to receive the
      chemotherapy regimen for which the percentage of predicted sensitivity is highest. For
      instance, if the model predicted the likelihood of tumor sensitivity was 46% to vinorelbine
      and 48% to pemetrexed, then the adjuvant chemotherapy would be directed to
      cisplatin/pemetrexed. Patients whose tumors could not be adequately analyzed for gene
      expression were offered adjuvant therapy off protocol as deemed appropriate by their primary
      oncologist. Patients with either squamous or non-squamous cell histology were eligible to
      participate in this study as indicated in study protocols dated prior to January 25, 2010. An
      amendment to the protocol on January 25, 2010 indicated inclusion of only non-squamous
      histology. However, because of low accrual after January 25, 2010 (5 patients, including 2
      screen failures), this report reflects the original study outcomes that includes both
      squamous and non-squamous histologies.

      Thirty-one patients with stage IB (> 4 cm), II or IIIA non-squamous NSCLC were enrolled, from
      which 24 were assigned treatment. The vinorelbine-sensitive tumors group received Vinorelbine
      25 mg/m2 days 1 and 8, followed by cisplatin 75 mg/m2 day 1, every 21 days for 4 cycles. The
      pemetrexed-sensitive tumors group received pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 day 1 followed by cisplatin
      75 mg/m2 day 1, every 21 days for 4 cycles. Standard pre-medication regimens included
      dexamethasone, vitamin B12 and folate supplementation in the pemetrexed group. Patients in
      both groups will receive up to a maximum of 4 cycles of therapy.

      Subsequent reevaluation of the genomic signatures of chemotherapy sensitivity have shown that
      they were irreproducible, suggesting inaccurate patient assignments into the two treatment
      arms. As a result, it would be inappropriate to separately analyze outcomes for the different
      treatment groups. Instead, information from both arms will be combined to reflect the overall
      measure of two-year progression-free survival in this study. Similarly for secondary
      objectives, both arms will be combined to address endpoints.

      To assess patient understanding and perceptions of participating in a clinical trial
      evaluating cancer genomics for adjuvant treatment of early stage lung cancer, patients
      provided responses for the following questions at baseline:

        1. Did your doctor talk to you today about choosing chemotherapy treatment for lung cancer
           based on the genomics of your tumor?

        2. How well did you understand what you doctor told you about choosing chemotherapy based
           on the genomics of your tumor? (circle a number between 1 and 7, where 1 = very poorly
           and 7 = very well)

        3. Do you think the type of chemotherapy that you will get is based on the genomics of your
           tumor?

        4. Do you think you will get better medical care for the treatment of your lung cancer if
           it is based on the genomics of your tumor?

        5. To what extent do you think treating lung cancer based on the genomics of the tumor will
           lead to more successful treatment strategies? (circle a number between 1 and 7, where 1
           = definitely will not lead to a more successful treatment and 7 = definitely will lead
           to a more successful treatment)

        6. How effective do you think chemotherapy will be at stopping your cancer from coming
           back? (circle a number between 1 and 7, where 1 = not at all effective and 7 =
           completely effective)

        7. To what extent is YOUR lung cancer primarily caused by genetics? (circle a number
           between 1 and 7, where 1 = not at all caused by genetics and 7 = completely caused by
           genetics)

        8. To what extent to do you think your lung cancer is treatable? (circle a number between 1
           and 7, where 1 = definitely not treatable and 7 = definitely treatable)

        9. Did your doctor talk to you about your chance of your lung cancer coming back? (Yes - go
           to question 10, No - go to question 11, Do not know - go to question 11)

       10. What did your doctor say was your chance of your cancer coming back? (Low Risk, Moderate
           or intermediate risk, High risk, Do not know)

       11. What do you think is your chance of your lung cancer coming back in the next year on a
           scale from 1 to 7 where 1=definitely will not come back and 7=definitely will come back?

       12. How worried are you that your lung cancer will come back in the next year? (circle a
           number between 1 and 7, where 1=not at all worried and 7=extremely worried)
    
  