
    
      The number of cancer survivors is rising worldwide. For example, in the United States, the
      number of cancer survivors is projected to increase by 31%, from 16.9 million in 2019 to 22.2
      million by 2030, of which two-thirds are aged 65 or above. Hong Kong is also facing a growing
      number of cancer survivors, especially in older adults, due to advances in early detection
      and treatments and an aging population. The Hong Kong Cancer Strategy 2019 launched by the
      Hong Kong Government and Hospital Authority seeks to enhance cancer survivorship and
      surveillance management.

      Older cancer survivors, making up the majority of survivors, tend to suffer from the combined
      effect of aging and long-term impacts of cancer, resulting in higher morbidity rates and
      poorer health-related quality of life than older adults without a cancer history. Tailored
      care for survivorship in older adults with cancer is highly important to reduce healthcare
      and economic burdens. In geriatric oncology, frailty status is an emerging health indicator
      with prognostic value. Nearly 80% of older cancer survivors have pre-frailty and frailty
      status that is linked to adverse health outcomes such as disability, impaired quality of
      life, falls, and death. There is a tremendous need to develop effective lifestyle
      interventions to reverse frailty status in the older cancer survivors. However, many clinical
      trials exclude participants older than 65 years old, and in real-world practice, many
      clinicians and policymakers advocate lifestyle modifications for older survivors less
      frequently than for younger survivors. The proposed project responds to an urgent research
      agenda in cancer survivorship that calls for interventions for addressing frailty.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of a 16-week Baduanjin intervention
      on reversing frailty status among pre-frail and frail older cancer survivors. Reversal of
      frailty status is expected to be accompanied by improvements in patients' functioning,
      psychological well-being, and quality of life, and can reduce health service utilization and
      healthcare costs. Baduanjin is a simple form of qigong and can be performed by participants
      as and when needed after appropriate training. If the intervention proves effective, the
      widespread incorporation of qigong into treatment recommendations for cancer survivors can be
      easily translated into practice with little healthcare professional or patient burden.
    
  