
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine whether morbidity can be reduced while preserving survival by
      substituting cyclophosphamide for ifosfamide in adjuvant combination chemotherapy in
      standard-risk patients with Ewing's sarcoma or peripheral neuroectodermal tumor (PNET). II.
      Determine whether survival is improved without unacceptable toxicity for high-risk patients
      with Ewing's sarcoma or PNET by the addition of etoposide to the VAIA regimen
      (vincristine/doxorubicin/ifosfamide/dactinomycin). III. Evaluate the impact of surgery and
      conventional vs. hyperfractionated radiotherapy (definitive and adjuvant) on local control,
      overall survival, and morbidity in these patients. IV. Relate treatment outcome with patient
      characteristics, histologic subtype at diagnosis, and histologic response to neoadjuvant
      treatment. V. Evaluate prospectively ifosfamide-induced nephrotoxicity and
      doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity.

      OUTLINE: Randomized study. Patients are initially stratified as STANDARD RISK (tumor volume
      at diagnosis < 100 ml) and HIGH RISK (tumor volume at diagnosis at least 100 ml or, if < 100
      ml, metastasis present). All patients receive 14 courses of chemotherapy, administered q 3
      weeks throughout protocol treatment. Standard-risk patients receive 4 courses of NEOADJUVANT
      CHEMOTHERAPY on Regimen A, while high-risk patients are randomized on Arms I and II for 4
      courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy. LOCAL THERAPY is usually initiated on week 12, after 4
      courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, and consists of either total removal of the
      tumor-bearing compartment, intracompartmental surgery (with or without adjuvant
      radiotherapy), or definitive radiotherapy alone; the choice is dictated by the site, tumor
      size, and patient age, among other variables. Postoperatively, all patients receive 10
      courses of ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY (plus adjuvant radiotherapy when given); standard-risk
      patients are randomized on Arms III and IV, while high-risk patients receive the same regimen
      to which they were assigned at initial randomization. When given, adjuvant radiotherapy
      begins on week 19 and is administered concurrently with chemotherapy. As a variant of this
      general plan, patients with < 50% regression of the soft tissue component of their tumors at
      restaging after 2 courses of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (slow response) may receive
      preoperative irradiation, beginning on week 7, concomitantly with the third and fourth
      courses of chemotherapy. The following acronyms are used: CTX Cyclophosphamide, NSC-26271
      DACT Dactinomycin, NSC-3053 DOX Doxorubicin, NSC-123127 IFF Ifosfamide, NSC-109724 Mesna
      Mercaptoethane sulfonate, NSC-113891 VCR Vincristine, NSC-67574 VP-16 Etoposide, NSC-141540
      NEOADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY. Regimen A (Standard risk): Alternating 3-Drug Combination
      Chemotherapy Regimens. VAIA: VCR/DOX/IFF alternating with VCR/DACT/IFF. Arm I (High risk):
      Alternating 3-Drug Combination Chemotherapy Regimens. VAIA: VCR/DOX/IFF alternating with
      VCR/DACT/IFF. Arm II (High-risk): Alternating 4-Drug Combination Chemotherapy Regimens.
      EVAIA: VP-16/VCR/DOX/IFF alternating with VP-16/VCR/DACT/IFF. LOCAL THERAPY. Surgery:
      Resection of entire tumor-bearing compartment, including bone and soft tissue, when possible,
      is the treatment of choice. The range of possible surgical procedures includes: radical
      resection (e.g., amputation), wide resection (en bloc removal of the entire tumor-bearing
      compartment), marginal surgery (en bloc removal, but resection line runs through
      pseudocapsule and microscopic residual disease is likely), intralesional resection (tumor
      incised with contamination of surgical field), and no resection. Radiotherapy: There are 3
      settings in which radiotherapy is delivered in these patients: as definitive treatment when
      definitive surgery is not feasible, as postoperative adjuvant treatment, and preoperatively
      in patients with a slow response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Patients who are to receive
      definitive and postoperative adjuvant treatment are randomized between conventional
      fractionation and hyperfractionated accelerated split-course delivery; individuals receiving
      preoperative irradiation are not randomized for radiotherapy schedule but are assigned
      nonrandomly to receive the hyperfractionated accelerated split-course scheme (conventional
      fractionation requires that DOX and DACT be eliminated from concomitant chemotherapy, whereas
      these agents can be continued during the hyperfractionated schedule). Individual institutions
      may elect not to randomize for the radiotherapy fractionation scheme, i.e., to treat all
      patients on one schedule or the other; in such institutions, all patients must follow the
      same scheme, decided upon prior to treatment of the first patient. Use of photons with
      energies of 4-6 MV (including Co60) is recommended for extremity lesions, and 6-15 MV
      energies are recommended for trunk lesions; electrons may be considered for small superficial
      boosts, but are not adequate as a sole modality. ADJUVANT THERAPY. Arm III (Standard risk):
      Alternating 3-Drug Combination Chemotherapy Regimens. VACA: VCR/DOX/CTX alternating with
      VCR/DACT/CTX. Arm IV (Standard risk): Alternating 3-Drug Combination Chemotherapy Regimens.
      VAIA: VCR/DOX/IFF alternating with VCR/DACT/IFF. High-risk patients continue with 10
      additional courses of VAIA or EVAIA according to original randomization. Adjuvant
      Radiotherapy, when administered, begins on week 19, and is given concomitantly with
      chemotherapy.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: It is anticipated that 600 patients (200 standard-risk and 400 high-risk)
      will be accrued over 4 years.
    
  