
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter comparison study examining the outcomes of
      subjects having knee pain undergoing a procedure to create a radiofrequency lesion of the
      genicular nerves with the Coolief system compared to subjects receiving corticosteroid
      injection. A total of approximately 144 subjects will be enrolled into this study with
      subjects undergoing either radiofrequency neurotomy or corticosteroid injection in a 1:1
      randomization scheme. Follow up will be conducted for a total of 12 months post Coolief
      procedure with the primary endpoint being completed at month 6. Subjects randomized to the
      comparison (corticosteroid) group will have the option to cross over to the neurotomy group
      after completing the 6 month endpoint assessment. They would then be followed for an
      additional 6 months. Pain, overall outcome, quality of life, pain medication use, and adverse
      events will be compared between the two treatment groups in order to determine success.

      Primary Effectiveness Endpoint:

      The proportion of subjects whose knee pain is reduced by ≥ 50% based on the NRS scale at 6
      Months.

      Primary Safety Endpoint:

      The proportion of subjects experiencing adverse events through final follow up.

      Secondary Effectiveness Endpoints:

        -  The proportion of subjects whose knee pain is reduced from baseline by ≥ 50% based on
           the Numeric Rating Scale (NRS) at 12 months.

        -  Improvement in global outcome from baseline as measured by the Oxford Knee Score at 6
           months and 12 months.

      Tertiary Effectiveness Endpoint:

      Subject satisfaction as measured by the Global Perceived Effect Score at 6 months and 12
      months.

      Quaternary Effectiveness Endpoint:

      Reduction in pain medication usage from baseline as measured by subject self-reported average
      daily dosage.

      In addition, exploratory analyses of health economic indicators may be performed.

      Subjects will participate in the study for up to 13 months (2 week roll-in period + treatment
      visit + 12 month follow up), except for subjects who participate in the optional crossover
      group. These crossover subjects will be on study for up to 15 months (2 week roll-in +
      treatment + 6 month follow-up and crossover + 6 month follow up). Enrollment is anticipated
      to take approximately 6-8 months.
    
  