
    
      Staphylococcus aureus colonization and potential infection represent a common clinical
      finding in patients with atopic dermatitis (AD) and may contribute to exacerbation of the
      disease. Atopic patients are commonly colonized with S. aureus on both lesional and
      non-lesional skin. Antibiotic treatment of clinically infected patients can often improve the
      bacterial infection as well as reduce the overall severity of AD. More recently, measures to
      reduce S. aureus colonization have been shown to decrease the clinical severity of Atopic
      Dermatitis in patients with clinical signs of secondary bacterial infection of the skin.

      Given the increasing incidence of recurrent skin infections caused by S. aureus, measures
      such as dilute sodium hypochlorite (bleach) baths have been adopted by many physicians in an
      effort to decrease infection rates and disease severity in patients with atopic dermatitis,
      recurrent impetigo, cellulitis, folliculitis, boils and abscesses. There is some controversy
      in the literature regarding the efficacy of anti-staphylococcal treatments in improving AD in
      patients without active clinical infection as one review noted limited benefit while another
      study showed that dilute bleach baths improved AD.

      Bleach baths are widely used in pediatrics and adult medicine. A common regimen consists of
      adding ½ cup of household bleach into ½ tub of warm bath water, resulting in a 0.009% sodium
      hypochlorite concentration. (www.bleachbath.com) CLn® BodyWash contains several common
      surfactants to clean the skin and 0.006% sodium hypochlorite concentration for preservation,
      and is further diluted when lathered onto the skin with water. This over the counter product
      is delivered in a sealed, easy to use dispenser, which can be used in the bath or shower,
      lathered on and rinsed off after 1-2 minutes of skin contact. CLn® BodyWash may be a
      convenient alternative to bleach baths.
    
  