
    
      Chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGvHD) occurs when the new donor immune system "attacks"
      tissues in the recipient following allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT),
      leading to chronic inflammation, scarring and fibrosis, impaired immunity (including immune
      deficiency and immune dysregulation), and altered organ system functioning. Almost any organ
      or system has the potential to be affected by cGvHD, although eight organ systems are
      classically involved, including the skin, eyes, mouth, lungs, liver, gastrointestinal tract,
      genitourinary tract, and the musculoskeletal system.

      The investigators will be enrolling allogeneic HSCT recipients before conditioning, following
      these patients prospectively until 12-months (+/- 1 month) post-transplant for the
      development of all forms of GvHD (classical acute, late acute and chronic GvHD), collecting
      blood samples at day +60 (+/- 7 days), day +100 (+/- 14 days), and at the onset of either
      late acute or chronic GvHD. Two extra blood samples will be collected exclusively from HAPLO
      transplant recipients, who never developed any late-acute GvHD or chronic GVHD at the 6- and
      12-month post-transplant time points (selected sites only). In addition, clinical data will
      be collected at different time points.

      Case report forms of standard transplant related data will be completed and entered into a
      REDCap database.

      Blood samples will be drawn and shipped to the Central Laboratory in Vancouver, BC, Canada,
      processed, analyzed, with the final biomarker risk algorithm being sent back to the treating
      clinician along with a short survey asking about their perception of the feasibility of
      altering their approach to cGvHD management based upon these results.

      If chronic GvHD develops at any time after transplant (day 0 to 1 year), or if any form of
      GvHD occurs at or after day +100 (whether late acute, chronic GvHD, or overlap syndrome), a
      blood sample will be drawn before escalating immune suppression, and the onset GvHD case
      report form will be completed following the protocol. If chronic GvHD is confirmed, an
      additional CRF will be submitted at 24-months (+/- 3 months) post-transplant to document new
      chronic GvHD manifestations, severity, and response to therapy.

      Study participants will have between 1 and 3 (non-HAPLO control group) or 4 (HAPLO control
      group) blood samples drawn over the course of 1-year post-transplant, depending upon their
      event and GvHD status.
    
  