
    
      On the first day, two areas of the skin of the subject's right abdomen will be marked and
      identified as sites A and B. Each day for one week the subject will be asked to grade her
      degree of discomfort or pain from 1 to 10 at sites marked A and B every two hours beginning
      at 8 a.m. and ending at 10 p.m.

      Each day except for Saturday and Sunday touch-pressure sensation will be evaluated using
      monofilaments and heat pain sensation at sites A and B. Also evaluated will be touch pressure
      pain at each of these sites.

      On Thursday of the first week 3 mm punch biopsies of the skin will be obtained from sites A
      and B and another 3 mm punch biopsy will be obtained on Thursday of the following week from
      sites A and B.

      Following the first biopsy, the experimental creams will be applied to sites A and B. One of
      the experimental creams contains 0.1% Capsaisin in a bland cream. The second cream contains
      no Capsaisin. 0.1% Capsaisin is known to destroy the small fibers, especially pain fibers in
      the skin. Both the investigators applying the cream and the subject will not know which
      experimental cream contains the Capsaisin. The creams will be applied on Thursday of the
      first week but only after all testing and skin biopsies have been done. The creams will be
      left in place except when testing is being done, and they will not be applied after the
      second set of skin biopsies has been obtained.

      The creams will be applied by the investigators and by the subject, care being taken so that
      the tube marked A is applied to the site marked A, and the tube marked B is applied to the
      site marked B. Between application to the two sites, investigators and the subject will use
      different gloves and applicators, carefully washing their hands with soap and water between
      and after applications.

      The subject will be asked not to shower or to immerse herself in water but to use sponge
      baths, avoiding the tested areas, so that the cream does not move to other areas.
    
  