
    
      Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) might have varied association to body weight in
      patients with solid cancer[1].

      On one hand low body weight may reflect cancer-related anorexia and weight loss and cachectic
      syndrome which are associated to impaired performance status, deteriorated general conditions
      and advanced cancer[2]. In such patients the probability of recording a low Body Mass Index
      (BMI) and concomitantly an inferior Health related quality of life (HRQoL, as patient
      reported outcome, PRO) is high.

      On the other hand, some of the hormonal mediators found at increased concentration in obese
      patients, such as insulin-like growth factor (IGF), have been demonstrated to be involved in
      biological pathways that favor an improved HRQoL[3].

      Adding further apparent contradiction is the fact that obesity and high BMI may represent in
      some cancer settings an adverse feature. In particular, obesity is associated with an
      increased risk of developing certain tumor types and, in some cancer patients with radically
      resected primary, of cancer relapse[4]. Moreover high BMI carries often an increased burden
      of comorbidity (e.g. cardiovascular and metabolic diseases)[5] and reduced physical activity.
      All these factors may reduce HRQoL.

      Studies investigating specific associations between BMI and HRQoL in specific cancer settings
      are therefore warranted.

      The present prospective observational cohort study has the aim of investigating the
      relationship between BMI and PRO-HRQoL as measured by the EORTC-QLQ-C30 questionnaire [6] in
      different primary tumors (breast, lung, colorectal and others) and in different cancer stages
      (localized vs metastatic). Patients will be also stratified according to the presence of
      cardiovascular and metabolic comorbidities, to the Karnofsky Performance status and according
      to the oncological treatment received (chemotherapy vs radically resected patients on
      follow-up). If available, retrospective data will be used to train possible predictive
      models.

      STUDY PROCEDURES Study participation will be offered to all consecutive patients with a
      histologically confirmed diagnosis of solid tumor referred to the Medical Oncology Units of
      the S.I.C.O.G. cooperative group (http://www.sicog.it/). Upon acceptance, patients will sign
      an informed consent and be asked to fill out the EORTC QLQ C30 questionnaire.

      All common antropometric, demographic, clinical and biochemical variables will be recorded
      around the moment of first referral (within three months).

      Re-assessable variables, including EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire re-administration, will be
      recorded every 4-6 months thereafter. All data will be stored in a prospectively maintained
      database.

      Among recorded data will be: age, sex, weight, height, occupation, civil status, primary
      tumor site, tumor stage, possible metastatic sites, past and actual type of oncological
      treatment, pain score, Karnofsky Performance Status, vital signs, routine blood tests
      Patients will be oncologically managed according to standard practice Association between BMI
      and EORTC QLQ-C30 will be assesses using regression analyses across the different clinical
      settings identified.

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS The design of the study hypothesizes that in metastatic patients
      an improved HR-QoL is associated with high BMI (non-cachectic patients) An 'exact
      single-stage design' will be followed [7]. According to historical data (endometrial cancer),
      50% of patients with BMI < 30 has a high global health status score (GHS) of the EORTC QLQ
      C30 (i.e. a GHS score ≥ 80%) [8].

      The hypothesis to be tested will be H0, P < P0 vs H1, P > P1, where P is the percentage of
      patients with GHS ≥ 80%. One-tail alpha error of 0.05 and false-negative (beta) rate of 0.2
      will be considered. P0 will be set at 50% and P1 at 65%, looking for a 15% increase in the
      percentage of high GHS score among patients with BMI >30. The H0 hypothesis will be rejected
      and H1 accepted with a statistical power of 80% if at least 42 patients out of 69 with BMI >
      30 will report a GHS score ≥ 80.

      Since BMI > 30 is observed in about 10% of all metastatic patients, a total of 690 metastatic
      patients will be required. Since metastatic patients are about half of all cancer patients
      referred to Medical Oncology Units, a final sample size of 1380 cancer patients (all stages)
      will be set as the target number.
    
  