
    
      Type of study: Cross-sectional exploratory, non-interventional Research category : research
      involving the human person, category III Number of centers: 2 French centers in Auvergne
      region Study Performance

      The methodology includes 3 phases :

      Phase 1: translations / back-translation / expert consensus, comes in four stages.

      A) The translation of the Spanish scale (LO) will be carried out by different translators
      into two distinct French versions (LC1 and LC2).

      B) These two versions will then be compared by a consensus of experts to lead to the first
      version of the scale in French (V1-LC) C) Which will then be translated back into Spanish
      (B-LC1). D) This last version will itself be compared with the S_DDSI to retain or reject
      items, instructions or response format too discordant that will have to be modified by
      consensus on proposal of the experts or go back through the previous stages of the
      translation. The expert consensus involved in steps B) and D) will apply the DELPHI method to
      accept, reject or re-evaluate each of the items.

      Phase 2: Pre-test Pre-testing the scale, through individual interviews with a dozen patients,
      in order to measure the reactions and the degree of comprehension of the instructions, the
      items and the clarity of the response format. Items assessed as unclear by at least 2
      patients will need to be reassessed. The experts will then have to provide new proposals
      which will in turn have to be reevaluated by the patients.

      Phase 3 : Scale Test The test of the scale obtained, will be conducted with 200 patients
      through individual interviews. The results obtained will make it possible to test the
      acceptability of the questionnaire by analyzing the response rate for each items and measure
      the psychometric qualities of the tool (validity of the internal structure,
      multi-dimensionality, internal coherence of each sub-dimension). The Gold Standard used for
      this last phase is the MINI.

      Patients Phase 2: Subjects participating in the pre-test phase will only be recruited from
      the CMP B patients coming for consultation or day hospital.

      Phase 3: For the test phase of the scale, the subjects must be patients suffering from DSMV
      substance use disorder with one or more psychiatric comorbidities.

      In phase 2 and 3, the inclusion time of the subjects corresponds to the filling time of the
      scales.
    
  