
    
      Research assistants will screen potential candidates at the University of Virginia Health
      System and Virginia Commonwealth University Primary Care Center and approach potential
      participants during a standard clinic visit. The charts of the day's patients will be
      screened prior to approaching women to invite them to enroll in the study.

      Following administration of the enrollment questionnaire, the patient will be randomized to
      the intervention or sham intervention arm of the study. The research assistant will open the
      study packet with the corresponding study identification number containing the intervention
      assignment. The research assistant will then load the assigned video into the DVD player and
      ask the patient to view the video. The participants will be blinded to which video is the
      true intervention.

      Following delivery, research assistants will abstract the medical records of the woman and
      infant. Data regarding complications for both the mother and baby will be recorded and the
      length of stay for mother and baby as well as information about the way in which the baby was
      fed during the hospital stay.

      Participants will be administered a one-month follow-up questionnaire by telephone. Follow-up
      questionnaires will be administered by research staff that did not enroll the participant
      such that the research assistant administering the telephone questionnaire will be blinded to
      the patient's assigned intervention group. The three-month questionnaire will be administered
      by telephone in the same fashion as the one-month. The six-month questionnaire will be
      administered by telephone. This questionnaire will conclude the study. A current address will
      be obtained at this time, and a children's book will be mailed to the participant thanking
      her for completing the study. For subjects lost to follow-up, we will contact the baby's
      pediatrician to retrieve the information on the questionnaires.
    
  