
    
      Chest drains are an essential part of the treatment for patients with fluid or air around the
      lung, which usually causes breathlessness. Draining the fluid or air relieves symptoms and
      allows investigations to be carried out that can identify a cause for why the fluid or air is
      there. Chest drains are difficult to secure in place, and sometimes fall out despite the best
      possible care. This study tests a modified drain that has a small balloon near the end which,
      when inflated inside the chest cavity, should make it much harder for the drain to fall out
      of the chest. This was tested in a small pilot study, with encouraging results. The current
      study is comparing a group of patients treated with the new ballooned drain against a group
      treated with the standard drain, with patients equally but randomly allocated to each group.
      The chest drain has been through rigorous laboratory testing and has been CE marked for human
      use.

      All patients requiring intercostal drainage for clinical reasons will be offered entry into
      the study, unless, in the view of the treating physician, blunt dissection is required. No
      other screening assessments will be required, other than the ability to sign the informed
      consent form.Patients who have provided signed informed consent will then proceed to the
      study protocol. Patients will be randomised to undergo either standard ICT insertion (usual
      clinical care) or insertion of the study drain using standard clinical policies and
      procedures at each participating centre.

      Once a patient has been identified for the trial and has signed the informed consent form,
      baseline details will be entered into a dedicated web-based programme accessible at all
      sites, and patients will be allocated 1:1 to either usual care or to the study drain.

      All subsequent care will be as per best clinical care for all patients in both arms of the
      study. The only additional assessments over and above usual care will be the collection of
      pain scores. Pain will be rated by the patients on a visual analogue scale (VAS) on up to 4
      occasions - insertion, 24 and 72 hours post insertion, and at drain removal.
    
  