
    
      Birth lesion of the brachial plexus, generally referred as "obstetric brachial plexus palsy
      (OBPP)", frequently includes traction or tearing of the nerve plexus that supply motor,
      sensory and autonomic innervation to the arm. The extent of damage can vary depending on
      severity of the injuries; from single nerve root to total root lesions. Impact of OBPP can be
      seen as transient functional insufficiencies to lifelong total disability, depending on the
      injury severity. The incidence of OBPP varies between 1.3 - 1.5 per 1000 births in different
      countries. The most common risk factor for birth injury is shoulder dystocia. Other risk
      factors are macrosomia, prolonged labor, multiparity, maternal pelvic anatomy and ethnic
      background.Denervation after delivery leads changes in the muscle tissue due to incomplete
      maturation of the muscles. The muscle tissue cannot grow longitudinally and have higher
      connective tissue content. Additionally, muscle strength gain, and development are impaired
      in the denervation process due to fibrosis and fat infiltration. Many studies demonstrated
      alterations in histomorphological features of denervated muscles in OBPP via magnetic
      resonance, ultrasound imaging and gene analysis. Despite many structural alterations in
      muscles have been investigated; changes in the viscoelastic properties, including muscle tone
      (tonus), stiffness and elasticity of the muscles, during denervation and reinnervation
      processes have not yet been investigated in patients with OBPP. The aim of our study was to
      observe changes in denervated muscles viscoelastic properties and motor performance of OBPP
      children. Viscoelastic properties have a significant effect on muscle performance; however
      have not investigated yet in denervated muscle. Hypothesized that the viscoelastic properties
      of denervated muscles are different than healthy side muscles and can vary depending on the
      age groups. 74 patients who have C5-C6 root lesion were enrolled to the study. The patients
      were grouped according to their age groups: 1-5 months, 6-24 months and 25-36 months.
      Myoton-3 myotonometric measuring device was used to measure the viscoelastic properties
      (tone, elasticity and stiffness) of deltoid, biceps brachii. Active Movement Scale were used
      to evaluate the motor function of the muscles. We found different muscle viscoelastic
      properties depending on age group. Children aged 0-5 months showed significant difference in
      deltoid muscle tone (p=0.0001), stiffness (p=0.0001), biceps brachii muscle tone (p=0.0001)
      and stiffness (p=0.0001), when compared with other groups (denervated side was lower in
      values).Therefore, it is in our opinion that in follow-up, clinical assessment of
      viscoelastic properties will be useful for monitoring denervated muscle; also treatment
      programs and purposes for OBPP should be varying according to the muscle properties.
    
  