
    
      Purpose and Design

      Back Pain is a common cause of chronic pain and disability. National Institute for Health and
      Clinical Excellence (NICE, 2016) identify it as affecting 1 in 10 people and causing more
      disability than any other condition. Whilst in most people it resolves without any healthcare
      input in can be distressing and debilitating. For those whose pain has not improved with
      non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) combined physical and psychological treatments
      are recommended. These are provided by specialist services and are not available in Emergency
      Departments or via Ambulance Services (collectively referred to as Emergency Medical
      Services) however anecdotally many people with back pain self-refer to these services. The
      prevalence of people self-referring and their characteristics are currently unknown as these
      figures are not routinely reported although the information exists within the data collected
      by ambulance services.

      This study aims to analyse anonymised data from the North East Ambulance Service NHS Trust
      (NEAS) to establish the prevalence of those calling with back pain. The characteristics of
      people presenting to the North East Ambulance Service (NEAS) over a 12-month period with back
      pain will be described and compared to a comparison group (people presenting with
      cardiovascular accident (CVA)) to identify statistically significant characteristics. The
      comparison group of CVA was chosen as this group is well defined, cannot be definitively
      treated in the community and require rapid transfer to in-patient care.

      These characteristics may help target information and inform service design to meet those
      people with back pain not accessing specialist services that are more appropriate for their
      condition.

      Research Methods

      The study will request anonymised data from NEAS. The data will cover all people who have
      accessed their services in a 12-month period who were recorded as having: an initial
      presentation of back pain; a clinical impression of back pain; initial presentation of CVA;
      or clinical impression of CVA. The information include data related to the call or
      attendance, patient demographics, geographical location and clinical data.

      Data will be analysed to establish descriptive statistics related to patients calling with
      back pain and comparing these to those with CVA.

      Recruitment

      The data being used for this study is from a currently existing NEAS database and therefore
      there will be no recruitment of participants.

      Inclusion/exclusion All patients over the age of 16 will be included. Those aged under 16
      will be excluded as they are not included in clinical guidelines.

      All incidents that receive an initial coding or clinical impression of back pain or
      cerebrovascular accident will be included.

      Risks, Burdens and Benefits

      The data has been collected for clinical care and not for research purposes. Therefore
      patients will not have explicitly consented for their information to be used for research.
      The Information Governance Officer at NEAS has confirmed that the data will be in
      non-personally identifiable when it is released to the research team and is compliant with
      Section 33 of the Data Protection Act 1998.

      The main risk to patients is that their clinical data is being used for research purposes.
      However identifiable data will only be available to the usual clinical team. Anonymised
      information will be extracted by a NEAS member of staff before it is securely transferred to
      the team at Teesside University where it will be analysed. Names and addresses will be
      completely removed from the database before it leaves the NHS.

      Some publications require raw data to be supplied. This would be supplied but it will be a
      non-personally identifiable dataset.

      Confidentiality

      The Caldicott Principles will be followed:

        1. Justify the purpose(s) of obtaining the information

        2. Don't use person-identifiable information unless it is absolutely necessary

        3. Use the minimum necessary person-identifiable information

        4. Access to person-identifiable information should be on a strict need-to-know basis

        5. Everyone with access to person-identifiable information should be aware of their
           responsibilities

        6. Understand and comply with the law

      Problems arising from the processing of identifiable data and how they will be handled

      Individual's data may be held in more than one system depending on their specific pathway of
      care and the best way to link these records is via the incident number. Before releasing the
      data NEAS will apply a mathematical function to all incident numbers, this will ensure they
      no longer be linked to individuals but records with the same incident number will still be
      linked. The nature of this function will be retained by NEAS and not disclosed to the
      research team.

      The database contains socioeconomic data in the form of patients' postcodes. This
      socioeconomic data is important as it has been linked to ambulance service use. A postcode is
      identifiable data. To overcome this NEAS will supply only the first four digits which covers
      a sufficiently large geographical area that this will no longer be identifiable data. The
      first four digits will be sufficient to identify a Lower Layer Super Output Area code (LSOA
      code) which is the equivalent index of socioeconomic status.
    
  