
    
      This is a prospective, single center, masked, randomized self-controlled clinical human trial
      to evaluate the appearance of abdominal scars after autologous free-flap breast
      reconstruction following post-operative application of silicone tape to improve scar quality.
      Incisions from 32 adult subjects will act as their own control and will be randomized to have
      silicone tape applied to one half of their abdominoplasty incision and control treatment
      using the current standard of care at the investigators institution to the other half, which
      is no dressing after the initial two week post-op period. A participant size of 32 leaves
      room in case of participant loss to follow-up, ensuring data will be available for the
      required sample size of 28 (see statistical analysis section below). A random number sequence
      generator will be used to randomize which half of the patient's wound will receive the
      treatment.

      Patients will be recruited from plastic surgery clinics at the Queen Elizabeth II (QEII)
      Health Sciences Centre in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Plastic surgeons will be asked to participate
      and enroll their breast reconstruction patients, who will undergo a type of abdominoplasty as
      part of their reconstruction procedure.

      Patients will undergo a de novo abdominoplasty procedure as part of a reconstructive breast
      surgery. Two weeks post-operatively, one side of the patient's abdominoplasty incision will
      be randomized to receive the silicone tape and the remaining half will be left to heal
      without any dressing application, which is the current standard at the investigators
      institution. Each patient will act as their own control. Patients will apply silicone tape on
      a daily basis, with each piece lasting 24 hours. Tape may be removed for showers and replied
      after drying. Total length of treatment will be two and a half months.

      It is not possible to mask patients, as they will be responsible for ongoing application of
      the silicone tape. However, the staff surgeon will be masked. Patients will present to their
      first post-op visit at two weeks. After examination by the staff surgeon, the patient will be
      seen by the research coordinator who will provide the patient with their randomization
      treatment assignment. To ensure ongoing masking, at subsequent follow-up visits, patients
      will remove their dressings one day prior to their appointment with their surgeon. This will
      ensure no local reaction (i.e. redness after tape removal) that would compromise the masking
      of staff surgeons.

      Patients will then follow up for scar assessment at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months and 12
      months. Unless otherwise required, scar assessments will then be performed at each visit by
      both the patient and the surgeon using validated objective and subjective scar measures.
      Patients will also meet with the research coordinator at each follow up visit, to address any
      questions or concerns about the study and treatment.

      The Patient and Observer Scar Assessment Scale (PSAS & OSAS) system will be used to measure
      scar appearance. The PSAS and OSAS are tools that the patient uses to assess the scar on
      color, irregularity, itch, pain, thickness, stiffness and overall opinion, and the surgeon
      uses to assess pigmentation, pliability, relief, surface area, thickness, vascularity and
      overall opinion (Appendix A). Of note, only the sum of the components of the OSAS portion of
      the assessment scale is included to calculate the power and sample size, and will therefore
      be the primary outcome. Secondary outcomes will include the sum of the components of the PSAS
      score and the overall scores out of 10 for both the PSAS and OSAS from the patient and masked
      surgeon.
    
  