
    
      Aim: To investigate the clinical and cost-effectiveness of MifeMiso combination (mifepristone
      and misoprostol) versus misoprostol alone in the management of missed miscarriage.

      Primary clinical objective: To test the hypothesis that treatment with mifepristone plus
      misoprostol is superior to misoprostol alone for the resolution of miscarriage within 7 days
      in women diagnosed with missed miscarriage by pelvic ultrasound scan in the first 13+6 weeks
      of pregnancy.

      Key secondary objective:To test the hypothesis that the addition of mifepristone reduces the
      need for surgical intervention to resolve the miscarriage.

      Other secondary objectives:

        1. To evaluate if the addition of mifepristone reduces the need for further doses of
           misoprostol.

        2. To evaluate if the addition of mifepristone improves other clinical outcomes including
           surgical intervention up to and including 7 days post-randomisation and after 7 days
           post-randomisation, duration of bleeding, infection, negative pregnancy test at 21 days
           post-randomisation, time from randomisation to discharge from EPU care, side effects and
           complications.

        3. To evaluate if the addition of mifepristone improves patient satisfaction

        4. To assess the cost-effectiveness of the combination of mifepristone and misoprostol in
           the medical management of missed miscarriage.

      Economic objectives: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the combination of mifepristone and
      misoprostol in the medical management of missed miscarriage based on an outcome of additional
      cost per additional successfully managed miscarriage and additional cost per additional
      quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Using a model-based economic evaluation we will further
      explore the cost-effectiveness of the medical management of missed miscarriage, as explored
      in the proposed trial, with alternative management strategies, such as surgical and
      expectant, based on available secondary sources.

      Mixed-method evaluation objectives: To explore the satisfaction of patients who complete the
      trial protocol. The results of the satisfaction survey (CSQ-8) will act as a sampling frame
      to conduct semi-structured interviews to further investigate patient experiences and
      satisfaction with medical management of missed miscarriage.
    
  