
    
      Hormone replacement therapy (HT: estrogen and progestin) remains the treatment of choice for
      women with vasomotor symptoms, and long-term HT has been recommended for prevention purposes.
      The demand for alternatives to HT, and the availability and use of over-the-counter products
      including dietary phytoestrogen supplements, and naturopathic medicines has grown
      dramatically. Few of these products have faced the rigors of randomized trials and none have
      been tested to evaluate their effects on long-term outcomes.

      The purpose of this 4-year, randomized controlled trial is to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of three alternative approaches utilizing phytoestrogens to treat vasomotor symptoms
      in peri- and postmenopausal women. The treatments were chosen because of the scientific
      evidence supporting a possible benefit, the availability of products with adequate quality
      control, their frequency of use in naturopathic medicine, and our ability to blind
      participants to the intervention. The 5 proposed treatment arms are: 1) conjugated equine
      estrogen with or without medroxyprogesterone acetate in women with or without an intact
      uterus respectively; 2) a single herbal product, black cohosh; 3) a multibotanical
      preparation; 4) a combination regimen that includes the same multibotanical preparation plus
      soy diet counseling; and 5) placebo. Our primary aim is to compare the effects of three
      alternative treatments, HRT and placebo on the frequency and intensity of vasomotor symptoms
      measured by The Wiklund Menopause Symptom Checklist and a daily Vasomotor Symptom Diary. Our
      secondary aims are to compare the effects of three alternative treatments, HRT and placebo
      on: 1) vaginal cytology (vaginal maturation index); 2) serum lipids (total cholesterol, HDL
      and LDL cholesterol, triglycerides); 3) bone mineral density (hip and spine dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry scan); 4) glucose metabolism (insulin, fasting blood glucose); and 5)
      coagulation factors (fibrinogen, PAI-1).

      Our hypotheses are that compared to placebo, the three alternative treatments tested in this
      proposal will; reduce frequency of hot flashes and night sweats, improve vaginal maturation
      and decrease vagina atrophy as measured by maturation index, lower total cholesterol and LDL
      with no effect on HDL, reduce the rate of decline in bone mineral density (BMD), and have no
      effect on glucose metabolism or clotting factors.

      To accomplish our specific aims we will: 1) recruit and randomize approximately peri- and
      post-women to one of 5 treatment arms for one year; 2) collect measurements of primary and
      secondary outcomes at baseline, 3, 6, and 12 months; and 3) compare changes in outcomes in
      the groups taking alternative treatments to those in the HRT and placebo groups.
    
  