
    
      Implementation of effective interventions for HIV care engagement is necessary to raise the
      percentage of people living with HIV/Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) who are
      virally suppressed and in continuous care. The ultimate goal of this study is to assess the
      effectiveness of a mobile phone app that utilizes game mechanics and social networking
      features to improve engagement in care, and ART uptake and adherence among HIV-positive YMSM
      and trans women who have sex with men. The high mobile phone ownership among adolescent and
      young adults supports using intervention tools based in these familiar available
      technologies. If successful, Epic Allies would be clinically attractive, as adherent patients
      would require less frequent clinic visits and experience fewer HIV-related secondary
      infections and financially attractive, as reducing clinic visits and secondary infections.
      Epic Allies could also greatly impact public health as ART adherence reduces HIV infectivity
      and subsequently reduces HIV transmission.

      This is a two-arm randomized-controlled trial (RCT). All subjects will be randomized either
      to the intervention arm and receive the Epic Allies intervention branch of the app or to the
      control arm and receive the phone-based notifications only control branch of the app.
      Randomization will occur in a 1:1 ratio within each of the two groups (new-to-care and
      ART-non-adherent) separately, with an equal number of subjects in the intervention and
      control arms. During the 26-week intervention phase, intervention arm subjects will receive
      the daily adherence reminders they set up through Epic Allies with tailored feedback for
      encouragement and reinforcement. Intervention arm subjects will have 24-hour access to all
      features of Epic Allies. The control arm subjects will receive weekly phone-based
      notifications to encourage them to view educational information presented in the app.
      Subjects will attend study visits at Week 13 (during intervention phase), Week 26 (end of
      intervention phase), and Week 39 (post-intervention phase). In-depth qualitative app
      satisfaction interviews with a subset of intervention arm subjects will also be conducted to
      evaluate acceptability of the app and its potential to improve engagement in care, uptake of
      ART, and ART adherence. Outcome measures will include engagement in care, ART uptake, ART
      adherence, viral load (VL) change, and VL suppression. The in-depth qualitative app
      satisfaction interview will assess intervention impact, acceptability, and long-term
      sustainability.
    
  