
    
      The study was designed as a randomized controlled clinical trial and was conducted from
      January of 2018 to April 2019, at the Clinic for Gynaecology and Obstetrics, Clinical Centre
      of Serbia, Belgrade and the Institute for Social Medicine, Medical Faculty, University of
      Belgrade. The study compared the physical activity in the second trimester of pregnancy of
      the pregnant women who were included in the intervention groups (Facebook group and Facebook
      and MI group) and pregnant women from the control group. The intervention lasted for three
      months (from 12th till 28th week of gestation).

      Total of 227 women were approached after the double test screening at the end of the first
      trimester (12th week of gestation). All women without medical or obstetric contraindications
      for physical activity were included in the study.

      Baseline questionnaire consisted of 85 questions divided into five sections: social
      characteristics (age, place of residence, marital status, education, employment status,
      self-rated health, self-perceived financial status), anthropometric characteristics (height,
      weight, waist circumference), pregnancy and lifestyle characteristics (planning a pregnancy,
      symptoms present during the first trimester, and diet), and physical activity (leisure-time
      physical activity in the period of three months before pregnancy and physical activity during
      the first trimester).

      At the baseline level, participants filled in the questionnaire and anthropometric measures
      were recorded. Anthropometric measures, height, weight and waist circumference, were measured
      by one of the researchers. Randomization was done after the initial baseline measurements.
      The follow-up measurement was done three months after the baseline, and all participants were
      asked to fill in the questionnaire which referred to physical activity in the second
      trimester.

      The intervention involved social media intervention and Motivational interviewing.

      Facebook group was specially designed for purposes of intervention and was administered by
      the research team. It was used to motivate the participants to be more physically active. The
      intervention used a hybrid approach. Motivation was done through health promotion campaign
      with motivational messages and pictures, journal articles, questions with the aim to spark a
      discussion on barriers or possibilities for physical activity ('What is your favourite form
      of physical activity?', 'Do you think that physical activity is safe during pregnancy?',
      'Would you like to be more active during pregnancy?', etc). Facebook discussion group used a
      participatory approach and all members were allowed to post motivational messages or
      questions for their peers. The reports and photos from organized events (walking, yoga) were
      also posted regularly, so all participants could follow the level of participation of others.
      The research team shared information on free sports activities for pregnant women in multiple
      sports centres in Belgrade, as well as, specially organized events (walking around the lake,
      yoga).

      Women who were randomized in the MI group went through two sessions of MI with the principal
      researcher. The first MI session was scheduled in the week after the inclusion in the study
      and the second was after 10-14 days. Each session lasted between 30 and 45 minutes. The
      principal researcher, who conducted the MI went to certified international training in MI.
    
  