
    
      Overactive bladder is a syndrome of symptoms. The core symptom is urgency with/without urge
      incontinence, frequency, nocturia. The prevalence of overactive bladder increased with age.
      The elderly is increasing with time, so the people who suffering from overactive bladder is
      also increasing. Research related to overactive bladder in the field of physical therapy is
      remained needed. The purposes of this study are to investigate the application of physical
      therapy to women with overactive bladder, emphasizing on the effect of voluntary muscle
      contraction for urgency inhibition, including the urodynamic study and clinical study.

      There are three stages in this study. In the first stage, we are going to develop a specific
      health-related quality of life questionnaire for urinary incontinence in Taiwan version. One
      hundred and fifty women with urinary incontinence and fifty healthy women without lower
      urinary tract symptom will be recruited in the first year to investigate the reliability and
      validity of the questionnaire. The Short-Form 36, Chinese version, will be used as gold
      standard for validity. Fifty women with urgency will be recruited in the second stage to test
      the effect of muscle active contraction strategies to inhibit detrusor pressure and urgency.
      The three muscle active contraction strategies include pelvic floor muscle strong
      contraction, pelvic floor muscle tonic contraction, and transversus abdominis tonic
      contraction. The outcome variables including detrusor pressure of the urodynamic parameter
      and self-reported urgency score. Simultaneous image record by abdominal ultrasound during the
      urodynamic examination will be used to ensure the accuracy of muscle action. The predictors
      of success of strategy from the result of the second year will be used to stratify the
      patients in the third stage. Eighty women with urgency will be recruited in the final stage
      to examine the clinical effect of strategy for urgency inhibition.
    
  