
    
      Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), especially amnestic type, is considered a symptomatic
      pre-Alzheimer's disease (AD) phase, and is prevalent in the aging population. Vision-based
      speed of processing (VSOP) cognitive training is one of the most widely applied behavioral
      interventions in community-dwelling older Americans free of AD, holding potential to slow
      cognitive decline. Its particular relevance to MCI is supported by converging evidence from
      our preliminary studies, including a recently completed pilot intervention study. However, we
      know little about the mechanisms underlying the benefits of VSOP training, limiting our
      ability to further exploit VSOP or other forms of cognitive training. In particular, we do
      not know if and how the effects of VSOP training on cognitive performance are mediated by
      neuroplasticity-related brain changes. Since recent evidence suggests that neuroplasticity is
      inducible throughout adult life, even in MCI, it is possible that VSOP training promotes
      neuroplasticity and slows neurodegeneration. In this early stage and new investigator
      application, we will focus on assessing whether and how VSOP training, relative to mental
      leisure activities (MLA), alters cognitive and neural functions in older adults with MCI, up
      to 6 months after training. The study will enroll and randomize 84 participants with amnestic
      MCI to VSOP training or MLA control groups. Three specific research aims are to (1) determine
      whether VSOP training improves processing speed and attention that are associated with
      changes of brain structural and functional connectivity; (2) test a novel neurophysiological
      pathway of VSOP training effect on brain structure and function; (3) examine the effect of
      VSOP training on untrained cognitive and functional domains and the role of
      neurophysiological changes underlying possible transfer effects. By examining multiple neural
      and novel physiological mechanisms linking a promising VSOP training intervention to
      improvements in cognitive performance, this application seeks to challenge and shift current
      research on cognitive training that merely examines training effects on cognitive outcomes.
      Discovery of neural, and physiological-related mechanisms in VSOP training will have
      important implications beyond this particular intervention. Findings from recent behavioral
      studies (e.g., cognitive intervention, physical exercise, nutrition, and bio-feedback
      intervention) suggest that for cognitive decline to be mitigated in individuals at risk for
      AD, it will be necessary for interventions to target the neural and peripheral physiological
      pathways that are susceptible to AD neuropathology. Confirmation of the study hypotheses
      could support immediate translation to clinical practices by demonstrating the efficacy,
      sustainability, and generalizability of cognitive training.
    
  