
    
      The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that more than 180 million people worldwide
      have diabetes. This number is likely to more than double by 2030. Further, the WHO proclaims
      that diabetes causes about 5 % of all deaths globally each year. Cardiovascular events are
      the most common cause for death in T2DM patients . According to the VERONA study, which
      observed 6000 T2DM patients over 10 years, 44 % of all deaths were caused by CVD, primarily
      heart attack and stroke . Interesting is the fact that male diabetics have a 2 to 3 fold risk
      for CVD whereas female T2DM patients have a 3 to 7 fold risk for suffering a cardiovascular
      event although there is no satisfying explanation for this phenomenon.

      CVD is caused by atherosclerosis, a condition arising from ED. Hence, ED represents an
      important diagnostic and prognostic parameter to estimate the cardiovascular risk in a very
      early state. Such ED is frequently caused by a reduced bioactivity of NO. This molecule is
      synthesized in endothelial cells by oxidation of L-arginine in a reaction catalyzed by the
      endothelial nitric oxide synthase . NO is able to protect the vessel wall due to its
      vasodilatating, anti-adhesive and anti-proliferative activities. Experimental and clinical
      studies demonstrate that T2DM is closely associated with ED, which may be the consequence of
      a reduced bioactivity of NO. Central mechanisms explaining this defect in T2DM are the
      inactivation of NO by reactive oxygen species, the reduction in the amounts of co-factors
      necessary for NO-synthesis, such as biopterin and NADPH, as well as the inhibition of
      endothelial NO-synthase by phosphorylation (protein kinase C) and O-glycosylation (hexosamine
      pathway) .

      Endostatin (ENST), an anti-angiogenetic factor, blocks endothelial cell proliferation and
      migration, induces endothelial cell apoptosis and inhibits thereby angiogenesis . Basal
      plasma levels of ENST are higher in T2DM patients and thus may be the missing link to explain
      the inactivation of NO as pro-angiogenetic factor in the process of atherosclerosis.

      In T2DM, the high glucose load in the blood leads to swelling of the basement membrane and
      thus to microangiopathy. This favors the genesis of hypertension due to glomerulosclerosis.
      Eventually, three factors promote the increased risk for heart attack and stroke:

        1. Hypertension

        2. Increase of VLDL (due to low insulin levels)

        3. and elevated clotting disposition (due to hyperglycemia induced production of
           fibrinogen, coagulation factor V and VIII) .

      One of the difficulties in T2DM is the coexistence of polyneuropathy. As a result symptoms of
      angina pectoris under stress are painless so that silent infarcts are frequent and often the
      end point in the CVD progress . Thus, the most important aim in T2DM therapy is the
      prevention of secondary complications such as CVD. Therefore, the exact adjustment of blood
      glucose (monitored by HbA1c) plays a pivotal role in prevention. Unfortunately, only two
      thirds of all patients with T2DM in the USA and Europe find themselves in the recommended
      HbA1c span (6.5-7.0 %). Consequently, oral anti-diabetic medication needs permanent
      adjustment and intensification to delay the progress of T2DM. However, metformin and
      sulfonylurea derail the optimal treatment because of unwanted side effects, especially
      hypoglycemia and weight gain.

      Recently, two peptide hormones, GLP-1 and GIP, with insulinotropic effects were identified.
      These so-called incretins are secreted by the gastrointestinal tract after exposure to
      glucose in nutrition. Physiological effects result in

        -  increased insulin secretion

        -  inhibition of glucagon secretion

        -  and reduction of body weight. It has been observed that incretin levels are reduced in
           patients with impaired glucose tolerance. Thus, the therapeutic approach lies within the
           elevation of GLP-1 and GIP by preventing their degradation through the enzyme DPP-4
           (dipeptidylpeptidase 4), the so-called gliptins that inhibit the DPP-4 enzymes.

      Best results in HbA1c reduction were achieved when gliptins were combined with metformin,
      glimepiride or pioglitazone .

      In this study, patients with T2DM, who are taking metformin as first line medication but do
      not achieve a HbA1c below 7.0 % and with an intolerance against sulfonylurea (hypoglycemia
      during the night) and glitazones (obesity, weight gain and ankle edema), will routinely get
      an add-on therapy with gliptins (Vildagliptin or Sitagliptin) as second line therapy
      according to the guidelines of the Österreichische Diabetes Gesellschaft (ÖDG) prescribed by
      a medical doctor not involved in this study. This medication is a ÖDG standard therapy in
      T2DM, which patients receive anyway despite this study. Therefore, the therapy with gliptins
      is not a study medication and is not influenced by the study either. Only patients, who will
      meet the inclusion criteria of the study and voluntarily participate in the study, will be
      investigated.

      Rationale of the study

      This study aims to investigate the effects of a modern oral anti-diabetic medication
      according to the guidelines of the ÖDG on ED. A special focus will be put on the outcome
      between female and male patients to elucidate the different effects of the drugs on
      inflammatory parameters in women and men.

      The following parameters will be measured:

        -  Catecholamine (norepinephrine, dopamine, epinephrine) Catecholamines are released by the
           adrenal gland in situations of stress such as psychological stress, physical stress or
           low blood sugar levels . They are water-soluble and 50 % bound to plasma proteins. The
           three major catecholamines that circulate in the blood are epinephrine, norepinephrine
           and dopamine. They are mainly produced from the adrenal medulla and the postganglionic
           fibers of the sympathetic nervous system. The measurement of the catecholamines serves
           as control parameter for the applied stress situations.

        -  ENST ENST, a 20-kDa C-terminal fragment derived from type XVIII collagen, is an
           endogenous protein that blocks the formation of blood vessels. It inhibits endothelial
           cell proliferation, migration and angiogenesis. There is evidence for several functions
           of neovascularisation in plaque growth that maintain perfusion beyond limits of
           diffusion from the artery lumen and outer adventitial vasa vasorum, deposit
           pro-atherogenic plasma molecules, recruit immune cells and progenitors, and promote
           intraplaque hemorrhage . ENST, as an angiostatic factor, might be the weapon of choice
           to battle these effects.

        -  BNP Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) is a 32-amino acid peptide . It is synthesized
           predominantly in the left ventricle of the heart as the 108-amino acid pro-hormone
           preproBNP ( -BNP) . The hormone is a potent vasodilator and a natriuretic factor
           regulating salt and water homeostasis. BNP is stored in the human cardiac tissue mainly
           as BNP-32 with a lesser amount of the precursor preproBNP. The circulating plasma forms
           of BNP are BNP-32 and the NH2-terminal portion proBNP (Nt-proBNP) . Increased secretion
           of BNP and Nt-proBNP occurs mainly with increased tension in the ventricular walls,
           decreased oxygen supply, acute myocardial infarction, chronic cardiac heart failure, and
           in hypertrophy of the heart . The Nt-proBNP level was shown to be significantly elevated
           in the cohort of patients with T2DM. Taken together, both BNP and Nt-proBNP serve as
           sensitive markers of CVD .

        -  Intima-media thickness (by carotid-ultrasound) IMT is a measurement of the thickness of
           artery walls, usually by external ultrasound, to detect the presence and to track the
           progression of atherosclerotic lesions. Cross-sectional associations between common
           carotid artery IMT and cardiovascular risk factors have been demonstrated in several
           studies .

        -  Heart rate

        -  Blood pressure

        -  ECG
    
  