
    
      This study is an international multi-center pooled analysis using prospective and
      retrospective studies to evaluate surgical and oncologic outcomes of robotic nipple-sparing
      mastectomy with immediate reconstruction.

      Raw data for robotic or conventional nipple-sparing mastectomy from Severance Hospital,
      Samsung Medical Center, the European Institute of Oncology, Changhua Christian Hospital, and
      Gustave Roussy is collected. Among them, Severance Hospital takes the lead at performing
      analysis from the data. Storage and disposal of patients' records are managed by each
      researcher. In the analysis process, although the collaborators can request records from
      Severance Hospital if necessary, they are only supposed to be provided computerized data
      which were originally clinical data from patients who already ended treatments. In this case,
      individual identifying data and medical records are not shown.

      Clinicopathologic variables including operation times, hospital stay, medical history,
      smoking history, family history, BMI, menopausal status, specimen weight, TNM stage, grade,
      histological type, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, HER2, Ki 67, and perivascular
      involvement are analyzed.

      Postoperative complications within 30 days are collected and classified by the Clavien-Dindo
      grade. Locoregional recurrence-free survival and local and systemic recurrences are examined.
      Patients whose data have been retrospective for at least one month are to be examined.

      Patient's and surgeon's satisfaction using Breast Q is evaluated. Categorical variables are
      examined using the chi-square test or Fisher's exact test if indicated.

      Continuous variables are examined using the independent t-test or ANOVA if indicated.

      The estimated sample size from the four institutions is about 300 cases for robotic
      nipple-sparing mastectomy and matched cases for conventional nipple-sparing mastectomy.

      Propensity matching analysis is applied to reduce confounding factors.
    
  