
    
      This study is designed to explore the efficacy and safety of nasal aztreonam administered
      using the Pari Sinus Nebulizer combined with oral Cayston aerosol therapy compared to placebo
      on clinical and laboratory endpoints such as risk of antibiotic-resistant Pseudomonas
      aeruginosa (PA), time to pulmonary infection exacerbation, nasal quality of life, pulmonary
      function, nasal and lower airway cultures, and properties of mucus.

      P. aeruginosa (PA) is a primary cause of lung infections in persons with cystic fibrosis (CF)
      (1). Over the past decade, studies have shown that aerosolized antibiotics can reduce lower
      respiratory bacterial load, decrease exacerbations of pulmonary disease, and in many patients
      improve pulmonary function. Cayston (aztreonam) oral aerosol using the PARI Altera Nebulizer
      System was approved by the FDA in February 2010 for CF patients 7 years of age or older with
      PA (2). In 2011, 35.8% or patients in the National CF Patient Registry used Cayston for
      treatment (3). Bacterial cultures suggest that the upper airways and lower airways of CF
      patients are cross-infected by PA and that the paranasal sinuses can act as a bacterial
      reservoir (4). There is improved post-transplanation patient survival for recipients that
      undergo sinus surgery and daily nasal washes to reduce bacterial load (2).

      Routine CF care does not generally include upper airway assessment. There are no published
      studies evaluating the effect of aerosol antibiotics to treat nasal and sinus infections in
      CF in combination with oral inhaled aerosol therapy to treat the lower airway disease.
      However Mainz and colleagues published a case report that suggested that sinonasal
      administration of tobramycin using the Pari Sinus nebulizer (Pari Corp, Starnberg, Germany)
      delayed PA lower respiratory infection in a 12 year-old with CF who had chronic mucopurulent
      rhinosinusitis (5) and studies in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease suggest that treating
      upper airways can also improve coexistent lower airway disease.
    
  