
    
      Psychomotor agitation that requires hospitalization is a common event during the course of
      certain major psychiatric disorders, including schizophrenia. Emergency psychiatric services
      are the first doorway for the control of agitation and behavioural disturbances of the
      mentally ill in order to avoid dangerousness and aggression towards themselves and/or others.
      The use of drugs that influence the psychological behaviour (psychotropic drugs) should help
      to handle agitation and aggression, rapidly rendering people calm and/or sedated without
      producing distressing or dangerous adverse events, and facilitating extended assessment and
      definitive treatment. Oral atypical antipsychotics, alone or in combination with a
      benzodiazepine, are considered first line treatment for patients who present at the emergency
      ward with mild to moderate psychotic agitation. Paliperidone is a new atypical antipsychotic
      therapeutic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia. Paliperidone extended release (ER)
      might be considered as a treatment option for patients presenting with agitation and/or
      aggression (in combination with short term use of benzodiazepines) because of its fast onset
      of action and limited or no long term sedating effects. This open-label, single arm,
      multicenter, interventional descriptive study will collect data on efficacy and safety during
      first days of treatment with paliperidone ER in patients with acute agitation in the context
      of psychosis in the psychiatric emergency setting. The assessment of effectiveness/response
      will be based on Positive And Negative Syndrome Score Exciting Component (PANSS-EC)
      improvement. Safety evaluations include the incidence of serious and non-serious adverse
      events. The study will end after 5 days of treatment or at day of discharge from the
      hospital, whatever comes first. 6 mg (patients with an acute exacerbation of schizophrenia in
      a real-world setting an initial dose of paliperidone 9 mg once daily may provide optimal
      clinical efficacy with good tolerability) tablet, oral, once a day during the study duration
      (5 days).
    
  