
    
      Difficulty retrieving words is one of the most common language complaints in individuals with
      stroke-induced aphasia. The negative consequences related to word retrieval impairment
      include increased health care costs and decreased quality of life. A variety of treatment
      approaches exist to improve word retrieval, and most of the treatments result in immediate
      improvement on trained words. However, long-term improvement and improvement on untrained
      words or behaviors is less common. Additionally, the investigators currently know very little
      about optimal treatment administration parameters, and the investigators know even less about
      predictors of treatment response. To make the best use of the limited clinical resources
      available for aphasia treatment, and to maximize outcomes for Veterans with aphasia, the
      investigators must: 1) develop clinically translatable treatments that yield widespread and
      lasting effects and 2) develop clinically accessible ways of identifying who will acquire
      benefit from a specific treatment approach. This study takes on these two challenges by
      investigating dose frequency (massed vs. distributed practice) effects and by identifying the
      language, cognitive and neural predictors of response to Intention treatment (INT), a novel
      word retrieval treatment. Specifically, the investigators will address the following aims:

      Aim 1: To investigate dose frequency effects on maintenance and generalization of INT gains.
      Outcome measure: Word retrieval accuracy for trained and untrained words.

      Aim 2: To identify the language and cognitive variables that predict response to m-INT vs.
      d-INT. Outcome measure: Language and cognitive ability as measured by standardized
      assessments.

      Aim 3: To identify the neural predictors of response to m-INT vs. d-INT. Outcome measure:
      Tissue health and task activation location as measured by structural and functional MRI.
    
  