
    
      Introduction LA volume provides the significantly prognostic information in the general
      population and patients with heart disease, including acute myocardial infarction, left
      ventricular dysfunction, mitral regurgitation, cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation. Large
      LA volume, which represents chronic diastolic dysfunction, is associated with poor outcome,
      regardless of systolic function. Thereby, LA volume provides a long-term view of whether or
      not the patient has the disease of diastolic dysfunction, regardless of whatever loading
      conditions are present at the time of the examination, as the hemoglobin A1C in diabetes
      mellitus. Until now, the relation between LA volume and LV filling pressure confirmed
      directly by simultaneous echocardiography-catheterization is sparse. This study therefore
      assessed the correlation between LA volume and LV filling pressure in patients with severe
      mitral regurgitation (MR). As LA pressure rises to maintain adequate LV diastolic filling,
      increased atrial wall tension tends to dilate the chamber and stretch the atrial myocardium.
      Therefore, the smaller LA stretchability, the more pressure LA faces. The study is designed
      to assess 1) the relationship between LV filling pressure and LA distensibility, and 2) the
      power of left atrial distensibility to predict the prognosis, including operation mortality,
      the rate of post-operation atrial fibrillation, and late heart failure event in patients with
      severe mitral regurgitation.

      Methods Study population: Between August 2010 and July 2012, this study will enroll 100
      severe MR patients who will receive cardiac catheterization for pre-operation evaluation.
      Exclusion criteria are the following: 1) presence of mitral stenosis, 2) more than mild
      severity of aortic valvular problem, 3) any abnormality of atrial septum (e.g., atrial septal
      defect or aneurysm), and 4) rhythm other than sinus rhythm. MR are categorized by mapping jet
      expansion in the LA in 4- and 2-chamber views at end systole from three separate cardiac
      cycles. MR is considered severe when regurgitant jet area occupies more than 40% of the LA
      area. The grade of MR is increased by one degree (moderate to severe) in cases of eccentric
      MR jet based on evidence of reduced color-flow jet areas due to loss of momentum in jets
      adjacent to chamber walls. Significant coronary lesion is defined as diameter stenosis > 70%
      in at least one major coronary artery. The control group consisted of 50 other comorbid
      disease-, age- and gender-matched patients with negative results of coronary angiography,
      despite positive result of screen test for coronary artery disease (treadmill, Thallium scan,
      stress echocardiography, or 64-slides CT angiography), and they are selected after confirming
      no evidence of valvular heart disease by echocardiography. All patients and controls will
      give written informed consent to participate in the study, and the study is approved by the
      institutional review board.

      Cardiac catheterization: Coronary angiography will be performed to evaluate hemodynamic
      condition and to test for coronary artery disease. The LV filling pressure is continuously
      recorded (50 mm/s) by a 6-F pigtail catheter placed at the apex of the left ventricle and is
      taken from 3 to 5 end-respiratory cycles if patients can tolerate breath holding. The LV
      filling pressure value is calculated as the mean of at least 3 consecutive cardiac cycles. An
      LV filling pressure > 15 mmHg is considered elevated.

      Conventional echocardiographic and myocardial tissue Doppler measurement: Echocardiography
      will be performed immediately after LV filling pressure measurements. LV ejection fraction is
      calculated using Simpson's method for biplane images. Mitral inflow is assessed by
      pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiography form the apical 4-chamber view. From the mitral inflow
      profile, the E-wave velocity, A-wave velocity, and E-deceleration time are measured.
      Pulsed-wave tissue Doppler imaging (TDI) is performed using spectral pulsed Doppler signal
      filters, by adjusting the Nyquist limit to 15 - 20 cm/s and using the minimum optimal gain.
      In the apical 4-chamber view, a 3-mm, a pulsed-wave Doppler sample volume is placed at the
      level of the mitral annulus over the septal border. Pulsed-wave TDI results are characterized
      by a myocardial systolic wave (S') and 2 diastolic waves: early (E') and atrial contraction
      (A'). The pulsed-wave TDI tracing is recorded over 5 cardiac cycles at a sweep speed of 100
      mm/s and is used for offline calculations.

      Measurements of LA volume: All LA volume measurements will be calculated from apical 4- and
      2-chamber views using the biplane area-length method (15). The LA volumes are measured at 3
      points: 1) immediately before the mitral valve opening (maximal LV volume or Volmax); 2) at
      onset of the P-wave on electrocardiography (pre-atrial contraction volume or Volp); and 3) at
      mitral valve closure (minimal LV volume or Volmin). The LA distensibility was calculated as
      (Volmax - Volmin) / Volmin. The LA ejection fraction is calculated as (Volp - Volmin) / Volp.
      In all patients, LA volumes are indexed to body surface area (BSA).

      Measurement of regurgitation volume: The apical window is used to record the pulsed-wave
      velocities at the LV outflow tract and at the mitral annulus and to measure the diameter of
      the mitral annulus. The time-velocity integral is assessed. The stroke volumes of mitral
      annulus and LV outflow tract are obtained by multiplying the cross-sectional area by the
      respective time-velocity integral. The MR regurgitation volume is calculated as Regurgitation
      volume = (stroke volume of mitral annulus) - (stroke volume of LV outflow tract).

      Follow up: All patients will receive mitral valve replacement later. The prevalence of
      operation mortality and post-OP atrial fibrillation will be assessed. Otherwise, patient will
      receive regular follow-up at our outpatient clinic for at least 1 year and any heart failure
      event necessary for hospitalization will be assessed by telephone interview, chart review or
      personal visit interview if needed. Those events, including operation mortality, post-OP
      atrial fibrillation and post-OP hospitalization for heart failure, will account for patients'
      prognosis.

      Interobserver variability: In the first 50 enrolled cases, Volmax, Volmin, and Volp will be
      measured by 2 independent observers. Interobserver variability is calculated as the
      difference between the values obtained by the 2 observers divided by the mean. Interobserver
      difference and variability of Volmax, Volmin, and Volp will be assessed.

      Statistical analysis: The SPSS software (version 12) will be used for all statistical
      analyses. All continuous variables are presented as means ± standard deviation. Analysis of
      variance and post hoc test (Scheffe F-test) for unpaired data are used to evaluate the
      significance of differences between groups. A p vale of < 0.05 is considered statistically
      significant. Comparison of clinical characteristics is performed by chi-square analysis for
      categorical variables. Bivariate analysis, simple correlation and linear regression are used
      as appropriate. The relation curve between LA distensibility and LV filling pressure are
      estimated using SPSS software. ROC curve analysis is also performed to assess the sensitivity
      and specificity of the cut-off points of echocardiographic parameters when predicting
      elevated LV filling pressure (> 15 mmHg), and the presence of the above-mentioned events. If
      LA distensibility is useful for predicting elevated LV filling pressure and major events,
      Kaplan-Meier curve will be performed to assess the cumulative event-free rate according to
      the cut-off point of LA distensibility estimated by ROC curve. The hazards ratios of clinical
      and echocardiographic parameters, including LA distensibility will be assessed by
      multivariate logistic analysis.
    
  