
    
      Hypothesis: Hepatic DNL in response to the ingestion of fructose:glucose 1:1 is significantly
      greater in adolescents with obesity and prediabetes compared to adolescents with obesity who
      are metabolically healthy.

      Thirty obese adolescents, ages 12-21 years, will be recruited to each of two groups: 1)
      prediabetes (n=15) and 2) metabolically healthy (n=15). An attempt will be made to achieve
      similar age, sex and BMI distributions in the two groups.

      Visit 1- Screening: Eligible subjects will be enrolled after Informed consent/assent are
      obtained by a physician investigator. The medical history will be reviewed and a physical
      exam performed, including an assessment of pubertal status. Blood will be sampled after at
      least a 12 hour fast (except water) for complete blood count, serum glutamate pyruvate,
      glucose, HbA1C, and lipid panel, if not previously documented in the medical record within
      three months of the screening visit. These tests may be done without fasting, but if the
      glucose or lipid results are not normal, these two tests must be repeated after fasting.

      Visit 2 - Sugar Challenge Test with Blood Sampling: Within three months of the screening
      visit, eligible participants will return after at least a 12 hour fast (except water).
      General health, family history and recent diet will be reviewed. The height, weight, waist
      circumference at the umbilicus, and blood pressure will be recorded. A urine sample will be
      obtained for microalbuminuria. After placement of an intravenous catheter and withdrawal of
      the baseline blood samples, participants will drink a sweet beverage prepared by a dietician
      (fructose:glucose 1:1, 3g/kg, in water). Blood sampling will continue every hour for three
      hours( ~12 mL per time point).

      Percent body fat will be measured by bioimpedance. The percent body fat will be calculated by
      computer software with prediction equations validated in the pediatric and adult age ranges.

      Plasma samples will be obtained at 4 time points (0, 1, 2 and 3 hours), the fatty acid
      composition of plasma very low density lipoprotein triglyceride (VLDL TG), including
      %palmitate (16:0), will be measured. A lipid panel and VLDL triglycerides and apolipoprotein
      B levels will also be measured at each time point. Other assays to be performed include
      insulin and and glucose, HbA1C and high sensitivity C reactive protein (hsCRP, a marker of
      inflammation). The urine sample will be assayed for microalbuminuria (albumin/creatinine >30
      mg/g).

      An interim analysis of the primary endpoint (increase in VLDL TG %16:0) will be performed in
      the first three subjects of each group to determine whether the dose of sugar and sampling
      duration of 3 hours are sufficient to produce a measurable increase in VLDL TG %16:0.
    
  