
    
      Patients with refractory anemias requiring regular blood transfusions accumulate iron at the
      rate of approximately 0.5 mg/kg/day, which may lead to serious organ toxicity, e.g. to the
      heart, liver and endocrine organs. The human body has no active mechanism for the excretion
      of excess iron. Therefore multiply transfused patients will develop a secondary
      hemosiderosis, if excess iron is not excreted by a chelating agent. Symptoms of iron-overload
      occur when body iron stores reach 10-20 g. At higher levels severe, even fatal complications,
      particularly cardiac failure, may develop.

      Desferrioxamine (DFO, Desferal) is the established and commonly used iron-chelating drug, but
      is expensive and must be given by slow subcutaneous or intravenous infusion for 8-12 hours a
      day during 5-7 days weekly at a dosage of 40-50 mg/kg body weight/day. This often leads to
      failure of compliance of the patient and therefore to inefficient iron chelation. Further,
      some patients are hypersensitive to desferrioxamine and others suffer from toxicity, e.g. to
      the ears or eyes.

      Deferiprone (L1; CP20; 1,2 dimethyl-3-hydroxypyrid-4-one) is an orally active iron chelator
      investigated in various clinical trials since 1987. Dosages of 75 - 100 mg/kg body weight/day
      of L1 have been considered effective to maintain stable iron balance (urinary iron excretion
      of 0.5 mg/kg/day) and to reduce serum ferritin levels between 6% and 25% within one year of
      treatment in iron-overloaded thalassemic patients. There exists long-term experience with
      patients who have received deferiprone continuously for more than 10 years so far. The main
      side effects encountered during a deferiprone therapy are arthropathy, gastrointestinal
      symptoms, headache, and mild zinc deficiency. These adverse reactions are usually reversed on
      reducing the dose or discontinuing the drug. Except for severe joint symptoms in few
      patients, most of the subjects in different clinical trials have been able to continue with
      L1 therapy for a long term. The most severe, but rare complication following administration
      of deferiprone is agranulocytosis or neutropenia.

      A new treatment regimen combining deferiprone with desferrioxamine is currently being
      investigated in many countries. Preliminary data have demonstrated that the combined use of
      both drugs is highly active showing an additive or even synergistic effect (significant
      decrease of serum ferritin and hepatic iron content, increase of urinary iron excretion).
      This synergism could be explained by the different mode of action of the two drugs. It could
      be demonstrated that patients who were not sufficiently chelated with desferrioxamine or
      deferiprone, could achieve a negative iron balance with the combination treatment of both
      drugs. The combined regimen was generally well tolerated. It has been speculated that the
      individual toxicity profile of both drugs can be positively influenced by the simultaneous
      administration of L1 and DFO. The daily treatment with L1 tablets combined with at least
      twice a week administration of parenteral desferrioxamine is more patient-convenient and
      therefore may enhance the patient's compliance.

      The primary aim of this study is to systematically investigate the long-term safety (toxicity
      assessment according to CTCAE v3.0) of deferiprone either given alone or in combination with
      desferrioxamine. Further, in patients agreeing to perform annual SQUID analysis of the liver,
      the annual change of liver iron concentration (LIC) will be examined for four years.
    
  