
    
      This entry describes Stage 3 of the study. In Stage 3, the adapted intervention and new
      e-pillbox and adherence-tracking website will be piloted in preparation for a definitive
      cluster-randomized trial (CRT). This study builds on the lessons from TAKE-IT and is a
      critical step towards a scalable intervention for real-world use.

      Stage 3 aims to pilot the adapted intervention, including the new e-pillbox, in a CRT to:

        1. Determine the feasibility of a full-scale CRT (process considerations, attrition)

        2. Understand all stakeholders' experience with the intervention, including the degree to
           which the e-pillbox and adherence-tracking website are integrated into daily life by
           patients and into practice by HCP

        3. Estimate intra-cluster correlation coefficients (ICC) and other statistical parameters
           related to adherence outcomes relevant for sample size planning for a CRT. Adherence
           outcomes to be considered include daily proportion of patients with 100% taking
           adherence (defined as having taken all prescribed doses in a day) and daily proportion
           of patients with correct dosing (defined as having taken all prescribed doses within 2
           hours before or after the scheduled time).

      The adapted adherence-promoting intervention will be compared with another intervention in a
      pilot parallel-groups CRT. The interventions will be applied over 10 weeks. Participating
      centers, rather than patients, were randomized using a restricted randomization strategy with
      the Montreal Children's Hospital (MCH) assigned to the adherence intervention. This is
      necessary to ensure that the PI and lead site get sufficient experience with the intervention
      to guide other sites and to prepare for the full-scale CRT. All other sites were randomized,
      stratified on center size, to the new adherence intervention or the healthy living education
      intervention (control arm); this ensured adequate numbers of participants in each arm.

      The aim is to enroll 67 patients across all sites over a 6-month interval. Based on numbers
      of available patients at each site, the targets noted above represent 13-50% of eligible
      patients at a given site. Allowing for 10% drop-out, 60 will complete the study (TAKE-IT had
      4% drop-out by 6 mo.). HCP at each site will also be enrolled (the 2-3 HCP most involved with
      direct patient care) to allow capture of information on their experience with the e-pillbox
      system and intervention over the course of the study. Participants will be blinded to group
      allocation but, given the nature of the intervention, coaches must be aware of group
      allocation.

      Enrollment will be followed by a 4-week run-in period during which adherence will be
      monitored electronically, but no intervention will be applied. This will give participants
      time to become familiar with the e-pillbox and provide pre-intervention adherence data. All
      participants will receive a text message from study staff 1 week after initiation of the
      run-in to check-in on how they are doing with the e-pillbox. If a participant is experiencing
      difficulties, staff will offer assistance by phone.

      The first intervention will occur at 4 weeks (+/- 1 wk.). At this visit, participants will
      meet via video conferencing (or in person, if possible) with the coach. Participants at
      adherence intervention sites will begin the adherence-promoting intervention, including
      activation of dose reminders from the e-pillbox (as desired) and access to the
      adherence-tracking website. Participants at healthy living education intervention sites will
      begin the healthy living intervention, but will have no dose reminders from the e-pillbox and
      will not have access to the adherence-tracking website during the intervention interval. The
      healthcare team will provide the usual level of care to all participants.

      At the end of the 10-week intervention interval, participants at healthy living education
      sites will be offered extended use of the e-pillbox, with dose reminders enabled, and access
      for themselves and their HCP to the adherence-tracking website for an additional 8 weeks.
      This will serve to encourage participation and use of the e-pillbox at healthy living
      education sites, and will allow estimation of the degree to which the adherence-tracking
      website is integrated into practice by HCP without support from a coach, as well as providing
      a sense of the impact of usual care plus dose reminders and possible feedback from HCP on
      adherence. This period of extended use will also allow patients at healthy living
      intervention sites the opportunity to benefit from the e-pillbox component of the
      intervention, and to be able to express their opinions about all the functionalities of the
      e-pillbox.

      Participants will have virtual (or phone) contact with coaches at increasing intervals
      between initiation of the intervention at week 4 and exit at week 14. The first check-in will
      occur at week 6 (+/- 1 wk), 2 weeks after initiation of the adherence-promoting intervention,
      the second will occur at week 10 (+/- 1 wk). This will allow intervals of increasing
      frequency between contacts as participants become more comfortable with procedures.

      HCP participants at adherence intervention sites will be trained to use the
      adherence-tracking website within 2 weeks before to 1 week after the first patient at their
      site completes the 4-week visit. HCP participants will be given access to the adherence data
      of all patient participants at their coaching site and invited to consult the website as
      often as they wish. HCP participants will also be shown a short (5 min) video providing
      education on assessing and supporting adherence.

      HCP participants at healthy living education sites will be trained to use the
      adherence-tracking website within 2 weeks before to 1 week after the first patient at their
      site completes the 14-week visit. HCP participants will be given access to the adherence data
      of all patient participants at their healthy living education site and invited to consult the
      website as often as they wish.

      HCP participants at all sites will be advised that they will be informed by study staff about
      critical non-adherence events among participants. At adherence intervention sites, alerts
      regarding critical non-adherence events will be activated during the interval between 4 and
      14 weeks; at healthy living education sites, alerts will be activated during the interval
      between 14 and 22 weeks. Alerts will be sent to study staff, who will then follow-up with the
      patient and advise the HCP of the particular issue. HCP will be advised that they will be
      under no obligation to act on the information in alerts, but may if they wish.

      Within 2 weeks after the last patient at the site completes the 14-week visit at adherence
      intervention sites and within 2 weeks after the last patient at the site completes the
      22-week visit at healthy living education sites, HCP participants will complete
      questionnaires on their experience using the fully-functional e-pillbox (including the
      Post-Study System Usability Questionnaire (PSSUQ) focused on the adherence-tracking website).
    
  