
    
      An estimated 71 million people are living with hepatitis C virus (HCV) world-wide, at
      significant risk of morbidity and mortality from liver cirrhosis, liver failure and
      hepatocellular carcinoma. However, the development of well-tolerated, highly-efficacious
      curative direct-acting antiviral treatment (DAAs) has contributed to a global push to
      eliminate HCV as a public health threat. The World Health Organization has developed a global
      strategy for elimination that calls for 90% of people living with HCV to be diagnosed and 90%
      of those diagnosed to be treated by 2030.

      In 2015, prior to the DAAs being released, it was estimated that around 230,000 people living
      with HCV in Australia. Like in many other high-income countries, the group most affected by
      HCV in Australia are people who inject drugs (PWID), making this a key population group for
      Australia's HCV elimination efforts.

      Despite the availability of DAAs through Australia's Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme (PBS),
      numerous barriers exist for PWID to access HCV care and particularly to accessing
      tertiary-based care. As such, targeting community-based services that provide comprehensive
      care packages for PWID, including the provision of opioid substitution therapy (OST),
      counselling, a needle and syringe program (NSP) for the delivery of HCV treatment should
      increase PWIDs' engagement in HCV care. The EC Partnership program has been funded to
      increase capacity of community and prison services to provide HCV testing and treatment with
      DAA treatments by streamlining clinical pathways and reducing barriers to access.

      The EC Partnership project is a multi-site, multi-year project aiming to enhance and extend
      hepatitis C virus (HCV) care and treatment among people who inject drugs (PWID) through
      nurse-led models of care in the community and the prison system. Specifically the project
      aims to:

        -  Increase demand for HCV treatment among PWID;

        -  Increase the capacity of community services to provide HCV testing & treatment with PBS
           listed DAAs;

        -  Increase the capacity to provide HCV testing & treatment in prison with PBS listed DAAs;

        -  Streamline clinical pathways (tailored for different types of settings) to increase
           access to PBS listed DAAs; and

        -  Establish an integrated HCV surveillance system to more accurately monitor trends in HCV
           prevalence and incidence over time.

      To achieve this, the project will implement and evaluate a health service intervention for
      prison-based and community-based health services providing care to PWID. The intervention
      will have five main components:

        1. enhance HCV response by improving health promotion;

        2. offering training and education to service providers;

        3. streamlining clinical pathways;

        4. utilising data systems and surveillance;

        5. and implementing the results of ongoing research and evaluation.

      The intervention will be evaluated using qualitative and quantitative data from health
      services, clinical providers and clients, which will include:

        -  EC experience observational cohort data will assess predictors of patient engagement and
           identify barriers and enablers to progression through the cascade of care

        -  Interviews with clinical service providers to assess changes to clinical pathways and to
           inform cost-effectiveness analysis

        -  Clinical data from the Australian Collaboration for Co-ordinated Sentinel Surveillance
           (ACCESS) System that will track and monitor impact indictors including HCV testing,
           linkage to care and treatment uptake at the service and population level

        -  Data from State-wide Hepatitis Assessment and Management Program (Prison programs)

        -  Data from Medicare, PBS and other Victorian Department of Health and Human Services
           datasets (This will occur with a subset of patients who provide consent from
           participating sites).

      In addition, the project will incorporate a sub study (Ophelia evaluation) that will be used
      to guide development and implementation of health promotion initiatives.

      The EC Partnership evaluation aims to measure the overall impact of the EC Partnership by
      monitoring and evaluating specific key outcomes, including:

        -  Number of PWID who uptake HCV treatment across EC partnerships services within the
           community and the prison system;

        -  Treatment effectiveness (SVR12 cure rates & treatment failures) among community and the
           prison based treatment programs, compared to tertiary-based treatment programs;

        -  Cost and feasibility of treating >1,160 PWID within the community and the prison
           systems;

        -  Changes in HCV prevalence and incidence in Victoria, and comparing community and prison
           population estimates;

        -  Model the impact of treating PWID to inform HCV elimination models in Australia and
           globally.
    
  