
    
      This study will be a double-blind randomized placebo-controlled intervention study. In total
      240 healthy men and women between 40 and 70 years will be recruited in the province of
      Limburg through small advertisements in local newspapers.

      Eligible participants will be randomized into 2 study groups:

        -  Group 1: MK-7 (1 tablet: MK-7 dosage is 180 μg)

        -  Group 2: Placebo (1 tablet: MK-7 dosage is 0 µg) Each group will consist of 120
           participants. A double-blind design is chosen to avoid the occurrence of bias during the
           study. After randomization, the participants consume the placebo or MK-7 tablets once
           daily with either breakfast or dinner during one year.

      People who are interested to participate will come to the research laboratory of VitaK for a
      screening visit (day -14). During this visit, the investigator will check whether the
      volunteers are eligible for inclusion based on the in- and exclusion criteria. After meeting
      the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria, volunteers will be assigned a
      randomization number from a computer-generated randomization list. A stratified block
      randomization will be performed for gender, in order to avoid unequal distribution of men and
      women among the 2 treatment groups.

      On-site measurements will be performed at t=0 and after 1 year of treatment: the
      carotid-femoral Pulse Wave Velocity (cfPWV; primary outcome) and echotracking of the common
      carotid artery to assess the vascular stiffness (secondary outcome). A Whole Body scan with
      DXA will be performed to determine total fat and lean mass of the participants. Blood will be
      taken after an overnight fasting period at t=0 and after 1 year to measure the circulating
      level of inactive MGP.

      Results from our previous study (NCT00642551) showed significant changes in vascular
      characteristics, pulse wave velocity after a 3 year intervention period with a daily dosage
      of 180 µg MK-7 in 240 postmenopausal women. After 1 year MK-7 intervention inactive MGP
      levels (improvement of vascular vitamin K status) were decreased 50% compared to placebo and
      remained at this level during the following 2 years of intervention.

      Recently published population-based studies show that the unfavorable cardiovascular outcomes
      are mainly attributable to those within the highest quartile of circulating dp-ucMGP. We
      expect, therefore, that an intervention study among preselected subjects with poor vascular
      vitamin K status (inactive MGP levels > 400 pmol/L) and treatment with the same dosage MK-7
      (i.e. 180 µg/day) during one year will have a more pronounced effect on arterial stiffening
      and pulse wave velocity.

      The follow-up study will be performed at the end of the intervention period of 1 year, with
      participants who have completed the one year intervention study. From this study population
      eligible participants (men and women) will be selected. In total 100 participants will be
      invited. Measurements will be performed at the same day: the carotid-femoral Pulse Wave
      Velocity (cfPWV), echotracking of the common carotid artery to assess the vascular stiffness
      and accelerated plethysmography measurements (APG) will be assessed using an fingertip
      oximeter StiffnoGraph (Taiwan): heart rate, SpO2 (oxygen saturation) and stiffness score.
    
  