
    
      The purpose of this prospective trail is to improve the staging of patients with prostate
      cancer. The investigators focus on the group of patients with a newly diagnosed prostate
      cancer, and specifically the ones who have an intermediate and high risk of disseminated
      prostate cancer.

      The aim is to improve staging by replacing the traditional invasive method, the
      lymphadenectomy, which has a rather low sensitivity by a non-invasive method, 18F-choline
      PET/CT which has a presumably superior sensitivity.

      The treatment of patients with prostate cancer relies on the stage of the disease. Patients
      with disseminated prostate cancer are incurable and are treated with palliatively. In
      contrast, patients with localized prostate cancer are offered curative therapy. Hence, the
      stage of prostate cancer is crucial for the choice of treatment.

      The potential benefits are

        -  The patients avoid the surgical trauma including complications and convalescents period.

        -  The accuracy of the prostate cancer staging is improved, the potential of which is
           better survival.

      The patients are 18F-choline PET/CT scanned prior to their lymphadenectomy, the results of
      the 18F-choline PET/CT are blinded for the surgeon. The endpoint of the trail is the
      comparison of 18F-choline PET/CT and the histopathological investigation of the regional
      lymph nodes of prostate.

      Assuming a prevalence of metastasised prostate cancer of 20% and a true (unknown) sensitivity
      of FCH PET/CT of 95%, 205 patients are sufficient to show that the sensitivity of the FCH
      PET/CT is greater than 80% with a power of 80% at significance level 5%. The size of the
      confidence interval for specificity of FCH PET/CT is expected to become reasonable small. In
      opposition to lymphadenectomy, FCH PET/CT results may point to metastases in neighbouring
      regions which gives an additional benefit to FCH PET/CT justifying a test level for
      sensitivity of 80%."

      Accordingly 205 patients will be included over 2½ years. The first patients have been
      included in January 2008. Interim analyses will be done after 25, 50 and 100 patients.
    
  