
    
      The National Cancer Institute estimates that 218,890 new cases of prostate cancer will have
      been diagnosed in 2007. The three most commonly chosen options for localized prostate cancer
      are radical prostatectomy (RP), external radiation therapy (XRT), and interstitial
      brachytherapy (BT). A variety of surgical approaches are available, including open,
      laparoscopic, and robotic prostatectomy. With the current trend towards "minimally invasive"
      techniques, laparoscopic prostatectomy (LP) and, in particular, robotic assisted LP are on
      the rise. Since gaining FDA approval in 2001, the robotic procedure has gained over 1/3 of
      the market share. Preliminary data suggests this number may now have grown to over 50% of all
      prostatectomies for cancer performed in the United States.

      The minimally invasive procedures offer some advantages relative to the open alternative:
      smaller incisions, improved pain control, decreased blood loss, and faster recovery have been
      well documented. Cancer specific and quality of life (sexual function, continence) outcomes
      will need more long term evaluation before definitive advantages with the minimally invasive
      techniques are stated. Furthermore, there are potential risks with these minimally invasive
      methods that have not been fully elucidated.

      During a laparoscopic or robotic prostatectomy, patients are subjected to a marked
      Trendelenberg position throughout the majority of the procedure. The effect of body
      positioning has been shown previously to affect intraocular pressure (IOP). However, the
      effect of surgical positioning on IOP during prostatectomies has not been well studied and is
      not definitively known. Anecdotal reports of postoperative vision loss following robotic
      assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy have surfaced thus further research is required to study
      the effect that these procedures for prostate cancer may have on IOP and vision.
    
  