
    
      Background: Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) is a chronic, inflammatory, rheumatic disease that
      genetic and environmental factors play role in its pathogenesis. There may be other symptoms
      caused by both the inflammation and the chronic disease effect, as well as the symptoms
      associated with the disease, such as depression, fatigue, physical inactivity and decreased
      quality of life. Major depression risk was revealed 16.8% of RA patients in a meta-analysis.
      Depression prevalence was found 38.8% by the assessment with Patient Health Questionnaire
      (PHQ-9) and between 14.8% and 48% by the assessment with Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale. BDNF is a neurotrofic factor that may show healing, survival-promoting and protective
      effects on neurons in central and peripheral nervous system. Acute or chronic exercise
      programmes were found to increase BDNF levels in human and animal studies. Aim of this study
      is to investigate the variation of BDNF levels following acute exercise and potential
      correlation between BDNF levels and depression.

      Methods: This study included 30 RA patients and 30 age and sex matched healthy
      controls.Patients who were aged between 18-65 years, got diagnosed according to American
      College of Rheumatology criteria and were being followed at Firat University Department of
      Rheumatology were included in the study. Also, patients who had regular exercise habits,
      malignancy, pregnancy, incorporation, took anti-TNF treatment, had changes of medical
      treatment in last 3 months, diagnosed with Fibromyalgia Syndrome and Osteoarthritis for lower
      extremity, had cardiac symptoms according to New York Heart Association and had dysfunction
      that can prevent physical activity were excluded from the study. Healthy participants who
      were aged 18- 65 years old and not to have exercise habits were included in this study.
      Participants included in the study were asked and recorded age, body mass index (BMI),
      smoking/ alcohol habits, duration of the disease, vocation and having another chronic
      disease. Next, depression levels were evaluated with Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) and
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). Blood samples from all subjects were taken and
      centrifuged before and immediately after the exercise intervention.Aerobic exercise was
      performed to all participants for a single session. Maximum heart rate was calculated for
      each subject (220 - age) and a heart rate monitor (Polar FT 100, China) was used to follow
      subjects' heart rate during aerobic exercise.
    
  