
    
      BACKGROUND:

      There are gaps between what family practitioners do in clinical practice and the
      evidence-based ideal. The most commonly used strategy to narrow these gaps is the printed
      educational message (PEM); however, the attributes of successful printed educational messages
      and their overall effectiveness in changing physician practice are not clear. The current
      endeavor aims to determine whether such messages change prescribing quality in primary care
      practice, and whether these effects differ with the format of the message.

      METHODS/DESIGN:

      The design is a large, simple, factorial, unblinded cluster-randomized controlled trial. PEMs
      will be distributed with informed, a quarterly evidence-based synopsis of current clinical
      information produced by the Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Canada, and
      will be sent to all eligible general and family practitioners in Ontario. There will be three
      replicates of the trial, with three different educational messages, each aimed at narrowing a
      specific evidence-practice gap as follows: 1) angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors,
      hypertension treatment, and cholesterol lowering agents for diabetes; 2) retinal screening
      for diabetes; and 3) diuretics for hypertension.For each of the three replicates there will
      be three intervention groups. The first group will receive informed with an attached
      postcard-sized, short, directive "outsert." The second intervention group will receive
      informed with a two-page explanatory "insert" on the same topic. The third intervention group
      will receive informed, with both the above-mentioned outsert and insert. The control group
      will receive informed only, without either an outsert or insert.Routinely collected physician
      billing, prescription, and hospital data found in Ontario's administrative databases will be
      used to monitor pre-defined prescribing changes relevant and specific to each replicate,
      following delivery of the educational messages. Multi-level modeling will be used to study
      patterns in physician-prescribing quality over four quarters, before and after each of the
      three interventions. Subgroup analyses will be performed to assess the association between
      the characteristics of the physician's place of practice and target behaviours.A further
      analysis of the immediate and delayed impacts of the PEMs will be performed using time-series
      analysis and interventional, auto-regressive, integrated moving average modeling.
    
  