
    
      Prior to surgery, patient participants will receive a combined spinal-epidural per VCU total
      joint protocol; the following steps are considered standard of care and not considered study
      procedures. The combined spinal-epidural procedure creates complete numbness below the
      abdomen down to the feet, which negates the need for general anesthesia. For patient comfort
      during the combined-spinal epidural procedure, a one-time dose of 2 milligrams of intravenous
      midazolam will be given; this dose is adequate for reducing anxiety while allowing the
      patient to maintain conversation with health care providers if necessary. The standard
      intrathecal dose for total knee replacement at our institution is 15 mg bupivacaine and 0.2
      mg preservative-free morphine; this dose will provide complete numbness to the lower
      extremities for approximately 3-6 hours. After this dose is administered, the patient will
      then be positioned appropriately in the operating room and vital signs will monitored per
      standard protocol.

      Each patient participant will be randomized to one of two groups. Participants in the control
      group will receive noise-cancelling wireless headphones that will not play any noise
      throughout the procedure. Participants in the experimental group will receive the same
      noise-cancelling wireless headphones but will be permitted to listen to the music of their
      choice while in the operating room. Music will be provided via Spotify, which is an Internet
      streaming music service, and will be played through headphones; this way, no other individual
      in the operating room will be distracted or influenced by the patient's music selection.
      Participants will not be able to change the Spotify channel. We will be using the paid
      Spotify service with no commercials. If participants opt to have the music stopped, we will
      withdraw them from the study and continue standard of care. The participants will have the
      music playing for about two hours. If the participant has no music preference, the music will
      be chosen for them and it will be the same for all participants that have no preference. The
      volume will be adjusted in the operating room until the participant approves of the volume by
      saying "yes, the volume is good" or giving another verbal cue of approval.The music will
      continue playing until the surgical procedure is complete and the patient has reached the
      post-anesthesia recovery unit.

      As stated previously, spinal anesthesia provides numbness that negates the need for general
      anesthesia, but patients often times need additional sedation, which will be defined as
      anesthesia medication that is used to treat patient anxiety and discomfort in the operating
      room. Patient participants in both groups will receive sedation via the same protocol, which
      is outlined below.

      Sedation will only be given as needed per patient request; the patient will be given a
      noise-making device (such as a rubber duckie that makes sound when squeezed) that will inform
      the anesthesia provider that the patient is uncomfortable and needs some sedation. A weight
      based dose of 0.3 micrograms per kilogram of intravenous propofol will be given for each
      patient request. This dose is expected to provide amnesia or light sleep for a few minutes.
      For patient safety, if the patient requests sedation more than once within a two minute
      window, the anesthesia provider will not administer any more medication during this two
      minute period. Additionally, the anesthesia provider may withhold sedation if he or she
      determines with physical exam and hemodynamic monitors that the patient is already
      over-sedated.

      After five propofol boluses have been given to a patient, a propofol continuous infusion will
      be initiated at 25mcg/kg/min. The patient may still request additional sedation with the
      request instrument if he or she is still conscious enough to do so. If the anesthesia
      provider has given more than five boluses even with the baseline propofol infusion, the
      infusion will be increased to 50mcg/kg/min. In the highly unlikely scenario that five
      additional boluses are required with a propofol infusion rate of 50 mcg/kg/min, the
      anesthesia providers and investigators will make a clinical decision as to what is the safest
      next step.

      There may be scenarios that warrant conversion to general anesthesia. These scenarios
      include, but are not limited to, hemodynamic instability, regurgitation of gastric content,
      obtundation, excessive agitation, and inadequate spinal anesthesia. The decision to convert
      to the general anesthesia will be made by the anesthesiologist and anesthesia provider in the
      operating room; implementation of this study should not prevent or delay this decision if it
      is necessary.

      Documentation will be completed by the anesthesia provider per standard protocol for
      electronic anesthesia charting at VCU. This will allow for data acquisition by the
      investigators through the anesthesiology printed record in Cerner.
    
  