
    
      Respiratory Rehabilitation (RR) is based on a comprehensive multidisciplinary program of
      personalized and tailored care for patients with chronic respiratory diseases. Carried out in
      small groups of patients, it offers effort re-training combined with therapeutic education
      and psychological and social care. It aims at the long-term change of life habits.

      The effectiveness of RR in improving quality of life and exercise capacity has long been
      demonstrated in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). More recently,
      its interest has been highlighted in other chronic respiratory pathologies: asthma,
      interstitial pathologies, cancer, restrictive pathologies or pulmonary arterial hypertension.
      Although the efficacy of RR has been well demonstrated on the scale of a patient population,
      the benefits derived on an individual scale remain unpredictable and variable from one
      individual to another, without knowing the major determinants of this benefit.

      Empirically, RR professionals suspect an association between some psychosocial
      characteristics and the importance of the benefit derived by patients from RR programmes.
      Individual personality traits and their relationship to health status, integration into a
      group, interaction with other group members, and the existence of anxiety or depressive
      symptoms may be determinants of RR benefit. These psychosocial determinants could also play a
      central role in the patients' adherence to the long-term rehabilitation process.

      The hypothesis being tested is that there is an association between personality traits,
      anxiety, depressive symptoms, social support, and the benefit of an initial course of RR and
      the subsequent continuation of maintenance practices.

      Main objective n°1: to describe the distribution of 17 psychosocial traits of interest in
      patients who had a major benefit from the initial RR stage (defined by a decrease ≥7 points
      of Saint George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) compared to patients who did not have a
      major benefit (defined by a decrease <7 points of the SGRQ).

      The 17 traits describe the following:

        1. Personality traits

        2. Existence of anxiety or depressive symptoms

        3. Self-assessment of health status and the degree of control that the subject feels he or
           she has over the disease.

        4. Felt social support

        5. Interpersonal dimensions

        6. General satisfaction of the subject

      Secondary Objective 1 :

      Describe the distribution of the 17 psychosocial traits of interest in patients who have
      implemented maintenance practices for at least one year after the 1st RR course (defined by
      paramedical care or participation in activities offered by a patient association or
      declaration of the maintenance of supervised physical activity), compared to patients who
      have not pursued such an activity or for whom this data is not available.

      Secondary objective n°2: Describe the correlations between 17 psychosocial traits of interest
      and the variation of the following variables between the initial and final assessment of the
      first RR stage: SGRQ, VQ11 quality of life score, Modified Medical Research Council (mMRC)
      dyspnea scale, 6-minute walking distance.
    
  