
    
      Methodology.

        1. Type of study. Experimental study, randomized clinical trial.

        2. Conceptual definition of the variables.

             -  Jump strength: Maximum force developed by an individual for a counter-movement jump
                test measured in Newtons.

             -  Flight time: Maximum air suspension time when performing the counter movement jump
                test measured in seconds.

             -  Jump height: Maximum height reached by an individual for a counter movement jump
                test measured in centimeters for the "My Jump 2®" application.

             -  Rapid cooling (Quick Icing): Short application of cold for a time not greater than
                thirty seconds on a body surface, seeking to promote neuromuscular excitability.

             -  Prolonged cold: Application of cold for at least five minutes or more on a body
                surface, seeking to decrease the VCN of the underlying muscles and skin receptors.

        3. Operational definition of the variables.

             -  Jumping strength: It will be obtained through the program "My Jump 2®" whose
                software integrates the variables of flight time and height for its determination,
                will be measured in Newton.

             -  Time of flight: "Globus Ergo Tester ®" through a processor, which time the takeoff
                and landing of the individual, the processor has incorporated a formula that
                determines the height in meters through the following h = (t2 xg) / 8 (68).

             -  Jump height: On the other hand, the "My Jump 2®" application incorporates a
                mathematical program that determines the jump height in centimeters.

             -  Quick Icing: It will be applied through the technique of ice cups on the anterior
                region of both thighs in the experimental group (ANNEX 5. ICE CUPS).

             -  Prolonged cold: It will be applied through the ice bag technique (Ice Bag) on the
                anterior region of both thighs in the control group.

        4. Definition of the type of variable.

             -  Jump strength: Dependent, quantitative, reason variable.

             -  Jump height: Dependent, quantitative, reason variable.

             -  Quick cooling (Quick Icing): Independent variable, qualitative, nominal.

             -  Prolonged cold: Independent variable, qualitative, nominal.

        5. Sample.

           Students of the Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences (FCR) of careers in occupational
           therapy and phonoaudiology, and kinesiology from the first to third year of the Andrés
           Bello University (UNAB).

        6. Place of investigation.

           The study will be carried out in the physiotherapy laboratory of the Faculty of
           Rehabilitation Sciences (FCR), building C5, laboratory 401, Campus Casona Andrés Bello
           University, Santiago de Chile.

        7. Design

      This research has the characteristics of a randomized analytical experimental design (RCT).
      The study will be presented to the ethics committee of the Metropolitan Health Service East
      (SSMO) of the city of Santiago, to ensure that the study meets the necessary ethical
      considerations. Once the study is approved by the committee, the investigation will begin.

      The sample will be determined through an intentional selection process through a
      participation survey constituted by closed questions. This survey will allow the selection of
      potential participants according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria proposed in the
      research. The number of participants that will make up the sample will be taken by the
      convenience of the researchers.

      Three stages of study conduction have been designated. Stage one, called "sampling stage",
      will consist in the application of the survey to the students of the different levels of the
      three careers of the Faculty and will last for four weeks. Then the information collected
      will be analyzed by making a first filter in the selection of potential participants. This
      filter is given by the survey questions that will reflect the inclusive and exclusive
      criteria. A personal contact will be made of the participants that fulfill the selection
      characteristics and they will be invited to be part of the study. The purpose of the
      investigation will be explained to the potential participants and their written consent of
      participation will be requested. The consent document delivered will be previously approved
      by the bioethics committee of the Metropolitan Health Service East (SSMO), with headquarters
      in the Hospital Salvador, Providencia district. Stage one will last three weeks, following
      the planned proposal in the Gantt letter.

      Stage two of the design, called the "Evaluation stage", will last four weeks according to
      what is proposed in the Gantt chart. This stage will consist in carrying out the ice cube
      test following the established evaluation protocol. With this test it will be possible to
      assess whether or not there are adverse responses to cold. This will allow applying a second
      filter of the selectable participants and who consented to participate consensually, and who
      were not excluded from the selection survey. Next, an assessment of the participants' ability
      to perform a jump type against movement in a painless way will be made in a scenario with the
      same environmental conditions in which the research will be carried out (Physiotherapy
      laboratory of the Faculty of Rehabilitation Sciences, room 401, C5). Stage two will be an
      instance of second filtering of the participants' selection, in order to have the people who
      will finally form the working groups of the study.

      Stage three, called experimentation stage, will last for eight weeks. The participants will
      be distributed forming three working groups, a group called rapid cooling (ER), another group
      called prolonged cooling (EP) and a third group called control (C). The designation for each
      group will be previously carried out by a simple randomization process using a table of
      random numbers, and will be in charge of the study director. This randomization process will
      try to minimize the selection bias. The principal investigator will be the only one with the
      numbered list of the participants of each group. From this process of randomization the
      division of the groups will be established; G1 (ER), G2 (EP) and G3 (C). Once the three
      groups have been formed, an evaluator 1 will record the demographic characteristics of each
      participant. This record will include data such as; age, body mass index (BMI), gender and
      percentage of body fat. This information will be extracted from the survey of selection of
      the participants that will make up the groups and measurement of body fat percentage through
      bioimpedance. This analysis will allow to determine the homogeneity of the groups. An
      evaluator 2, unaware of the groups, will perform the jump measurements (counter movement
      mode) using the jump platform (Globus Ergo Tester®) and the mobile application (MyJump2®)
      following the protocol for evaluating and recording proposed data. By means of the jump
      platform, the flight times of each execution will be obtained, while with the mobile program
      the strength of the jump and height will be determined. Before performing the jump test, a
      five-minute pre-heating in a cycloergometer (MONARK 915E®) at a power of 80 watts will be
      performed. The heating will be done in the same room where the jump platform and the mobile
      application will be arranged. Evaluator 2 will request three jump executions in
      counter-movement mode (CMJ) (pre-intervention jumps) considering 15 seconds for each
      execution (including verbal order and execution) and leaving a rest interval of 60 seconds
      between each attempt.

      The variables flight time, strength and height of the jump of the three executions will be
      tabulated in a Microsoft Excel® program template and the best values will be marked, such as
      "flight time, jump force and maximum pre height". Subsequently the participants will be
      referred to their corresponding intervention group, that is, rapid cooling (ER), prolonged
      cooling (EP) or control group (C). In the laboratory there will be three work boxes, one for
      each intervention procedure. Interveners will only have contact with the subjects belonging
      to their work group, without knowing the participants of the other groups, thus ensuring
      blinding and avoiding intervention bias.

      Each participant will be 10 minutes in their respective work box. In each box an interventor
      will be placed. The first minute of the contemplated time will be used for the installation
      of each individual, leaving the remaining 9 for the intervention. The participants will be
      positioned lying on a stretcher with their back inclined at 45° leaving both thighs
      uncovered. The subjects of the Quick Icing group (G1) will be subjected to the application of
      cold on the front of both thighs for 30 seconds, using the technique of ice cups dynamically.
      Group 1 participants must wait for eight minutes for the application after they are
      installed. The application will be made within the last minute before ending the 10 minutes
      of stay in the box. The group of prolonged cold (G2) will receive the intervention of ice bag
      for a period of 10 minutes after the first minute of installation, which will be applied on
      the anterior side of the thighs. The ice pack will weigh 700 grams. The control group (G3)
      will not receive any intervention and will be left to rest for 10 minutes.

      After 10 minutes the individuals of each group will be driven back to the jump measurement
      laboratory. Evaluator 2 will again record the execution of 3 jumps following the same
      protocol described before the intervention. The variable flight time, strength and height of
      the jump of the three executions will be tabulated in a Microsoft Excel® program spreadsheet
      and the best post-intervention values will be marked as "flight time, strength and height
      maximum jump post". Based on the data obtained, that is, pre and post intervention, the
      variables "flight time difference, force difference and jump height" will be determined for
      sessions 1, 2 and 3, which will allow analyzing the changes before and after the
      intervention. All the described measurement will be recorded as the data obtained on day 1.
      Participants will be instructed to repeat the same test on two other occasions, on day 3
      (session 2) and on day 7 (session 3), leaving thus an interval of two days between each
      measurement. For session 2 and 3, the jump test will be repeated following the same protocol
      described and already used on day 1 of measurement.

      9. Statistic analysis.

      This stage will be in charge of the principal investigator, who will be responsible for
      storing and organizing the data collected by the evaluators. The statistical analysis of the
      data will be carried out with the STATA v13.0® program. The flight time, force and height
      jump will be considered as primary variables of the study. On the other hand, age, sex and
      body mass index (BMI) will be considered as secondary variables. The Shapiro Wilk test
      (S-Wilk) will be applied to evaluate the statistical distribution behavior of the primary
      variables. and height of jump pre, post and its difference. According to their statistical
      behavior, averages or medians will be used to represent the data. The same statistic will be
      applied to the secondary variables such as age and BMI to represent them as averages or
      medians. The secondary sex variable will be described as a function of frequencies. To
      perform the intra and intergroup comparisons, the ANOVA or K-WALLIS statistics will be used
      depending on the statistical behavior of the variables thrown by the S-Wilk test. The
      analysis will also consider the differences of the values obtained for the primary variables
      in between sessions 1, 2 and 3 of measurement.

      Evaluation protocol: Ice cube test. The ice cube test involves placing an ice cube (0 to 4
      °C) on the forearm for five minutes, then removing it and waiting approximately 10 minutes
      for the skin to return to its normal temperature. It is considered that the test is positive
      when there is formation of a welt or confluent welts at the place of application. It is
      recommended to cover the ice cube with a plastic bag to avoid contact of the skin with water.
      If there is wheal formation, we proceed to produce shorter stimuli with reductions of one
      minute, until we find the minimum time with which the patient reacts. These new exposures
      should be done in different sites of the forearm, to avoid negative results by degranulation
      of mast cells and desensitization of the skin. If there is no wheal training at the first
      five-minute exposure, the exposure time is increased by one minute, usually up to ten
      minutes; if there is no wheal training in any of these new exposures, the test is considered
      negative and the patient is unlikely to experience cold hives. In the scientific literature
      it is considered that the ice cube test has a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 100%.

      With the ice cube test it is posible obtain three results: a negative test, a positive test
      during the registration period or an atypical response. Cold urticarias with an atypical
      response share two common characteristics: 1) clinical history of urticaria or cold
      angioedema, and 2) negative ice cube test immediately (except for cold reflex urticaria).

      Protocol for conducting the Test.

        -  Subject sitting

        -  Shoulder position: adducted without rotation.

        -  Elbow position: flexed at 90º. This will be ensured by a splint.

        -  Forearm position: supination.

        -  Place an ice cube on the ventral side of the opposite forearm for a period of 5 minutes.

        -  Unwanted responses are observed within 10 minutes after the test. The test will be
           positive if there are responses such as: hives, appearance of flictenas, cold
           intolerance, profuse erythema or pain.

      Jump protocol and parameter registration.

        -  The anthropometric data of each user will be recorded: age, weight and height since
           these are required for the use of the MyJump2® application.

        -  Participants will be taught the execution of the jump-against-movement (CMJ) test.

        -  Participants will then undergo a previous warm-up on a cycle ergometer (MONARK 915E®)
           for a period of five minutes. The heating will be done with a load power of 80 watts.

        -  After the warm-up the subjects will go to the jump platform (Globus Ergo tester®). The
           subject A video camera of a mobile phone will be placed in front of the subject at 1.5
           meters focusing on the feet.

        -  For simultaneous measurement with the MyJump2® application, the subject must jump 3
           times with 1-minute rest intervals. A time of 15 seconds will be consigned for the
           completion of each attempt. Once the 3 jumps have been made, the subjects will be taken
           to the intervention boxes.

        -  In each of the boxes it will be designated for different groups: control, cold and
           long-term cold and short duration, in each box will be ten minutes.

        -  After the intervention, the three groups will repeat the jump test.
    
  