
    
      The epidemic of excess weight in childhood is impacted by exposure to, and consumption of,
      fast food and calorie dense foods prepared outside of the home. Black youth are more likely
      than their peers to live in communities with a high density of fast food restaurants. There
      is a need for interventions to help adolescents make healthy choices in these obesogenic
      environments.

      Previous research revealed that adolescents welcomed health-related text messages (based on
      Self Determination Theory and Motivational Interviewing) if they viewed them as personally
      relevant and if they were received at times when they faced dietary choices. Based on these
      findings, the following is hypothesized: that delivering messages (tailored to users'
      preferences and values) at a time and place when they are making a dietary choice (e.g., in a
      restaurant) will positively influence their choices.

      Thus, the Location Initiated Individualized Texts for African American Adolescent Health
      (LIITA3H) mobile application was developed. This app identifies when users were in a
      restaurant, automatically sends culturally relevant messages (based on focus group input from
      the target population) tailored to user preferences and the menu options at their location
      with the aim of prompting users to make a healthy choice, and allows users to submit an
      annotated photo response about their food choice.

      For this R21 project the following will be achieved: 1) the LIITA3H app will be enhanced by
      incorporating user input regarding its design and by allowing greater automation in the
      identification of eating venues, and 2) the impact of the app on the number of visits by
      users to restaurants, and on the number of calories users consume from these venues will be
      tested. This will provide data regarding effect size and will form the foundation for a large
      randomized trial in a larger population and including a greater range of eating venues. A
      better understanding of how 'just in time" personalized cues to action, made possible by new
      location-based technology, might alter behavior among a high risk population, will help
      future efforts to address obesity and other illnesses impacted by lifestyle choices.
    
  