
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety, tolerability, and recommended phase II dose of pertuzumab when
      administered in combination with cetuximab in patients with cetuximab-refractory locally
      advanced or metastatic colorectal cancer.

      II. To evaluate the objective tumor response rate (RR) in patients treated with this regimen.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the median progression-free survival (PFS) of patients treated with this
      regimen.

      II. To evaluate the median overall survival (OS) of patients treated with this regimen.

      III. To evaluate the RR, PFS, and OS in a subgroup of patients who are EGFR-positive by
      immunohistochemistry.

      IV. To explore the relationship between skin rash and the efficacy outcomes of RR, PFS, and
      OS in these patients.

      V. To explore the relationship between objective tumor response on positron emission
      tomography (PET) scan after course two and the efficacy outcomes of RR, PFS, and OS in these
      patients.

      VI. To explore the relationship between a variety of laboratory correlates and the efficacy
      outcomes of RR, PFS, and OS in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of pertuzumab followed by a
      phase II study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive pertuzumab IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Patients also receive
      cetuximab IV over 60-120 minutes on days 2, 8, and 15 of course 1 and on days 1, 8, and 15 in
      all subsequent courses.

      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive treatment as in phase I. Pertuzumab is administered at the
      recommended phase II dose (determined in phase I). Previously collected tumor tissue samples
      are analyzed for correlative studies. Samples are analyzed for KRAS mutations via polymerase
      chain reaction and pyrosequencing; EGFR expression via immunohistochemistry and fluorescent
      in situ hybridization (FISH); HER receptor and ligand gene expression; and circulating tumor
      cells. Additional blood samples are collected periodically to isolate circulating tumor cells
      and are analyzed via FISH analysis.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 30 days and then periodically
      thereafter.
    
  