
    
      In December of 2019, in Wuhan, China, a novel coronavirus outbreak began. Globally this
      disease referred to as COVID-19, is the result of a novel SARS-CoV2 virus which predominantly
      targets Type II lung alveolar cells (AT2). The hyper response of the host immune system can
      rapidly evolve into a life-threatening cytokine-release syndrome or cytokine storm. The
      cytokine storm can predispose the patient to ARDS and/or NCP., or both. Left unchecked, the
      ARDS pathogenesis rapidly culminates in disruption of cell cytotoxicity mechanisms, excessive
      activation of cytotoxic lymphocytes, and a predominance of type I (M1) macrophage; resulting
      in the massive release of a host of proinflammatory cytokines (FNO-α, IL-1, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8,
      IL-10), granulocytic colony-stimulating factor, monocytic chemoattractive protein 1. The
      result systemically is a rise in surrogate inflammatory markers (C Reactive Protein, serum
      ferritin), with a corresponding infiltration of internal organs and tissues by activated
      macrophage, T-lymphocytes and a predominance of cellular apoptosis. The resulting
      hyperinflammatory pathogenic reaction may result in severe aveolar lesions leading to death,
      scarring, or severe lung damage, persisting well after discharge.

      Experimental studies have demonstrated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and MSC-culutre
      media (MSC-CM) may significantly reduce the pro-inflammatory bias and associated pathologic
      impairment resulting. The MSC-CM, known to contain exosomes, has been shown to have an
      anti-inflammatory effect. Further exosomes associated with the amniotic membrane, long used
      in the treatment of burn and wounds, have been show to have a regenerative effect.

      The purpose of this protocol is to explore the safety and efficacy of an intravenous
      injection of MSC derived exosomes in the treatment of severe patients (moderate to severe
      Berlin score) with ARDS or NCP.
    
  