
    
      Lower limb (infrainguinal) revascularization surgeries are performed for patients with blood
      flow occlusion, with the goals of improving pain and function. Graft patency is associated
      with higher quality of life scores. However, open lower limb revascularization is associated
      with a significant risk of graft failure. Multiple anesthesia options exist for elective open
      lower limb revascularization, including general and regional (spinal, epidural, peripheral
      nerve block). The literature has shown mixed results regarding the superiority of regional
      anesthesia over general anesthesia for morbidity and mortality. In this study, we will
      analyze data from the multicenter National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (ACS NSQIP®)
      to assess the association between regional anesthesia (RA) and graft outcomes, as compared to
      general anesthesia (GA).Our primary objective is to determine for patients undergoing
      elective open lower limb revascularization, whether RA (spinal, epidural, and peripheral
      nerve block), compared to GA or general anesthesia with regional anesthesia (GA+RA), is
      associated with higher rates of patent graft within 30 days postoperatively (primary
      outcome). Our secondary outcomes are major reintervention, amputation, bleeding requiring
      transfusion or secondary procedure, venous thromboembolism (VTE), myocardial infarction (MI)
      or stroke, pneumonia, discharge destination, postoperative length of stay, readmission rate,
      and death, all within 30 days postoperatively. There will be two composite outcomes:
      thromboembolism, and morbidity and mortality. We hypothesize that the use of RA is associated
      with increased graft patency after elective lower limb revascularization compared to GA.
      Compared to GA, RA is associated with decreased rates of major reintervention, amputation,
      death (30 days), bleeding requiring transfusion or secondary procedure, VTE, MI or stroke,
      pneumonia, mortality, composite thromboembolism, and composite morbidity and mortality.;
      Compared to GA, RA is associated with increased rates of discharge destination being home.
    
  