
    
      Time delays in the operating room play a role in increasing wait time length, number of
      cancelled cases, health care expenditure and resources. Furthermore, it inconveniences
      patients and families, and delays care. Minimally invasive surgery (laparoscopy) affords
      same-day discharge, faster recovery, and decreased morbidity. However, performing laparoscopy
      requires special equipment and multiple steps during set-up that can lead to time delays if
      not performed efficiently. Multiple factors have been identified to contribute to inefficient
      care delivery including: communication error, equipment failure, lack of teamwork among
      nursing, surgical or anesthesia teams, and duplication of tasks.

      OR delays due to inefficiency can result from a chain of intraoperative events including
      technical factors (ie. equipment failure or case complexity) and from non-technical human
      factors (ie. communication errors or lack of coordinated teamwork within and between OR
      teams). "The intraoperative period is the period in which the surgical team may have the most
      influence" on efficiency. Objective measures of intraoperative OR delays and identification
      of their causes can lead to the development of a standardized framework that could be
      generalized to any surgical discipline to improve OR efficiency.

      The primary objective of this study is to prospectively identify OR time delays from the time
      the patient enters the OR who are undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy (laparoscopic
      gynecologic procedure that involves several potential areas for inefficiency) to case
      completion and exiting the OR. This analysis will be used to identify root cause(s) leading
      to OR delays and define areas for improvement. The causes of delays can be reported back to
      the team members through formative performance-based feedback. The secondary objective is to
      identify any improvements in OR time delays and OR utilization following implementation of a
      standardized framework developed to increase OR efficiency.
    
  