
    
      ESBL infection incidence increases especially in elderly population (Observatoire National de
      l'Epidémiologie de la Résistance Bactérienne aux Antibiotiques (ONERBA) www.onerba.org). SC
      antibiotic route is sometimes the only option available for infected elderly patients
      (delirium, dementia or no venous access) and presents advantages like greater patient
      comfort, less nursing time and decrease hospital duration. Ertapenem has a relatively long
      half life (4 hours) compared to imipenem (1 hour) and a less broad spectrum. Two studies
      compared the ertapenem pharmacokinetics regarding IV or SC administration. The first
      concerned 6 patients admitted in ICU and the second 16 patients in internal medicine
      department. They found IV and SC administrations were equivalent considering that ertapenem
      antimicrobial activity was time dependent. In fact, a reduction of peak concentration and of
      time to peak concentration was observed in both studies, but the Area Under the Curve were
      similar especially the time spent over the Minimal Inhibitory Concentration. Both studies did
      not observe any severe adverse effects. Because of these promising results and despite not
      being approved yet, SC Ertapenem, is commonly used in geriatric department. This
      administration route is chosen when no other option is available, for instance in cases of
      behavioural disturbance and lack of venous access.

      The objective of the investigators study is to confirm the pharmacokinetics data in elderly
      population known to present frequently renal insufficiency and denutrition and to document
      the occurrence of adverse effects and clinical evolution.

      Patients over 75 receiving ertapenem for 48 hours (IV or SC) will be included. Ertapenem
      concentrations (H0, H+0.5h and H+2.5h) will be determined at steady state and described based
      on administration route. Systemic and local adverse effects will be collected during the
      treatment and infection evolution will be described.

      Patients will be monitored during ertapenem treatment and for 45 days after the beginning of
      the treatment. Biological data will be obtained initially at inclusion (D3 after ertapenem
      beginning) and for 14 days (+/-10) after the beginning of the treatment (corresponding to end
      of treatment). Signs of infection evolution will be also monitored for 45 days (+/-10).
    
  