
    
      Despite the recent advances in treatment, acute myocardial infarction (AMI) frequently
      results in permanent myocardial injury imposing an increased risk for adverse cardiac
      remodelling, diminished cardiac function and the development of heart failure. Decreased
      cardiac function after PPCI is associated with impaired prognosis.

      Although PPCI has a tremendous benefit in AMI, not only ischemia but also reperfusion itself
      is considered to cause myocardial injury and cardiomyocyte death.This phenomena is referred
      to as "ischemia reperfusion injury" in literature and is caused by the sudden restoration of
      blood flow and its accompanying intracellular pH change, calcium overload, cardiomyocyte
      hypercontracture, myocardial inflammation, oxidative stress generation and mitochondrial
      permeability transition pore opening. Reducing ischemia reperfusion injury is expected to
      further decrease infarct size, decrease adverse cardiac remodelling and improve cardiac
      function as well as clinical outcome.

      Hydrogen sulfide (H2S) is the third endogenous gaseous transmitter next to carbon monoxide
      (CO) and nitric oxide (NO) and is involved as a physiological mediator in several body organ
      and tissue processes. H2S is synthesized endogenously by enzymatic and non-enzymatic
      pathways. A non-enzymatic pathway is by the reductive reaction with thiosulfate, with
      pyruvate acting as a hydrogen donor. Thiosulfate itself acts as an intermediate in the sulfur
      metabolism of cysteine and is known as a metabolite of H2S and in that way is also able to
      produce H2S, especially under hypoxic conditions.

      H2S has been shown to protect myocardium from ischemia reperfusion injury in various
      experimental animal models of ischemic heart disease; e.g. it reduces infarct size and
      apoptosis and attenuates cardiac function. Inhibition of leukocyte endothelial cell
      interactions, neutralization of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the reduction of apoptotic
      signalling are the suggested as additional mechanisms underlying the cardioprotective effect
      of H2S in this setting.

      STS, an H2S donor, is used in humans since 1933 for the treatment of cyanide intoxication and
      is used since the eighties for treatment of vascular calcifications in end-stage renal
      disease. It is also used to prevent toxicity of cisplatin treatment. More recently, studies
      have shown STS can delay the progression of coronary artery calcification in haemodialysis
      patients. The mechanism of action in these diseases is thought to be based on potential
      antioxidant properties of STS. In all these cases intravenous STS was used in different doses
      from 5 to 75 g per day. Side effects of STS include hypotension, nausea and vomiting,
      gastrointestinal disturbances, hypernatraemia and in 5% of hemodialysis patients metabolic
      acidosis occurred. Most side effects were mild and manageable.

      STS administration has never been tested in the clinical setting of ACS. Cardiac
      catheterization via trans-radial approach has been increasingly used, instead of
      trans-femoral approach, resulting in fewer vascular complications, minimal risk of nerve
      injury and virtually no postprocedural bed rest. However, during radial approach a
      combination of vasodilating, blood pressure lowering and anticoagulant drugs are given to the
      patient (verapamil, nitroglycerin, heparin), the "radialis-cocktail". These drugs could
      potentially interact with STS and data regarding the safety of STS in patients with ACS
      treated with PCI via radial approach is lacking.

      The SAFE ACS is a phase 1/2, open-label, dose-escalation study to test the hypothesis that
      STS, on top of standard medical treatment, can be safely administered in patients presenting
      with an ACS and is well-tolerated. We will use a "3+3 design" with a fixed dosing endpoint of
      30 gram of STS in 2 gifts of 15 gram, based on the standard dose of 25 gram used for other
      indications. Additionally we will test the effect of STS treatment on oxidative stress during
      and after STS infusion by laboratory analysis of various oxidative stress markers.
    
  