
    
      Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis is the most common form of chronic fibrosing lung disease seen
      by pulmonologists, with an estimated 128,000 cases in the United States alone. It is almost
      surely a disorder related to aging, with a median age at the time of diagnosis of
      approximately 65 years; IPF is almost unheard of under the age of 50. Dyspnea is common in
      patients with IPF, and is often the primary symptom of the disease. It is tightly linked to
      quality of life in IPF, suggesting that the experience of dyspnea has wide-ranging and
      clinically-significant consequences. Despite its importance, surprisingly little is known
      about the etiology or functional impact of dyspnea in this disease.

      This research proposal focuses on defining the relationship of dyspnea to comorbidity and the
      rate of functional decline in patients with IPF

      Aim 1: To determine the relationship of dyspnea to other conditions present in patients with
      IPF.

      Dyspnea is a complex symptom, related to both mechanical and cognitive factors. The
      mechanisms of dyspnea in IPF remain unknown, but there are several likely contributors that
      are both IPF and non-IPF related. Although IPF is a chronic disease of the elderly, no one
      has investigated the relationship between common geriatric conditions and dyspnea. It is well
      established that the perception of dyspnea depends equally on factors that influence the
      intensity of the experience of breathlessness (such as thoracic restriction and weakness) and
      the distress which that intensity produces. Gender, ethnicity, anxiety, pain, and depression
      all may contribute to the distress caused by dyspnea (and therefore its intensity) in IPF.

      Aim 2: To define the relationship between dyspnea and rate of functional decline in IPF.

      Numerous studies have looked at predictors of survival in patients with IPF, and both
      baseline and change in dyspnea over time have been shown to be significantly associated. The
      prediction of future morbidity, however, is largely unstudied. Established markers of
      functional decline in geriatric patients include weight loss, decline in walking speed over 4
      meters, and the onset of disability as defined by the ability to perform activities of daily
      living (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs). Dyspnea likely impacts
      patients' activity levels and/or motivation to stay active, and may contribute to worsening
      functional decline.
    
  