
    
      Subjects will be randomized to up to four arms: artemether-lumefantrine + amodiaquine,
      artemether-lumefantrine + placebo, artesunate-mefloquine + piperaquine and
      artesunate-mefloquine + placebo. As a contingency measure in case of significant differences
      in the efficacy or safety of one of the combinations being tested and/or study drug expiry or
      unavailability, subjects may be randomised to 2 arms with a matching ACT-TACT pair, i.e.,
      with artemether-lumefantrine + placebo or artemether-lumefantrine + amodiaquine OR
      artesunate-mefloquine + placebo or artesunate-mefloquine + piperaquine.

      Some sites may randomize between 2 arms only with matching ACT-TACT pairs, i.e.,
      artemether-lumefantrine + placebo or artemether-lumefantrine + amodiaquine OR
      artesunate-mefloquine + placebo or artesunate-mefloquine + piperaquine.

      In the control arms, the ACT will be co-packed with a matched (appearance) placebo.

      In lower transmission settings (Annual Parasite Incidence <50 per 1000 population per year)
      the treatment will include a single 0.25 mg/kg gametocytocidal dose of primaquine as
      recommended by the WHO for children ≥10 kg. All drug administrations will be observed.

      Subjects will be treated in an in-patient unit for 3 days and followed up weekly up to D63.
      Microscopy to detect and quantify malaria parasitaemia will be performed daily (more
      frequently in patients with parasite density of >5000/µL at inclusion) during
      hospitalization, at all weekly and unscheduled visits. A physical examination and
      measurements of vital signs along with a symptom questionnaire for tolerability will be
      performed and recorded through a standardized method at baseline, daily during admission and
      weekly during follow up through D42 and at all unscheduled visits. Physical exam, vital sign
      measurements and assessments of symptoms will be performed on D49, D56, and D63 only for
      patients who are parasitaemic or those who report fever or other symptoms.
      Electrocardiographs will be performed during admission (H0, H4, H52 or H64) and day 42 of
      follow up to assess and compare the effect of ACTs and TACTs antimalarials on QT or QTc
      intervals.
    
  