
    
      Non alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a common liver disease that encompasses both
      simple steatosis and non alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH.

      There is currently no therapy that is of proven benefit for these liver disorders both of
      which are closely associated with insulin resistance and features of the metabolic syndrome
      such as obesity, hyperlipidaemia and type 2 diabetes mellitus. The first line approach to
      NAFLD is currently based on diet and lifestyle modification. However, dietary treatment is
      limited by the lack of compliance and the frequent regain of weight at follow-up.

      Aim of our Unit is to compare the efficacy of two different doses of metformin (1 g/day and 2
      g/day) with atorvastatin (20 mg/day) on amelioration of inflammatory and cardiometabolic
      parameters, ultrasound signs and clinical scores associated with liver fibrosis in
      early-stage NAFLD non-diabetic patients.

      The investigators will enrol obese or overweight non-diabetic patients with ultrasonographic
      diagnosis of hepatic steatosis at early stage (NAFLD). The investigators will exclude from
      the study patients with clinical-biochemical and ultrasound markers of disease severity (age,
      BMI, lipid profile, AST, ALT, Angulo, BAAT and HAIR clinical fibrosis scores, signs of portal
      hypertension and posterior attenuation of the deep liver parenchyma at US). Patients who meet
      all eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned to one of three groups for 12 months of
      study treatment. The first group (n=50) will receive metformin (1g/day) plus dietary
      treatment; the second group (n=50) will be given metformin (2 g/day) and the third group
      (n=50) will be treated with atorvastatin (20 mg/day). All participants will be followed-up at
      3, 6, 9, 12 months intervals after randomization. We will compare the effects of two doses of
      metformin with atorvastatin on the amelioration of both inflammatory (PCR, TNF-a , IL-6) and
      metabolic parameters (lipid profile, BMI, waist circumference, fasting glucose, 2-h glucose
      tolerance test, insulin, transaminases, adiponectin,leptin, HOMA-IR index and VAI index).
      Furthermore, we will assess the improvement under drug treatment of liver steatosis on the
      basis of US signs (liver echogenicity and stiffness) and of fibrosis scoring systems (Angulo,
      BAAT and HAIR scores).

      In conclusion, considering the increasing prevalence of NAFLD and its strong association with
      cardiovascular diseases and cancer, the investigators expect to identify a safe
      pharmacological regimen that, in addition to dietary treatment, may ameliorate or even
      reverse this liver disease and the underlying risk factors. This study could have an
      important social impact in terms of both preventive and therapeutic interventions.
    
  