
    
      Background: Bone marrow transplant (BMT) is the only potentially curative treatment for
      children with malignant and non-malignant diseases. Chemotherapy provided during BMT causes
      side-effects including diarrhoea and vomiting meaning all children become unable to eat and
      require tube feeding. All 16 centres in the UK use a nasogastric tube. Great Ormond Street
      Hospital offer families a gastrostomy as an alternative. Minimal published literature exists
      on gastrostomies in this population.

      Aims: Investigate complications, outcomes and family experiences of gastrostomy tubes in
      paediatric BMT.

      Objectives:

        1. Survey current nutrition practices, use and opinions towards gastrostomy tubes in UK
           paediatric BMT centres.

        2. Compare clinical outcomes and complications occurring from gastrostomy versus
           nasogastric tubes in children during BMT.

        3. Investigate decision making and experiences of families regarding tube feeding.

      Methods: A multiphase, convergent parallel mixed methods study across 3 work packages (WPs).

        1. Survey: A survey will be sent to a dietitian, nurse and doctor (the staff involved in
           tube feeding) in each UK paediatric BMT centre. Questions will focus on nutrition
           practices, and current use and opinions of gastrostomies.

        2. Prospective cohort study: Outcomes will be compared between children fed via gastrostomy
           versus nasogastric tube from admission to six months post-BMT. All children transplanted
           over one year at one centre will be included. Outcomes including complications occurring
           with both tubes, dietary intake and anthropometry will be investigated. Anticipated
           sample size is 9-15 children fed via gastrostomy, 30-50 via nasogastric tube.

        3. Family interviews: Families from WP 2 will be invited to be interviewed at two times; on
           admission to discuss why they did or did not choose a gastrostomy, and one month after
           discharge to discuss their experience of tube feeding. Creative methods including
           drawing and scrapbooks will be used during children's interviews to help them articulate
           their thoughts. Parents will take part in semi-structured interviews.
    
  