
    
      Periodontal disease is caused by an imbalance between bone formation and resorption, leading
      to an ultimate reduction in bone height. Detection of periodontal disease is important in the
      prevention of tooth loss. The detection and accurate assessment of the location, extent and
      configuration of the endosseous defect is important for the determination of the tooth
      prognosis, the treatment plan and the maintenance procedures.

      Regenerative therapies for both intrabony and furcation defects are viable options, but early
      management of these defects offers the greatest potential for periodontal health. Intrabony
      defect morphology as well as degree of furcation involvement may affect overall regenerative
      outcomes and/or optimal treatment strategies.

      Radiographic bone loss is also useful for assigning descriptors to indicate severity of
      periodontitis: <1/3 bone loss = mild, 1/3 to ½ bone loss = moderate, and >½ bone loss =
      severe. Classification of bony defects given by Papapanou et al. 2000 was used to
      differentiate bone defects into: Suprabony defects (SB), Infrabony defects (IB),
      Interradicular defects (IR).For classifying the intrabony defects (IT), the investigators
      used classification system by Goldman and Cohen 1958 which classified the IT defects into: 1
      wall, 2 wall , 3 wall and Combined bone defects (CB). Other bone defects (OB) were classified
      by their topography as:Bulbous bone contour (BB), Reversed architecture (RA), Dehiscence
      (DH).

      The potentially existing radiological furcation involvement was examined by identifying the
      furcation upper boundary and furcation lower boundary and was classified as Subclass A, B,
      and C according to the classification system by Tarnow and Fletcher 1984, where he added the
      vertical component to the diagnosis of furcation involvement. Subclass based on the vertical
      bone resorption from the furcation fornix was added.

        -  Subclass A: Denotes furcation involvements with vertical bone loss of 3 mm or less.

        -  Subclass B: Denotes furcation involvements with vertical bone loss from 4 to 6 mm.

        -  Subclass C: Presents with bone loss from the fornix of 7 mm or more.

             -  The SB, IB, and OB defects were considered as absolute defects while IR defects
                were considered as relative defects because IR defects do not depict a particular
                bone lesion or defect rather they represent the stage in progress of periodontitis,
                i.e., once the periodontal disease progresses or its severity increases, it is
                bound to erode the bone between the multirooted teeth and involve the furcation.

      Digital radiography is changing the diagnosis and treatment of dental diseases by
      incorporating computer technology into the field of dentistry. digital radiography have
      several advantages over film radiography, including immediate image production with
      solid-state devices; interactive display on a monitor with the ability to enhance image
      features and make direct linear and densitometric measurements; integrated storage; fast
      communication of images; lower contamination of the environment; security mechanisms to
      identify original images; ability to tag information such as a patient identifier, date of
      exposure and other relevant details; interoperability of the Digital Imaging and
      Communications in Medicine (DICOM) file format, which enables practitioners with different
      equipment and software to view and enhance the same images.

      Furthermore, digital radiography offers a plethora of technical innovations to dentistry and
      is sure to significantly influence the arts of diagnosis, monitoring, research, as well as
      the treatment of dental diseases.

      Cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) is a relatively new extra-oral imaging system which was
      specifically developed to overcome the limitations of periapical radiographs as it produces
      undistorted 3D information of the maxillofacial skeleton with a substantially lower radiation
      dose compared to conventional CT.

      Consequently, CBCT has the potential to become non-invasive diagnostic instrument for various
      dental applications in which defect characterization, localization and volume measurements
      are important.

      CBCT is currently being considered as a superior diagnostic tool for applications in
      periodontology. CBCT scanning was found to be more effective than other 2D imaging modalities
      in assessing periodontal structures. As CBCT had better potential of detecting periodontal
      bone defects in all directions compared with periapical radiographs. More over interproximal
      areas also, buccal and lingual defects could not be recognized from each other with intraoral
      radiographs.
    
  