
    
      Introduction / Rationale Premature ventricular contractions (PVC) in the otherwise healthy
      heart are not associated with increased mortality in the absence of a short coupling interval
      or a compromised left ventricular function and do not require treatment if asymptomatic .
      Symptomatic idiopathic PVC or VT on the other hand can burden patients with recurring
      palpitations, dizziness, dyspnea and possibly syncope in cases of fast VT. A reversible
      decrease in left ventricular function as a result of a high PVC burden has been reported even
      in patients with no underlying cardiomyopathy . Radiofrequency Ablation (RFA) is a
      well-established method to treat idiopathic PVC and VT, and is associated with satisfying
      long-term results. Pacemapping is an essential tool during ablation of idiopathic PVC and VT.
      Automated template matching has been shown to have a significant influence on PVC ablation
      procedures, but the PASO module of CARTO3 has not been studied in a randomized trial.

      Aim of the study To evaluate the additional benefit of PASO template matching on PVC ablation
      procedure with regard to procedural parameters and outcome when compared with conventional
      pace mapping.

      Hypothesis PASO guidance during PVC / VT ablation has a significant impact on outcome after
      catheter ablation of idiopathic PVC / VT.

      Study design This study is planned as a two-center trial. All patients presenting for de novo
      ablation of idiopathic ventricular arrhythmia will be included and randomized in a 1:1
      fashion in this open-label, two-center, randomized controlled trial.

      In patients randomized to the PASO / intervention group pacemapping will be guided by
      automated template matching of the PASO module of CARTO3.

      In patients randomized to the conventional / control group conventional pacemapping will be
      employed.

      A 3D electroanatomic geometry including activation mapping will be acquired in all patients
      using CARTO3. Sedation, catheters and monitoring during and after CA, will not differ from
      standard clinical practice and will be the same for both groups.

      Follow-up after 3 and 12 months will assess PVC burden by Holter ECG, symptoms through a
      standardized questionnaire and LV function by TTE

      Duration and study size Based on prior findings ("Impact of Automated Template Matching
      during PVC Ablation: Results from a Randomized Controlled Trial" Lüker et al. ESC 2014 poster
      presentation) 144 pts have to be randomized to detect a significant difference with respect
      to ablation success at follow-up (alpha 0.05, power 80%).
    
  