
    
      To make AdV-specific T cells (Viralym-A cells), small pieces of protein called peptides that
      come from AdV were mixed with blood cells from healthy donors. These peptides train a kind of
      white blood cell called T cells to recognize and kill cells that are infected with AdV. These
      T cells were then grown in special growth factors in special flasks in the lab. Once we made
      sufficient numbers of cells, we tested them to make sure they recognized cells infected by
      adenovirus, and then we froze them.

      When we think the subject needs them, Viralym-A cells will be thawed and injected into the
      intravenous line. To prevent an allergic reaction, prior to receiving Viralym-A cells the
      subject may be given diphenhydramine (Benadryl) and acetaminophen (Tylenol). The subject will
      remain in the clinic for at least one hour after the infusion. After the subject receives the
      cells, the transplant doctor will monitor the levels of adenovirus in the blood. We will also
      take blood to see how long the cells we gave the subject are lasting in the body.

      Subjects will continue to be followed by their transplant doctors after the injection. The
      subject will either be seen in the clinic or they will be contacted by a research nurse to
      follow up for this study every week for 6 weeks, then at 3, 6 and 12 months. The subject may
      have other visits for their standard care. Subjects will also have regular blood tests done
      to follow their counts and the viral infection as part of their standard care.

      To learn more about the way Viralym-A cells are working in the body, an extra 30-40 ml (6-8
      teaspoons) of blood will be taken before the infusion and then at study follow-up visits at
      1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 weeks, and 3 months after the infusion. Blood should come from the central
      intravenous line, and should not require extra needle sticks.

      All participants on this study will be infused with the same number (dose) of cells. If
      Viralym-A infusion has helped the subjects infection or if they have had a treatment, for
      example with steroid drugs that might have destroyed the T cells the subject was given, then
      they are allowed to receive up to 4 additional infusions of the Viralym-A cells at the same
      initial dose level from 28 days after their initial infusion. Following infusions should be
      at least 14 days apart. After each Viralym-A cells infusion, subjects will be monitored as
      described above.
    
  