
    
      HYPOTHESIS

      An algorithm combining conventional and amplitude-integrated EEG monitoring will increase
      specificity and sensitivity of seizure detection in critically ill high-risk neonates in a
      resource-restricted environment.

      OBJECTIVES

        1. To describe the sensitivity and specificity of amplitude-integrated EEG (aEEG) relative
           to conventional EEG (cEEG) monitoring in high-risk critically ill neonates

        2. To evaluate the feasibility of an algorithm combining amplitude-integrated and
           conventional EEG monitoring in high-risk critically ill neonates

      Long-term Objectives

      The proposed pilot research project will provide fundamental information essential for
      designing a future larger scale study analyzing a standardized algorithm of combined
      continuous EEG monitoring for high-risk critically ill neonates at the investigators NICU,
      with the ultimate goal of preventing secondary brain injury in these patients.

      Parents of potentially eligible patients will be approached by a study team member and will
      receive study information.

      Consent will be attained after sufficient time to review the consent form and to ask
      questions.

      This is a prospective study. We are aiming to enroll 20 neonates at high risk for seizures,
      consecutively.

      Monitoring

      Electrode positioning:

      The aEEG and the cEEG consist of 3 to 5 and of 8 to 14 electrodes respectively.

      Neonatal EEG application and set up will follow the international standard protocol in use at
      the investigators NICU.

      The electrodes will not be replaced unless there is a signal interruption. A local skin
      lesions might occur, in very rare cases, when prolonged EEG ( over 2-3 days).

      Monitoring protocol:

      Neonates will receive their amplitude-integrated EEG monitoring as soon as the indication for
      monitoring is established, and conventional EEG electrodes will be applied in parallel, as
      soon as an EEG technician is available, which should usually be within less than 16 hours, in
      many cases within 1-4 hours.

      Amplitude-integrated EEGs will be read and interpreted continuously, as currently standard of
      care at the investigators NICU. Conventional EEGs will be interpreted by a neurologist.
      During the review process, the neurology conventional EEG interpretation team will be blinded
      to the results of the amplitude-integrated EEG read by the neonatology team, and vice versa.

      Electrographic seizure events or other clinically relevant findings (e.g. abnormalities of
      background activity) will be communicated to the NICU staff (in accordance with current
      practice).

      EEG monitoring will be performed for as long as current NICU guidelines require.

      Measures captured will include:

        -  Time and duration of seizures as per clinical observation

        -  Time and duration of seizure as per amplitude integrated EEG

        -  Time and duration of seizure as per conventional EEG

        -  Time and duration of background activity abnormality as per amplitude integrated EEG

        -  Time and duration of background activity abnormality as per conventional EEG

        -  Other relevant findings on amplitude integrated EEG (e.g. localization-related)

        -  Other relevant findings on conventional EEG (e.g. localization-related)
    
  