
    
      Approximately 16 million people in the United States have been diagnosed with type 2
      diabetes, a prevalence rate of approximately 6%, and the numbers are expected to increase
      with the increasing age of the general population. The risk factors associated with
      development of type 2 diabetes, such as age, obesity, and diet and exercise habits, also
      contribute to the development of cardiovascular disease. Additionally, patients with diabetes
      are at an increased risk for development of microvascular and macrovascular disease.

      With regard to congestive heart failure, the risk of congestive heart failure is increased in
      subjects with diabetes in the absence of coronary artery disease; in subjects with diabetes
      and established coronary artery disease there is a higher overall risk and greater risk for
      more severe congestive heart failure. There is evidence that increasing insulin sensitivity
      and reducing hyperinsulinemia may reduce cardiovascular risks by reducing blood pressure,
      improving endothelial function, and through cardiac remodeling and function.

      Pioglitazone is a thiazolidinedione for the treatment of type 2 diabetes, and is an agonist
      of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor. Pioglitazone received marketing approval
      in the United States in 1999. As part of the approval process, Takeda fulfilled a
      postmarketing study evaluating the effects of pioglitazone in the treatment of type 2
      diabetes in subjects with congestive heart failure in a6-month clinical study.

      An independent Data Safety Monitoring Board used to monitor the overall safety pattern of the
      study and to conduct unblinded reviews of data found a difference in the composite endpoint
      of time to first event that approached nominal statistical significance in favor of
      glyburide. As a result, the committee recommended that Takeda terminate the trial. Consistent
      with regulatory agency requirements, Takeda is submitting an abbreviated report that focuses
      on the safety data derived from the terminated study.
    
  