
    
      More sensitive techniques to detect occult disease are needed for metastatic CRC (mCRC)
      patients, and perioperative analysis of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) may provide an
      outstanding opportunity to develop such innovative methods.

      Determine kinetics of CTC shedding into the circulation: Perioperative CTC detection has the
      potential to explain how and when CTCs are shed into the blood. Findings could explain the
      nature of CTCs with important impact on understanding metastatic spread and relevant clinical
      applications.

      Since this protocol includes blood draws at multiple time points at different distances from
      the metastases, results could further clarify if the rarity or absence of CTCs in the
      peripheral blood of some mCRC patients can be explained by dilution. Comparison of patients
      with CRC liver to lung metastases might help explain different patterns of organ spread.
      Results of this study could establish CTCs as a prognostic biomarker identifying candidates
      who will benefit from metastasectomy or for those who are candidates for additional or
      palliative systemic treatments because of a high risk for later recurrence.

        -  Develop effective system for isolation, enumeration, enrichment and further
           characterization of live CTCs: One of the current issues of CTC analysis is the
           enrichment of those rare cells from blood. We plan to analyze perioperatively drawn
           blood using the flexible micro spring array (FMSA) device. The FMSA mitigates the
           stresses experienced by CTCs during their isolation from blood and enables viable
           capture. The geometric design and filtration pressures have been optimized to maximize
           capture efficiency, enrichment against leukocytes, and tumor cell viability. Peripheral
           blood as well as blood from the direct tumor environment (taken from the OR suctioning
           system) will be analyzed to compare the sensitivity of the FMSA and CellSearch device.
           Since the FMSA allows for isolation of live CTCs, they will be processed for further
           single cell characterization.

        -  Find characteristics of different CTC populations: We hypothesize that CTCs will be
           enriched for cancer stem cell markers as well as markers for poor prognosis and
           aggressive tumor growth. Our novel approach to screen and quantify a panel of biomarkers
           simultaneously with analysis of the CTC markers utilized by the CellSearch system to
           analyze of CTCs is unique. We view our assays as potential "liquid biopsies" that can
           screen for markers of prognosis, sensitivity to chemotherapy, response to therapy, as
           well as for proteins involved in proliferation, apoptosis, and immune response.

      Furthermore, we plan to perform single cell analysis of gene mutations and gene expression.
      Next generation genomic sequencing of single CTCs may allow us to determine a genetic
      signature for colorectal CTCs and to identify novel biomarkers for CTC detection, disease
      monitoring, and therapeutic efficacy. Furthermore, the extent of heterogeneity among
      initially isolated CTCs, which can be compared to the primary tumor and CTCs growing in
      vitro, will be studied. Single CTC analysis has the potential to identify novel gene and
      signal transduction pathways that are activated in CTCs and to compare this genomic profile
      to that of the primary tumor and patient metastasis. Single cell genomic analysis in CTCs is
      highly innovative and will provide important information for disease monitoring as well as
      shed light on the underlying biology of CTCs.
    
  