
    
      According to the American Cancer Society, it is estimated that approximately 70,800
      individuals will be diagnosed with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) and over 18,990 men and women
      will die of the disease in 2014. The survival rates for patients with indolent NHL remained
      unchanged from the 1950s through the early 1990s, but recent evidence suggests that outcomes
      are improving. Indolent NHL is a particular challenge because it is an incurable disease
      requiring multiple treatments; yet relatively long survivals elevate the importance of
      quality of life associated with treatment.

      Agents such as rituximab are active in patients with a low burden of disease and result in
      high response rates and durable remissions for most patients. However, the optimal
      therapeutic approach to patients with low-grade lymphoma with a low disease burden is
      controversial as conventional chemotherapy also results in high rates of response. Regardless
      of whether patients receive immunotherapy, chemotherapy, or a combination thereof, they
      unfortunately exhibit a continuing pattern of disease relapse and the median survival for
      newly diagnosed patients is between 7-10 years.

      Rituximab and GA101 both target the CD20 antigen. The CD20 antigen is located on the surface
      of normal and malignant B-cell lymphocytes. An attractive feature of this target is that CD20
      is not on hematopoietic stem cells, nor is it expressed in any great extent on other normal
      body tissues.

      Studies in vitro have shown that rituximab predominantly induces antibody dependent cellular
      cytotoxicity (ADCC), but also binds complement and directly induces apoptosis in lymphoma
      cells.

      GA101 shows increased ADCC related to an improved binding of the GA101 to the different
      allotypes expressed by natural killer cells and monocytes. It also has increased direct
      cell-death related to an elbow hinge amino acid exchange and Type II binding of the CD20
      epitope. The safety of GA101 in NHL so far appears to be similar to that observed with
      rituximab in patients with NHL, except for a higher incidence of infusion-related reactions.

      Depletion of malignant B-cells using anti-CD20 monoclonal antibodies has an acceptable safety
      profile, particularly in patients with low-grade B-cell lymphomas with a low disease burden.
      To determine whether treatment with GA101 results in better outcomes than that seen with
      rituximab and to determine which anti-CD20 antibody to utilize in future studies, we will
      conduct a randomized Phase II trial of rituximab and GA101 in patients with previously
      untreated low-grade lymphoma. Patients will receive either rituximab or GA101 weekly for 4
      weeks followed by re-staging. The endpoints of the study will be the Complete Response (CR),
      Overall Response Rate (ORR), time to next treatment, progression free survival (PFS), and
      safety of each treatment arm.

      PrE0401 Sub-Study Evaluation of Corrected QT (QTc) Interval and Pharmacokinetic Parameters in
      Patients Participating in GA101 (Obinutuzumab)

      Patients randomized to GA101 and who consent to the sub-study will have electrocardiograms
      obtained pre and post Week 1 and Week 4 to investigate the effect of GA101 on QTc interval.
      Pharmacokinetic blood samples will also be done to evaluate serum concentrations of GA101 at
      the same time-points.
    
  