
    
      The long-term goal of this research is to reduce morbidity and improve HF self-care by
      enhancing family problem-solving and collaborative care management among rural HF dyads. The
      initial step in meeting this goal is to develop and pilot-test a culturally-sensitive,
      telephone-based, tailored dyadic problem-solving intervention to improve HF self-care in
      rural HF dyads. Using a multi-phase, sequential qualitative and quantitative approach, the
      following research aims are to: 1) identify the major dyadic HF-related problems dyads
      experience and how these problems are managed; 2) develop a telephone-based, tailored dyadic
      problem-solving intervention and determine its feasibility and acceptability for managing
      HF-related problems; and 3) evaluate the preliminary effects of the telephone-based, tailored
      dyadic problem-solving intervention on dyadic problem-solving and patient and family
      caregiver contributions to HF self-care. In Phase I, qualitative inquiry will guide in-depth
      semi-structured dyad interviews (n = 12-20 dyads; 24-40 participants) to identify the dyadic
      HF-related problems experienced by rural HF dyads and associated management strategies (Aim
      1). Phase II will be guided by qualitative and quantitative methods and include a repeated
      measures, single-group design to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
      effectiveness of the 12-week dyadic problem-solving intervention in a sample of rural HF
      dyads (n = 60 dyads; 120 participants) (Aims 2, 3). Participants for this study will be
      recruited from from the Florida State University Institute for Successful Longevity
      Participant Registry and from outpatient HF/cardiac clinics affiliated with Tallahassee
      Memorial Hospital and Capital Regional Medical Center.

      Phase I (Arm 1) will identify dyadic HF-related problems and management strategies using
      semi-structured interviews in a sample of rural-residing HF dyads (n = 12-20 dyads; 24-40
      participants). Following consent, interviews will occur once and be approximately 45 minutes
      long. Qualitative data from Phase I will be analyzed using thematic analytic methods and
      NVivo11. Information gained in Phase I will be used to develop the telephone-based, tailored,
      dyadic problem-solving intervention for rural HF dyads tested in Phase II.

      Phase II (Arm II) will be guided by qualitative and quantitative inquiry and include a
      single-group, repeated measures design with time and dyad-member as within-subject factors. A
      sample size of 60 dyads (120 participants) is desired based on a power analysis for repeated
      measures ANOVA with 4 time points, alpha level of .05, a medium effect size (f = 0.25), and
      80% power, plus oversampling for potential attrition (20%). Following informed consent, all
      dyads will be screened for cognitive impairment using the Telephone Interview for Cognitive
      Status (TICS) prior to baseline data collection, which will include a Sociodemographic and
      Clinical Survey, the Self-Care of HF Index (SCHFI; v. 6.2), the Caregiver Contribution to the
      Self-Care of HF Index (CCSCHFI), Healthcare Utilization Survey, the Social Problem-Solving
      Inventory Revised-Short (SPSIRS), the Rapid Estimate of Adult Literacy in Medicine (REALM),
      the Center for Epidemiological Studies-Depression (CESD), the Global Family Function Subscale
      (GFF) of the Family Assessment Device Questionnaire, and the Interpersonal Support Evaluation
      List-12 (ISEL-12). Using a single group design, all dyads will participate in a
      problem-solving training intervention over 12 weeks (Weeks 1-4, 6, 8, 10, 12), with follow-up
      data collection occurring at weeks 5, 9, 11, 13. Qualitative data will be collected at weeks
      5 and 11 via semi-structured interviews with dyads. Quantitative data on study outcomes and
      covariates will be collected at weeks 5, 9, and 13 and consist of the SCHFI (patient),
      CCSCHFI (caregiver), healthcare utilization (patient), SPSIRS (dyad), REALM (dyad), CESD
      (dyad), GFF (dyad), and the ISEL-12 (dyad). All data will be self-report and collected by a
      trained research assistant who will collect study data over the telephone and mark
      participants answers on a computerized data spreadsheet. Qualitative data will be analyzed
      using thematic analytic methods and NVivo11. Possible treatment effectiveness on dyadic
      problem-solving, patient and caregiver contributions to HF self-care, healthcare utilization,
      and differences among subgroups (gender, relationship type) over the 13 weeks will be
      examined using multilevel modeling and dyadic Growth Curve Modeling (GCM).
    
  