
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the dose of vorinostat that is feasible when given in combination with
      radiotherapy (RT) in patients with newly diagnosed high-grade gliomas (HGG). II. To compare
      1-year event-free survival of patients with newly diagnosed HGG treated with vorinostat
      (using MTD) versus bevacizumab versus temozolomide when given in combination with RT followed
      by maintenance therapy with bevacizumab and temozolomide. (Phase II) III. To compare the
      event-free survival of patients with newly diagnosed HGG treated with the superior
      chemoradiotherapy (from phase II portion) versus temozolomide given in combination with RT
      followed by maintenance chemotherapy with bevacizumab and temozolomide. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the anti-tumor activity, as measured by event-free survival (EFS),
      progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS), of patients with newly diagnosed
      HGG treated with vorinostat, bevacizumab, or temozolomide when given in combination with RT
      followed by maintenance chemotherapy with bevacizumab and temozolomide. II. To define and
      evaluate the toxicities of each of the treatment arms of the study.

      III. To conduct gene expression profiling and SNP arrays in patients with newly diagnosed
      HGG.

      IV. To assess telomerase activity, hTert expression, and telomere length in patients with
      newly diagnosed HGG. V. To document changes in perfusion and diffusion using MR imaging at
      baseline, prior to, during (prior to course 3), and after maintenance therapy with
      bevacizumab and temozolomide.

      VI. To correlate functional changes in tumor with responses to bevacizumab treatment using MR
      diffusion/perfusion imaging. VII. To correlate the results of the bevacizumab biology studies
      in serum or tumor with EFS.

      VIII. To explore the prognostic significance of MGMT status for patients newly diagnosed with
      HGG treated with combined surgery, radiation, chemotherapy, and anti-angiogenic therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, feasibility, dose-escalation study of vorinostat, followed by
      a phase II study, followed by a phase III study.

      FEASIBILITY STUDY: Patients undergo 3-D conformal radiotherapy (RT) or intensity-modulated RT
      5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients also receive vorinostat orally (PO) once daily on days
      1-5. Courses repeat every week for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients
      receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and temozolomide PO on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II STUDY: Patients are stratified according to extent of resection (near total
      resection or gross total resection vs other) and histology (glioblastoma multiforme vs
      other). Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo RT 5 days a week for 6 weeks and receive vorinostat at the
      maximum-tolerated dose determined in the feasibility study.

      ARM II: Patients undergo RT as in the feasibility arm and receive temozolomide PO once daily
      for 42 days by day 5 of RT.

      ARM III: Patients undergo RT as in the feasibility arm and receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90
      minutes on days 22 and 36.

      Maintenance therapy in arms I, II, III: Patients in all arms receive maintenance therapy as
      in the feasibility study.

      PHASE III study: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM IV: Patients receive RT and temozolomide as in phase II, arm II.

      ARM V: Patients receive treatment as in phase II, arm I or phase II, arm III, whichever was
      established as the superior chemoradiotherapy arm in phase II.

      Maintenance Therapy: Beginning 4 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy, patients
      receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 and temozolomide PO on days 1-5.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Some patients undergo blood and tumor tissue sample (from surgery)
      collection for telomerase activity, hTert expression, telomere length, and gene expression
      profiling and SNP arrays analysis.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, every
      6 months for 4 years, and then annually for 5 years.
    
  