
    
      The study has started at Danderyd Hospital. Danderyd Hospital is a large teaching hospital
      affiliated to the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm, Sweden. South General Hospital in
      Stockholm, Uppsala University Hospital, Falun Hospital, Helsingborg Hospital, Växjö Hospital,
      Umeå University Hospital, and Gothenburg University Hospital Östra have joined the trial
      2017-2019.

      Informed consent is collected from nulliparous women with a singelton, live fetus in cephalic
      presentation, with a planned vaginal delivery and without previous gynecological surgery due
      to incontinence or genital prolapse. Women can be approached at any time from gestational
      week 18 until delivery, unless they are in severe pain or discomfort, there is not enough
      time to consider the information, or any other reason not to obtain consent. The informed
      consent form is kept at the receiving research department and a note of consent/no consent is
      made in the obstetric medical file.

      At indication for vacuum extraction, the patient's consent is confirmed verbally and
      allocation is made by sealed opaque envelopes on the vacuum extraction equipment mobile cart.
      Randomization is performed 1:1 in random permuted blocks generated by an external
      organization (Karolinska Trial Alliance).

      Lateral episiotomy is performed according to the intervention description. A reduction of
      OASIS from 12.4% to 6.2% can be detected with 80% power and less than 5% risk of alpha-error
      (p<0.05) with 354 women in each group using Chi-square test comparing two independent
      proportions in a two-sided test (3% missing outcome). A smaller reduction is clinically
      valuable, although the risk-benefit relationship between receiving a prophylactic episiotomy
      and the chance of an intact perineum may limit the feasibility of a larger trial in a setting
      with a restrictive episiotomy policy. We have obtained ethical approval to randomise a total
      of 1400 women, which enables us to detect a reduction in OASIS rate at VE from 12.4% to 7.8%
      (p<0.05). We will perform an interim analysis in order to exclude an unethically large
      difference (p<0.01) in primary outcome or serious adverse events at 350 randomized women.

      Data is collected prospectively through Case Record Forms and the obstetric medical file
      Obstetrix (Cerner Sverige AB), which covers approximately 98% of deliveries with complete
      data, and the Swedish Pregnancy Register covering the whole of Sweden from 2015. Using a
      weblink, questionnaires from the national Perineal Tear Register, are sent out electronically
      for the follow-up of the study participants. In addition, questionnaires regarding birth
      satisfaction (BSS-R and CEQ 2.0) are sent at 8 weeks after delivery. Questionnaires regarding
      sexual function (FSFI and FSDS) and quality of life (Euro-QoL-5D) at delivery and after 12
      months.

      A follow-up from registers regarding mode of delivery and prevalence of episiotomy and OASIS
      in subsequent births will be performed at 5 years and 10 years after the index birth.

      A substudy takes place in Stockholm, Uppsala, and Helsingborg, where included (randomized)
      women are examined at 6-12 months after delivery with 2D and 3D endovaginal and anal
      ultrasound to detect levator and sphincter injuries, measure episiotomy scars, establish
      POP-Q scores, and evaluate a new questionnaire for pelvic floor function after perineal
      tears.

      Another substudy takes place in Stockholm and Falun, where women who have been asked for
      consent (both affirmative and non-affirmative responders) as well as midwives who have tried
      to obtain consent, are invited to a qualitative interview study to explore the recruitment
      experience of women and midwives.
    
  