
    
      Objective: This study asks the research question "Does enabling families (particularly
      mothers and other caregivers) to 'assess and act' on drivers of malnutrition through a
      targeted SBC+ package succeed in a sustained reduction of risk factors thereby improving
      child health and nutrition?" This study aims to implement and measure the effects of a
      multi-level multi-sectoral behavior change information intervention in Agago District of
      Northern Uganda and determine potential for scale up in a complex environment.

      Intervention: Through a collaboration between Tufts University, GOAL International, CIMMYT,
      and Cornell University, GOAL will implement Nutrition Impact and Positive Practice (NIPP)
      circles as the standard SBC intervention against which the hypotheses will be tested. GOAL
      will also implement a NIPP+ approach which will integrate additional interventions for water,
      sanitation, and hygiene (WASH), and use of improved agriculture inputs. These interventions
      will be measured by outcome indicators measuring aflatoxin exposure, water contamination, and
      knowledge transferred to action.

      Design: The study design is a three-arm cluster randomized controlled superiority design
      (cRCT) with a 1:1:1 allocation ratio. The study arms will be: Group 1: NIPP arm; Group 2:
      NIPP+ arm; and Group 3: Non-intervention control arm. A barrier analysis will be conducted to
      ensure appropriate targeting and contextualization of the NIPP and NIPP+ approaches prior to
      implementation. Each intervention arm will receive a 12-week intervention (NIPP or NIPP+)
      with active monitoring and longitudinal follow ups post intervention at 2, 6, and 12-months
      post-intervention. The total sample size for the Barrier Analysis will be a maximum of 450
      caregivers; for the main intervention, 900 households (300/arm) will be purposely sampled
      from the randomly selected communities. Respondents for the qualitative portion will be
      purposely selected.

      Analysis: This longitudinal study will collect data from all participants at 3 time points:
      baseline, endline, and sustainability (12-months post-intervention). The analysis will
      utilize Intent-to-Treat (ITT) approach using the initial randomization of the treatment arms.
      Using ITT will allow us to determine the overall impact of having the NIPP vs. NIPP+ vs.
      control, thus better mimicking real world program implementation and impact. Mixed effects
      models will be used to determine the role of time-variant and invariant individual (by
      gender) household, and community characteristics, as well as measures of exposure and
      integration on key outcome indicators. A difference-in-difference analysis (baseline/endline,
      baseline/sustainability, endline/sustainability) will also be used to triangulate findings.

      Sub-study: a subset of reproductive age women will be purposively selected for enrollment
      into a validation sub-study that will examine the level of aflatoxin (AFB1-lysine
      concentration) exposure measured in venous blood compared to capillary blood compared to the
      innovative SAFE-phone method. This will serve as a validation and calibration sub-study to
      gauge the accuracy of the SAFE-Phone method compared to venous reference.
    
  