
    
      Life expectancies in haemodialysis patients are significantly shorter than the general
      population due to higher cardiovascular disease risk. This is mediated by higher prevalence
      of cardiovascular risk factors associated with chronic kidney disease and the haemodialysis
      procedure. Consequently ageing of the arterial system is accelerated in this condition
      leading to higher prevalence of arterial plaques and increased arterial stiffness.

      Higher physical activity and fitness are associated with lower cardiovascular disease and
      all-cause mortality in haemodialysis patients and the general population. Moreover, physical
      inactivity is associated with increased arterial stiffness and plaques which narrow heart
      arteries. Worryingly the haemodialysis population is on average highly inactive with low
      fitness.

      Current research demonstrates that exercise which improves fitness improves arterial health.
      Increased bloodflow during exercise stimulates the release of nitric oxide causing arteries
      to dilate. Regular exercise is believed to lead to beneficial remodelling of arteries and
      lower arterial stiffness. Exercise is reported to improve arterial function across a range of
      conditions. However published research regarding the possible benefits of long term aerobic
      exercise on arterial health in this population is conflicting. Limitations in study design,
      moderately high participant dropout rates and low statistical power hamper a definitive
      conclusion. Importantly a gold standard measure of arterial function has not been used in
      previously published studies.

      There is ample evidence that exercise programmes in people on dialysis improve fitness,
      physical function, and quality of life. It is also clear that a state of higher physical
      activity and fitness is associated with better arterial function in the general population.
      It would be advantageous for reasons of health counselling to determine whether the process
      of improving physical fitness and activity levels may also improve arterial health in
      haemodialysis patients.
    
  