
    
      The purpose of this mixed methods study is to evaluate the effects of an 8-week group dance
      intervention on body image and posture in breast cancer survivors.

      Program Description: An 8-week dance intervention was held at a local cancer support center
      in the greater Philadelphia region. The study ran for 8 weeks, and each class was held once a
      week for 60 minutes. Every class consisted of a 5-10 minute stretching warm up leading to
      approximately 50 minutes of teaching light choreography set to Bollywood music.

      Methods: This was a mixed methods study utilizing two quantitative assessments and a
      qualitative portion comprising of initial and exit surveys. Breast cancer survivors were
      recruited from a local non-profit cancer support community in the greater Philadelphia
      region. A sample of twelve women (n=12) fulfilled inclusion criteria of being diagnosed with
      and treated for breast cancer. Dropout rate was low, and only 1 person fit this criteria.
      Informed consent was sought after and obtained through the University of the Sciences in
      Philadelphia Institutional Review Board.

      Procedure: Group dance intervention program lasted for 8 weeks in total with no control
      group. All twelve subjects participated in 60-minute dance sessions, once a week for 8 weeks.
      At the beginning and termination of this 8 week dance intervention, all subjects took a
      series of assessments including the Body Image Scale (BIS), postural assessment using the
      plumbline method, and initial and exit open-ended surveys to assess any additional benefits
      of the program.

      Analysis: Data review was completed through Microsoft Excel and SOFA Statistics (version
      1.4.6), a free statistical analysis program (available online for download at
      www.sofastatistics.com). Means and modes were found in demographics using Excel. Qualitative
      data was explored initially through reading surveys and noting repetitive points. Survey data
      was coded by highlighting and labeling segments of common responses to survey questions. To
      ensure findings were consistent, an independent reviewer was employed to verify coded data.
      Codes were later organized according to similarity to develop common themes. Themes found
      from initial and exit surveys were studied closer using a comparative analysis, to look for
      connecting themes from initial and exit surveys.
    
  