
    
      The male urinary incontinence is one of the possible complications following radical
      prostatectomy surgery. It represents one of the main problems with great impact on quality of
      life, physical activity or social well being.

      Previous studies define strengthening exercises for the pelvic floor as the most effective
      conservative approach for postoperative continence recovery. However, the effect of a
      preoperative exercises training is still controversial.

      To date, studies evaluating the influence of a preoperative rehabilitation program in
      postoperative urinary incontinence to varying of exercises posology (number of daily
      repetitions) and of the exercises typology (isometric exercises VS functional exercises) have
      still not been published.

      The aim of this clinical study is to investigate possible changes concerning the urinary
      incontinence in subjects undergoing a robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy, to varying
      of posology and typology of preoperative exercises.

      120 subjects undergoing a RALP (Robotic-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy) will be
      recruited. The inclusion criteria will be: RALP surgery planned after approximately 30-40
      days from the preoperative session, objectivity of Pelvic Floor Muscle recruitment and
      contraction at manual perineal testing during preoperative session. Subjects with urinary
      incontinence before surgery, patients receiving radiotherapy treatment before surgery or
      patients who have had previous urogenital surgery shall be excluded from the study. Moreover,
      subjects with cognitive and/or psychiatric deficits and subjects with concurrent neurological
      conditions, internal conditions or disorders of the musculoskeletal system, which may affect
      the functional or motor recovery, will be excluded from the study.

      The recruited patient will be randomized and stratified by age in 4 groups according to
      exercise posology and typology and 4 different exercise protocols will be administered
      according Group of intervention.

      The primary outcome is to quantify the amount of the urinary leakage for 48h after 45-55 days
      post-surgery (Pad Test 48h). The secondary outcome is to evaluate urinary symptoms (IPSS and
      ICIQ-SF) and their impact on quality of life (index of quality of life 0-6), through
      self-assessment questionnaires compiled during preoperative session (about 30-40 days before
      surgery) and after 45-55- days (follow-up). At the end of the data collection, a verification
      of normality and homogeneity of demographic variables and of outcome measures will be
      proceeded. Any differences between groups will be investigated through ANOVA test for mixed
      models with possible post-hoc analysis.
    
  