
    
      Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS), the most common MND, is a fatal adult-onset
      neuromuscular disease. Due to clinical heterogeneity and absence of biological tools to
      diagnose ALS, the delay between the first symptoms and diagnosis averages 9-13 months. A
      group of pathophysiological processes, including oxidative stress and glutamate-mediated
      excitotoxicity contribute to cell death, but the triggering factor, the timing and the
      interaction of different cellular events await elucidation [2]. Unknown pathogenesis for most
      patients means few available treatments. The search for biomarkers that can aid diagnosis,
      characterize phenotype, define pathophysiology, identify endpoints in trials and measure
      disease progression is of utmost importance for the field. Some studies have advocated that
      muscle per se may be impaired by pathogenesis of the diseases. Muscle has been poorly studied
      and its central role in energetic metabolism suggests that this tissue, quite easily
      available, should be more analyzed to find biomarkers and to compare muscular metabolism with
      those of brain and overall body. Specific aims of our subjects are:

      Specific aims are focused on:

        1. the acquisition of metabolites profiles of the muscle, blood and satellite cells using
           an analytical platform enable a deep exploration. For that, the use of three analytical
           modalities (NMR, mass spectrometry coupled to GC or UPLC) ensures the best coverage of
           the metabolite population with a high range of concentration variability and molecular
           diversity.

        2. the building of metabolites profiles models that discriminate pathological and control
           situations.

        3. the identification of metabolites implicated in the discriminant model.

        4. the generation of metabolism pathways hypothesis related to the discriminant model.

        5. the acquisition of transcriptomics data to confirm and add complementary results to
           metabolomics data
    
  