
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and cancer are the leading causes of suffering and death amongst
      the American population. While an ever-increasing number of cancer survivors have a favorable
      outcome due to advances in cancer treatment; cancer survivors remain at high risk of
      developing CVD at an early age. There is scant information available on the pathogenic
      process that contributes to cardiovascular threat amongst cancer survivors and little is
      known about the interventions, which may interrupt or decrease the risk of CVD in this
      population. Importantly, early-subclinical markers may substantially precede clinical
      markers.

      The objective of this project is to accurately determine the constituents and characteristics
      of atherosclerotic plaques in carotid arteries by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques
      in cancer survivors; at different data intervals: before and after administration of
      treatment (medical and life style modification) and then correlate contrast agent dynamics
      with serum markers of inflammation and other tests of cardiac or vascular dysfunction, where
      available.

      The proposed study involves 100 asymptomatic patients who received prior chest or head and
      neck radiation therapy (HNXRT) as part of cancer treatment. MRI data (direct assessment of
      atherosclerosis) would be correlated with indirect measures of atherosclerosis (blood
      surrogate markers & metabolomics).

      The investigators intend to conduct an initial baseline MRI, blood tests (to correlate with
      surrogate markers of inflammation) and other tests whenever available of cardiac or vascular
      dysfunction. This cohort will be followed up with medication and/or life style modification
      regimen for a period of initially18 months and subsequently at 36 months. A repeat of all
      baseline studies (MRI and blood tests) would be performed as part of the 18 and 36-month
      follow-up. The plaque characteristics found at MRI will be correlated with results of blood
      tests (baseline, 18 and 36 months) and changes in one or both will be the expected end point
      of the study.
    
  