
    
      In this study the investigators focus on a subset of at-risk students who find the language
      of science to be a barrier to the learning of science. These are the nearly 3 million
      children in the U.S. who have a learning disability called specific language impairment
      (SLI). Children with SLI present with deficits in spoken grammar and vocabulary and they are
      3.9 to 8.1 times more likely to have reading deficits than children in the general
      population.

      Specific Aim #1: To determine whether science-relevant language intervention enhances the
      learning of science concepts in young children who have SLI.

      Specific Aim #2: To determine whether science-relevant language intervention facilitates
      generalization of science concepts and practices in young children who have SLI.

      Fifty-four 4-to-7-year-olds who have not yet begun 1st grade, who are monolingual speakers of
      English, and who have SLI will participate. The investigators will adopt a Randomized
      Controlled Trial design, randomly assigning participants into three intervention conditions:
      science + phonological awareness practice (the control arm), science + vocabulary supports,
      and science + grammar supports, followed by a brief withdrawal phase in which all three
      groups receive science only instruction. Pre- and post-measures will reveal the extent of
      learning in each condition and comparisons between conditions will reveal whether the grammar
      and vocabulary supports improved learning.

      The hypothesis is that the language and learning of science are integrally related.
      Therefore, the investigators will use evidenced-based language interventions to improve the
      children's science-relevant language skills, with the prediction that this will cascade into
      changes in the acquisition of science concepts and practices:

        1. Children in the science + language intervention conditions will show greater gains in
           taught science concepts after the 4-week intervention period than children in the
           control arm.

        2. The benefit of the science + language interventions will remain after the language
           supports are withdrawn, that is, children in the science + language intervention
           conditions will show greater gains in taught science concepts during the withdrawal week
           than children in the control arm.

        3. Children in the science + language intervention conditions will show greater gains from
           pretest to posttest on measures of generalized science concepts and practice than
           children in the control arm.

        4. Children who demonstrate the greatest improvement in the use of the language targets
           will also demonstrate the greatest improvements in taught concepts, generalized
           concepts, and generalized practice knowledge.

        5. Children will benefit from language supports directed at vocabulary as well as those
           directed at grammar, but these supports may differently benefit the science learning
           process.

      The first step is to document that the language supported interventions resulted in improved
      language abilities by comparing performance on probes of grammar and vocabulary at posttest
      to pretest performance. The expectations are significant changes in vocabulary knowledge for
      the vocabulary intervention condition as compared to the other two conditions, and
      significant changes in use of complement clauses for the grammar intervention condition as
      compared to the other two conditions. The next step is to test the predictions associated
      with the specific aims via a series of binomial mixed models. Mixed models are appropriate
      for designs with unbalanced cell sizes due to missing data (due to non-response and dropout).
      There will be one model for targeted science concept outcomes with condition (control arm,
      science + vocabulary, science + grammar), language support (present, withdrawn), and
      condition x language support as the independent variables (Predictions 1 and 2). If data
      plotting suggests that effects are specific to the type of concepts being taught (e.g.,
      physical science vs biological science), then we will build a second model to explore
      differences related to concept type. There will also be one model each for generalized
      concepts and generalized practice outcomes with condition (control arm, science + vocabulary,
      science + grammar) and time (pretest and posttest) as independent variables (Prediction 3).
      Within-subject correlation will be accounted for with random subject effects. Additional
      random effects will be determined by selecting the model with the best model fit (lowest AIC
      value). In each of the three models, it is further expected that amount of improvement in
      grammar and vocabulary are moderators between the outcome and the other factors (Prediction
      4). To assess this prediction, performance on the language tests will be included as
      covariates. The expectation is that performance on the language probes after instruction will
      be a significant predictor of science learning, and that including performance on the
      language probes as a covariate will eliminate the effect of condition because language
      performance will be the main factor predicting science performance. These models also allow
      comparison of the effectiveness of the grammar- and vocabulary-supported conditions
      (Prediction 5).
    
  