
    
      Hypothesis:

      Sensing in bipolar and extended bipolar configurations are the same. However, sensing in
      bipolar over time is more likely to decrease when compared to extended bipolar.

      Objectives:

        1. To compare bipolar sensing and extended bipolar sensing in VF.

        2. Compare sensing in bipolar and extended bipolar over time.

      Methods:

        1. This study will be a randomized comparison of bipolar and extended bipolar sensing. As
           per usual standard of care, at the end of ICD implantation two sensing tests in VF will
           be performed. Patients will be randomized to sensing in VF through the device. Each
           patient will undergo testing in one randomized configuration followed by a second test
           in the other configuration. After testing at the time of implant, each patient will be
           seen at one month in follow up. Sensing of each configuration will be reevaluated at
           that time in sinus rhythm.

        2. Each patient will serve as their own control, as data for sensing in both configurations
           will be obtained in VF at the time of implant. During testing both signals types will be
           recorded simultaneously through the ICD. The primary endpoint will be duration of
           sensing (time to detection) in VF at the time of implant.

        3. The secondary endpoint will be sensing in sinus rhythm at one month.

        4. The patient population will include approximately 30-50 volunteers age >18, male and
           female, both ischemic and nonischemic cardiomyopathy, with primary and secondary implant
           indications.

        5. Patients will be recruited when being evaluated for defibrillator implant.

        6. Inclusion criteria: age >18 with ability to give informed consent, who are expected to
           live more than one year, with indication for defibrillator implant and who are not
           pacemaker dependent. Patients will have either ischemic or nonischemic cardiomyopathy.

        7. Exclusion criteria: age <18, inability to give informed consent, or life expectancy less
           than one year, pacemaker dependence, or use of preexisting lead for sensing, any
           condition which would preclude ICD testing at the end of the implant. Patients who are
           undergoing upgrade to an ICD from a pacemaker will also be excluded. In addition,
           patients with inherited arrhythmias or ion channel related arrhythmias will be excluded
           from the study.

        8. Withdrawal criteria: inability to implant device, implant lead at the RV apex, or make
           follow up appointment (living out of state), patient death at time of implant, elevated
           DFT (<10 J margin between DFT and maximum output of the device) requiring additional
           procedures, subcutaneous array etc.

        9. Duration of patient participation would be one month.

       10. Duration of study would be one year.

      Procedures:

        1. Procedures to be followed would include screening of all eligible patients undergoing
           implant of a Medtronic defibrillator for either primary or secondary prevention. If
           patients meet inclusion criteria they would then undergo informed consent and if willing
           be enrolled in the study. Defibrillator implant and testing would be performed as per
           usual practice of the implanting physician. The RV lead will be placed at the RV apex as
           is usual for regular implantation of devices. However, if a lead is placed elsewhere,
           the patient will need to be withdrawn from the study.

        2. When VF induction is performed, sensing configuration would be tested in a randomized
           fashion, unblinded to the operator. The untested configuration would then be tested
           during second VF induction. Both tests would be performed at a sensitivity setting of
           1.2mV, with a number of intervals to detection (NID) of 24/32. Final programming
           polarity will be left at the initially tested polarity (first DFT test), unless the
           operator sees a need to program differently for patient safety reasons.

        3. Medtronic defibrillators with both sensing configurations available will be used. Data
           collection will be performed by Dr. Tolat, Dr. Berns, Dr. Lippman, Dr. Dell'Orfano, and
           the study coordinator involved with the study. A data collection form and spreadsheet
           will be kept for use when collecting data for analysis. Follow up will be performed at
           one month post implant in the office.

      Risk Analysis:

        1. Anticipated risks are no more than that anticipated with usual ICD implant. To date,
           usual implant includes induction of VF with analysis of sensing in VF and evaluation of
           defibrillation threshold by delivery of shock.

        2. There is no expected increased exposure to risk by performing this study.

        3. Potential benefits would include gathering additional information on sensing in VF in
           both configurations instead of performing the two sensing tests in one configuration.
           This may directly benefit the patient by allowing for reprogramming defibrillator
           without bringing the patient back to the hospital for further testing.

      Data Analysis:

        1. Data collection will include patient information kept in a database with name kept
           confidential. Patients will only be identified by number in keeping with privacy laws
           and practice. In addition to usual patient characteristics, data variables to be
           collected in both configurations will include: R wave amplitude in sinus rhythm, time to
           detection in VF, total episode duration (time to Vfib detection and charge delivered),
           number of "drop outs" (undersensing) in VF, and follow up R wave amplitude in one month.

        2. Statistical Methods will compare bipolar sensing configuration to the extended bipolar
           configuration at baseline, sensing in VF (as measured by "drop out", time to detection),
           and follow up amplitude of the R wave at one month.

        3. The current expected sample size with this pilot study is 30 patients. This may require
           reevaluation depending on results at the time of interim analysis.
    
  