
    
      Laser-induced interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) is a novel form of controlled, targeted
      thermal ablation that may offer measurable advantages over other ablative therapies for focal
      prostate therapy. Because LITT is magnetic resonance (MR) compatible, it enables an imaging
      advantage over other surgical or ablation techniques that utilize transrectal ultrasound to
      target and monitor treatment. MR imaging provides excellent soft-tissue contrast and
      three-dimensional (3D) anatomical imaging in any arbitrary plane, which can help to improve
      treatment planning and targeting. Additionally, MR-based temperature monitoring allows
      real-time feedback during MRI-guided thermal therapy as both deposition of light energy and
      MR signal acquisition can be performed simultaneously without degradation in the MR signal.
      Also, being in the MR diagnostic environment allows use of post- treatment imaging to verify
      tissue damage. Because MR images clearly depict the prostate anatomy and the surrounding
      critical structures, MR imaging has been incorporated into planning for external- beam
      radiotherapy, brachytherapy, and other treatments of the prostate. In addition to these basic
      features, Multiparametric prostate MRI (mpMRI) may be used to identify regions of disease in
      the prostate and better target therapy.

      In this study, the investigators propose to evaluate the efficacy of a novel, FDA-approved
      thermal therapy and feedback system (Visualase® Thermal Therapy System) for the treatment of
      biopsy confirmed and MR-imageable prostate lesions. This system has been used in humans for
      the treatment of brain, bone (spine), thyroid, and liver cancers. Early feasibility studies
      for prostate cancer used a transperineal approach; however it is now being evaluated for the
      primary treatment of prostate cancer using a transrectal approach. This system allows
      delivery of laser energy while the patient is simultaneously being imaged by an MRI unit. The
      system's real-time MR thermal imaging (MRTI) provides information on the thermal dose
      delivered to the target, resulting in a more precise and controlled delivery which has
      previously not been possible with other ablative therapies. The investigators hypothesize the
      system can be integrated into a practical and feasible outpatient treatment paradigm for
      focal treatment of localized prostate cancer and allow patients to avoid the complications
      associated with radical whole-gland therapy.
    
  