
    
      Phase I, 6 weeks: Intensive weight loss forty-two obese subjects with type 2 diabetes
      mellitus or impaired fasting glucose (FBS greater than 100 mg/dl) will be randomized to
      receive either an MCT-based or LCT-based liquid diet for a 6 week period (Phase I) to
      establish compliance followed by a second 6 week period (Phase II). These diets will be
      isocaloric (1083 kcal/day) and identical except for the quality of the fat . The intervention
      will be double blinded. The MCT diet will consist of 5 liquid meals using a commercial
      product (HMR 800 Health Management Resources, Inc.; 160 kcal/shake) plus 34 grams MCT oil
      (Life Enhancement Products, Inc. Petaluna, CA; 8.3 kcal/gm) added per day to the HMR shakes.
      The LCT diet will utilize 5 HMR shakes plus 31.5 grams LCT oil (corn oil; 9 kcal/gm) per day.
      Patients in both groups will be given a list of supplemental foods that are suitable for the
      study. They may choose to eat up to an additional 400 kcal per day from this list and will be
      asked to add these to their food records for monitoring of their caloric intake. A dietitian
      will instruct subjects at a baseline visit on behavior modification and a moderate physical
      activity program of walking for 30 minutes five times per week. Participants will complete
      food and exercise logs that will be analyzed by the study staff. Baseline testing includes
      the following: Body composition by DEXA (Hologic); Subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue
      biopsy; blood for CBC, basic metabolic panel, LFT, TSH, C-reactive protein, HOMA-IR, fasting
      glucose, insulin, lipids (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL, triacyglycerol), hemoglobin A1c,
      hydroxybutyrate, free fatty acids, leptin, adiponectin, TNF-alpha, and PAI-1. For measuring
      dietary compliance throughout the entire study, three consecutive daily dietary records (two
      week day and one weekend day) will be analyzed each week by a registered dietitian using the
      Minnesota Nutrient Database. Subjects who do not lose 5% body weight by the end of Phase I
      will be withdrawn from the study. If subjects do not lose 5% in Phase I, they will be
      considered inappropriate for a liquid diet, and therefore for the study, and will be
      discontinued from the study.

      Phase II, 6 weeks: Continued weight loss program During phase II, subjects will be maintained
      on the same diet, supplements and exercise program.Once patients enter Phase II, all baseline
      lab measurements will be repeated. Needle biopsies of subcutaneous abdominal adipose tissue
      will be obtained at the beginning and at at the end of Phase II. Finger-stick blood glucose
      levels will be checked weekly. At the end of Phase II, and of the study, the following data
      will be collected: Lab data: CBC, basic metabolic panel, LFT, TSH, C-reactive protein,
      fasting blood glucose, insulin, HOMA-IR, lipids (total cholesterol, HDL, LDL,
      triacyglycerol), HbA1c, hydroxybutyrate, FFA, leptin, adiponectin, TNF-alpha, and PAI-1
      levels. At the end of Phase II, the following procedures will be performed: Subcutaneous
      abdominal adipose tissue biopsy (total = 3) ;. Body composition by DEXA (Hologic) (total =
      2).
    
  