
    
      Cigarette smoking remains the leading cause of preventable death and illness in the United
      States. In 2008, 20.6% of all American adults smoked, and 435,000 died from smoking-related
      illnesses. Economic costs of smoking dependence are estimated at $193 billion/year and have
      far-reaching implications for the individual, workplace, society and the healthcare system.
      However, treatment is associated with significant individual and society benefits, and both
      counseling and pharmacotherapy have been demonstrated to be effective treatments. Along with
      poverty and low education, smoking causes a greater loss of quality-adjusted life years than
      race, uninsurance, overweight, or binge drinking.

      Smokers are admitted to acute care hospital more than nonsmokers. Using estimates from a
      number of sources, we estimate that approximately 6.1-12.5 million hospitalizations occur
      annually among adult smokers. This represents 20-41% of the 29.8 million annual inpatient
      stays in US acute care hospitals among adults age 18 and older unrelated to pregnancy or
      childbirth. Put another way, the nation's 46 million smokers represent 20% of the adult
      population, but account for 20-40% of all hospitalizations unrelated to pregnancy. Given that
      US hospitals are now smoke-free (per Joint Commission regulations), and many of these
      admissions are for tobacco-related conditions, the hospital admission represents a profound
      opportunity-a "teachable moment"-for tobacco control.

      Recent "core measure" regulations by the Joint Commission and the Centers for Medicare and
      Medicaid Services require hospitals to report publicly their tobacco screening for patients
      admitted with acute myocardial infarction, congestive heart failure, and pneumonia. Although
      many hospitals have improved their performance considerably on these smoking measures,
      sometimes this has resulted from "gaming," e.g. giving all discharged patients a preprinted
      instruction sheet that includes boilerplate text about smoking cessation. Thus, although most
      hospitals assess inpatients for tobacco use (either through a nursing assessment or the
      physician's initial history and physical examination), there are often no systems in place to
      initiate or sustain tobacco treatment for smokers. This gap in service delivery prevents
      millions of smokers from accessing the many effective, evidence-based treatments for tobacco
      dependence during a period in which they may be particularly receptive to an intervention.

      Hence, the overarching goal of this project is to implement and study the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of a tobacco intervention for hospitalized adults that begins during
      inpatient treatment and continues after discharge. To enhance dissemination, we will use
      resources currently available to most acute care hospitals: computerized physician order
      entry, physician and nurse education, staff meetings for physicians, nurses, and allied
      health professionals, online learning capabilities, faxing to primary care providers (PCPs),
      and the telephone counseling and support available from a state smokers' quitline (QL). In
      the final year, a toolkit will be disseminated by professional societies. We hypothesize that
      the proposed intervention is clinically effective, cost effective, sustainable, and
      generalizable. All interventions are evidence-based and consistent with the 2008 Public
      Health Service clinical practice guideline for tobacco dependence treatment.

      The Specific Aims of the proposed project are to:

      Primary Aims:

        1. Determine whether Academic Detailing (AD) and an Integrated Tobacco Order Set (ITOS)
           compared to AD alone improves biologically verified smoking cessation at 12 months
           post-quit in a cohort of 960 smokers age > 18 years admitted to Yale New Haven Hospital
           (YNHH).

           Secondary Aims:

        2. Study ITOS's ability to encourage smokers to use treatment services and reduce
           consumption.

        3. Study ITOS's ability to enhance provider delivery of tobacco screening and treatment.

        4. Conduct an incremental cost-effectiveness analysis of the intervention.

      Our associated hypotheses are:

        1. Subjects treated by physicians in the AD+ITOS arm will have a higher rate of
           biochemically verified 7-day point prevalence smoking abstinence at 12 months post-quit
           than subjects treated by physicians in the AD arm, in a cohort of adult smokers admitted
           to the inpatient units of Yale-New Haven Hospital.

        2. Subjects treated by AD+ITOS physicians will have made more quit attempts, and
           experienced greater reduction in daily cigarette consumption, than smokers treated by AD
           physicians.

        3. A higher proportion of patients treated by AD+ITOS physicians will have tobacco
           treatment initiated in hospital than patients treated by AD physicians.

        4. Societal costs of AD+ITOS, per abstinent smoker, will be cost-effective relative to AD.
    
  