
    
      A total of 18 subjects (4 women and 14 men) aged 39 to 66 years underwent implantation of the
      DJBL.The subjects were regular patients of the Diabetes Center at the Herz- und
      Diabeteszentrum Nordrhein-Westfalen (HDZ NRW), Germany and gave informed consent for related
      procedures and data handling. The subjects had body mass index (BMI) ≥35 kg/m2, type 2
      diabetes mellitus (T2DM), and a history of frustrated weight loss attempts. Exclusion
      criteria were: history of gastric surgery, gastric or duodenal ulcers, thyroid disorders,
      gastrointestinal disorders associated with intestinal resorption dysfunction, therapy with
      oral anticoagulants like marcumar, use of acetyl salicylic acid or non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatory drugs, drug abuse (incl. alcohol), symptomatic cardiovascular disease
      including heart failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) IV, renal insufficiency defined as
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) <50 ml/min, pregnancy or breast feeding.

      Study design All patients received the DJBL due to medical reasons, not for study purposes.
      All patients underwent pre-implantation and follow-up examinations (1 week, 32 weeks and 52
      (explantation) weeks after implantation). Every examination included a thorough body
      examination, electrocardiogram (ECG), and the body composition measurement by bio-impedance
      scaling (type: BC418MA, Tanita, Amsterdam, the Netherlands). Upon implantation, antidiabetic
      medication was adapted, patients were followed up to adjust antidiabetic regimen. Dietary
      advice was given to the patients by a professional dietician upon implantation procedure, and
      liquid diet was started the day before implantation and continued for two additional days
      followed by puréed diet for four days. Patients decided to turn back to normal diet upon
      tolerance; fibre rich dietary components were prohibited during the treatment period.
      Treatment with glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) or dipeptidyl-peptidase-4 (DPP4) based
      medication (Exenatide, Liraglutide, Lixisenatide or Sitagliptin, Vildagliptin) was initiated
      in cases that fasting C-peptide levels were >750 pmol/l. Insulin dosage was reduced after
      implantation to avoid risk of hypoglycaemia. Sulfonylurea treatment was stopped after
      implantation.

      Mixed meal tolerance tests Mixed meal tolerance tests (MMTT) were performed in fasting state
      as routine diagnostic tool to assess metabolism parameters and gut hormones described below.
      In the course of a MMTT every patient consumed a highly caloric drink (Fortimel regular 2 093
      Kilojoules (KJ), Nutricia GmbH, Erlangen, Germany) containing carbohydrates (41 energy(EN)%),
      proteins (40 EN%) and fats (19 EN%), simulating an average meal. Blood samples were taken at
      fixed intervals: before drinking, after 10, 30, 60, 90, 120 min. DPP4 inhibitor was added to
      prevent autodigestion of GLP-1 immediately after sampling, Hydroxymercuribenzoic acid was
      added to plasma per protocol to prevent ghrelin digestion. Samples were stored after
      centrifugation at -80°C until assayed for the gut hormones ghrelin, GLP-1, gastric inhibitory
      peptide, leptin as well as the metabolism parameters glucose, insulin, C-peptide, and
      proinsulin.

      Biochemical assessment Laboratory assessments were done in fasting state. Venipuncture was
      performed the morning after overnight fasting one day before the planned procedure, one week,
      8, and 12 months after implantation. Blood samples were processed for subsequent analysis
      within 20 min of venipuncture. Serum concentrations were measured by commercial available
      kits of total ghrelin (ELISA, Merck Chemicals Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung (GmbH),
      Schwalbach, Germany), leptin (ELISA, DRG-International, Inc., USA), active GLP-1 (ELISA,
      epitope Diagnostics, San Diego, USA), gastric inhibitory Peptide (GIP) (ELISA,
      DRG-International, Inc., USA), Insulin (CMIA, Abbott, Wiesbaden, Germany), C-peptide (CMIA,
      Abbott, Wiesbaden, Germany), Proinsulin (ELISA, TecoMedical Bunde, Germany) and glucose
      (CMIA, Abbott, Wiesbaden Germany).
    
  