
    
      This is an observational plan designed to obtain clinical experience and follow up data on
      the use of the ProxiFuse Hammer Toe Device for the fixation of osteotomies and reconstruction
      of the lesser toes following correction procedures for hammertoe, claw toe and mallet toe.

      Collection of data on patients treated with the FDA 510k approved ProxiFuse Hammer Toe Device
      will assist Cartiva in further evaluation of the effectiveness and safety of the ProxiFuse
      Hammer Toe Device when utilized for bone fixation per the specified indications. The
      ProxiFuse Hammer Toe Device is currently approved for commercial distribution and use in the
      country in which this protocol is being administered (FDA 510k approval K142490). . Given
      that the product is approved for distribution and use, the product is being used within its
      approved indication for use, and the data being collected is not burdensome or outside the
      standard of care, it is determined that no additional regulatory requirements are applicable
      to this data collection.

      The ProxiFuse Hammer Toe Device consists of three components: the implant, deployment
      instrumentation, and bone awl. The implant is comprised of 2-0 suture, two Nitinol anchors
      with PEEK Inserts, and a PEEK Stabilizing Body. The device is delivered through a
      specifically designed instrument. The method of delivery allows for a shifting of the PEEK
      Body which limits the amount of traction required to place the middle phalanx over the
      device. The suture utilized in the device serves to shift the PEEK Body and to apply tension
      between the Nitinol anchors which in turn stabilizes the proximal interphalangeal joint.

      In accordance with guidelines as outlined in ISO 14155, ICH GCP, and 21 CFR Part 50, each
      patient must grant documented informed consent and authorization of disclosure of
      identifiable health information prior to the collection of clinical data. Each patient should
      be informed of the procedures to be performed and that data will be collected. It is the
      intent to use de-identified research data for the potential purposes of product development
      and publication in marketing literature, journals, and peer-reviewed medical journals.

      A copy of the signed informed consent document should be provided to the patient and the
      original should be maintained as part of the patient's clinical record.

      The authorization to use the information collected has no expiration. Cartiva and its
      affiliates may continue to rely on this authorization to obtain and use the information
      unless the patient revokes/cancels the authorization in writing. Confidential information
      will not be shared with anyone outside of Cartiva and its affiliates. Patient names or
      identifying information will not be used in any reports, publications, or presentations. All
      data will be de-identified and maintained by University of Rochester .

      Data collection will occur at baseline and the following time points after the surgical
      procedure: 1 week, 6 weeks, 3 months, and 6 months. The study will last for 6 months
      following each patient's surgical procedures, until the last subject is seen at the 6 month
      follow up visit, or is withdrawn.

      The baseline/preoperative information and assessments should be performed once the subject is
      consented and enrolled. All operative, discharge, and rehabilitation information should be
      captured on the eCRFs. Any additional procedures performed during the operation should be
      documented as well.

      The Investigator should complete a foot exam and the subject should complete the PROMIS
      questionnaires at all clinical follow up visits. The PROMIS data that is collected in this
      study will be compared to historical AOFAS hammertoe data from the PROMIS database.

      Weight bearing anteroposterior and lateral x-rays of the treated toe(s) should be taken at
      the 1 and 6 week follow up visits. The Investigator should perform a radiographic assessment
      to observe the presence of any displacements or complications.. Any findings should be
      captured on the eCRFs.

      The following data will be captured on electronic case report forms (eCRFs):

        1. Baseline / Preoperative Assessment

        2. Operative

        3. Follow-up Assessment

        4. Adverse Events

      CRFs are to be completed by the treating physician or designated clinical representative.
      Every attempt should be made to provide all CRFs to University of Rochester completed in
      their entirety for each patient. Where information is not directly available from the
      patient, a review of the patient's clinical records should be conducted in order to complete
      as much information as possible on the CRFs.

      The sample size for this study is based on the analysis of the primary endpoint. A minimum of
      70 patients will be enrolled with the goal of at least 59 patients completing the 6 month
      visit.

      All variables will be analyzed using the intent-to -treat (ITT) data set. The ITT data set
      will include all enrolled patients who receive the ProxiFuse Hammer Toe device in at least
      one qualifying toe. No methods will be used to impute values for missing data. Adverse events
      will be summarized by presenting the number and percent of patients reporting each event.
    
  