
    
      Lorlatinib is a selective and potent tyrosine kinase inhibitor of ALK and ROS1 that
      pre-clinically demonstrated dose-dependent inhibition of mutations that confer resistance to
      other ALK inhibitors; it is also a brain-penetrant thus it might be active in patients with
      CNS metastases.

      Study Objectives Primary Define the objective response rates (ORR) of PF-06463922 in subjects
      with ALK+ lymphomas resistant or refractory to ALK inhibitors.

      Secondary

        -  Define the Progression Free Survival (PFS) in subjects with ALK+ lymphomas resistant or
           refractory to ALK inhibitors.

        -  Define the overall survival (OS) in ALK+ lymphoma patients treated with Lorlatinib, that
           are resistant or refractory to ALK inhibitors.

        -  Determine the toxicity profile of Lorlatinib in ALK+ lymphoma patients resistant or
           refractory to ALK inhibitors.

        -  Determine the Quality of Life (QoL) in this population of patients using the EORTC-C30
           Quality of Life questionnaire.

        -  Study the mutational status of ALK pre/post Lorlatinib treatment through next-generation
           sequencing (NGS).

      Study design This is a phase 2 study open to 12 eligible patients with lymphoma with a
      confirmed ALK rearrangement. All patients must have been pretreated with at least one line of
      standard cytotoxic chemotherapy and at least one ALK inhibitor and they must have
      demonstrated progression (regardless of initial response) or resistance on the last
      treatment.

      The study begins with a screening period to assess eligibility, up to and including 28 days
      prior to the first dose of Lorlatinib. Treatment will continue until patient experiences
      unacceptable toxicity or progressive disease (PD), starts a new anti-cancer therapy or dies.

      The study will remain open until all patients have completed 3 years from the enrollment.

      Study treatment Patients will receive an oral administration of Lorlatinib at a dose of 100mg
      QD. In case of toxicity, it is possible to proceed to a dose reduction (75mg or 50mg QD) or a
      temporary interruption of Lorlatinib.
    
  