
    
      A prolonged first episode of psychosis (FEP) without adequate treatment is the most
      consistent predictor of poor clinical and functional outcomes, poor health outcomes and
      significant economic burden. Team-based "coordinated specialty care" (CSC) for early
      psychosis (EP) has established effectiveness in promoting clinical and functional recovery.
      EP treatment programs have expanded rapidly with increased funding across the US without
      formal coordination of training or implementation. While EP programs share many features, the
      lack of state and national coordination and data infrastructure limits the capacity for
      large-scale evaluation or accelerated dissemination of best practices. Based on prior
      collaborations with 30 California (CA) EP programs and experiences using mobile health (MOBI
      mHealth) technology to measure individual outcomes in EP care, the UC Davis (UCD) team is
      uniquely poised to create EPI-CAL, a CA network that will contribute systematically collected
      outcomes data on 1329 FEP clients per year, from 6 community and 6 university EP clinics, to
      a national EP network supported by the NIMH EPINET program.

      Building on the team's prior work evaluating CA EP programs, EPI-CAL programs will
      participate in a formative evaluation in Year 1 to define core EP clinical features,
      intervention targets, and outcomes needed to harmonize network input. A "core battery" based
      on current measures collected at the sites, the PhenX toolkit and expanded to cover all
      critical domains, will be installed across the network in Year 2. Core client outcomes and
      metrics of data use for treatment decisions will be collected using the custom MOBI mHealth
      data network at the client, program, and state level to allow easy data analysis,
      interpretation and dissemination. Training and ongoing monitoring will be provided at all
      EPI-CAL sites to ensure appropriate implementation. EPI-CAL will contribute de-identified
      data to the national coordinating hub. Using the RE-AIM implementation science framework, the
      investigators will systematically evaluate the impact of MOBI on EP programs across 5
      dimensions: reach, efficacy, adoption, implementation, and maintenance.

      To demonstrate the network's research capacity, in the R34 component of this application, the
      investigators propose to develop and validate a measure of the Duration of Untreated
      Psychosis (DUP) that is feasible for use in community settings and psychometrically sound.
      Although DUP is a significant predictor of both short-term CSC treatment response and
      long-term outcomes for FEP, no measure currently exists that has been rigorously validated
      and is feasible for use by community providers. The investigators will utilize stakeholder
      feedback (clients, family members, academic experts and CSC staff) to develop a tool with
      standardized DUP definitions that includes anchored assessment of psychosis onset and start
      of treatment. Developing such a tool will allow standardized assessment of this critical
      moderator of CSC outcomes across the entire EPINET.

      FEP (and CHR) individuals receiving early psychosis treatment services at one of the
      participating sites will be invited to participate in all aspects of the study. Family
      members/ support persons will be asked to participate in tablet data collection and provide
      feedback via surveys, interviews and focus groups. EP providers will complete questionnaires
      and provide feedback via surveys, interviews and focus groups. Stakeholders (e.g. EP program
      and county administrators, support staff, and local community groups) will participate in
      focus groups and feedback interviews.

      Aim 1: To create a sustainable CA EP network using a core battery of evidence-based
      measures.To address this aim, the investigators will test the following hypotheses: H1.1: 70%
      of eligible FEP participants, representative of the target population, and 50% of available
      family members across the network will enroll and complete baseline (Reach). Client-,
      provider- and program-level barriers to engagement will be identified through analyses of
      qualitative data (Reach). H1.2: Clinician use of MOBI over 12 months of care, as measured by
      MOBI, will be associated with reduced psychotic symptom severity for FEP at 12 months
      (Efficacy). H1.3: Clinician use of MOBI will be positively associated with reduction in
      psychotic symptom severity at 24 months and higher patient satisfaction with care
      (Maintenance).

      Aim 2. To develop an integrated data network that provides real-time feedback to improve
      clinical care and program quality, and contribute de-identified data to the national
      coordinating hub. The investigators hypothesize that: H2.1: Compared to pre-MOBI, providers
      will report increased use of data to determine treatment choices after training and using
      MOBI for 6 months (Adoption); H2.2: Over 12 months, EP providers will use MOBI in direct care
      to FEP clients for at least 50% of completed assessments (Implementation). Client-, provider-
      and program-level barriers to implementation will be identified through analyses of
      qualitative data; H2.3: Exploratory analysis will examine level of clinician expertise and
      training needed to effectively implement clinician review of FEP participant outcome data
      using MOBI at 80% of available time points (Adoption).

      Aim 3. To develop and validate a novel DUP measure for use in community settings (R34). The
      investigators hypothesize this new measure will show: H3.1: inter-rater reliability (IRR)
      between CSC providers and a MA-level assessor with an intra-class coefficient (ICC) of at
      least .80 for days from initial assessment to DUP start point, days from assessment to DUP
      end point, and days from start point to end point DUP (total DUP); H3.2: convergent validity,
      with ICCs of at least .80 between CSC providers and centralized study team assessors using
      the Symptom Onset in Schizophrenia Inventory (SOS) (reference standard); H3.3: Predictive
      validity, defined by significant relationships between shorter DUP and greater improvements
      in functioning and quality of life at 6 and 12 months; H3.4: Feasibility and acceptability to
      EP providers and clients, with a mean administration time of less than 40 minutes.
    
  