
    
      Fear and anxiety are adaptive responses that may become excessive or inappropriate in
      pathological conditions, as defined as anxiety disorders in DSM-5. These disorders, including
      phobic disorders such as social anxiety disorder, are frequent and impairing in the general
      population, with an estimated lifetime prevalence of 28% and significant consequences on
      quality of life. Direct and indirect medical costs related to these conditions amount to 74.4
      billion €/year in Europe. Despite their prevalence, debilitating nature and chronicity, the
      pathophysiology of anxiety disorders is poorly understood and neurobiological treatments,
      including pharmacotherapy, are lacking efficacy. A better understanding of the neuronal
      mechanisms implicated in anxiety is necessary for the conception of new approaches to treat
      pathological anxiety.

      Anxiety is commonly modeled in animals using fear conditioning, which consists in associating
      a neutral stimulus (eg: a sound) with a mild electrical foot-shock. As a result of the
      association between sound and shock, sound presentation in isolation induces a set of
      conditioned behavioral responses, such as an immobilization ("freezing"). Previous studies
      have shown that the expression of fear responses, measured on the basis of freezing, is
      associated with the emergence of slow oscillations (2-6Hz) in medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC)
      of mice. Moreover, emergence of these oscillations in mPFC is predictive of the occurrence of
      freezing, and the artificial induction of 4 Hz oscillations in mPFC with optogenetics induces
      freezing. Finally, inhibiting neurons in mPFC during the ascending phase of this slow mPFC
      oscillation at the time of conditioned sound presentation is sufficient to significantly
      reduce fear.

      Interestingly, these results obtained in mice seem to find their prolongation in humans.
      Recent studies using fear conditioning in human subjects have also reported the emergence of
      prefrontal slow oscillations between 2-6 Hz during expression of conditioned fear responses.
      These results suggests that common mechanisms underlie the expression of fear in humans and
      rodents. However, whether similar neuronal circuits and mechanisms are implicated in human
      anxiety disorders remains unknown.

      This study aims at assessing the presence of slow mPFC oscillations during expression of
      anxiety in patients suffering from anxiety disorders. Beyond understanding of the neuronal
      mechanisms underlying anxiety expression, this study could provide a biomarker of anxiety
      with diagnostic and therapeutic implications.
    
  