
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Asthma is a respiratory disease characterized by variable airways obstruction, airways
      inflammation and bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR). There are recent increases in asthma
      mortality and prevalence in the US, especially in African-Americans. Multiple studies suggest
      that both genetic and environmental factors are important in asthma susceptibility.

      The study was recommended by the Pulmonary Diseases Advisory Committee at its February 1991
      meeting and given concept approval by the May 1991 National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory
      Council. The Request for Applications was released in October 1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The CSGA was composed of five centers (Johns Hopkins University, University of Chicago,
      University of Maryland, University of Minnesota, and a data coordinating center at Wake
      Forest). At each center, families were ascertained through two siblings with asthma. All
      family members were characterized with spirometry, bronchial responsiveness to methacholine
      or reversibility testing, skin-tests and questionnaire data. The initial genome screen was
      completed on the first 237 sib pairs from three racial groups (African-American, Caucasian
      and Hispanic), and genotyping on the remaining family members and families was completed
      before the study was renewed in 1997. Therefore, the initial aim of the CSGA to map
      susceptibility regions was completed, with detection of several novel chromosomal regions,
      and replication of several regions previously linked to associated phenotypes.

      In order to determine the importance of these regions in asthma susceptibility and the impact
      of environmental rink factors, the investigators l) evaluated the evidence for linkage in the
      complete CSGA data using 2-point, multipoint and multilocus approaches for asthma and
      associated phenotypes (including BHR, total serum IgE and skin test reactivity to
      standardized allergens); 2) performed fine mapping studies of regions using additional
      genetic markers to obtain a < 2 cM map; 3) identified candidate genes and novel sequence
      variants; and 4) characterized a patient population with asthma to study identified variants
      with respect to asthma severity and bronchial inflammation. These studies allowed
      identification of asthma susceptibility genes and their variants, interactions with other
      genes and environmental risk factors, as well as provided insight for the development of
      improved treatment and ultimate prevention of asthma.
    
  