
    
      The research was conducted with nurses from the oncology-hematology inpatient services,
      outpatient chemotherapy units and bone marrow transplant (BMT) units of three private
      hospitals in Istanbul between January 2017 and January 2019. No sample selection models were
      applied, and out of 153 nurses working in these services, 125 nurses meeting the inclusion
      criteria were included in the study. Nurses were randomly assigned to the Experimental I,
      Experimental II, or control group in order to prevent interaction between the subjects
      working in the same hospital. Of the nurses, 34 completed the short-term program
      (Experimental I), 49 completed the long-term (Experimental II), and 42 were assigned to the
      control group.

      Data collection: Data was collected using Personal Information Form, Professional Quality of
      Life Scale-IV (ProQOL-IV), Perceived Stress Scale, and Resilience Scale for Adults Study
      procedure This study's principal investigator had participated online in a CFRP, developed by
      Eric Gentry (Licensed Mental Health Counselor) (2002), and received the certificate, and then
      conducted the program with the nurses. Meetings were held with each institution's directorate
      of nursing services to determine the training schedules and content. The schedules were
      planned in accordance with the hospital administration's preferences and by taking nurses'
      busy schedules into consideration. Preliminary tests were applied to Experimental I,
      Experiment II, and the control group before the training. Experimental I received a
      short-term program (five hours per day for two days, ten hours in total) while Experimental
      II received a long-term one (five weeks, two hours per week, ten hours in total). No
      intervention was applied to the control group. After the training, a post-test, and three-,
      six-, and twelve-month follow-up assessments were conducted for all groups.

      Program Compassion Fatigue Resiliency Program The purpose of the program: The purpose of the
      program is to provide oncology-hematology nurses with knowledge and skills that will increase
      their level of resilience by helping them recognize compassion fatigue, cope with its
      consequences and work effectively.

      The objectives of the training program

      Nurses, who successfully complete the program will be able to:

        -  Explain the historical development of compassion fatigue among caregivers,

        -  Define the developmental process of compassion fatigue,

        -  Specify the risk factors for compassion fatigue,

        -  Explain the symptoms of compassion fatigue,

        -  Raise awareness about their personal history,

        -  Explain the concept of stress and its impact on the body,

        -  Apply compassion fatigue resilience skills acquired in the program,

        -  Professionally create a self-directed resilience plan. Validity and reliability/Rigour
           The included scales have been tested for validity and reliability for various settings
           and countries. The investigators chose three private hospitals in Istanbul, which are
           considered to be close to each other, such as institution (etc. working conditions) and
           the sociodemographic and professional characteristics of nurses (etc. age, educational
           status, clinical experience, willingness to work in oncology, voluntarily career choice)
           that are known to affect dependent variables. Then, the investigators randomly assigned
           each hospital to the Experimental I, Experimental II, or control group in order to
           prevent interaction between the nurses working in the same hospital. Finally, the
           program was conducted by the principal investigator who had participated online in a
           CFRP, and received the certificate.

      Data analysis: SPSS 25.0 software package was used to analyze data. A chi-square test and
      one-way ANOVA determined whether the scales and information on demographic characteristics
      and work environment differed among pre-initiative groups; in other words, to measure
      homogeneity. Variables found to be statistically significant were included in the model as a
      correction factor for primary hypotheses. Primary research hypotheses were analyzed using
      multilevel models (MLM). This analysis method has some advantages over others, such as
      repeated measures ANOVA.
    
  