
    
      The study will be prospective, open-label, single center with historical control. All
      procedures will be conducted according to Good Clinical Practice guidelines and the
      provisions of the Declaration of Helsinki. Approval of Institutional Review Board at Cooper
      Health Care will be obtained prior to commencing the study and actively enrolled patients
      will sign an informed consent form. Data will be collected on a case report form and
      confidentiality will be protected according to laws and regulations. Study population will
      include adult cancer patients diagnosed with CDI being treated at MD Anderson cancer center
      affiliated with Cooper University Hospital, Camden, NJ, USA. The comparison arm will be a
      historical group of patients treated at the same center with same inclusion/exclusion
      criteria within the previous 3 years of start date.

      Recruited patients will receive a single dose of Bezlotoxumab (Zinplava) 10mg/kg (actual body
      weight) 60-minute intravenous infusion during active CDI treatments.

      For pharmacoeconomic analysis, data collected from the financial department will include
      total hospitalization costs, drug costs, length of stay, total amount charged and total
      amount reimbursedpertaining to CDI diagnosis code/ICD-10 for recurrent CDI. The analysis will
      encompass the perspectives of the hospital and the third party payer. Adjustment of
      retrospective cost data will be performed using Medical Consumer Price index (MCPI) inflation
      rates established by Bureau of Labor Statistics. Cost-avoidance analysis will be performed to
      determine the cost of preventing recurrence. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER)
      defined as the difference in cost divided by difference in outcomes will be reported. The
      outcome being examined, the percent of recurrences avoided, will be used in the denominator.
      Graphically, a cost-effectiveness plane will be used to depict the comparison. Secondary
      analyses will examine specific differences between groups, including total drug costs, length
      of stay (LOS) and per diem hospitalization costs. Univariate sensitivity analyses will be
      conducted to determine robustness of the analysis.

      Matching of intervention group with control will be based on inclusion/exclusion criteria,
      sex, and GEIH-CDI propensity score as shown in the table below. Matching will be in the ratio
      of 1:2. Selected historical control based on inclusion/exclusion criteria will matched to
      same sex.

      Patients treated at MD Anderson cancer center affiliated with Cooper University Hospital
      Camden, NJ, USA with diagnosis of CDI will be screened using inclusion/exclusion criteria.
      Eligible patients will be approached for consent. Recruited patients will receive the study
      intervention either as in-patients or at the out-patient infusion unit according to their
      current status. The study patients will be followed for 12 weeks (day1 is the day of study
      intervention) on week1, week2, week 4, week 8 and week 12 (- or + 5 days) until study exit
      day. Study required clinical data will be collected from medical records on case report form.
      Financial data will be acquired from accounting department records. Recruited patients will
      be interviewed on the phone or in person.

      Study intervention drug will be stored at the Pharmacy Department, Cooper University
      Hospital. Shortly before the time of administration, infusion will be prepared as per
      manufacturer instructions (250 mL infused over 1 hours through 0.22-micron sterile filter
      controlled by volumetric pump) and transported for administration per the hospital protocol.
      Patients receiving bezolotoxumab infusion will be under observation and follow up as per
      study protocol.

      To assess recurrence, clinical cure is achieved in patients receiving standard of care
      treatment and have no diarrhea (< 3 bowel movements per day) for 2 consecutive days following
      completion of therapy. Patients will be followed by reviewing medical records, in person and
      by phone.

      Tolerability of bezolotoxumab will be assessed by collecting clinical and laboratory data
      about adverse events as detailed below under adverse experience reporting.

      A 10-mL blood sample will be collected from patients in heparinized tubes (processed and/or
      stored as required by the lab) for genetic DNA profiling. An an assessment of bezlotoxumab
      efficacy and the correlation with the SNP will be performed.

      Withdrawal from the study will be voluntary or at the discretion of investigators/sponsor in
      case of tolerability concerns, protocol violation or any other reason.
    
  