
    
      Study design

      The study has been designed as a cross sectional study where participants details are
      recorded at birth, followed by a second time point at 6 weeks of age when a corresponding
      sample of urine will be obtained. The population being studied is healthy term (37-41 week
      gestation) babies with no significant ante- or post-natal history born within the study
      period in a single maternity unit. Participants will be required to collect a sample of urine
      at 6 weeks post-natal age (they will be provided with a standardized means to collect the
      specimen) and return it to the investigators in a pre-paid, pre-addressed envelope (UN602
      compliant packaging). This design has been chosen to obtain an unbiased sample group, with
      minimal inconvenience or risk to participants. All confounding factors will be measured on a
      data-sheet accompanying the specimen (sex, weight, method of feeding and medications). The
      study should not be susceptible to bias as there is no perceived association between those
      participants who either wish to take part in the study or subsequently choose to collect and
      return the specimen, and their baby's urinary sodium level.

      Prospective participants will be identified and approached by the neonatal/maternity staff at
      the pre-discharge routine baby check (see Inclusion/Exclusion criteria) from the starting
      date of the study for a period of 3 months (estimate based on average newborn deliveries per
      week and expected return yield of urinary sodium samples i.e. participant drop-out rate).
      There will be no coercion to participate. Mothers will be supplied with a patient information
      statement and informed consent obtained. The consent will be filed in the mother's medical
      notes and there will be no means of identification on the consent form that will link it with
      any specimen obtained from the mother's baby. Instead, it will be a generic form indicating
      intent to participate in the study. If mothers do wish to take part in the study, an initial
      data-set will be obtained that will be identified by a unique study participation number.
      This will include sex of the baby, birth weight, intended method of feeding/milk and any
      medication. A study pack will be issued containing a set of instructions outlining the study,
      a gender-specific urine collection bag, a specimen pot labeled with the participant's unique
      identifying number (into which the urine sample should be transferred prior to returning it),
      the data-set collection form and pre-paid, pre-addressed envelope (UN602 compliant packaging)
      in which to return the specimen and completed form.

      It will be made clear to all participants that they are free to withdraw from the study for
      any reason at any stage and that this will not affect their future care. No attempts will be
      made to contact the families if samples are not returned after the 6 week time period.

      There is no planned interim analysis. The study will continue until sufficient samples have
      been returned in order to complete meaningful statistical analysis. It is anticipated that
      this study should last no longer than 3 months.

      Safety analysis

      Participation in the study is not deemed to involve any risk for patients, their families or
      staff involved.

      Sample size and estimation

      135 participants recruited over 3 months. An independent statistician has been consulted. The
      sample size or reference limits has been based upon the precision of the confidence intervals
      around each limit. On computing a 95% reference interval based on a normal distribution (with
      reference limits to be at most 15% of the reference interval size) gives a sample size of
      135.

      A dropout rate of at least 25% is expected, and therefore, in order to achieve an adequate
      sample size, we intend to pause the study after 200 participants have enrolled. If less than
      135 samples are returned within 6 weeks after the final participant is enrolled, then further
      participants will be recruited to achieve the desired sample size.

      Sample analysis

      Urinary electrolytes will be measured in the Biochemistry laboratory in the Royal Hospital
      for Sick Children. Urinary electrolytes (potassium, sodium and chloride) are measured by
      in-direct (diluted) ion-selective electrodes (ISEs) which utilize membranes selective for
      each ion species. A set volume of urine (15 ul) is diluted with diluent. A measuring
      electrode is then submersed in this solution. An electrical potential (voltage) is developed
      across the membranes between the reference and measuring electrodes in accordance with the
      Nernst equation. The measured voltage is compared to previously determined calibrator
      voltages and converted into ion concentrations (mmol/L).

      Following analysis samples will be disposed in accordance with the Human Tissue Authority's
      Code of Practice.

      Statistical analysis

      The variation of urinary sodium for the cohort will be presented as a normal range.

      The urinary sodium of children who have not achieved a satisfactory weight gain will be
      compared with those who have by a standard t test (as long as the urinary sodium values are
      normally distributed).

      Study closure

      The study will end if any one of the following criteria is met:

        -  The planned sample size has been achieved

        -  There is insufficient funding to support further recruitment, and no reasonable prospect
           of additional support being obtained

      Ethical Consideration

      The study will be carried out in accordance with the World Medical Association Declaration of
      Helsinki (1964) and its revisions (Tokyo [1975], Venice [1983], Hong Kong [1989], South
      Africa [1996] and Edinburgh[2000]). Favourable ethical opinion will be sought from an
      appropriate Research and Ethics Committee (REC) before patients are entered into this study.
      Patients will only be allowed to enter the study once either they have provided written
      informed consent or their next of kin have provided written informed consent. The Chief
      Investigator (CI) will be responsible for updating the Ethics committee of any new
      information related to the study.

      Finance and indemnity

      This study is currently not sponsored. As the study is not deemed to confer risk to
      participants, their families or staff, indemnity has not been sought.

      Dissemination of results

      It is not the intent of the researchers to inform the participants of the results of the
      study. Firstly, all of the specimens collected and analyzed during the study are
      unidentifiable there will be no way of contacting those who have taken part in the research
      project. Secondly, the question that the study is designed to answer has no direct impact on
      the care of any of the participants. Instead, the researchers aim to present their results at
      a specialty-specific conference (e.g. British Association of Paediatric Surgeons annual
      congress) and in an appropriate peer-reviewed journal, regardless of the outcome of the
      results.
    
  