
    
      At investigators institution, neither anesthetic approaches to replacement of blood or fluid
      losses were standardized before 2014 for scoliosis surgery. Before 2014, fluid therapy was
      liberal and according to general principles of good clinical practice and ephedrine boluses
      of 5 mg were given when fluid boluses failed to maintain a systolic arterial pressure >90 mm
      Hg. Blood was replaced with crystalloid at a 3:1 ratio and colloid at a 1:1 ratio. Regarding
      blood product transfusion anesthesiologists were generally initiated when hemoglobin levels
      were less than 8 g/dl or less than 10 g/dl in patients with coronary diseases and predonated
      autologous or allogeneic RBCs were administered.

      A protocol of management for scoliosis surgery was implemented in 2014 and included: a) fluid
      therapy according to SVV monitor, b) intraoperative permissive hypotension to reduce active
      bleeding (goal mean arterial pressure 60 mmHg), c) prophylactic tranexamic acid infusion (30
      mg/kg bolus, 1mg/kg/hr during surgery), d) restrictive RBC trigger according to national
      standardized protocols (Hb<7.0 g/dL or <9g/dL in patients with coronary diseases) and e) use
      of perioperative cell savage.

      In patients of Group Pro, basal crystalloid infusion was started at 4 ml/kg/h right after
      general anesthesia induction and intubation. ClearSight System (Edwards Lifesciences Cop,
      Irvine, CA, USA) was used to measure stroke volume variation and cardiac output, continuously
      and noninvasively through finger- cuffed technology. If SVV was >15% rapid crystalloid bolus
      of 10ml/kg or 4ml/kg colloid bolus were administered until it reached a value of ≤15%. After
      two consecutive fluid boluses SVV remained >15%, administration of noradrenaline infusion was
      considered.

      Data will be collected from anesthesia records and included: age, gender, height, weight,
      body mass index and ASA score. Additional variables included infused crystalloid volume,
      infused colloid volume and the number of allogeneic transfused units of RBC. Serum Hb levels
      were measured preoperatively and after the end of surgery. Moreover, diuresis and use of
      vasopressors use were recorded.
    
  