
    
      The principal way of penetration of CBRNE agents is the respiratory system. The current
      technology of a gas mask has been used to protect the respiratory system as far back as the
      First World War. That originated from Dr Cluny Macpherson's initiatives whom was a Canadian
      military physician.

      The military gas mask is part of the respirator classification but owes its specific
      features. Conventionally, the military gas mask covers a large spectrum of protection aspects
      and matched with their specific canisters. Consequently, gas masks are usually studied
      separately from other respirators and Self-Contained Breathing Apparatus (SBCA). While few
      studies have been about the gas mask technology, no-study addresses it in regards of the
      impact from a bad airway protection and consequences on the respiratory system.

      The gas mask design and its components may lead to these respiratory load issues. At rest and
      from different resistances, what would be the impacts for the work of breathing and gas
      exchange? In order to avoid hypoxemia and hyperoxia, what would be the optimal means to
      restore proper oxygenation? We hypothesised on a: i. Heightened WOB and the respiratory
      demands related to wear of the gas mask; ii. An occurrence of hypoxemia will be manifesting
      during a continuous period. Our goal is to measure the impact of the work of breathing and
      the gas exchange for a gas mask user and also a COPD patient. We also measure what was the
      optimal means for correcting the hypoxemia with a subject.

      9 COPD patients have been participating in a comparison and single-blind randomized
      experimental study. That was approved by the Ethical Review Committee. A written consent is
      obtained for all the subjects prior their acceptance. No rejection has happened during the
      recruiting so far. The eligibility criteria are: i. COPD diagnosis from mild-to-severe FEV
      30-80%). The exclusion criteria are: i. Refusals relate to wear the oesophageal catheter and
      for capillary punctures; ii. Claustrophobia; iii. Oesophageal wounds backgrounds; iv. No
      coronary background and stroke history; v. No face morphology incompatibility with the mask.
      Spirometry and usual health screening is also done before starting the clinical trial.

      Design comprises three 10-minute testing conditions split in two parts. All has been at rest
      and sitting on a chair: i. Baseline without gas mask; ii. Gas mask and Canister A; iii. Gas
      Mask and Canister B. Between the condition a 5-minute wash-out takes place.

      Three five-minute periods is followed to record blood pressure and pulse during the
      conditions. SpO2 is continuously measured with Free O2. Capillary punctures are done at the
      end of each condition. Comfort was also assessed.

      Our main measurements are the WOB performed with a continuous recording of Peso pressure and
      respiratory volumes. Software Acknowledge, version 3.9 serves as acquisition data system and
      analysis are achieved with a 4.2 version and a free-trial WOB calculus system, named RESPMAT.
      That is obtained from Maynaud and al.(2014). As power source, we use a BIOPAC (MP100, Santa
      Barbara, Californie, USA, 200 Hertz), four differential sensors (Validyne : 1x MP45±100
      cmH2O; 2x MP100±5 cmH2O; 1x MP100±100 cmH2O) and four Carrier D-Modulators (Validyne,
      CT-15,120 Volt, 60 Hertz, 5Watts, Model CD15-A-2-A-1).

      Single esophageal catheter (Type Cooper, French caliber #5) and disposable pneumotachs are
      used. Lidocain spray and K-Y gel are applied during the insertion of the catheter. Its
      placement is done at 37.6±5.7 cm across the subject and a Mueller test is performed for each
      subject. In regard of spontaneous breathing, an Hudson mask is used while a C-4 Gas Mask with
      a canister was employed (Manufacturer: Airboss Defence, Bromont, Canada). Canister A and B
      were respectively a C7A1 and ADB81 trademark. Prototyped Free O2 System is employed for the
      correction of the hypoxemia.
    
  