
    
      All patients underwent a medical evaluation that included physical examination and routine
      laboratory studies before and after transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) treatment.
      Patients were randomly allocated to real group , sham group or control group. A threshold of
      3 points on the Hamilton Depression scale has been specified by the National Institute for
      Health and Care Excellence to determine a clinically meaningful difference between active
      pharmacotherapy and placebo. We plan to enroll minimum total sample size of 37 participants
      in real, sham or control group respectively according to the Power and Sample Size program.
      The decision to enroll a patient was always made prior to randomization. The tDCS
      administrators had access to the randomization list. They had minimal contact with the
      patients, and no role in assessing depression. Each patient would be treated for continuous
      14 days by tDCS in real and sham group. The control group was evaluated by clinical symptom
      scale, behavioral evaluation before and after 14 days.

      Before the tDCS treatment, depression symptom of each participant was assessed by the
      Hamilton Depression Scale and the Beck Depression Self-Rating Scale. The anhedonia severity
      was evaluated by The Temporal Experience of Pleasure Scale, the Self-Report Apathy Evaluation
      Scale, Dimensional Anhedonia Rating Scale, the Motivation and Pleasure Scale.The neuroimaging
      data was collected using event-related potentials during monetary incentive delay task. After
      the last treatment, the same scales and neuroimaging scan were used again to assess the
      treatment effect of the tDCS and the underlying brain mechanism. Each participant was
      interviewed in detail about the adverse event of the tDCS intervention during the past 14
      days.Every participant should take part in the study in voluntary and sign an informed
      consent form before the study.
    
  