
    
      Experimental Design: an interventional study. Search Location: Exercise Research Laboratory
      at the School of Physical Education, Physiotherapy and Dance, Federal University of Rio
      Grande do Sul, and in the Movement Disorders Outpatient Clinic of the Hospital of Clinicals
      of Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. Participants: 60 participants from
      the Dance, the Nordic Walking, and the Aquatic Jogging extension projects at Federal
      University of Rio Grande do Sul, both sexes, from 50 to 80 years old, diagnosed with
      idiopathic PD, will be separate in three groups: Video Dance Classes, in the unsupervised
      physical activity, and in the control group. Interventions: video dance class, unsupervised
      physical activity, and a control group. The video dance class program will have a frequency
      of two sessions per week and a duration of 30 minutes for 12 weeks. The unsupervised physical
      activity receives an unsupervised home exercise program with a frequency of two sessions per
      week and a duration of 30 minutes for 12 weeks during the Covid-19 pandemic.

      The control group will be people with PD, engaged, before the Covid-19 pandemic, in the
      Dance, the Nordic Walk and the Aquatic Jogging extension projects at Federal University of
      Rio Grande do Sul but did not do any type of physical activity during the Covid-19 pandemic.

      To evaluate the impacts of the activities during the Covid-19 pandemic, evaluations will be
      performed by telephone after 60 days of social distance and self-isolation. Outcomes:
      clinical-functional parameters and non-motor parameters. Data Analysis: Data will be
      described by average values and standard deviation values. The comparisons between groups
      will be performed using a Generalized Estimating Equations (GEE) analysis, adopting a level
      of significance (α) of 0.05. Expected Results: Participants who have remained committed with
      the video dance class or with the unsupervised physical activity during the Covid-19 pandemic
      expected to be less affected in the analyzed outcomes, especially in Quality of Life, when
      compared to the control group. In addition, it is expected that the research results could
      help to future developments in the scientific, technological, economic, social, and
      environmental fields.
    
  