
    
      The goals of the study are: 1) to further enhance the design and application of the ETE
      intervention, and 2) to provide data on the efficacy of the refined ETE intervention in a
      randomized-controlled study (RCT). To achieve these 2 goals, the study is divided in to 2
      phases.

      PHASE 1: To enhance and refine the design and application of the preliminary ETE
      intervention:

      Aim 1-a: To explore knowledge, beliefs, values and expectations about treatment options,
      treatment decision making, and quality of life (QOL) among patients with BL Ca.

      To achieve Aim 1-a of Phase 1, as a first step, 2 focus groups (FG; N = 10 each) of invasive
      BL Ca patients will be conducted to a) examine knowledge, beliefs, values, expectations, and
      affective responses about treatment options and treatment decision making, b) record
      difficulties and problems in post-surgical health care (e.g., using stoma appliances and
      catheters), and c) explore concerns patients have as they live with the impact of treatment.
      The ETE intervention will be refined based on FG results.

      Aim 1-b: To explore patients' acceptability of the refined ETE intervention. To achieve Aim
      1-b of Phase 1, additional 2 FG (FG; N = 10 each) of BL Ca survivors will be conducted to
      solicit input about the design and acceptability of the refined ETE intervention.

      PHASE 2: Aim 2. To assess the efficacy of the ETE intervention in small RCT To achieve Aim 2
      of Phase 2, a two-group RCT (standard care (SC) plus time and attention control condition, N
      = 62 patients; SC plus ETE intervention N = 62 patients) will be conducted to examine the
      efficacy of the ETE intervention. Phase 2 will provide a) a test of the efficacy of the
      refined ETE intervention for reducing decisional conflict and regret, and improving QOL and
      post-treatment stoma and pouch care controlling for potential clinical and socio-demographic
      covariates (e.g., treatment type, age).
    
  