
    
      There is increasing evidence to indicate that OSA is an important modifiable risk factor for
      CV disease including stroke, MI, and heart failure. Increased nocturnal arterial blood
      pressure (BP), hypercoagulability, oxidative stress, inflammation, insulin resistance and
      cardiac arrhythmias are all associated with OSA. These effects are presumed to accelerate the
      progression of atheromatous disease, particularly within the coronary or cerebral
      vasculature. Moreover, OSA also appears to increase the risk of sudden death during sleep,
      which is different from the circadian pattern of sudden death in those without OSA,
      suggesting that episodes of apnea may have a direct triggering effect for cardiac arrhythmias
      or MI.

      CPAP is now standard therapy for symptomatic OSA, with adherence to treatment comparable to
      that of other therapies for common chronic diseases. CPAP can eliminate apneas and improve
      daytime sleepiness, mood and quality of life. Furthermore, short term (1-3 months) randomised
      controlled trials of CPAP have shown modest reductions in blood pressure (BP) and other
      markers of CV disease, including C-reactive protein (CRP) and coagulation. However, the
      epidemiological data is complicated by potential residual confounding factors and the
      randomised evidence is limited. Thus, a direct causal link between OSA and CV disease remains
      inconclusive. The management of OSA, therefore, remains principally directed towards symptom
      control rather than CV risk modification.

      The present trial aims to test whether long-term use of CPAP can reduce the incidence of CV
      events. If the trial shows that CPAP treatment of OSA reduces the incidence of CV events it
      will influence clinical practice toward the early detection and management of OSA, and add
      CPAP to the range of strategies available for the prevention of CV disease.
    
  