
    
      Gait dysfunction, postural instability, and freezing-of-gait (FOG) ultimately develop in
      about 80% of PD patients, which lead to falls and advancing disability. This is significant
      because the consequences of falls are far-reaching: accelerating immobility due to heightened
      fear-of-falling, reducing quality of life and independence, and increasing healthcare
      utilization and costs. Thus, there is an urgent need to expand evidence- based outpatient
      neurologic-PT/OT services to community-dwelling PD patients to reduce fall risk.

      This research proposal will address this unmet need by determining whether
      tele-neurorehabilitation is a care model that can be executed safety for PD patients to
      provide these services from well-trained therapists who are not easily accessible otherwise.
      This feasibility data is critical in the development of a novel tele-neurorehabilitation
      protocol and randomized-controlled efficacy trial thereafter.

      The impact of the intended research is to demonstrate the feasibility and preliminary
      efficacy of this novel teleconferencing-based delivery of gait and balance
      exercises/strategies with guided instruction much like one would receive in-person but in the
      comfort of one's own home. By demonstrating the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of this
      pilot program, subsequent long-term goals are to apply for larger sources of funding to
      sustain the program. By leveraging the data gained from these studies it is anticipated the
      practice of telerehabilitation will be expanded and improved; and ultimately its efficacy to
      health care policy providers and insurers for potential reimbursement will be demonstrated.

      The researchers intend to enroll 15-20 individuals with mild-moderate PD into our proposed
      novel telerehabilitation program, where patients will receive tele-PT/OT home visits and
      home-safety surveillance with neurologic-specialized therapists who are experienced with the
      core problem areas seen in PD patients. The intended clinical impact is to improve
      gait/balance function and postural stability, and thus reduce falls in patients with PD. With
      the remote telecommunications intervention, we aim to enable the additional clinical impact
      of expanding access to therapy for people with PD that otherwise would have significant
      difficulty obtaining this type of multiple-visit, individually-tailored, and specialized
      therapy care due to travel burden and cost.

      References:

        1. Marras C, Beck JC, Bower JH, et al. Prevalence of Parkinson's disease across North
           America. NPJ Parkinsons Dis. 2018 Jul 10;4:21.

        2. Macht M, Kaussner Y, Moeller JC, et al. Predictors of freezing in Parkinson's disease: a
           survey of 6,620 patients. Mov Disord. 2007; 22:953-956.

        3. Hely MA, Morris JG, Reid WG, et al. Sydney Multicenter Study of Parkinson's disease:
           non-L-dopa-responsive problems dominate at 15 years. Mov Disord. 2005; 20:190-199.

        4. Poewe W. The natural history of Parkinson's disease. J Neurol. 2006 Dec;253 Suppl
           7:VII2-6.

        5. Low V, Ben-Shlomo Y, Coward E, et al. Measuring the burden and mortality of
           hospitalization in Parkinson's disease: A cross-sectional analysis of the English
           Hospital Episodes Statistics database 2009-2013. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2015
           May;21(5):449-54.

        6. Wielinski Cl, Erickson-Davis C, Wichmann R, et al. Falls and injuries resulting from
           falls among patients with Parkinson's disease and other Parkinsonian syndromes. Mov
           Disord. 2005;20:410-415.

        7. Pressley JC, Louis ED, Tang MX, et al. The impact of comorbid disease and injuries on
           resource use and expenditures in parkinsonism. Neurology. 2003 Jan 14;60(1):87-93.
    
  