
    
      SAMPLING PLAN

        1. Existing data Registration before the creation of data: As of the date of submission of
           this research plan for preregistration, the data have not yet been collected, created,
           or realized.

        2. Data collection procedures. Healthy volunteers will be recruited from the general
           population. Individuals with schizophrenia will be recruited from community mental
           health centers and outpatient clinics in the Versailles area and among the FACE-SZ
           (FondaMental Academic Centers of Expertise for Schizophrenia) cohort in Versailles. All
           participants will be naive to the purpose of the study, give informed consent in
           accordance with institutional guidelines and the Declaration of Helsinki, and receive a
           monetary compensation (10€ / h).

        3. Sample size Maximum of 50 healthy controls vs. 50 individuals with schizophrenia.

        4. Sample size rationale The estimated sample sizes allow testing effects of medium size
           between individuals with schizophrenia and healthy controls with a power of 0.8, based
           on one-sided two-sample t-test power calculation with Cohen's d = 0.5, α = 0.05. They
           allow measuring medium correlations within groups with a power of 0.7, based on
           approximate correlation-power calculation with r = 0.3, α = 0.05.

           Sample sizes for electrophysiological recordings are based on previous a study, with 20
           patients vs. 20 controls, resulting in 13 vs. 13 after outlier exclusion.

        5. Stopping rule Optional stopping will be avoided by using sequential Bayes factor
           analyses. Data collection will stop whenever a critical comparison reaches the threshold
           of BF = 3 or BF = 1/3.

           DESIGN PLAN

        6. Study design The investigators will ask participants to discriminate the motion
           direction of a random dot kinetogram (type 1 task). They will use a mouse to indicate
           whether the dots were mostly moving rightward or leftward, by clicking on the side they
           think corresponds to a correct answer (red and blue circles, see Figure 1). The mouse
           trajectory corresponding to the type 1 task will be recorded and analyzed. Motion
           variance will be adapted for each subject before the experiment using a 1up/2down
           staircase, so to reach an average performance of 71%. An auditory feedback will be
           played if participants answer in more than 6s. On each trial, participants will then
           indicate on a visual analog scale the confidence in their response (type 2 task). The
           scale will range from 0% ("Certain my response is right") to 100% ("Certain my response
           is wrong"). The initial position of the cursor will always correspond to 50% confidence
           ("Uncertain of my response)". The experiment will consist in 10 blocks of 30 trials and
           last about 1h.

        7. Randomization Motion direction (left or right) will be pseudo-randomized, with no more
           than 4 successive trials with the same direction.

           ANALYSIS PLAN

        8. Statistical models 8.1. Behavioral data All analyses will be performed with R, using
           notably the afex, BayesFactor, ggplot2, lme4, lmerTest, and effects packages. In all
           ANOVAs, degrees of freedom will be corrected using the Greenhouse-Geisser method.

           The groups' socio-demographic (age, sex, education), cognitive (premorbid and current
           IQ, and executive performance with planning and working memory) and mood (depression)
           characteristics will be compared using the Student t test or Χ² tests when appropriate.
           Only variables that significantly differ between the two groups will be included as
           covariates in the following analyses.

           The metacognitive performance will be primarily analyzed with binomial mixed-effects
           models between accuracy and confidence, with group (patient vs. control) and several
           covariates (premorbid and current IQ, depression and executive performance with planning
           and working memory) as between-subject factors. Regression slope will be taken as an
           indicator of metacognitive performance and asymptotes as a marker of confidence bias,
           i.e. the tendency to report high or low confidence ratings independent of task
           performance. Likelihood ratio tests will assess significance.

           Predecisional behavioral variables (reaction times, mouse trajectory parameters) will be
           added to the model in a secondary analysis after main differences between patients and
           controls are established. Geometric features of mouse trajectories (motion entropy on
           the x-axis) will be quantified using the EMOT and Mousetrap packages. Correlations
           between motion entropy and confidence will be quantified by R², adjusted for the number
           of dependent variables relative to the number of data points.

           8.2. Correlation between metacognitive performance and clinical characteristics in
           schizophrenia

           The investigators will run correlation analyses between metacognitive performance
           (regression slope between metacognitive judgments and accuracy of the first order task)
           and several clinical variables. The clinical variables will be:

             -  The positive and disorganization scores for the Positive and Negative Syndrome
                Scale (PANSS), according to the 5-factor model proposed by van der Gaag et al.

             -  The total score on the Birchwood Insight Scale (BIS) for insight into illness

             -  The total score on the Beck Cognitive Insight Scale (BCIS) for cognitive insight

             -  The total score on the Personal and Social Performance Scale (PSP) for social
                functioning The investigators will use a Spearman rank-order correlation test with
                false discovery rate to correct for multiple comparisons.

           8.3. Electrophysiological data Preprocessing: continuous EEG will be acquired at 1200 Hz
           with a 64-channels Gtec HIamp system. Signal preprocessing will be performed using
           custom Matlab (Mathworks) scripts using functions from the EEGLAB toolbox. Following
           visual inspection, artifact-contaminated electrodes will be removed for each
           participant, and epoching will be performed at type 1 response onset. For each epoch,
           the signal from each electrode will be centered to zero and average-referenced.
           Following visual inspection and rejection of epochs containing artifactual signals, an
           independent component analysis will be applied to individual data sets, followed by a
           semi-automatic detection of artifactual components based on measures of autocorrelation,
           focal channel topography, and generic discontinuity. After artifacts rejection,
           artifact-contaminated electrodes will be interpolated using spherical splines.

           Statistical analysis: voltage amplitude will be averaged within temporal windows (e.g.,
           20ms), and analyzed with linear mixed effects models using R together with the lme4 and
           lmerTest packages. This method allows analyzing single trial data, with no averaging
           across condition or participants, and no discretization of confidence ratings. Models
           will be performed on each latency and electrode for individual trials, including raw
           confidence rating and accuracy as fixed effects, and random intercepts for subjects.
           Statistical significance for electrophysiological data within regions of interest (e.g.,
           frontocentral and left parietal scalp regions) will be assessed after correction for
           false discovery rate. When possible, cluster-based permutation test will be used.

        9. Transformations Data will be transformed in case they violate the assumption of
           normality (e.g., inverse reaction times).

       10. Follow-up analyses Besides mixed logistic regressions, metacognitive performance will be
           analyzed using second-order signal detection theory: meta-d' will reflect the amount of
           perceptual evidence available when performing confidence judgments. Confidence biases
           will also be computed with receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC): the area
           between the ROC and major diagonal will be divided by the minor diagonal, and confidence
           bias will be defined as the log ratio of the lower and upper area. An ANOVA with group
           and appropriate covariates as between-subject factors will test for a decrease in
           metacognitive efficiency and an increase in confidence bias in patient vs. control
           participants.

           Drift-diffusion modeling will allow us to determine which aspects of reaction times
           during the type 1 task differ between schizophrenic patients and healthy controls (e.g.,
           drift rate and boundary separation), and assess how such differences might determine
           confidence judgments, thereby allowing testing the existence of metacognitive deficits
           at a decisional-locus.

       11. Inference criteria Two-tailed tests with group as the between-subject factor will be
           used. The threshold for significance will be set to alpha = 5%. When possible, Bayes
           factors will be computed to support null findings and set stopping rules (see above).

       12. Data exclusion The first trials of each condition will be excluded from analysis if they
           contain large variations of the perceptual signal.

           Only trials with reaction times between 100 ms and 6 s for the type 1 task will be kept.

           Participants will be excluded in case they cannot reach 71% accuracy on the type 1 task,
           respond in more than 6 s in a majority of trials, or in case they do not use the
           confidence scale properly (e.g., no variance in confidence reports).

       13. Missing data The use of mixed models applied to behavioral and electrophysiological data
           will allow dealing with unbalanced datasets so that data imputation will not be needed.

       14. Exploratory analysis (optional) 14.1. Correlation between metacognitive bias and
           clinical characteristics in schizophrenia The investigators will run exploratory
           Spearman rank-order correlation analyses between metacognitive bias (asymptotes of the
           regression line between metacognitive judgments and accuracy of the first order task)
           and several clinical variables (positive and disorganization scores for the PANSS, the
           total score for BIS, BCIS, and PSP).

      14.2. Heart rate Heart rate will be measured with a Gtec plethysmographic pulse sensor and
      quantified as a function of type 2 performance. Based on previous findings in healthy
      participants, the investigators expect greater confidence to be associated with faster heart
      rate between stimulus onset and type 2 response. The investigators will attempt to replicate
      these findings following the same methods as Allen and colleagues and extend it to patients.

      14.3. galvanic skin response (GSR) As for heart rate, GSR will be measured with a Gtec
      dedicated sensor and quantified as a function of type 2 performance using the Ledalab toolbox
      under Matlab. To our knowledge, no study has quantified the link between GSR and
      metacognition so that the investigators will conduct exploratory analyses.
    
  