
    
      All 34 human blood group systems have at least two antithetical antigens and are of potential
      relevance during pregnancy and transfusion. Fortunately for every day routine practice,
      immunizations to foreign antigens are rare. Still, incompatibilities may occur in all blood
      group systems and will then require typing for the respective blood group antigens.

      Blood genotyping evolved as the method of choice, in cases when typing reagents are
      commercially unavailable, or blood is inaccessible (foetus). In databases, most entries of
      blood group genes lack representative polymorphism (e.g. number of alleles). Moreover, many
      blood group antigens are insufficiently described in their intronic and inter-genetic
      sequences. This is true for results of unequal crossing-overs, gene-conversions and large
      insertions/deletions between highly homologous genes, especially within the blood group
      systems of Rhesus, e.g. RhD/RhCE and MN/Ss, respectively. Only Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS)
      allows for resolution of both problems: it delivers the whole blood group genome of an
      individual, and simultaneously recognizes new blood group alleles, or haplotypes. This
      request for ethical approval wants to test this assumption.

      The antigenic determinants U- and Stones(a)+ of the blood group system MNSs still lack full
      genetic description and will serve as challenging examples for the description of new alleles
      (haplotypes) caused by large ins/del mutations of the two highly homologous genes GYPA and B.
      Genomic DNA of 2 U- samples were both provided as blinded reference material from New York
      and Vienna blood centres, respectively. Both donors are lost for follow up, and although
      there is no documented evidence for refusal of the respective donors to use their material in
      research projects, samples still lack informed consent. Additional reference samples (n
      max=4), and samples with suspected Stones(a)+ (n max=4) will be recruited from Zurich blood
      donors with informed consent, only.
    
  