
    
      Hypothesis and Specific Aims

      The purpose of this pilot study is to determine if acupuncture affects the vasoactive
      molecules (prostacyclin and thromboxane) in women undergoing IVF therapy. The investigators'
      overall hypotheses for this area of study, to be addressed with future research, are: (1)
      acupuncture augments IVF success by enhancing the perfusion of pelvic organs including the
      ovaries and the uterus, and (2) acupuncture reduces the levels of stress and optimizes
      mind-body interaction in individuals undergoing IVF.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To measure urine prostacyclin and thromboxane, before and after acupuncture, and

        2. to assess the impacts of acupuncture on the psychological well-being of women undergoing
           IVF treatment.

      SIGNIFICANCE OF THE STUDY Results from this study will shed light on the mechanism by which
      acupuncture improves IVF outcomes. This may lead to other treatment strategies to improve
      success. Likewise, an established mechanism by which acupuncture improves IVF may lead to
      greater acceptance of this non-conventional treatment modality by the general population.

      Research Design and Methods

      This is a prospective, randomized, controlled study. Participants will be women in the
      Principal Investigator's practice seeking IVF. Participants will be randomized 1:1 into
      either the acupuncture group or the standard of care (no acupuncture) group. Each group will
      have 3 study visits.

      Rationale for the Control Group:

      A sham control group is not used because systematic review suggested that sham acupuncture
      controls may unnecessarily complicate the RCT evidence base given the nature of objective
      outcomes in IVF study (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3124624/).

      Power analysis

      With 35 patients allocated to each group, assuming the Student's T-test will be used to
      determine the differences between two independent samples, effect sizes d>0.6 will be found
      statistically significant with alpha .05 and power .80. In practical terms, since the PSS
      validation samples showed a mean about 13.5 with variance=6.2, only averaged differences
      greater than 1.5 raw score points in PSS will be found statistically significant.

      The investigators plan to seek extramural funding in the future. The investigators will use
      the data obtained from this pilot study to perform power analysis and to calculate the number
      of participants needed in future proposals.
    
  