
    
      In this trial, patients with chronic recurrent herpes simplex virus (HSV-2) infections (with
      at least 4 herpes lesions in the last 12 months or at least 2 herpes lesions with previous
      valaciclovir long-term therapy) can be included.

      After signature of ICF and during the screening period, the patients take daily swabs of the
      anogenital area for 28 days to determine HSV shedding.

      Patients not developing a lesion within 4 months after screening are not randomised. Patients
      developing a lesion within 4 months can be randomised and the treatment must be initiated
      within 72 Hours upon lesion occurence.

      Approximately 125 patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to one of the following
      treatment groups:

        -  Arm A: single HDIT i.v. infusion applied over 1 hour at the randomization visit +
           episodic treatment with 500 mg Valaciclovir-placebo orally bid for 3 days.

        -  Arm B: single HDIT placebo i.v. infusion applied over 1 hour at the randomization visit
           + episodic treatment with 500 mg Valaciclovir orally bid for 3 days.

      The HDIT101/HDIT101-placebo infusion is only applied once during the trial, Valaciclovir (or
      corresponding placebo) has to be taken upon every occurence of another Herpes lesion.

      Study duration per Patient will be 180 days starting with the randomization visit. In
      addition to the randomization visit, 4 visits at the site and 2 phone calls are scheduled.

      In case of developing another lesion after the randomization visit, patients take a single
      swab of the lesion and episodic SoC treatment with Valaciclovir/ Valaciclovir-placebo is
      started and documented in an electronic diary by the patient within 24 hours after
      development of first symptoms. Quality of life is also recorded.

      In addition to this, the patients need to present at the site within 72 hours after occurence
      of a the new herpes outbreak for medical examination and to confirm the HSV-2 lesion. At this
      unscheduled visit at the site, the PI will take a second swab and assess the lesion
      (including start date). Another unscheduled visit will take place upon healing of lesion.

      This procedure will be repeated for every outbreak during the trial.
    
  