
    
      Parkinson Disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative pathology characterized by the death of
      dopaminergic neurons in of the substantia nigra pars compacta. The main clinical symptoms are
      akinesia-stiffness-tremor. These motor deficits are due to dysfunction in the network of the
      basal ganglia that constitute an ensemble of subcortical nuclei involved in movement control
      and motor learning. The implication of the basal ganglia (BG) in movement sequence learning
      (i.e. in movement selection processes) has been clearly established. However, their
      contribution to adaptation of movement execution remains uncertain. Until recently, the vast
      majority of the studies on motor adaptation have focused on one mechanism in particular: an
      implicit process through which motor performance is gradually improved on the basis of errors
      observed in movement execution, recruiting essentially cerebellar loops. Today, a new line of
      research has emerged seeking to identify different mechanisms contributing to motor
      adaptation. Specifically, the implication of cognitive strategies and reinforcement learning
      mechanisms has been the center of several recent studies, which thus have been emphasizing
      the role of the BG.

      The aim of the present project is to document the relationship between the behavioral
      deficits and the electrophysiological anomalies observed in PD patients in tasks involving
      motor adaptation to visual or mechanical perturbations. Recent electrophysiological studies
      have revealed anomalies in the oscillatory activity in the BG-cortex loop in PD; namely the
      activity in the beta band (~20Hz) presents an excessive synchronization that might contribute
      to some behavioral symptoms. Interestingly, recent work has demonstrated that the
      synchronization in the BG and their cortical projections is 1) diminished by treatments such
      as dopaminergic medication (L-Dopa) or deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus
      (NST), and 2) modulated in relation to movement-error processes.

      In this project,it is planned to to conduct two studies involving each several studies. The
      goal of the first study is twofold: first better understand the motor adaptation deficits
      specific to different stages of PD disease, and then investigate the influence of the
      dopaminergic medication on the latter. In this purpose, the behavioral performance and the
      electrophysiological (EEG) activity in PD patients will be examined during the early and more
      advanced stages of the pathology, on medication or not (ON or OFF L-Dopa). The specific
      interest of this study in the relationship between the beta-band activity and, on one side,
      potential deficits in the explicit cognitive strategies recruited in the initial phase of
      adaptation and, on the other side, anomalies in reinforcement learning mechanisms implicated
      in motor adaptation. A secondary goal will be to interpret the observations in light of
      neuroimaging data. The aim of the second study will be to explore oscillatory and
      synchronized activities in the BG-cortex loops during motor adaptation to visual or
      mechanical perturbations. The recording of NST LFP and EEG will implicated the participation
      of implanted PD patients.
    
  