
    
      Diabetic patients suffer an elevated wirk of cardiovascular events, which strongly impact on
      morbidity and mortality. The mechanisms that lead to cardiovascular disease in diabetes
      include alterations in the endothelial layer, due to hyperglycemia, oxidative stress and
      other associated abnormalities. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are bone marrow-derived
      cells involved in endothelial repair after injury, and they have been found to be reduced in
      diabetic patients. Thus, reduced EPCs in diabetes may be another mechanism of vascular
      disease induction. Reduction of EPCs in diabetes is attributable at least in part to the
      impairment of bone marrow mobilization, which is regulated by the chemokine SDF-1alpha, among
      others.

      The oral hypoglycemia agent sitagliptin is a dipeptidyl dipeptidase-IV inhibitor, which
      prevents degradation of endogenous incretins (GIP and GLP-1), thus re-equilibrating insulin
      and glucagon secretion. Sitagliptin may also increase the concentrations of SDF-1alpha, which
      is another substrate of DPP-IV. The hypothesis is that sitagliptin may increase circulating
      EPC levels, through SDF-alpha.

      This is going to be a pilot, non-randomized controlled 4-week trial of 100 mg oral
      sitagliptin therapy added to metformin/sulphonylureas in poorly controlled type 2 diabetic
      patients. At baseline and 4 weeks after the initiation of therapy blood samples will be drawn
      for the determination of circulating EPC levels, and concentrations of SDF-1alpha. EPCs will
      be defined as CD34+KDR+ cells and measured by flow cytometry as previously described in
      detail. SDF-1alpha will be measured using ELISA kits according to the manufacturer's
      instructions.

      Changes between baseline and 4 weeks will be evaluated using two-tailed paired Student's t
      test and statistical significance accepted at p<0.05.
    
  