
    
      Aim of study: The effects of aldosterone blockade on myocardial remodeling in hypertensive
      patients with diastolic failing heart remains unclarified. Background: Nearly half of
      patients with clinical heart failure (HF) have normal left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF) who usually present with apparent diastolic dysfunction (DD) and are referred as
      diastolic HF (DHF). Hypertensive heart disease occurs in the majority of patients with DHF,
      and several key aspects of heart failure secondary to hypertensive heart disease are the
      relatively highly prevalent LV hypertrophy, cardiac fibrosis, and endothelial
      dysfunction-mediated myocardial injury caused by changes in the local and systemic
      neurohormonal environment, and all of which are associated with LV diastolic dysfunction and
      tissue-Doppler derived systolic myocardial function. The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system
      is an established major pathway that is operative in the pathogenesis of HF. The effects of
      aldosterone on myocardial hypertrophy, fibrosis and endothelial dysfunction have clearly been
      established in human and animal models. Furthermore, in these models, aldosterone antagonism
      prevented the development of myocardial fibrosis independent of its effect on blood pressure
      or myocardial hypertrophy. However, its application to patients with DHF is unspecified. In
      the study, we hypothesize that aldosterone blockade could reverse LV remodeling process in
      hypertensive patients with DHF.

      Study protocol: We will enroll medically well-controlled hypertensive patients who have DHF
      defined as the presence of exertional dyspnea or HF signs/symptoms, diastolic dysfunction as
      impaired tissue-Doppler (TDI) derived mitral early annular diastolic velocity (< 8 cm/s), and
      LVEF > 50 % in echocardiography. All patients will be randomized to receive spironolactone 25
      mg per day or not for at least 6 months. At baseline before randomization and 6 months after
      randomization, we will investigate the Quality-of-life (QOL) score by Minnesota Living with
      Heart Failure questionnaire (Chinese version), echocardiography coupled with TDI to assess
      the degree of LV hypertrophy, myocardial systolic and diastolic characteristics. Otherwise,
      we draw blood sampling at baseline and after randomization for quantifying and comparing
      several biomarkers which are currently proved to be correlated with LV hypertrophy,
      myocardial fibrosis, and biomechanical stretch in DHF patients, such as N-terminal
      pro-brain-type natriuretic peptide, matrix metalloproteinase-2, carboxy-terminal telopeptide,
      procollagen type III amino-terminal propeptide, soluble ST2, and galectin-3. Expected
      results: Aldosterone antagonism is effective for hypertensive patients with DHF by improving
      the quality of life, echo-derived myocardial function, and reducing ventricular mechanical
      stretch through lessening the degree of LV hypertrophy and myocardial fibrosis.
    
  