
    
      Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) is a leading cause of blindness in children in developed
      countries around the world, and an increasing cause of blindness in developing countries.

      The retina lines the inside of the eye. It functions as "film" within the camera, which is
      the eye. When an infant is born prematurely, the vascular network necessary to nourish the
      retina has not fully developed. As a consequence, in some infants abnormal vessels grow
      instead of the normal ones--a condition known as ROP. The abnormal vessels carry scar tissue
      along with them, and may lead to retinal detachment and blindness if the eye is not treated.

      The multi-center trial of Cryotherapy for Retinopathy of Prematurity (CRYo-ROP) Study
      demonstrated that ablation of the peripheral avascular retina reduced the risk of poor
      structural and visual outcome due to retinal distortion or detachment in ROP (1980's). The
      ablated retina is not functional and is not amendable to regeneration.

      Peripheral retinal ablation is not universally effective in fostering regression of ROP. This
      is particularly true for an aggressive form of ROP (aggressive posterior ROP, or APROP),
      which typically afflicts profoundly premature and sick neonates. In this subset of infants,
      progression of ROP to retinal detachments in both eyes and even blindness may occur despite
      timely and complete peripheral retinal laser ablation.

      RATIONALE:

      The development of ROP is largely dependant on vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
      When an infant is born prematurely, the relatively hyperoxic environment that the baby is
      introduced to shuts down the production of VEGF. Retinal maturation is thus delayed.
      Subsequently, at a time when intraocular VEGF levels would be declining late in the third
      trimester of pregnancy, abnormally high levels of VEGF are seen due to large areas of
      avascular retina and associated tissue hypoxia.

      The availability of FDA-approved drugs for anti-VEGF treatment renders it possible to treat
      such eye off-label. Available drugs include pegaptanib sodium (Macugen) for partial blockage
      of VEGF-A, or drugs such a ranibizumab (Lucentis) and bevacizumab (Avastin), which cause
      complete blockage of VEGF-A.

      As VEGF is required in the developing retina for normal angiogenesis, and our goal is not to
      penetrate tissue, but to block the excessive levels of VEGF trapped within the overlying
      vitreous which is responsible for the abnormal vasculature in ROP.

      For purposes of this study, we have chosen bevacizumab (Avastin) which will: a) attain
      complete blockage (vs. Macugen) of intravitreal VEGF-A, and b)which is limited in its ability
      to penetrate tissues because it is a full antibody (vs. Lucentis, an antibody fragment
      specifically designed for better tissue penetration), and is more likely to restore VEGF
      homeostasis within the developing retina.
    
  