
    
      Screening Visit Patients will undergo screening procedures for determining eligibility prior
      to the first PET/CT examination. For practical reasons and to avoid unnecessary travel for
      research subjects, the initial screening can be conducted by phone, and completed on the day
      that the first PET/CT examination is performed. However, the PET/CT scan will only be done
      for subjects that meet all the eligibility criteria and sign the consent form prior to the
      examination. All patients should have received the consent form by mail, email or fax, at
      least 24 hours prior to the screening visit.

      Demographics Demographic data including date of birth, gender, height and weight information
      will be obtained.

      Medical History and Concomitant Medications The general medical history up to 3 months of
      study entry (screening visit) should be recorded at the screening visit. The medical history
      should include procedural and surgical history within the past year. Cancer history should be
      recorded on a lifetime basis. Previous medications should be recorded up to 28 days prior to
      screening visit and up to 1 year for cancer treatment if any. All concomitant medications
      starting from enrollment of subjects should be recorded on subsequent visits for the PET/CT
      examinations.

      Vital Signs Patient's vital signs will be measured including blood pressure, pulse rate and
      oxygen saturation, within 60 minutes before and 5-15 minutes after administration of the
      investigational product at PET/CT visits.

      PET/CT Scans Patients who meet all eligibility requirements for entry into the study will
      undergo both an 18F-FDGal and 18F-FDG PET/CT examinations at the BCCA - Vancouver Centre's
      Functional Imaging Department. The two scans are to be performed on separate days and must be
      performed between 1 and 15 calendar days of each other. Each PET/CT scan will require
      approximately 3 hours of additional time from the subject above standard of care. The
      screening visit and informed consent, can be performed on the same day as the first PET/CT
      scan (and before the examination), will take approximately one hour.

      Prior to the PET/CT scans, subjects will be instructed to take their usual medications as
      prescribed by their family physician. Subjects will also be instructed to drink 3 to 4
      glasses of water within two hours prior to their scan appointment in order to promote
      hydration and facilitate urinary clearance of background 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG. Subjects must
      fast for 6 hours prior to 18F-FDGal and 18F-FDG injection, but can drink water at will.

      Upon arrival at the PET Imaging department, all subjects will have their weight recorded
      prior to 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG injection. A baseline blood pressure, heart rate, and oxygen
      saturation levels will be recorded within 60 minutes prior to 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG injection,
      and 5 - 15 minutes after injection.

      Each study subject will have an intravenous catheter inserted. The subject will receive a
      bolus intravenous dose of 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG from the BCCA, at a dose of 237 - 521 MBq for
      18F-FDG and 119 - 261 MBq MBq for 18F-FDGal, followed by a 5 - 20 mL normal saline flush. The
      subject will rest in a comfortable chair for 60 minutes.

      Upon completion of the scan, subjects will be free to leave the department and will be
      encouraged to drink 3-4 extra glasses of water by the end of the day to promote further
      clearance of the remaining tracer in the urinary tract. Overall, the study will take
      approximately 3 hours of subject time.

      Each patient will be monitored on vital signs, adverse events before and after the
      intravenously 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG administration. Concomitant medication(s) will also be
      recorded. All of the 18F-FDGal/18F-FDG PET/CT imaging obtained at all study will be sent to a
      centralized location in DVD sets for re-labeling purpose to mask the patients' identifiers
      from readers.
    
  