
    
      Despite advances in medical technology, heart failure remains a major cause of illness on a
      global scale. The quest for understanding this condition and developing new treatment
      strategies has led to the consideration of stem cells as a possible therapy. Medical
      research, over recent years, has shown that adult stem cells (as opposed to embryonic stem
      cells) are present in most organs of adult humans. Their exact function is however poorly
      understood. An improved understanding of what these stem cells do and how they work is
      essential if effective stem cell treatments are to be developed in future.

      A number of stem cell research groups around the world have found that adult stem cells
      circulate in the blood of humans. These circulating cells are likely to have entered the
      bloodstream from the bone marrow and are thought to be traveling in the blood to get to other
      body organs where they may help repair damaged tissue. Interestingly, the levels of these
      circulating stem cells have been found to be different in healthy people compared to those
      with various diseases, including heart attacks and heart failure. This has lead researchers
      to think that these stem cells may play an important role in how the human body fights these
      diseases.

      To date, levels of only one type of stem cell have been measured in patients with heart
      failure. Also, no one has studied stem cell levels in patients with heart failure at the time
      of a sudden worsening in their condition and then later in the same patients following
      recovery. This information would be very valuable in expanding scientific knowledge of these
      stem cells and how they behave in the different stages of heart disease.

      The project seeks to examine the levels of a number of different types of stem cells in
      patients with heart failure, compared to healthy volunteers. The project also aims to measure
      stem cell levels in patients with heart failure at the time of a sudden worsening in their
      condition and then later in the same patients following recovery.

      The project entails the taking of blood samples in order to measure the stem cell levels in
      the blood. The study does NOT involve any form of treatment with stem cells. Two groups of
      patients will be studied; patients with heart failure and healthy volunteers. Following the
      obtainment of informed consent, a screening history, physical examination and routine blood
      tests will be performed. After this, a 50ml sample of blood will be taken from the study
      participant. This is equivalent to 10 teaspoonfuls of blood. The 50ml blood sample obtained
      will then be taken immediately to the laboratory for analysis.

      In the case of patients with heart failure, in order to measure stem cell blood levels after
      recovery, one additional blood sample will be obtained; a 50ml blood sample just before the
      patient is sent home from hospital.

      Patients with heart failure will be identified by health care staff at the Alfred Hospital.
      Healthy volunteers will be identified by use of a database of healthy volunteers who have
      expressed interest in participating in clinical studies. Potential study participants will be
      initially approached and provided with written information. If the potential participant
      wishes to proceed with the study, this involves one outpatient hospital visit for healthy
      volunteers. For patients with heart failure, the study involves two visits by study staff
      during the hospital admission.
    
  