
    
      BACKGROUND: The study aimed to determine effects of probiotic consumption containing six
      viable microorganisms of 3g x 1010 Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteria strains for six months on
      clinical outcomes and eight colorectal cancer related inflammatory cytokines level in
      patients with colorectal cancer. Among cytokines investigated were Tumour Necrosis Factor
      alpha (TNF- α), Interferon gamma (IFN-γ), Interleukin 6 (IL-6), Interleukin 10 (IL-10),
      Interleukin 12 (IL-12), Interleukin 17A (IL-17A), Interleukin 17-C (IL-17C) and Interleukin
      22 (IL-22)

      METHODS:

      A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled trial were performed involving patients who
      were diagnosed with colorectal cancer and planned for colorectal resection in Universiti
      Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC)

      SAMPLE CALCULATION:

      The effect of the intervention was described using relative risks and 95% confidence
      intervals and per-protocol analyses will be performed. Prior data indicate that the failure
      rate among controls is 0.8. If the true failure rate for experimental subjects is 0.4, the
      study required 22 experimental subjects and 22 control subjects to be able to reject the null
      hypothesis that the failure rates for experimental and control subjects are equal with
      probability (power) 0.8. The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null
      hypothesis is 0.05.An uncorrected chi-squared statistic will be applied to evaluate this null
      hypothesis. Assuming the dropout rate of 30%, the total patients required for this
      interventional study for the CRC patients is 60 (30 patients for each arm).

      PATIENTS CLINICAL ASSESSMENT:

      Patient clinical characteristics including age, gender, smoking habits, comorbidities, cancer
      stage, tumour pathological subtype and site were identified. Recruited patients were
      randomized through simple randomization into either treated with probiotic or placebo. Trial
      unblinding was done upon completion of data analysis. Patients who underwent chemotherapy
      during the six months intervention period were reviewed and chemotherapy induced diarrhoea
      were evaluated based on Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events version 3.0
      (CTCAEv3.0).

      TREATMENT PRODUCT AND PROCEDURE:

      Probiotics product involved in the study was HEXBIO® manufactured by B-Crobes Laboratories
      Sdn. Bhd., Malaysia. HEXBIO® contains 30 billions colony-forming unit (CFU) of six viable
      Lactobacillus and Bifidobacteria strains including 107 mg of Lactobacillus acidophilus BCMC®
      12130, Lactobacillus lactis BCMC® 12451, Lactobacillus casei subsp BCMC® 12313,
      Bifidobacterium longum BCMC® 02120, Bifidobacterium bifidum BCMC® 02290 and Bifidobacterium
      infantis BCMC® 02129. Placebo samples produced were identical to the probiotics in term of
      taste and texture without live microorganisms. Both samples were prepared in a form of
      granules placed in aluminium foil sachets and kept in room temperature. HEXBIO® was labelled
      as AGE 1 while placebo as AGE 2.

      In order to ensure post-surgery antibiotics given will not interfere with the study results,
      patients were instructed to consume the product four weeks after their surgeries. Patients
      were required to take the products orally twice daily for six months. Good compliance were
      considered when patients consumed more than 70% of total products given. Anything less than
      this was regarded as non-compliance.

      BLOOD SAMPLE COLLECTION:

      Prior to surgery, five mL of blood was taken from all the recruited patients. Blood was taken
      into BD vacutainer and allowed to clot for 30 minutes. It was then centrifuged for 15 minutes
      at 1000Xg where the separated serum was stored in -80°C freezer till analyzed. The steps were
      repeated upon completion of the six months intervention period.

      Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA):

      Serum samples were assayed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) multiplex kit
      according to the manufacturer guideline (R&D System Human Magnetic Luminex Assay: LXSAHM-08).
    
  