
    
      Participants Approximately 150 young participants (aged 18-35) will be recruited using a
      convenience sampling procedure. Participants will include Behavioral Science students at the
      Ruppin Academic Center who will be given credit points in exchange for participation on the
      stud, and young women recruited via social networks.

      Measures Food cravings (state) will be assessed using the Food Craving Questionnaire (FCQ-S),
      a self report questionnaire with good psychometric properties (Cepeda-Benito, Gleaves,
      Willams, & Erath, 2000). The FCQ-S items are scaled on a five point Likret scale and measures
      five factors.

      External eating will be assessed using the external eating scale in the Dutch Eating Behavior
      Questionnaire (DEBQ), a self-report questionnaire with good psychometric properties (van
      Strien, Frijters, Bergers, & Defares, 1986). The DEBQ measure restraint, emotional and
      external eating in different scales. The external eating scale contains ten statements scored
      on a five point Likret scale .

      Disturbed eating will be assessed using the widely used Eating Attitude Test 26 (EAT-26)
      (Garner, Olmstead, Bohr, & Garfinkel, 1982). The EAT-26 is an 26-item measure of self
      reported symptoms and characteristics of EDs using a six point Likret scale (an example
      statement is "In the past 6 month have you: Exercised more than 60 minutes a day to lose or
      control your weight").

      SNS food preoccupation will be measured by asking participant about specific food related
      SNSs activities and the frequency they engage in it. The activities include: frequency of
      posting food pictures on either Facebook or Instagram, frequency of encountering food
      pictures on either Facebook or Instagram, frequency of sending food pictures on WhatsApp,
      frequency of receiving food pictures on WhatsApp, frequency of following chefs, restaurants
      or brands on Instagram, frequency of posting pictures of food one prepared, frequency of
      posting pictures of food one is about to eat, frequency of taking pictures of ordered dishes
      in a restaurant, and lastly number of food-related groups one is a member of. The response on
      the first eighth questions was on a 5-point scale, ranging from 'never' to 'very often' and
      the response on the last question was on a 5-point scale, ranging from 0 to 7 and more. A
      total mean score of nine SNSs activities will be computed.

      Design The independent variables will be the manipulated video (food versus non-food
      content), SNS use, SNS food preoccupation and disordered eating. External eating, food
      craving and food (type and amount) ordered will be the dependent variables.

      Procedure After receiving an explanation about the study and providing informed consent
      online, participants will complete questionnaires assessing demographic variables, SNS food
      preoccupation and disturbed eating online via Qualtrics link. Participants will then be
      randomly assigned to view a video clip showing pictures of appetizing foods (experimental
      group) or neutral pictures of tourist destinations (control group). After viewing the video,
      participants will respond to online questionnaire measuring external eating and food
      cravings, and will also be asked to order food they would like to eat immediately from a
      hypothetical. The study will be approved by the IRB.

      Statistical analyses Descriptive statistics will describe the characteristics of
      participants. Basic descriptive statistics will also be computed for the key variables of SNS
      use and eating patterns. The main analysis will examine the effect of the clip manipulation
      on external eating, food cravings and type and amount of food ordered, using MANCOVA, with
      disordered eating will be examined as a covariate. All statistical analyses will be performed
      using SPSS 23 (IBM SPSS Statistics, New York, USA).
    
  