
    
      The primary hypothesis of this study is that in addition to standard of care treatment (which
      includes surgical intervention, antimicrobial therapy and critical care support for organ
      dysfunction or failure), AB103 will demonstrate a clinically significant treatment benefit
      over placebo.

      This hypothesis will be addressed by measuring the effect of AB103 on a composite of clinical
      parameters associated with the disease course of patients with NSTI, using a responder
      analysis. A responding patient must meet all 5 parameters of the composite clinical success
      end point, while a non-responding patient can fail by not meeting any one of the parameters.
      These analyses are designed to demonstrate that in addition to being safe, one dose of 0.5
      mg/kg of AB103 will:

      Improve systemic signs of the infection by improving organ function of patients compared to
      placebo as measured by:

        -  Survival at Day 28

        -  Modified SOFA (mSOFA) score on Day 14 and change from baseline to Day 14 ≥ 3. A Day 14
           mSOFA score of ≤1 and a change from baseline (pre-treatment) to Day 14 ≥3 will be
           required for a patient to achieve the primary composite clinical success endpoint
           (NICCE)

      Improve the local signs of the infection, as measured by:

        -  Reduced number of debridements, counted to Day 14. No more than 3 debridements to Day 14
           will be required for a patient to achieve composite clinical success

        -  No amputation after the first debridement (amputation on the first debridement is not
           considered a failure). A patient will be required to have had no amputations done after
           the first surgical procedure in order to achieve composite clinical success.

           290 patients will be recruited into the study and randomized to receive either 0.5 mg/kg
           AB103 or placebo in a 1:1 ratio. Randomization will be stratified within center by the
           diagnosis of Fournier's Gangrene and mSOFA score category (3-4 vs >4) at screening. The
           study will be conducted with interim analyses for futility at 100 patients and safety
           monitored by an independent Data Monitoring Board at regular planned intervals.
    
  