
    
      Living donor (LD) kidney transplantation is currently the best treatment for end-stage renal
      disease (ESRD) in terms of life expectancy and quality of life. This method allows preemptive
      transplantation, before beginning dialysis.

      The main objective of this study will be to investigate quality of life and societal
      participation in a population of LD kidney transplant recipients comparing preemptive LD
      transplantation versus non-preemptive transplantation (performed after a period of dialysis).

      It is hypothesized that in addition to prolonged graft survival, preemptive LD kidney
      transplantation is associated with less deterioration of quality of life and better societal
      participation.

      We therefore propose a cross-sectional population-based study to include all patients who
      underwent LD kidney transplantation from 2004 through 2009 in the seven most active kidney
      transplantation centers in France. Cross-sectional surveys have been conducted since 2004 by
      the biomedicine agency in collaboration with the InVS in order to evaluate quality of life
      among ESRD patients. The most recent survey, QUAVIREIN, is in process but has included only a
      small number of patients selected at random. We want to broaden the study population beyond
      the QUAVIREIN sample in order to include the entire population of LD kidney transplant
      recipients.

      The study population will thus include all patients who received a LD kidney transplant from
      2004 through 2009 who give their informed consent to participate in the study and have a
      functional transplant on March 31, 2012. The seven transplantation centers have agreed to
      participate in the study.

      The patients will be identified using the CRISTAL and QUAVIREIN databases. Quality of life,
      occupational rehabilitation and societal participation data will be collected with a
      self-administered questionnaire sent to all identified patients, excepting (in order to avoid
      duplicates) those who have already participated in the QUAVIREIN survey. The methodology and
      data collection will be the same as for QUAVIREIN. The Department of Epidemiology and
      Clinical Evaluation (CIC-EC) of the Nancy University Hospital Center will be in charge of the
      study logistics and organization.

      The study hypothesis will be tested by applying univariate then multivariate statistical
      analysis to the collected data using ad hoc models comparing preemptive transplantation
      versus non-preemptive transplantation.
    
  