
    
      Lymphedema of the arm is an important, under-recognized, and under-treated complication of
      successful surgical and radiotherapeutic treatment of breast cancer. As a result of advances
      in early detection and effective adjuvant therapies, many women diagnosed with breast cancer
      today can expect survival that is similar to age-matched women without breast cancer.
      Nevertheless, this source of substantial physical and psychological morbidity has not
      attracted sufficient attention from industry or the scientific research community to result
      in either effective risk stratification or the availability highly effective therapeutic
      interventions.

      While the presence and degree of arm edema can, in part, correlated with the extent of
      axillary surgery, we still comprehend only poorly the factors that predispose to overt
      lymphatic insufficiency in the patients at risk for lymphedema by virtue of prior breast
      cancer treatment. It is likely that this anatomic and regenerative variability relies, at
      least in part, upon an as yet undefined genetic substrate. A growing body of evidence
      suggests that mutations in the nuclear transcription gene FOXC2 are responsible for a broad
      clinical array of primary lymphedema syndromes. The biology of breast cancer-associated
      lymphedema, including its characteristic latency phase, suggests that similar mechanisms may
      operate in the predisposition to this and other forms of secondary lymphedema.

      In parallel, breast cancer-associated lymphedema has several clinical attributes that suggest
      a relationship to, and a role for, insulin resistance. In this regard, it is interesting to
      contemplate the recent, multiple lines of evidence that suggest that the gene FOXC2
      regulates, directly or indirectly, several aspects of adipocyte metabolism and that genetic
      variability in the gene may influence features associated with the insulin resistance and the
      metabolic syndrome. These observations are of particular interest because of the recognized
      relationship of FOXC2 haploinsufficiency to a variety of identified lymphedema syndromes. It
      is therefore attractive to conjecture that insulin resistance, perhaps mediated through
      polymorphisms of FOXC2,.confers secondary lymphedema risk and predisposes to the as yet
      poorly understood tendency for breast cancer survivors to acquire substantial, pathological
      deposits of adipose tissue in the affected extremities with chronicity of the lymphedema.

      The specific aims of this proposal are as follows: (1) to quantitatively assess insulin
      sensitivity in late breast cancer survivors, equally divided among subjects who display
      clinical evidence of ipsilateral arm edema and those that do not; (2) to correlate the
      presence of relative insulin resistance to the expression of breast cancer-associated
      lymphedema. It is hypothesized that such an approach has the capability to lead to future
      elaboration of appropriate risk stratification and targeted therapeutic interventions; (3) as
      a pilot investigation, to sequence the FOXC2 gene, including the untranslated 5' region, in
      each these patients, to identify potential polymorphisms that might correlate both to the
      presence of insulin resistance and lymphedema risk.
    
  