
    
      The specific aims of the study:

      Aim I. To create a novel, commercially-available system for mobility assessment in clinical
      trials for Parkinson's disease. We have already developed a laboratory prototype system for
      the iTUG test, but the computer interface, sensors, and data management system are too
      cumbersome for use in clinical trials. In this proposal, we will create a robust,
      user-friendly clinical system for the iTUG test using wireless inertial sensors and a new
      user interface developed by a Portland start-up company, Automated Parkinson's Disease
      Monitoring (APDM), headed by a co-investigator. This mobility measuring system will be
      integrated with a new centralized data management server also developed by APDM, Inc. to
      support automatic data analysis and data organization for multi-site clinical trials. The
      feasibility of the new, clinical system will then be vetted by using it in a busy Movement
      Disorders Clinic.

      Aim II. To develop an objective, composite iTUG mobility score. We recently demonstrated that
      iTUG metrics are more sensitive in distinguishing mobility performance between people just
      diagnosed with PD from age-matched controls than traditional clinical tests. In this
      proposal, we will develop a composite mobility score from the iTUG gait and postural
      parameters most responsive to severity of PD and to the change from the levodopa ON and OFF
      states. The composite score will be calculated using statistical models that optimize
      differences in performance between 75 subjects with PD in the ON and OFF levodopa state.

      Aim III. To prospectively determine the reliability, validity and responsiveness of the iTUG
      mobility score. We will perform a prospective study with 60 patients with PD that compares
      standard clinical measures of postural instability and gait difficulty mobility (PIGD items
      from the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) and TUG stop-watch scores) with our
      new iTUG mobility score in the OFF and ON levodopa states. We hypothesize that the iTUG will
      have good test-retest reliability, be significantly correlated with standard clinical
      measures and fall history and be more responsive to dopaminergic state than current mobility
      tests used in clinical trials. This project will develop, produce, and test a novel clinical
      balance and gait assessment tool, the instrumented Timed Up and Go test (iTUG) using our new,
      wearable, inertial sensors and our new clinical trial data management server that
      automatically transmits, stores, and analyzes data collected with the iTUG. By automatically
      providing a more sensitive, accurate, and comprehensive method to test balance and gait,
      clinical trials to improve mobility in patients with Parkinson's disease and other
      neurological disorders will be significantly more effective and efficient.
    
  