
    
      Hypothesis UPD guided colonoscopy improves cecal intubation rate.

      Methods

      Trial design This is a prospective randomized controlled trial comparing the cecal intubation
      rate of colonoscopy being performed with and without UPD guidance by endoscopists of
      different levels of experience. The trial will be conducted in the Endoscopy Unit of a
      university affiliated hospital.

      Patients who will have elective colonoscopy in the Endoscopy Unit during the study period,
      and meet the following inclusion criteria are recruited. The colonoscopy will be done by 6
      dedicated endoscopists with different levels of experience in performing colonoscopy.

      Interventions

      UPD-3 and the specific colonoscope with an in-built magnetic imaging facility (Olympus
      Optical Co, Ltd, Japan) will be used in all examinations. A mobile sensor will be attached to
      the assistant's hand, so that the hand position in relation to the colonoscope could be shown
      in the imager screen.

      Patient controlled sedation (PCS) will be given to all patients. It is delivered by means of
      Graseby 3300 PCA pump (Graseby Medical Ltd), using a mixture of propofol (200mg in 20ml) and
      alfentanil (0.5mg in 1ml) in a 25-ml syringe. The drugs will be delivered in response to
      pressure on a hand-held button controlled by the patient. Each bolus (0.5ml) delivers 4.8mg
      propofol and 12microgram alfentanil. No loading dose was used and the lock-out time of the
      PCA machine was set at zero. All patients will be instructed in the use of the hand-held
      button before colonoscopy. Nasal oxygen (2l/min) will be given to all patients, and oxygen
      saturation and blood pressure will be continuously monitored throughout the procedure.

      The procedure will be randomized to either with the colonoscopist viewing the imager screen
      or not.

      UPD guided group: Both the colonoscopist and assistant will be viewing the imager screen
      during the whole procedure. Information about colonoscopy looping will interpreted and
      documented by the colonoscopist. Anterior-position view is the standard reference. When
      abdominal compression is required, the assistant nurse should have the hand held probe
      attached, such that abdominal compression is guided by the image.

      Conventional group (non- UPD guided): The imager screen will be turned to the other side such
      that both the colonoscopist and assistant is blind to UPD images. When the colonoscopist
      encountered looping as defined by paradoxical movement of the tip or disproportionate
      advancement in endoscopic view to the shaft insertion, the colonoscopist is requested to
      estimate the type of loop formed. The images will be captured for later interpretation.

      The primary outcome is cecal intubation rate. Cecal intubation is defined as visualization of
      appendix orifice and ileocaecal valve, procedure started by a trainee and taken over by
      supervisor before caecal intubation is regarded as incomplete.

      Sample size

      The cecal intubation rate could be increased by at least 11% for trainee in a randomized
      trial by Shah [14] and 16% for trainee and experienced endoscopist in another trial [15].
      Since the overall cecal intubation rate in our Endoscopy unit without UPD guide is at least
      90% already, the investigators expect a modest benefit from UPD guidance. Assume a difference
      of 5% in caecal intubation rate (from 90% in conventional group to 95% in the UPD guided
      group) with a power of 80% and a type I error of 5%, 2 sided analysis, 435 patients will be
      needed in each group. Thus a sample size of 870 patients is required.

      Randomization

      Informed consent will be obtained before colonoscopy in the Endoscopy Unit, if the patient
      fulfils the inclusion criteria. Block randomization will be done on a 1:1 basis, to ensure
      equal number of UPD guided or conventional colonoscopies are done by each endoscopist.

      A sealed non-opaque envelope (produced according to the computer generated random sequence)
      will be opened to determine the appropriate limb of entry before scope insertion.

      It is not possible to blind the study.

      Statistical analysis

      The data will be analyzed according to the intention-to-treat principle. The chi-squared test
      (or Fisher's exact test when appropriate), Student's t-test, and Mann-Whitney U test will be
      used to compare categorical, parametric, and non-parametric data, respectively. A P value
      <0.05 is considered statistically significant.

      Planned interim analysis will be conducted after recruiting 50% of patients.

      Data collection Data will be collected by the in-charged endoscopist and assistant after each
      procedure in a standardized data sheet.

      Accrual rate It is expected that about 20 cases per week will be recruited for randomization.
      The study could be finished in around 1 year time.
    
  