
    
      Introduction and rationale Background Modern treatment of pain following surgery based on
      multimodal analgesic strategy where the pain system different points of attack struck with
      different types analgesics. This also tries to reduce the consumption of opioids associated
      with frequent side effects like nausea, vomiting, constipation, difficulty urinating, weather
      stretch problems and Lethargy.

      But in spite of intense research over the last decades, is pain after arthroplastic surgery
      in hip (total hip arthroplasty (THA)) or knee (total knee replacement (TKA)) continue a
      significant clinical problem. It is a current clinical assumption that patients with pain in
      the hip or knee region immediately after TKA or THA have tense muscles, which reinforces pain
      behavior. The mechanism for such muscle tension is not fully understood.

      For many years the investigators have been on Danish orthopedic departments dealt with these
      patients with postoperative pain after major joint prosthesis operations with the muscle
      relaxant chlorzoxazone. On some sections included in the standard chlorzoxazone prescriptions
      for pain after hip and knee replacement.

      chlorzoxazone has for many years been marketed for the treatment of pain in skeletal muscle
      by inhibition of mono- and polysynaptic reflexes in the CNS. The muscle relaxing effect is
      mediated by inhibitory effects on spinal polysynaptic reflexes. In placebo-designed clinical
      studies of chlorzoxazone's beneficial effect on heterogeneous groups of patients with
      spasticity, motor neuron syndromes, as well as muscle pain and spasm of peripheral
      musculoskeletal diseases have not been able to demonstrate no significant analgesic effect;
      chlorzoxazone have also failed to show pain-relieving effect in the treatment of back pain It
      is remarkable that in spite of the widespread use of chlorzoxazone not can be found only one
      study of chlorzoxazone used as adjuvant pain relieving treatment after hip or knee surgery
      (or other orthopaedic treatment). The current clinical practice is therefore made on purely
      empirical basis. The effect must be considered as uncertain, but may in some cases be
      indicated, most often as an adjunct to other therapy, for example analgesics,
      anti-inflammatory agents, physiotherapy or even training. In such cases, regarded
      chlorzoxazone be an alternative to benzodiazepines. There is therefore a need for a
      prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study evaluating the potential
      analgesic effect of chlorzoxazone. In this intervention study is the selected dosage of
      chlorzoxazone set at based on the recommendation of the Danish Medicines Information A / S 7
      (http://pro.medicin.dk/Medicine / Preparations / 638) and Takeda Pharma A / S. The latter
      produces chlorzoxazone. The recommendation is based on our current knowledge of
      chlorzoxazones pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties. chlorzoxazone given in this
      study as tablet chlorzoxazone, 250 mg, 3 times daily for the first seven postoperative days.
      Adverse reactions to chlorzoxazone are well known. They are relatively few, mostly mild and
      transient. The most frequent adverse events related to chlorzoxazone, fatigue and dizziness
      (about 1-10% of patients) Adverse reactions are to some extent overlapping with the side
      effects that are related to the perioperative opioid treatment. It is therefore possible that
      the frequency of adverse events overall is reduced if chlorzoxazone found to be analgesic
      (and opioid-sparing). Patients will be hospitalized for a minimum of two nights after surgery
      and thus be close observation in the period in which the risk of side effects is greatest. At
      the same time, all patients undergo standardized adverse event registration. If, contrary to
      expectations unexpected or unacceptable side effects medication will promptly be interrupted.
      The study involves a group of patients (THA and TKA), which is an important clinical pain
      problem. All of these patients receive a well-implemented and evidence-based treatment. Thus,
      anesthesia, analgesia and surgical procedure standardized for all patients receiving
      concomitant consequences usual principles of early mobilization 8; 9th The planned
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled design in which all patients receive the same
      and standardized interventions, enabling the best possible evaluation of modality under study
      intervention with chlorzoxazone vs. placebo). The level of pain after surgery as the primary
      endpoint, recorded by means of a well-tested and validated tool (visual analog scale (VAS))
      48 hours after operation. The current study could contribute to a clarification of the
      postoperative analgesic effect of chlorzoxazone immediately after THA and TKA. As secondary
      endpoints, the patients functional level be determined Oxford Hip / Knee Score 7 days after
      surgery. Furthermore, a number of tertiary parameters related to pain, function and side
      effect profile be determined as shown in Table 1. Evidence in this area will be of immediate
      benefit to patients operated with THA and TKA - and maybe for other surgical patients.
    
  