
    
      The purpose of this study is to develop ultrasound criteria for polycystic ovaries for women
      with PCOS across early, mid and late adulthood and to assess the impact of body composition
      on these ultrasound criteria.. The study will also compare ultrasound features of the ovary
      against or in combination with AMH (a hormonal biomarker) in predicting PCOS. This research
      will help improve the diagnosis of PCOS by considering multiple markers (i.e., ultrasound
      features and AMH levels) and multiple modifiers of those markers (i.e., age and adiposity).

      As the name implies, the primary ultrasound feature used to diagnose PCOS is polycystic
      ovaries (PCO). However, PCO have frequently been observed in healthy women, calling into
      question the specificity of PCO to the condition of PCOS, as well as its ability to inform
      progression of the disease and/or response to treatment. The Lujan laboratory recently showed
      that the most widely accepted ultrasound criteria for PCO overlap with features of the normal
      ovary, and their laboratory proposed new thresholds to redefine PCO. These new criteria
      represented a significant change in the definition of PCO owing to the improved resolution of
      new technology. That said, these new criteria are still limited. They do not account for
      factors known or suspected to influence ovarian morphology. For example, follicle counts and
      ovarian size increase at puberty and decrease with age. Additional results from the Lujan
      laboratory showed that follicle number per ovary (FNPO) thresholds for women in later
      adulthood (35-38y) were substantially lower than those in early (18-25y) and mid-adulthood
      (26-34y). Furthermore, the new criteria for PCO do not account for a potential impact of
      adiposity on ovarian morphology. In the same study, conducted by the Lujan laboratory,
      overweight women exhibited more 6-9mm follicles than lean women, irrespective of androgen
      status.

      Lastly, there is significant interest in determining whether AMH can serve as a surrogate to
      sonographic measures to define PCO. AMH is a peptide hormone produced by the granulosa cells
      of growing follicles and circulating levels represent secretions by antral follicles ≤8mm.
      Accordingly, serum AMH is increased in women with PCOS, reflecting the accumulation of 2-5mm
      antral follicles and greater production by granulosa cells of PCO compared to normal ovaries.
      Excess AMH is thought to inhibit follicle growth and selection. Unlike discrete aspects of
      ovarian morphology (i.e. follicle number or size),85 AMH levels remain largely constant
      throughout the normal menstrual cycle.Such stability may make AMH a more advantageous
      functional and surrogate morphological indicator of ovarian status compared to morphologic
      features. Further, some have argued that the variability in ultrasound assessments, and
      unsuitability of transvaginal approaches in certain clinical populations, justify the pursuit
      of a less onerous biomarker of PCO. However, there is significant bias across AMH assays and
      a consensual threshold for AMH to define PCO has not been determined. Proposed thresholds
      were hindered by heterogeneity in assay performance and in the clinical cohorts assessed.
      Ultimately, the ability of AMH to serve as a surrogate marker for PCO remains unknown and
      should be evaluated against sonographic measures in well-defined cohorts with improved
      assays. In this study, the researchers plan to refine the sonographic definition of PCO by
      establishing age-specific criteria that maintain sensitivity and specificity for PCOS in both
      lean and overweight populations. They will also clarify any ability of anti-Müllerian hormone
      (AMH) to better inform the diagnosis of PCOS.

      To accomplish these objectives, the investigators plan to recruit 120 women with regular
      ovulatory cycles and 120 women with PCOS. Within each of these categories, the investigators
      plan to recruit 20 lean and 20 overweight women in each age group: 18-24y (early), 25-34y
      (mid), ≥35y (later adulthood). Ultrasound scans of the ovaries will be assessed for the total
      number, size, and distribution of follicles using both two- and three-dimensional imaging
      techniques. Additionally, participants will have blood samples collected to determine serum
      concentrations of AMH. Because features of the ovaries are expected to be different in lean
      and overweight women, the researchers hope to develop ultrasound criteria that will help
      healthcare providers to diagnosis specific ovulation problems in women across all body sizes
      and ages. This project addresses the need to improve methods and criteria used to define PCO
      across clinical populations.
    
  