
    
      Although the American Gastroenterological Association suggests that patients with obscure GI
      bleeding undergo a capsule endoscopy after a negative esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and
      colonoscopy, current recommendations from the British Society of Gastroenterology argue that
      unless there is an inadequate response to iron therapy, further imaging of the small bowel is
      probably not necessary. Several studies have demonstrated that this approach is reasonably
      safe. Furthermore, Laine et al demonstrated that when patients with obscure GI bleeding were
      randomized to either capsule endoscopy or dedicated small bowel contrast radiography, the
      rates of further bleeding, measured by subsequent hospitalization and blood transfusion
      events, were similar between the two groups. No study has randomized patients with obscure GI
      bleeding to receive capsule endoscopy vs. conservative therapy with oral iron.

      This study is a single center prospective randomized control trial comparing the utility of
      performing capsule endoscopy compared to conservative management with oral iron therapy as
      the initial course of action in patients with non-severe obscure occult or obscure overt
      gastrointestinal bleeding. All patients will be recruited in the G.I. clinic, the endoscopy
      unit, or during inpatient consults after negative upper endoscopy and colonoscopy. The study
      will be explained to patients who qualify at that time. During this visit, patients will be
      questioned with regard to lower or upper G.I. symptoms, including abdominal pain, dyspepsia,
      nausea, vomiting, weight loss, diarrhea, change in stool character, melena and intermittent
      hematochezia. All patients will be started on standard dose oral iron therapy after informed
      consent. If the patient is already taking iron supplements, their dose with be adjusted to
      the standard regimen after informed consent. Patients will then be randomized to undergo
      capsule endoscopy or not. For patients randomized to undergo capsule endoscopy, all
      subsequent evaluation and treatment will be determined by capsule findings (i.e. capsule
      directed management) and standard of care at our institution.

      Patients will be followed for 1 year. Follow up lab draws will occur at 1, 3, 6 and 12
      months. They will consist of a complete blood count (CBC) and ferritin and can be performed
      at either the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) or an outside facility or office.
      If performed outside of MUSC, a standard medical records release form will be utilized to
      obtain the lab information. Patients will be provided with a paper card indicating their date
      of enrollment in the study. This card will be kept by the patient for the entire 12 month
      follow up period and will be collected at the end of the follow up period. The card will have
      an area where the patient can write the date of their first blood transfusion after
      enrollment. There will also be numerical checkboxes that the patient will check off for each
      unit of packed red blood cells (RBCs) they receive during the 12 month follow up period.
      Telephone calls will be made to each patient every 3 months after enrollment to inquire about
      hospitalizations and bleeding related procedures (including endoscopy, capsule, small bowel
      radiology, interventional radiology and surgery). Records of these hospitalizations and
      procedures will be obtained using a standard medical records release form.
    
  