
    
      STEP-BD is evaluating all the best-practice treatment options used for bipolar disorder:
      mood-stabilizing medications, antidepressants, atypical antipsychotics, and psychosocial
      interventions - or "talk" therapies - including Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Family-focused
      Therapy, Interpersonal and Social Rhythm Therapy, and Collaborative Care (psychoeducation).

      There are two kinds of treatment "pathways" in STEP-BD, and participants may have the
      opportunity to take part in both. The medications and psychosocial interventions provided in
      these pathways are considered among the best choices of treatment for bipolar disorder in
      everyday clinical practice.

      In the "Best Practice Pathway," participants are followed by a STEP-BD certified doctor and
      all treatment choices are individualized. Everyone enrolled in STEP-BD may participate in
      this pathway. Participants and their doctors work together to decide on the best treatment
      plans and to change these plans if needed. Also, anyone who wishes to stay on his or her
      current treatment upon entering STEP-BD may do so in this pathway. Adolescents and adults age
      15 years and older may participate in the Best Practice Pathway.

      For adults age 18 and older, another way to participate is in the STEP-BD "Randomized Care
      Pathways." Depending on their symptoms, participants may be offered treatment in one or more
      of these pathways during the course of the study. The participants remain on mood-stabilizing
      medication. However, because doctors are uncertain which of several treatment strategies work
      best for bipolar disorder, another medication and/or talk therapy may be added. Each
      Randomized Care Pathway involves a different set of these additional treatments.

      Unlike in the Best Practice Pathway, the participants in the Randomized Care Pathways are
      randomly assigned to treatments. Also, in some cases, neither the participant nor the doctor
      will be told which of the different medications is being added. This is called a
      "double-blind" study and is done so that the medication effects can be evaluated objectively,
      without any unintended bias that may come from knowing what has been assigned. Participants
      will not be assigned medications that they have had bad reactions to in the past, that they
      are strongly opposed to, or that the doctor feels are unsuitable for them. The medication(s)
      participants may be randomly assigned to in the Randomized Care Pathways are free of charge.
      There are other treatment options for participants if they do not respond well to the
      treatment assigned to them. Also, participants may return to the Best Practice Pathway at any
      time. About 1,500 individuals will be enrolled in at least one Randomized Care Pathway during
      their period of participation in STEP-BD.

      It is important to note that STEP-BD provides continuity of care. For example, if a
      participant starts out in the Best Practice Pathway and later chooses to enter one of the
      Randomized Care Pathways, he or she continues with the same STEP-BD doctor and treatment
      team. Then, after completing the Randomized Care Pathway, the participant may return to the
      Best Practice Pathway for ongoing, individually-tailored treatment.
    
  