
    
      The aim of this study is to test the efficacy of a repeated taste exposure intervention, a
      nutritional educational intervention and combination of both to increase intake of an
      unfamiliar vegetable in preschool aged children (aged 3-5 years). In particular the study
      will assess whether these strategies are effective to encourage intake of an unfamiliar
      vegetable in children who are fussy eaters or going through the food neophobia phase. The
      effectiveness of these interventions will also be observed overtime at 3 and 6 months post
      intervention.

      Nurseries will be randomised into one of four conditions over the 12 week intervention
      period; these include educational intervention only, taste exposures only, taste exposures
      and educational intervention or no intervention (control group). All children will be offered
      an unfamiliar vegetable prior to the intervention and after the intervention to evaluate
      changes in intake of the unfamiliar vegetable. The repeated taste exposure groups will be
      offered the novel vegetable repeatedly (1 exposure per week) over the 12 week period. For the
      educational intervention nursery staff will be advised to deliver two components of an
      existing PhunkyFoods educational programme over the same period.

      Parents will be asked some general demographic questions, child food behaviour questions and
      questions about their feeding practices. Finally nursery staff will be requested to provide
      feedback to evaluate intervention feasibility, barriers and efficacy.

      It is predicted that children's intake of the unfamiliar vegetable will vary by intervention.
      The primary hypothesis to be tested is that children who receive the repeated taste exposures
      are more likely to increase their intake of the unfamiliar vegetable compared to those in
      educational only or control conditions. The second hypothesis is that repeated taste
      exposures will increase intake of an unfamiliar vegetable in fussy eaters more than
      education.
    
  