
    
      This project brings together two funding partners. The first, the Canadian Institutes of
      Health Research's Community Based Primary Health Care Team Grant SPOR initiative funded a
      five-year program of research (known as IMPACT: Innovative Models Promoting Access-to-Care
      Transformation, http://www.impactresearchprogram.com/). The goal of the IMPACT Project is to
      increase access to community-based primary health care for vulnerable populations. The lead
      for the Ontario arm of the IMPACT project, Simone Dahrouge, has undertaken a community
      engagement initiative within the Champlain Local Health Integration Network (LHIN) to
      understand the barriers patients face to adequately access community based resources and how
      these can be overcome.

      The second funding partner is the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long Term Care, through the
      Ontario SPOR Support Unit, in support of the Working Group on Ontario's Francophone
      Communities. This funding support aims specifically at addressing the access needs for
      Ontario Francophones living in minority situations.

      These two initiatives now form the Access to Resources in the Community/Accès aux Resources
      Communautaires (ARC) project. ARC builds upon previous activities of the IMPACT project,
      under the OHSN Research Ethics Board Protocol #20140131-01H and Bruyère Continuing Care
      Research Ethics Board Protocol #M16-14-021. That phase of the IMPACT project enabled Dr.
      Dahrouge and her team to develop a Local Innovation Partnership (LIP) within the Champlain
      LHIN. This partnership led to the assembly of a LIP Core Team in July 2015, and includes
      patients of various minority communities who contribute their experience and expectations,
      primary care providers from different care models and leaders from organizations responsible
      for community services (Community Care Access Centres and Community Health Centres) who
      inform the best approach to the integration of the two sectors, and health planners (the LHIN
      Primary Care Lead, senior integration specialist and others) who bring their broader context
      health services knowledge as well as resources (such as practice transformation facilitation
      services) to the project. These stakeholders have identified poor access to community based
      services as a priority access gap, and have selected linkage/collaboration between primary
      care and community resources to address this gap. The LIP Core Team is comprised of the
      research team, and representatives from the regional health authority (Champlain LHIN), home
      and community care services (Champlain Community Care Access Centre), Ontario 211, Champlain
      Healthline, the University of Ottawa Office of Social Accountability, local Community Health
      Centres, primary care providers, and community members (Additional information: 5 Champlain
      LIP Core Team).

      The research team has also conducted several interviews and focus groups (as part of the
      IMPACT project) with community stakeholders to inform the approach to the ARC intervention so
      that it is acceptable to all. Two realist reviews have been commissioned and completed by a
      team of experts to help us understand the critical success factors and shape our
      intervention. One review is focused on "community navigators" and the other on "primary care
      referral to community services" to help the team understand the factors that support us. This
      information was used to develop the ARC intervention. A number of themes identified in these
      reviews including training for clinical staff to identify and refer to relevant community
      resources to address patients' social barriers; implementing a champion within practice to
      integrate referral into usual care; use of electronic health records to prompt provider
      referral and share information between provider and the community; and developing a screening
      process and promotional material to prompt referral.

      The ARC project will build on this work by focussing on improving access to community
      resources in patients' language of choice and emphasizing access to French-language resources
      for Francophones in Ontario. That component will be established in the Champlain Local Health
      Integration Network (LHIN). The proposed work will build on team members' experience, the
      foundational work and existing partnerships established by Dr. Dahrouge and her team.

      Hypothesis leading to the present study

      Based on the work done to date, we have determined it is warranted to a study an intervention
      to optimize equitable access to community resources for Ontarians based on the following
      activities:

        1. Improving referrals to community resources by

             -  Raising population and providers' awareness of community resources and the existing
                navigation tools that can help identify where the services are delivered.

             -  Engaging the participation of members of the vulnerable communities, including
                Francophones living in minority situations, and care delivery personnel in our
                work.

             -  Training staff in primary care practices on the use of the electronic and telephone
                navigation tools

             -  Supporting practices to adopt processes that will allow them to incorporate
                community services into the basket of services they already coordinate (e.g.
                specialty care)

        2. Improving the continuity of care across the two sectors (primary care and community
           services) by

           - Establishing communication and coordination processes between the primary care
           practices and the patient navigator.

        3. Supporting individuals with social complexities to overcome barriers to adequately
           access by

             -  Increasing awareness of the resources within communities at higher risk of poor
                access (including Francophones living in minority situations)

             -  Providing support to these individuals in the form of a "Navigator" to assist them
                in overcoming barriers to access.
    
  