
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a persistent systemic disease. WHO (World Health Organization)
      commented that a crucial goal of heath care for RA is prevention of loss of daily function by
      patients' self-management (SM) skills; however, a comprehensive rheumatoid arthritis
      self-management program for RA patients' day-to-day self-managing is limited in Taiwan. The
      aims of the study are: (1) to implement the rheumatoid arthritis self-management program, and
      (2) to determine the effectiveness of the program with 6 months follow-up. The project will
      design to implement and evaluate the rheumatoid arthritis self-management program for RA
      patients using two groups experimental design. A medical center in northern Taiwan will be
      selected and patients who visited the RA departments will be eligible for the study if they
      are: (1) diagnosed with RA, (2) age of 20 years or over, (3) disease considered have been
      stable for at least 3 months, and (4) able to understand and comply with the study treatment.
      After completion of baseline data, patients will be randomly allocated to the intervention or
      control group using a computerized allocation procedure and follow the CONSORT flow diagram.
      Control patients received usual care, and the intervention group will receive the 6-week
      rheumatoid arthritis self-management program which based on self-efficacy theory. The
      independent variable of the program will be the four information include mastery experience,
      social modeling, social persuasion and physical and emotional states, and the strategies
      involve education, goal setting and attainment, self-monitoring, and phone calls. All
      participants will follow up for 6 months, and the data will be collected at the baseline, and
      2, 3, and 6 months. The statistics with the GEE (generalized estimating equation) analysis
      will be used to evaluate the outcomes such as the disease activity (DAS-28), arthritis
      self-efficacy (ASE), physical functioning (MHAQ), quality of life (SF-36), and
      self-management behaviors. Through enhance the capacity of self-management program for the RA
      cases to reduce the health care utilization and patients' and caregivers' burden.
    
  