
    
      Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a chronic, relapsing, inflammatory skin condition that typically
      begins in infancy or early childhood and can be highly debilitating with a marked reduction
      in quality of life. Current treatment modalities for AD include frequent use of skin
      moisturizers such as creams or emollients, topical corticosteroids and topical calcineurin
      inhibitors, systemic immunosuppressive drugs, and, in select cases of refractory disease, wet
      wrap therapy. The available systemic treatments for AD when topical treatment fails can have
      substantial adverse effects and are not always effective. The search for targeted therapies
      based on pathway disruptions in patients could present opportunities to provide therapies on
      a more personalized basis, tailored to the pathogenic pathways.

      Based on prior studies, we have demonstrated that supplemental glutamine has potential as an
      effective AD treatment in patients with caspase activation and recruitment domain (CARD) gene
      mutations. Prior studies have demonstrated that loss of CARD signaling leads to a decrease in
      the mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling pathway. Glutamine
      supplementation can normalize this defect in mTORC1. The CARD11 BCL10 MALT1 (CBM) signalosome
      complex is a critical component of mTORC1 activation. Some patients with gene mutations
      affecting the CBM complex do not develop AD but do develop other symptoms of immunoregulation
      and may also benefit from glutamine supplementation. We will conduct a phase 1, open-label
      study to investigate the use of supplemental glutamine in patients with immune dysregulation.
      Subjects 5 to 65 years of age will take oral glutamine daily for 3 months. To assess the role
      of the mTORC1 pathway in response to glutamine supplementation, we will enroll 3 groups of
      patients: 1) those with AD and a defect in mTORC1 signaling or a mutation in the CBM complex;
      2) those with AD who do not have a defect in mTORC1 signaling or a mutation in the CBM
      complex; and 3) those who have a defect in mTORC1 signaling or a mutation in the CBM complex
      and do not have AD. Subjects will complete a daily symptom diary for 1 month before starting
      glutamine to document baseline disease status. Disease severity will be assessed at baseline,
      at the end of glutamine supplementation, and 1 and 3 months after completing the glutamine
      regimen. Blood will be collected periodically for safety, tolerability, and research
      assessments.
    
  