
    
      Approximately 6% of men and 18% of women are afflicted with migraines. (Stovner et al., 2006)
      Over 90% of patients with migraines report a sensitivity to light (photophobia) during
      headaches. (Evans et al., 2008) Some migraine sufferers report that light can trigger a
      migraine and some have a chronic sensitivity to light (Main et al., 1997). Migraineurs are
      especially sensitive to non-incandescent lighting sources such as fluorescent lights,
      computer monitors, and gas-vapor lamps (Katz and Digre, 2016).

      The pathway that mediates photophobia appears to involve intrinsically photosensitive retinal
      ganglion cells ("IPRGCs"; Hattar et al., 2002) and trigeminal afferents (Noseda et al., 2010;
      Digre and Brennan, 2012). These retinal cells do not require input from photoreceptors to be
      activated by light, and they have been shown to be responsible for circadian rhythm
      entrainment and the pupillary light reflex. As such, these cells constitute a pathway
      separate from that of the visual pathway (Güler et al., 2008). IPRGCs contain the chromophore
      melanopsin. In these cells, 480 nm light (in the blue-green portion of the visible spectrum)
      isomerizes melanopsin and triggers the phototransduction cascade. However, IPRGCs can also be
      stimulated by rods and cones. Thus, IPRGCs can be stimulated directly by 480-nm light or
      indirectly by any light in the visible spectrum.

      In the present study, the investigators will use a neutral gray tint to decrease stimulation
      of the eye by all wavelengths in the visible spectrum. The investigators will compare this
      intervention to a thin-film spectacle coating designed to specifically block 480-nm light.
      The gray tint will decrease both direct and indirect stimulation of the IPRGCs by blocking
      all wavelengths of the visible spectrum. The 480-nm thin-film will specifically target direct
      stimulation of the IPRGC.

      All tints and thin films will be calibrated such that the optical density, that is the
      overall "darkness" of all study lenses, will be the same. All study lenses will appear to
      have the same overall light blocking effect to study subjects. The lenses are intended to be
      a preventative or prophylactic treatment for chronic migraine.
    
  