
    
      World Health Organization suggests all infants should be exclusively breastfed for 6 months
      and continue with complementary food till 2 years old. Yet, the global exclusive
      breastfeeding rate at 6 months is only around 40%. As for Hong Kong, breastfeeding rate
      dropped substantially from 87% upon discharge to less than a half at 6 months postpartum and
      only one-third of women still exclusively breastfed their infants.

      According to previous studies, women had early breastfeeding initiation or had breastfed
      their first child for at least 6 months were more likely to exclusively breastfeed the babies
      for longer time. However, mothers have early weaning easily due to inadequate breastfeeding
      knowledge/ skills, lack of lactation support or if they have specific characteristics like
      being hypertensive/ diabetic, primiparous or having complicated birthing experience. It was
      also found that maternal breastfeeding education, breastfeeding self-efficacy and their
      intention all affect the initiation and continuation of breastfeeding.

      Among various promotional interventions, educational and supportive interventions were found
      to be effectively increased breastfeeding duration, while self-efficacy based intervention
      improved breastfeeding self-efficacy in the first 2 months but not on exclusive breastfeeding
      rates at 6 months postpartum. In addition, overall, there are inconsistent effects on
      educational and supportive interventions on breastfeeding outcomes, especially exclusive
      breastfeeding rate at 6 months postpartum. Also, most of the previous reviews did not focus
      on the primiparous women. And it is unclear the intervention effects on breastfeeding
      self-efficacy and exclusive breastfeeding rate of the first time mothers over 6-months.

      As a result, a systematic review of 13 randomised controlled trials was done to identify
      effective approaches to educational and supportive interventions to improve breastfeeding in
      first time mothers up to at least 6-month postpartum. The result showed educational and
      supportive interventions were effective in increasing exclusive breastfeeding rate at ≤2
      months & 6 months, partial breastfeeding rate as well as breastfeeding self-efficacy at ≤2
      months. The key components in breastfeeding promotion interventions, are those involved
      multicomponent (that is antenatal group education, postnatal individual breastfeeding
      coaching together with telephone follow-ups), breastfeeding self-efficacy theory-based that
      delivered across antenatal and postnatal period with ≥ 3 intervention sessions.

      With the current COVID-19 pandemic, all face-to-face interventions in the hospitals are
      constrained. So the proposed study will be conducted by using Zoom platform and telephone
      follow-ups. There are one session of online antenatal breastfeeding talk, 5 times daily
      online postnatal breastfeeding coaching and 7 times weekly postnatal telephone follow-ups.
      The intervention will be guided by Dennis's breastfeeding self-efficacy framework.

      This study aims to determine if a real-time online theory-based education and support plus
      telephone follow-ups programme (REST) for primiparous women in Hong Kong would increase their
      exclusive rate, breastfeeding self-efficacy, and other breastfeeding outcomes over 6-month
      postpartum.
    
  