
    
      As of March 12, 2020, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has been confirmed in 125 048
      people worldwide, carrying a mortality of approximately 3·7%, 1 compared with a mortality
      rate of less than 1% from influenza. There is an urgent need for effective treatment. The
      2019 novel Coronavirus (2019-nCoV; severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2
      (SARS-CoV-2)) has spread rapidly since its recent identification in patients with severe
      pneumonia in Wuhan, China. The clinical spectrum of COVID-19 varies from asymptomatic or
      pauci-symptomatic forms to clinical conditions characterized by respiratory failure that
      necessitates mechanical ventilation and support in an intensive care unit (ICU), to
      multiorgan and systemic manifestations in terms of sepsis, septic shock, and multiple organ
      dysfunction syndromes (MODS). Current management of COVID-19 is supportive, and respiratory
      failure from acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is the leading cause of mortality.

      The cytokine profile of COVID-19 patients supports that the fatality is driven by a
      virally-triggered, self-propagating, hyper-inflammatory state (Mehta et al, 2020). Elevated
      ferritin (mean 1297·6 ng/ml in non-survivors vs 614·0 ng/ml in survivors; p<0·001) and IL-6
      (p<0·0001) have been found to be independent predictors of fatality in COVID-19 patients in
      China (Ruan et al, 2020).

      VOD, known as Veno-Occlusive-Disease or Synusoidal Obstruction Syndrome, is the most
      characterized of a spectrum of post bone marrow transplantation (BMT) syndromes (including
      ELS, IPS or aGVHD) characterized by reactive endothelial activation and damage,
      endothelial-driven paracrine signaling and a pro-inflammatory and pro-coagulant state. Severe
      VOD frequently progresses to Multi Organ Failure and is characterized by high mortality
      (>80%), characterized mostly by lung and kidney failure.

      High levels (elevated early in the course of the disease) of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha
      characterize VOD and the other post-BMT endothelial diseases (Schots et al, 2003, Gugliotta
      et al 1994, Remberger et al 1997, Symington et al, 1992). In detail, IL-8 may be involved in
      the respiratory failure following ARDS, a frequent and fatal outcome of sVOD patients.
      Intriguingly, high ferritin levels are a well recognized risk factor for the development of
      VOD in both adult and pediatric settings.

      Furthermore, the histopathological examination of lung lesions in VOD syndromes show early
      alveolar epithelial and lung endothelial injury, resulting in accumulation of protein- and
      fibrin-rich inflammatory edematous fluid in the alveolar space and progression to
      interstitial fibrosis, at later stages.

      These patterns are reminiscent of what observed in the only three cases of autoptic
      examination of lung tissue so far obtained from COVID-19 infected individuals: two from
      putatively early phase and one from a late phase of the disease: such as, early diffuse
      alveolar damage with proteinaceous exudates, and chronical inflammation with intra alveolar
      deposition of fibrin and interstitial fibrosis, respectively.

      Thus, we suggest here that the pattern of circulating cytokines, similar histopathological
      findings in infected patients and hyper-ferritinemia represent some hallmarks common to both
      COVID-19 induced pathology and VOD/SOS (and other endothelial damage syndromes), possibly
      underlying common mechanisms of progression.

      Defibrotide, a polydisperse mixture of predominantly single-stranded
      polydeoxyribonucleotides, is currently the only therapy approved to treat hepatic VOD/SOS
      with pulmonary/renal dysfunction (ie, multiorgan dysfunction/multiorgan failure [MOD/MOF])
      following HSCT in the United States and to treat severe hepatic VOD/SOS post-HSCT in the
      European Union. In preclinical and human studies, defibrotide has demonstrated
      profibrinolytic, antithrombotic, anti-inflammatory, and angio-protective actions, thus
      promoting an anticoagulant phenotype of the endothelium that protects and stabilizes the
      function of endothelial cells. In a phase 3, historically controlled, multicenter trial in
      adults and children with VOD/SOS and MOD/MOF (defibrotide: n = 102; controls treated before
      defibrotide availability: n = 32), defibrotide resulted in significantly greater day +100
      survival following HSCT (38.2%) vs controls (25.0%; propensity analysis-estimated
      between-group difference: 23%; P = .0109). Importantly, a posthoc analysis of a conspicuous
      number of defibrotide-treated patients (n=651) has recently shown that defibrotide treatment
      also to critically ill patients, such as those with ventilator dependence at study entry,
      could highly benefit from defibrotide treatment.

      Defibrotide has, overall, demonstrated endothelial-protective properties, with
      pro-fibrinolytic, anti-thrombotic, anti-ischemic, anti-inflammatory, and antiadhesive
      activities, but no significant systemic anticoagulant effects. Defibrotide appears to exert
      several anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects through interaction with the EC membrane,
      as shown in an endothelial cell line of hepatic origin.

      At least part of defibrotide's lifesaving activity is due to downregulation of circulating
      cytokines, chiefly IL-6 and TNF-alpha and by reducing PAI-1 levels, NFKB activation and
      expression of MHCI and MHCII molecules. As compared to other agents, targeting a specific
      cytokines or a specific factor, defibrotide's pleiotropic mechanism of action may underlie
      its effectiveness in both early and late progressed states of MOF and in prophylactic
      settings as well.

      Patients with clinical and radiological evidence consistent with idiopathic pneumonia
      syndrome, all showed underlying disease processes which can be interpreted as associated with
      endothelial cell activation injury. Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome is a rare complication
      following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), defined by diffuse lung injury with
      no identified etiology, with an incidence of 2-12%.; it shows histological evidence of type
      II endothelial cell activation, with display of ICAM-1 and/or VCAM-1, and endothelial injury,
      with endothelial upregulation of eNOS. This, together with histological findings of
      intra-alveolar fibrin and pulmonary hypertension suggests that endothelial cell activation
      injury may be a causative factor underlying idiopathic pneumonia syndrome Defibrotide may
      prove to be useful in the treatment of patients with idiopathic pneumonia syndrome, although
      stratifying which patients will benefit from this treatment requires further study.

      A potential beneficial effect from defibrotide in treating pulmonary veno-occlusive disease
      (PVOD) has been suggested. Its action is probably due to the drug's ability to selectively
      increase prostaglandin I2 and E2 levels and to increase tissue plasminogen activator and
      decrease plasminogen activator inhibitor function.

      The use of defibrotide does not change the pathway of care, therefore the only changes to the
      budget are drug acquisition costs and cost avoidance as a result of reduced ICU/HDU use.
      Defibrotide reduces the length of stay avoiding extended use of ICU or HDU beds (NHS England
      Clinical Commissioning Policy.
    
  