
    
      The purpose of this study is to more thoroughly investigate the impact of bacterial genetic
      characteristics on the outcome of patients with S. aureus bacteremia (SAB). The investigators
      will address salient aspects of bacterial virulence using strong collaborative relationships
      with authorities in bacterial genetics and genomics. The overall hypothesis of this
      investigation is that distinct bacterial virulence determinants influence the severity of S.
      aureus infection. The specific hypothesis is that virulence determinants associated with
      clinical outcome of S. aureus infection segregate into clonal groups, identified by
      Multilocus Sequence Typing (MLST), and can be localized in the genome by comparative genetic
      hybridization (CGH). The investigators have established the following aims to pursue this
      hypothesis. Specific Aim 1: Define the allelic diversity of S. aureus bloodstream isolates
      using MSLT. Allelic profiles among the 1000 isolates will be compared using the program BURST
      (Based Upon Related Sequence Type), and relatedness of lineages in the overall collection
      will be defined. Specific Aim 2: Define the genomic diversity of S. aureus bloodstream
      isolates using CGH. Using MLST results, a subset of 200 isolates will be selected to undergo
      further study. These ~200 isolates will form a unique collection hereafter referred to as the
      SAGA (S. aureus genomic analysis) collection. The genomic diversity of the SAGA subset will
      be defined using CGH. Specific Aim 3: Correlate MLST and CGH results, MLST and clinical
      outcome, and CGH, and clinical outcome, and make SAGA isolates available to the scientific
      community. In this Specific Aim, the discriminate ability of MLST and CGH will be compared
      among the SAGA subset isolates undergoing both assays. The association between bacterial
      clonality and clinical outcome will be considered among 1000 S. aureus isolates collected
      from adults at Duke University Medical Center who had S. aureus infections undergoing MLST.
      The association between clinical outcome and the presence or absence of virulence factors and
      pathogenicity islands in the S. aureus genome will also be considered among the 200 SAGA
      subset isolates undergoing CGH. The products of this study will include an increased
      understanding of genetic diversity in S. aureus and the role of this genetic diversity on
      determining the severity of infections caused by S. aureus. The full value of the current
      proposal also includes the potential future benefit to the research community as a whole if
      associations between pathogen genotype and clinical outcome, only possible to identify using
      such a large and clinically well-characterized collection of isolates, can be defined. To
      amplify these potential downstream dividends, the final goal of Specific Aim 3 will be to
      make SAGA subset isolates, corresponding MLST types, and CGH profiles available to the
      scientific community through the repository maintained by the Network for Antimicrobial
      Resistance in S. aureus (NARSA). The long-term objectives of this project are to: (1)
      identify bacterial genes contributing to the severity of infection in isolates from a large
      cohort of patients with SAB; and (2) ultimately use these genes to identify novel
      interventions for the control of S. aureus pathogenesis by investigating genes that govern
      the virulence of this emerging pathogen. Culture-confirmed SAB nasal carriage isolates and/or
      bloodstream bacterial isolates previously collected from 1000 inpatient adults at Duke
      University Medical Center will be used in this study.
    
  