
    
      "HIV Neurocognitive Disorders: A Randomized Clinical Trial of CNS-targeted HAART" is a
      randomized, controlled clinical trial to assess the efficacy of a strategy for targeting
      highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) to the CNS in patients with HIV associated
      neurocognitive impairment (HNCI). Contemporary cohort studies have consistently demonstrated
      that HNCI remains a prevalent disorder in patients receiving HAART. HNCI is a significant
      burden to persons living with HIV infection, caregivers, and the healthcare system. Thus the
      development of effective treatment strategies is of critical public health importance.

      This study is based on findings from a previous study. Briefly, among individuals with HNCI
      who initiated a new antiretroviral (ARV) therapy regimen, those receiving more highly
      CNS-penetrating ARV regimens were more likely to successfully suppress cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) viral load (VL), and those who achieved CSF suppression (VL < 50 c/mL) had better
      neurocognitive (NC) outcomes. These findings suggest that NC outcomes of ART may be enhanced
      by the planned application of an ARV selection and clinical monitoring strategy designed to
      optimize the treatment of CNS infection. In the future it will become increasingly important
      to consider CNS penetration issues in selecting ART regimens. The randomized clinical trial
      proposed here would provide the level of evidence needed to formulate ART guidelines specific
      to HNCI.

      Subjects eligible for this trial will be individuals with HNCI who anticipate initiation of a
      new ARV regimen or substitution of their existing regimen following contemporary treatment
      guidelines. A total of 120 patients at 3 study sites will be randomized 1:1 to receive a
      CNS-targeted (CNS-T) ARV strategy versus a non-CNS-targeted (Comparison) strategy. The
      primary outcome, change in global neuropsychological (NP) performance, will be assessed at 16
      weeks. CNS-T will comprise two components: 1) initial selection of agents to optimize CNS
      penetration of the overall regimen; and 2) modification of the regimen if an interim
      pharmacokinetic (PK) assessment determines that plasma ARV exposure is not appropriate
      (overdosing, underdosing).
    
  