
    
      VTE is an increasingly frequent complication of cancer and anti-cancer therapies. It is
      associated with increased mortality and other significant adverse consequences. Risk factors
      for VTE in the cancer population have been identified, and multiple studies have also shown
      that VTE can be prevented in high-risk populations with the use of thromboprophylaxis. This
      study evaluated the safety and efficacy of prophylaxis in a high-risk subgroup of cancer
      patients identified by a validated risk model developed by us previously called the "Khorana
      Score." Correlative studies evaluated the value of tissue factor as a predictive biomarker of
      VTE. The purpose of this study was to conduct a prospective, randomized clinical trial
      comparing the safety and efficacy of prophylaxis with dalteparin to no treatment in reducing
      VTE in high-risk ambulatory cancer patients initiating chemotherapy and to establish the
      value of TF as a predictive marker for VTE in ambulatory cancer patients receiving
      chemotherapy.

      PHACS was a randomized multi-center clinical trial. Eligible patients were enrolled and
      underwent baseline screening ultrasonography of the lower extremities to rule out
      pre-existing DVT and a chest CT scan to rule out PE. If negative, patients were then
      randomized to receive either dalteparin 5000 units subcutaneously daily or observation for a
      study period of 12 weeks. The first day of dalteparin prophylaxis coincided with the first
      day of initiation of a new systemic chemotherapy regimen. The patients were seen every 4
      weeks (±1 week) at the time of regularly scheduled chemotherapy cycle visits for serial
      ultrasonography of lower extremities during study period (i.e. at 4, 8 and 12 weeks.) A chest
      CT scan was performed at 12 weeks. Compliance was measured by asking patients about missed
      doses at these 4-weekly visits as well as by asking patients to fill an injection diary.
    
  