
    
      The general design of the study is broken down into two parts: the pre- and post-implantation
      schedules:

      During the 30 days before implantation the participant will be asked to take home a small
      computer with an Oculus Rift headset and Leap Motion hand tracker. The participant will be
      asked to use these items five (5) times a week for 30 minutes a session and interact with a
      displayed virtual reality environment. In this environment the participant will move their
      intact hand and the Leap Motion will display the hand movements in the virtual environment
      with the intact hand movements being mirrored between two hand facsimile. The participant
      will be instructed to move and stretch both their phantom and intact hand in a mirrored
      fashion. The purpose of these exercises are to allow the participant to become accustomed to
      the virtual reality setup (equipment and display) as well as providing a mirror box like
      effect where the virtual hand facsimile for their phantom hand is mapped to their body.

      The second phase of the general design continues for 30-90 days post-implantation. We shall
      perform electrophysiological recordings from a single microelectrode array implanted into
      either the median, radial, or ulnar nerve. Neural signals (single and compound action
      potentials) evoked by variegated movements of the fingers and thumb will be recorded on the
      implanted microelectrode array. By recording electrical signals from the nerves the
      investigators hope to decode finger movements in real-time using machine learning algorithms.
      The participants will be asked to complete tasks in controlled virtual environment during the
      training phase. The virtual environment, which includes virtual arms and hands, will be
      presented to the participant via the Oculus rift, a pair of virtual reality goggles. The task
      will require recording the position of arms in space which will be accomplished using the
      Vicon motion capture system that will use infra-red reflecting markers attached to the
      participant's arms. The investigators will also use a marker-less motion capture system, Leap
      Motion, to track the specific movements of the intact hand. Post training, the investigators
      aim to perform real-time decoding of finger movements in the virtual reality environments.
    
  