
    
      Chronic post-surgical pain is persistent pain after a surgical procedure that lasts for at
      least 3 months with other causes of pain excluded. It is a major socioeconomic and healthcare
      burden, and has impact on quality of life, physical function, emotional wellbeing and
      healthcare costs. In Singapore, hysterectomy for benign indications incurs 32% risk of
      developing chronic post-hysterectomy pain (CPHP). CPHP can occur around the surgical site,
      lower abdominal or pelvic region. Based on the pathophysiology underlying chronic pain, the
      investigators hypothesize that central sensitization, pain fear-avoidance and low
      pain-pressure threshold are plausible risk factors for CPHP. However, none of these three
      risk categories has been evaluated in patients with CPHP.

      The investigators hypothesize that preoperatively abnormal central sensitization, pain
      fear-avoidance and decreased pain-pressure threshold are associated with increased risk of
      developing CPHP. The investigators will evaluate these risk factors preoperatively, and
      follow-up study participants at 4- and 6-months after hysterectomy, to assess the
      associations between these risk factors and CPHP.

      The investigators will perform a prospective study of 236 patients undergoing
      abdominal/laparoscopic hysterectomy for benign indications, recruited at KK Hospital,
      Singapore. Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI), Fear-Avoidance Components Scale (FACS),
      pain-pressure threshold and other known factors associated with CPHP will be assessed and
      recorded. Participants will be followed up at 4- and 6-months postoperatively to assess CPHP.
      Logistical regression analysis will be used to evaluate the associations between these
      factors and CPHP.

      Knowledge of risk factors for CPHP will guide future studies to identify high-risk patients
      for implementation of individualized targeted therapies to optimize surgical outcomes of this
      patient group, and to confirm the hypothetical pathophysiological processes of chronic
      post-surgical pain similarly applicable to CPHP.
    
  