
    
      Background and significance

      1. The expansion of the treatment landscape in MS has increased the complexity of treatment
      decisions. Recommendations and algorithms can help to maximize the benefit of each available
      therapy; however, there is currently no consensus algorithm available, with most of the
      recently published recommendations being regional and most guidelines currently used in
      clinical practice, being driven by the labels of the therapies. The lack of head-to-head
      clinical trials for approved drugs is crucial since head-to-head trials constitute the gold
      standard for efficacy comparisons. This kind of information is mandatory for informed and
      objective health decisions. The present proposal aims at filling this critical gap in
      evidence. Randomized head-to-head trials are the best method for evaluating the efficacy of
      different treatments and to help the clinicians and the patients in health decision making.
      Randomized controlled trials, designed as experiments with high internal validity, have the
      ability to determine cause effect relationships. These experiments employ comprehensive
      designs to control for most, if not all, sources of bias by means of randomization, blinding,
      allocation concealment, etc. Usually, extended inclusion and exclusion criteria are used to
      identify a clearly defined population group of participants who would benefit from the
      intervention under investigation. Although the above experimental design, if correctly
      applied, leads to well-controlled trials with statistically credible results, the
      applicability of these results to real life practice may be questionable.

      Here the investigators aim at conducting a comparative open label trial preserving the
      internal validity due to randomization and generalizability due to a pragmatic design. The
      term pragmatic is used for trials designed to test the effectiveness of the intervention in a
      broad routine clinical practice. The explanatory trial is designed in order to control for
      all known biases and confounders, so that the intervention's effect is maximized. The
      pragmatic trial, on the other hand, is designed to test interventions in the full spectrum of
      everyday clinical settings in order to maximize applicability and generalizability.1 This is
      intended to be the first pragmatic multi-centre randomised controlled trial to directly
      assess the effectiveness of the new oral agents approved for MS (FTY/gilenya versus
      DMF/tecfidera). FTY (0.5 mg/day) and DMF (240 mg twice daily) are both efficacious in the
      treatment of MS and both offer the convenience of an oral administration. As such they are
      similarly valuable alternative treatments for MS patients, and are indeed frequently proposed
      as possible alternative treatment options to MS patients. Indication for FTY is restricted in
      Europe to second line in first-line therapy non responders or in active naïve patients. DMF
      is highly prescribed also in active naive patients and as switching strategy in patients who
      do not adequately respond to self-injectable DMTs, such as FTY.

      The need for randomized trials with approved drugs exists when treatment decision in clinical
      practice is challenged by the lack of evidence of superiority of one drug for a specific
      group of patients.

      The efficacy profile of the two oral drug have been characterized in large clinical
      development programs. Oral therapies have been shown to offer benefits with regard to these
      clinical and MRI outcomes when compared with placebo in phase 3 trials.2-5 The clinical
      efficacy of these therapies over traditional injectable DMTs has been demonstrated for FTY in
      the trial assessing injectable interferon versus FTY720 oral in RRMS (TRANSFORMS).6 Findings
      of these phase 3 trials indicate that oral therapies may represent an advance in the
      treatment of MS because they offer effective treatment options that are often better
      tolerated and more convenient than the traditional injectable DMTs. There are no head-to-head
      controlled trials comparing the efficacy of the different oral DMTs. This is an area of much
      interest to neurologists and healthcare decision makers; therefore, indirect treatment
      comparisons have recently been performed. Of these, a recent study has compared FTY with DMF
      using a network meta-analysis approach and found no significant differences in relapse rate
      or in the proportion of patients with disability progression.7 Standard network meta-analysis
      methods may be susceptible to bias because of differences in trial populations and
      methodologies. Subgroup and post hoc analyses of the phase 3 trials of DMTs have demonstrated
      that differences in patient baseline characteristics influence the observed effect of DMTs on
      relapse rate and disability progression,6,8 and that the application of different definitions
      of disability progression has a large impact on disability outcomes.9 Therefore, it is
      important to adjust for these potentially confounding factors when assessing the comparative
      efficacy of these oral DMTs. It has been reported that FTY therapy results in a higher
      probability of no evidence of disease activity (NEDA) than DMF therapy when phase 3 trial
      data are indirectly compared and differences between trials are adjusted for.10 These
      findings must, however, be interpreted with caution, owing to the assumptions inherent in any
      modeling approach.

      The need for high-quality, widely applicable evidence is gaining momentum, especially amidst
      health care policy makers. The increased costs of interventions and health care in a
      resource-limited environment have fueled the demand for clinically effective and applicable
      evidence. Here the investigators aim at conducting a comparative open label trial preserving
      the internal validity due to randomization and generalizability due to a pragmatic design. It
      will be the first randomized pragmatic trials in MS. Policy makers have an active interest in
      pragmatic trials, since these are designed to answer the question most relevant to a decision
      maker's agenda: comparative effectiveness of interventions in the routine practice. The
      availability of comparative data from routine practice will help policy makers to efficiently
      allocate resources and manpower and will drive patients and clinicians in shared and informed
      health decisions. The evolving MS landscape, in which a number of new treatments are
      appearing-each with their own benefits and risks-will require a change in the nature of
      interactions between patients and their physicians, with a shared approach to clinical
      decision making that emphasizes patient-related goals. Together, these innovations in MS
      management offer exciting new opportunities to optimize treatment outcomes. This will
      necessitate attention both to traditional clinical endpoints such as relapses and disability,
      to objective radiological surrogates of disease activity, and to newer outcome measures such
      as brain atrophy , cognition and patient-reported outcomes. In line with this, the present
      proposal aims at comparing the effectiveness of two oral MS agents on patient overall disease
      experience. If, traditionally, both clinical trials and routine medical care have relied on
      outcomes assessed by healthcare professionals, here the investigators want to focus also on
      the importance of self-evaluation of health, thus growing participation of individuals in
      their own care. The investigators can foresee a continuum where patient empowerment
      contributes to improve his/her healthcare and, at the same time, makes valuable medical data
      accessible to the medical community for future therapeutic developments.

      The whole idea of applicable and generalizable research is very appealing and of benefit to
      the health sciences community.
    
  