
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety and feasibility of intravenous infusion of autologous peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and CD34+ peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) that have been
      genetically modified ex vivo to express NY-ESO-1 TCR, following a myeloablative conditioning
      regimen.

      Ia. Assessment of toxicities using Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) and definition of a maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. TCR engineered hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) engraftment. II. Functional assays for TCR
      transgenic cells. III. Progression-free survival (PFS) (compare with the duration of the PFS
      in the last treatment regimen).

      IV. Durable tumor response in at least 30% of the patients defined as immune-related complete
      response (irCR) or immune-related partial response (irPR) by immune-related Response
      Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (irRECIST) criteria at 6 months.

      V. Long-term persistence of TCR transgenic cells (regardless of cell origin) as evidenced by
      > 5% of CD3 lymphocytes being NY-ESO-1 specific by major histocompatibility complex (MHC)
      tetramer assay at 3 and 6 months.

      VI. Discrimination of TCR transgenic cells resulting from retrovirally-transduced mature
      lymphocytes and lentivirally-transduced HSCs and their phenotyping.

      VII. Long term monitoring for replication competent retrovirus and lentivirus. VIII. Analysis
      of viral insertion sites in long term persisting NY-ESO-1 TCR clones: absence of a clonal
      expansion of TCR transgenic cells with a particular transgene insertion site (defined as a
      clone comprising > 20% of all PBSC-derived gene-marked cells).

      IX. Gut microbiota pre and post treatment to evaluate the role of microbiota on the
      therapeutic efficacy of the proposed therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of autologous NY-ESO-1-specific CD8-positive T
      lymphocytes.

      Patients receive melphalan intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day -1. Patients then
      receive autologous NY-ESO-1 CD4-TCR CD34+ HSC IV on day 0 and autologous NY-ESO-1-specific
      CD8-positive T lymphocytes IV between days 7 and 21. Patients also receive aldesleukin
      subcutaneously (SC) twice daily (BID) for 14 days on the following day after the T cell
      infusion (between days 8 and 22).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 5 years,
      then annually for up to 15 years.
    
  