
    
      Stroke remains a major medical issue. According to the American Heart Association (AHA)
      report in 2012, a new or recurrent stroke occurs in around 795,000 people each year, and 1
      out of every 18 deaths in the United States is due to stroke. The incidence of stroke may be
      even higher in the Chinese population than in the US population. In Taiwan, the average
      annual incidence rate of first-ever stroke for people above 36 years is 330 per 100,000. The
      associated disease burden of stroke is increasing annually and remains a significant health
      concern. Common medical complications of stroke include infections, falls, pressure sores,
      and depression. A systematic review showed that 30% of patients develop post-stroke
      infection. Though rates of pneumonia and urinary tract infection after stroke are both 10%,
      pneumonia is associated with higher mortality. If stroke patients become infected during
      admission, they may experience neurologic deterioration, poor functional outcome, and
      increased length of stay (LOS).

      Adequate hydration is necessary for maintenance of physiologic homeostasis. Dehydration is a
      frequent cause of mortality in elderly patients. Dehydration is a common and early feature of
      acute ischemic stroke and may be a contributor to poor outcomes. In the absence of known
      biological markers of dehydration, biochemical data were analyzed to identify such markers.
      These studies showed that the blood urea nitrogen (BUN)/creatinine (Cr) ratio ≥ 15 can be
      used as a marker of dehydration. Our previous study also revealed that BUN/Cr ratio ≥ 15 is
      an independent predictor of stroke-in-evolution (SIE). These studies suggest that BUN/Cr
      ratio may used to identify those patients with acute ischemic stroke who are dehydrated and
      will benefit from hydration therapy.

      The investigators then conducted a phase II single arm control trial of patients with acute
      ischemic stroke and BUN/Cr ratio ≥15 conducted from January 2011 to December 2013. The
      results demonstrated blood urea nitrogen/creatinine (BUN/Cr)-based hydration therapy
      decreases the length of stay (LOS) and rate of post-stroke infection.

      Since the BUN/Cr ratio is an indicator of hydration status, and urine specific gravity is
      also an indicator of hydration status, the investigators hypothesized that urine specific
      gravity would also be an independent predictor of early deterioration. A urine specific
      gravity >1.010 indicates that urine is concentrating in the kidneys which means that the body
      might be relatively dehydrated. Because such an increase in urine specific gravity occurs
      earlier than an increase in the BUN/Cr ratio, the investigators thought that an increase in
      urine specific gravity might be an earlier predictor of early deterioration in ischemic
      stroke than the BUN/Cr ratio.

      In this study, daily urine specific gravity will be used to adjust hydration therapy in
      ischemic stroke patients with initial Bun/Cr ratio <15. The primary outcome is the post
      stroke infection rate in the first 7 days after admission, and secondary outcome is 3 months
      functional outcome using mRS.
    
  