
    
      The CHRONICLE Study is a multi-center, non-interventional, prospective cohort study of adults
      with severe asthma who do not achieve control with high-dose ICS therapy with additional
      controllers and/or require systemic corticosteroid or monoclonal antibody therapy. This study
      will provide a contemporary description of the epidemiology and medical management of United
      States adults with severe asthma who have not achieved control with high-dose ICS therapy and
      additional controllers. Additionally, the study will describe the use of and outcomes
      associated with recently approved monoclonal antibody therapies for severe asthma. Patients
      will be enrolled from a diverse population of academic and community-based specialist centers
      across the US. Data will be collected in a naturalistic manner and patient management will
      not be influenced by the study protocol. At least 1500 patients in the US with a confirmed
      diagnosis of severe asthma will be enrolled by a diverse set of asthma specialists (eg,
      allergists and pulmonologists who treat asthma) from academic and community-based centers.
      Basic de-identified information will be collected for all patients meeting study inclusion
      criteria, including those not approached for enrollment or who decline enrollment, to enable
      an assessment of the enrolled and non-enrolled populations. This information will include
      age, sex, insurance status, age at asthma diagnosis, class of asthma treatment per study
      inclusion criteria, number of asthma exacerbations in the past 12 months, study eligibility,
      whether the patient was approached for enrollment, study enrollment status, and reason for
      not enrolling for those who are approached but do not enroll. Patient-reported asthma control
      (Asthma Control Test [ACT]), asthma exacerbations, and treatment adherence will be solicited
      monthly. Patient-reported information on asthma-related healthcare utilization, global
      evaluation of treatment effectiveness (GETE), and work productivity (Work Productivity and
      Activity Impairment Asthma questionnaire [WPAI-Asthma]) will be collected at baseline and
      approximately every 3 months. Detailed information on asthma-related quality of life (Saint
      George's Respiratory Questionnaire [SGRQ]) as well as presence of an asthma treatment plan
      will be collected from patients approximately every 6 months. All of the questionnaires will
      be collected via web-based surveys. Patients will then be followed until study
      discontinuation or the patient withdraws from the study or death, whichever occurs first. The
      expectation is that patients will be followed for a period of at least 3 years.
    
  