
    
      In view of the similarities of the surgical set-ups of partial gastrectomies and cephalic
      duodenopancreatectomies, and the increased risk of gastric cancer after early partial
      gastrectomy, it is possible that the former pancreatic cephalic duodenopancreatectomy (CPD)
      is also associated with the occurrence of stomach cancer.

      The investigators expect a high rate of cancer and high grade dysplasia in these patients
      based on literature data and available data on gastric cancer after partial gastrectomy.
      Participants with lesions to be discovered will benefit from earlier medical management of
      less advanced tumor lesions, with improved prognosis.

      The investigators results will provide an argument for conducting larger analytical studies
      and will also provide useful information for the design of these studies. These studies will
      eventually identify a gastric cancer screening strategy among patients with previous CPDP.
      Screening programs in groups at higher risk of gastric cancer among patients with CPDP could
      provide significant benefits in terms of gastric cancer mortality and quality of life, as
      well as medico-economic positive for the health care system.

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the incidence of gastric cancer or high
      grade dysplasia in patients with old CPDP (10 years or older) and who performed the endoscopy
      protocol.

      The primary endpoint is the incidence rate of gastric cancer or high grade dysplasia in
      patients who had CPDP 10 years or more ago.

      The cohort will consist of all eligible patients identified from pathology registries and
      PMSI data from participating centers (patients living 10 years after CPDP, with no previous
      history of gastric cancer before entering the cohort).

      Entry into the cohort (beginning of exposure) will be 10 years after CPD. If a gastric cancer
      has been diagnosed previously at the beginning of the current study (2019) with histological
      documentation present in the medical file, no new endoscopy will be performed and the patient
      will be considered as a "new case" on the date of histological diagnosis of cancer. The
      collection of data will be retrospective for these patients.

      Of the patients included in the cohort, some will be eligible to perform the endoscopy added
      for research. This group will be the sample in which the primary endpoint will be measured.

      1. Recruitment of patients with cephalad cephalic duodenopancreatectomy 10 or more years ago
      2.

      Per patient (in the group with endoscopies):

        -  Inclusion consultation with patient consent collection

        -  Anesthesia consultation

        -  Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and biopsy

        -  Follow-up consultation to report the results to the patient and possibly organize a
           support (announcement device complies with HAS recommendations). For patients in the
           cohort not included in the endoscopy study, the data collection will be retrospective
           only (no specific patient consultation for research and no endoscopy review added for
           this research).

           3. Data analysis: primary endpoints (incidence rate of high grade dysplasia and gastric
           cancer) and secondary endpoints 700 to 800 patients will be included in the entire
           cohort and 164 patients in the group with endoscopy.

           7 centers in Ile de France participate.

        -  duration of inclusion: 24 months

        -  duration of participation (treatment + follow-up): schedule of the visit of anesthesia
           (5.5 months max), endoscopy programming (1 month max) + the day of the exam + 4 weeks
           for the results of the exam: 8 months maximum

        -  total duration: 32 months
    
  