
    
      Design: The present study is a single-center, randomized, double-blinded, cross-over study of
      BOTOX® in diabetic neuropathic foot pain.

      Pain Assessment: Subjective intensity of neuropathic pain was rated by a 100 mm visual
      analogue scale (VAS, 0 = no pain, 100 = unbearable pain). To assess the somatosensory effect
      of botulinum toxin, we also performed aserial somatosensory evaluations upon bilateral medial
      (L5 dermatome) and lateral (S1 dermatome) dorsum of the feet, and bilateral medial calves (L4
      dermatome). Tactile threshold (TT) values of were assessed by von Frey filament, applied in
      an ascending and descending order of magnitude. The force required to bend the filaments was
      converted to log units for further comparison. Pain threshold (PT) to static mechanical
      stimuli was also determined by von Frey filament upon the above test sites to evaluate the
      severity of cutaneous allodynia. All subjects underwent the subjective pain rating and
      somatosensory evaluations (TT and PT) at baseline and each follow-up stage.

      Treatment: Treatments will consist of intradermal (i.d). injections of BOTOX® after topical
      anesthesia over randomly selected 15 patients and saline placebo over the other 15 patients.
      Dose will be 0.5-1U/cm2 BOTOX®, at total dose of 50 U/foot. A follow-up visit and assessment
      will be performed at 1, 4 8, 12 weeks following treatment during which the previous tests
      will be repeated. A cross-over of injection in the Botox group and saline group will be taken
      at the 12th week and then repeat the assessments at 1, 4, 8, 12 weeks.

      Analysis: Comparison between treated feet and non-treated feet based on QVAS and pain
      sensitivity test and life quality questionnaire by chi-square analysis.

      The summary of proposal is as below. Botox: 1. intradermal injection after Topical
      anesthesia, EMLA 2. 1 cc syringe with 30-gauge needle 3. 50 U/foot 4. 12 points/foot (3×4) A
      total of 30 cases (15 Botox group, 15 saline group and cross-over 12 weeks later)
    
  