
    
      Depressed elderly patients often show signs of cerebrovascular disease, commonly known as a
      stroke. Some scientists theorize that having cerebrovascular disease may affect depression in
      older adults in one of three ways: by causing depression, by making it more likely that
      people who have been depressed have a relapse, or by maintaining certain depressive symptoms
      in those already depressed. The combination of depression and cerebrovascular disease in
      older adults is referred to as vascular depression and is associated with psychomotor
      slowing, functional impairment, and cognitive impairment. Additionally, the likelihood of
      improvement or remission is lower in vascular depression and is more difficult to treat over
      time.

      Nimodipine (NIM) is FDA approved to reduce incidence and severity of problems with blood flow
      resulting from a particular type of stroke. In addition to improving blood flow in the brain
      following a stroke, NIM also protects neurons from injury or degeneration and has cognitive
      and functional benefits. These positive effects of NIM may make it useful for treatment of
      vascular depression. In a previous study of people with vascular depression, pairing NIM with
      the antidepressant fluoxetine showed greater improvements in depression treatment outcomes,
      higher likelihood of full remission, and less incidence of depression recurrence than using
      fluoxetine alone. This study will examine whether pairing NIM with other antidepressants will
      reduce recurrence of vascular depression.

      Participation in this study will last 56 weeks and will be divided into two phases. In the
      first phase, participants will receive antidepressant medication without NIM. Participants
      will begin taking escitalopram but may be switched to duloxetine or have lorazepam added to
      their regimen, depending on individual treatment effectiveness and side effects. The first
      phase will last between 6 and 24 weeks, ending when the individual participant either
      responds to medication or experiences 24 weeks of nonresponse. During the first phase,
      participants will attend weekly study visits, during which researchers will assess medication
      effectiveness and monitor side effects.

      At the beginning of the second phase, participants will be randomly assigned to receive
      either NIM or a placebo in addition to continuing with the antidepressant medication already
      helping them. Participants will take NIM or the placebo for 8 months, undergoing weekly study
      visits for the first month and monthly study visits for the last 7 months. During these
      visits, researchers will monitor the participants' health and reactions to their medications.
      After 4, 16, and 32 weeks, an EKG test will be performed, and after 16 and 32 weeks,
      cognitive and physical tests will be performed again. After the 8 months, participants will
      attend three weekly study visits while their use of medication is lowered and then ended.

      For information on a related study, please follow this link:

      http://clinicaltrials.gov/show/NCT00177424
    
  