
    
      Folic acid supplementation is well established for its role in prevention of neural tube
      defects (NTD) when taken periconceptionally up to 12 weeks of gestation. The naturally
      occurring form, folate, is a water soluble B vitamin (B9) that is mostly present in dark
      green leafy vegetables and legumes. However, it is only 50% bioavailable. Folic acid, on the
      contrary, as a synthetic form of folate is almost completely bioavailable especially when
      administered in an empty stomach. It has been endorsed by World Health Organisation that RBC
      folate cutoff of 906 nmol/L (400ng/mL) is required for reduction of NTD. This level is only
      achievable by taking Folic acid supplementation of 0.4mg/day. Women at higher risk of having
      recurrent NTD is recommended to take higher dose at 4mg/day.

      Patients with thalassaemia have an increased rate of erythropoiesis and chronic haemolysis.
      They are believed to have a higher rate of folate turnover and consequentially higher risk of
      folate deficiency. Guideline from Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists
      recommends daily intake of 5mg folic acid preconceptionally to prevent NTD. But, it does not
      specify whether this dosage is applicable to all types and degrees of thalassaemias and
      research data on the optimal dosage is lacking.

      In addition to prevention of NTD, the supplementation of folic acid is also recommended for
      pregnant thalassaemia women for prevention of antenatal anaemia. In a retrospective study of
      Chinese population reported in 1989, women with beta-thalassaemia minor taking additional 5mg
      folic acid had higher pre-delivery haemoglobin concentration of 10.1 g/dL compared to
      haemoglobin level of 9.7 g/dL in the group taking Obimin (a pregnancy supplement containing
      0.25mg folic acid and 90 mg ferrous fumarate). However, there was no further randomised
      controlled trial to validate this observation. Though a higher folic acid supplementation was
      believed to be beneficial in prevention of antenatal anaemia, unmetabolized folic acid were
      detected in maternal and fetal blood when daily dosage greater than 0.8-1mg was taken.
      Moreover, a higher rate of urinary excretion of folic acid was also observed in pregnant
      women receiving higher dosage of folic acid supplementation.

      In non-pregnant beta thalassaemia major patients, folic acid supplementation at 1 mg daily
      was advised as cessation of which could lead to a significant reduction in serum folate. This
      has been counter-proposed by the observation of normal to high serum folate levels in
      transfusion dependent thalassaemia receiving optimal transfusion. Indeed, folic acid
      supplementation should be considered for non-transfusion dependent thalassaemia as excessive
      erythropoiesis is required to maintain satisfactory haemoglobin.

      Folate level drops during pregnancy to puerperal period. Information on folate level of
      thalassaemia trait in pregnancy is scanty. In a paper published in 1985, no difference in
      serum folate was found between normal women and women with thalassaemia trait, and hence
      usual supplementation was suggested.

      Hong Kong has no policy on food fortification. Research data conducted in countries with food
      fortification may not be applicable. The folate status may have been changed in last few
      decades because of better general nutritional status and public knowledge of preconception
      folic acid supplementation. The preparation of 5mg folic acid is available in all public
      hospitals and preparation of 0.5mg folic acid is recently introduced. As such, the 5mg folic
      acid prescription is traditionally adopted and this can be a result of its availability.
      However, the practice varies widely among public hospitals and Maternity & Child Health Care
      centres. There is no standardised guideline on the dosage and indications of folic acid
      supplementation for pregnant thalassaemic women. More importantly, no recent data on the
      baseline folate status in pregnant women with thalassaemia is available locally.

      Patient blood management in Obstetrics has been advocated with an aim to minimize blood loss
      by maintaining haemoglobin levels, reduce blood transfusion and optimize patient outcome.
      Identification and treatment of maternal anaemia is one of the three main pillars to achieve
      it. Even though thalassaemia can be considered as a risk factor for NTD, it remains
      controversial as to how much folic acid supplementation is adequate for pregnant women with
      thalassaemia trait in prevention of maternal anaemia which is a key element in maternity
      care.
    
  