
    
      Relacorilant is a small molecule antagonist of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR). The goals of
      this study are to evaluate the efficacy of relacorilant either administered daily
      (continuous) or on the day prior, the day of, and the day after chemotherapy (intermittent)
      in combination with nab-paclitaxel in the treatment of platinum-resistant ovarian, fallopian
      tube, or primary peritoneal cancers compared with nab-paclitaxel alone. The safety,
      pharmacokinetics (PK), and pharmacodynamic profile of relacorilant in combination with
      nab-paclitaxel will also be assessed.

      Eligible patients will be randomized 1:1:1 to one of the following three treatment arms.
      Patient randomization will be stratified by treatment-free interval from most recent taxane
      (relapsed within 6 months vs >6 months) and presence of ascites (yes vs no).

        -  Arm A (Continuous relacorilant): Relacorilant starting at 100mg, administered orally,
           once daily every day in combination with nab-paclitaxel on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each
           28-day cycle.

        -  Arm B (Intermittent relacorilant): Relacorilant 150mg, administered orally, on the day
           before (excluding Cycle 1, Day -1), the day of, and the day after nab-paclitaxel, in
           combination with nab-paclitaxel on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.

        -  Arm C (Comparator): Nab-paclitaxel on Days 1, 8, and 15 of each 28-day cycle.

      Patients will remain on study treatment until reaching a protocol-defined event of disease
      progression (PD), experiencing unmanageable toxicity, or until other treatment
      discontinuation criteria are met. All patients will be followed for progression, subsequent
      therapies and survival. Patients in Arm C who experience unequivocal PD per RECIST v1.1 will
      be given the opportunity to receive relacorilant in combination with nab-paclitaxel after
      discussion with the Medical Monitor.
    
  