
    
      Vestibular migraine (VM) is a distinct subtype of migraine that causes episodic
      vertigo/dizziness, sometimes with headache, and sometimes without. However, unlike
      traditional migraines, patients generally seek out care because of dizziness, and not because
      of headache. Therefore, these patients are cared for by a variety of providers who treat
      dizziness, including otolaryngologists and neurologists. Lifetime prevalence of VM in the
      general population is estimated to be 2.7%, and at least 10% of patients in a tertiary care
      vestibular clinic have VM. Furthermore, VM has been shown to decrease quality of life in
      multiple domains, including overall health, mental health, and emotional health. Since
      testing and imaging are usually normal, diagnosis can only be made on clinical grounds.
      Recently, consensus criteria for diagnosis was published by the Barany Society and the
      International Classification of Headache Disorders.

      Galcanezumab is a calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) antagonist that has been approved by
      the FDA for treatment of episodic and chronic migraine. Its effects with regards to VM have
      not been formally studied. However, there is ample evidence to suggest that aberrant
      trigeminovascular inflammation may be integral to the pathophysiology of VM, similar to
      migraine in general.

      This pilot study will be a single center, randomized double-blinded placebo-controlled trial
      comparing galcanezumab to placebo for treatment of VM. Screening data will be reviewed to
      determine subject eligibility. Participants who meet all inclusion criteria and none of the
      exclusion criteria will be entered into the study. Participants in the galcanezumab arm will
      receive 240 mg via subcutaneous injection with a pre-loaded syringe at month 1, followed by
      120 mg at month 2, and 120 mg at month 3. Those in the placebo arms will receive subcutaneous
      injections at the same time intervals of placebo. Randomization will occur through the
      hospital research pharmacy. Allocation concealment will be ensured; study participants will
      be given an envelope from a folder of sequentially ordered identical envelopes that will
      contain study instructions and the allocated drug. The master file linking study ID with
      allocation will be created by a third party and kept secret until after data analysis is
      complete. This will ensure that both providers and participants are adequately blinded.
      Blocking will be used in increments of 10 subjects to ensure equitable distribution of
      subjects into the two treatment arms. In addition, stratification by sex and definite versus
      probable vestibular migraine status will be used to ensure equal allocation. Total duration
      of subject participation will be five months. Total duration of the study is expected to be 2
      years.

      Data collection will be performed by the clinical research coordinator during each study
      visit. This data will be entered into the REDCap database by the research coordinator. VM-
      Patient Assessment Tool and Handicap Inventory (VM-PATHI), dizziness handicap inventory
      (DHI), General Anxiety Disorder-7 (GAD-7), Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9),
      Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System Short Form (PROMIS SF) v1.1- Global
      Health, and Headache Impact Test-6 (HIT-6) will be administered electronically via REDCap to
      the subject during the study visit.

      There will be no stopping rules for this trial, given the short duration of the study. Each
      adverse effect and serious adverse effect will be reviewed by the data safety monitoring
      team, and subjects may be unblinded and/or the study will be stopped early for serious safety
      concerns.
    
  