
    
      Primary Hypothesis:

      The primary hypothesis is that both aerobic exercise and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
      will significantly improve physical function (as measured by the Physical Component Summary
      Scale of the SF-36V) in veterans with Gulf War Veterans' Illnesses (GWVI), and the
      combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and aerobic exercise will be more beneficial than
      either therapy alone.

      Secondary Hypotheses:

        1. Both aerobic exercise and CBT will lead to improvements in the cardinal symptoms of
           GWVI: pain, fatigue and cognitive difficulties.

        2. Both aerobic exercise and CBT will lead to decreased levels of distress in persons with
           GWVI.

        3. Both aerobic exercise and CBT will lead to improvements in emotional functioning in
           persons with GWVI.

      Primary Outcomes: Improvement on the Physical Component Summary Scale of the SF-36V of more
      than 7 units at one year relative to baseline.

      Interventions: Twelve one-hour weekly sessions of Cognitive behavioral therapy, aerobic
      exercise, the combination of the two therapies (12 one-hour sessions of CBT and 12 one-hour
      sessions of aerobic exercise) and a control group that receives usual and customary care.

      Study Abstract: This trial was a study of Gulf War era veterans who have unexplained chronic
      medical symptoms such as pain, fatigue, and/or cognitive difficulties. All Gulf War veterans
      who were deployed to the South West Asia theater of operations between August 1990 and August
      1991 were eligible for the study if they had at least two of the following three symptoms
      that began after August of 1990, lasting for more than six months and occurring up to
      present: 1. fatigue that limits usual activities (work, recreation, or social), 2.
      musculoskeletal pain involving two or more regions of the body, and neuro-cognitive
      dysfunction (self-reported difficulties in memory, concentration, or attention). Veterans who
      met enrollment criteria were randomized to one of four treatment arms: 1. CBT plus aerobic
      exercise, 2. aerobic exercise alone, 3. CBT alone, and 4. usual and customary care. Treatment
      was given for three months in group format. The CBT and exercise groups met for one hour,
      once a week for 12 weeks for a total of 12 hourly sessions. The interventions were
      standardized and all investigators were trained in the use of these methods prior to start up
      of the trial. The target sample size was 1064 veterans with GWVI to be accrued from 20
      Medical Centers (18 VA and 2 DOD). All veterans were followed for one year and outcomes
      measured at 3 months (immediately following the end of treatment), 6 months and 12 months
      after enrollment.

      The study was kicked-off in April 1999 and enrollment ended on September 5, 2000, during
      which 1092 veterans were randomized. Patient follow-up concluded on September 30, 2001 and
      the final DSMB meeting was held on November 28, 2001. The major finding was that there were
      no significant differences in the proportion of veterans who reported an improvement in
      physical function at one year among the treatment groups (11.5% for usual care, 11.7% for
      exercise, 18.4% for CBT and 18.5% for CBT + exercise). However, statistically significant
      improvements in fatigue, cognitive symptoms, distress, and mental health functioning were
      observed with exercise alone and with exercise plus CBT compared to usual care. CBT alone had
      a statistically significant effect on cognitive symptoms and in mental health functioning.
      Except for affective pain, which improved with CBT alone or with exercise, neither treatment
      had a significant effect on the other three measures of pain. In summary, neither exercise
      nor CBT had a significant impact on physical function for veterans with GWVI but both
      treatments, especially exercise, resulted in improvement in fatigue, cognitive symptoms,
      distress and mental health functioning.

      Results embargoed until publication.
    
  