
    
      Detailed

      Description Background:

      There are 65 million Americans and over 8.5 million veterans who have been diagnosed with
      hypertension; yet only 31% of all hypertensive patients have their blood pressure (BP) under
      effective control (<140/90 mm/Hg). Uncontrolled hypertension greatly increases the risk of
      cerebral vascular accidents, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, renal failure,
      congestive heart failure, and mortality. Despite the damaging impact of hypertension and the
      availability of well-defined therapies and widely accepted target values for BP,
      interventions to improve BP control have had limited success.

      Objectives:

      The study is one of the first to compare three interventions designed to improve BP control:
      a behavioral educational intervention, an evidence-based medication management intervention,
      and combined intervention for patients with poor BP control defined by home BP monitoring.
      The primary hypotheses are: 1) Patients who receive only the behavioral intervention will
      show improved rates of BP control as compared to the control group over 18 months of
      follow-up; 2) Patients who receive only the hypertension medication management intervention
      will show improved rates of BP control as compared to the control group over 18 months of
      follow-up; and, 3) Patients who receive the combined intervention will show higher rates of
      BP control as compared to all other patients over the 18 months of follow-up.

      Methods:

      A three-year randomized controlled trial among veterans with poor BP control testing three
      interventions in three VA primary care clinics is proposed to improve BP control. We will
      test these interventions using home BP monitoring in a four group design administered via the
      telephone: 1) control group - a group of hypertensive patients who receive usual care; 2)
      Nurse-administered tailored behavioral intervention previously tested (HSR&D grant IIR
      20-034); 3) Nurse-administered medication management according to a hypertension decision
      support system that uses the VA's Computerized Medical Record System (VA HSR&D grant CPI
      99275); 4) combination of the tailored behavioral and medication management interventions.

      A random sample of hypertensive patients with poor BP control at baseline were consented and
      randomly allocated to one of four arms. The interventions will activate only when home BP
      monitoring indicates inadequate BP control. Patients assigned to the behavioral intervention
      will receive a tailored self-management intervention to promote adherence with medication,
      information on the risks of hypertension and health behaviors at periodic telephone contacts.
      Patients will receive feedback about their recent BP values, continuous patient education,
      and will be monitored and supported to enhance treatment adherence. Patients randomized to
      the medication management arm will have their hypertension regimen changed by a nurse using a
      hypertension decision support system developed and validated in the VA. Medication
      recommendations generated are based on JNC 7 and the VA's hypertension treatment guidelines
      and are also individualized to patients' comorbid illnesses, laboratory values, and other
      elements of patients' clinical status. Medication management will be based on home BP
      monitoring and delivered by telephone. The nurse is part of an extended primary care team and
      communicates changes to the patients' primary care providers via a study physician.

      The primary outcome will be a dichotomous measure representing whether or not the patient's
      BP is in control: >140/90 mm/Hg (non-diabetic) and >130/80 mm/Hg (diabetics). Measures will
      be made at six-month intervals over 18 months (4 total measurements). We will model the
      outcome measures and evaluate the interventions using a mixed effects model for dichotomous
      outcomes.

      Status:

      Primary study enrollment began May 5, 2006 and was completed November 2007. We randomized 591
      participants in the study. Baseline recruitment was completed in November 2007. Participants'
      completed the six month follow-up interviews in June 2008 and 12 month follow-up in December
      2008. 18 month follow-up was completed June 2009.

      Study was granted an extension to complete two goals: 1) investigate the sustainability of BP
      control after completion of intervention, and , 2) examine what aspects of the intervention
      worked or did not work using qualitative interviews.

      Background/Rationale:

      Despite the impact of hypertension and the availability of well-defined therapies and widely
      accepted target values for blood pressure (BP), interventions to improve BP control have had
      limited success.

      Objectives:

      The study is one of the first to compare three interventions designed to improve BP control:
      a behavioral educational intervention, an evidence-based medication management intervention,
      and combined intervention for patients with poor BP control defined by home BP monitoring. We
      received an 11 month extension to evaluate 3 key components of the study (sustainability of
      BP effects, qualitative evaluation of the intervention, evaluation of the supporting
      materials used to ensure literacy levels and cultural sensitivity.)

      Methods:

      A 4-arm randomized trial with 18-month follow-up. Patents were selected from primary care
      clinics at the Durham VA Medical Center. Of the eligible patients, 591 individuals were
      randomized to either usual care or one of three telephone-based intervention groups. The
      intervention phone calls were triggered based on home BP values transmitted via
      telemonitoring devices. Patients were instructed to take their BP three times a week and
      transmit to study team. Behavioral management involved promoting health behaviors. Medication
      management involved adjustment of hypertension medications by a study physician and nurse
      based on hypertension treatment guidelines. The primary outcome was changes in BP control
      measured at six-month intervals over 18 months. For the sustainability extension of the
      study, in additional to collection of BP values, we will use qualitative analysis to examine
      the audio interviews.

      Status:

      Sustainability phase recruitment began May 1, 2010 and ended on Aug 15, 2010. Analyses are
      continuing.
    
  