
    
      This study is a prospective cohort study, conducted in Minia university hospital and Minia
      insurance hospital in the period from July 2013 to January 2016, where 597 patients with
      gallstones were admitted for laparoscopic cholecystectomy and were done by the same surgeon.
      Based on the preoperative scoring system to predict the degree of difficulty in laparoscopic
      cholecystectomy, patients that had the score > 6 and were fit for laparoscopic surgery were
      included in the study. Only 125 met these criteria and agreed to share in the study and gave
      their informed consent. 60 patients were operated by SLC (Group 1).This included the classic
      dissection of Calot's triangle to achieve the CVS, with separate clipping and division of
      cystic duct and artery. While, 65 patients were operated by laparoscopic cholecystectomy
      using RI approach (Group 2). This included separation of the lower third of GB from its bed
      down to its pedicle (artery and duct) with mass ligation of both.

      Operative procedure of by RI approach:

      The site of trocars was the same as for the standard cholecystectomy. After dissection of
      adhesion masking the GB, if present, to reach the Hartmann pouch, at this point Calot's
      triangle usually was scarred and frozen, the surgeon never tried to dissect it and instead
      the surgeon continued as follow :

        1. De-shouldering of GB: by incising the serosal covering on either side of the
           infundibulum and lower part of the body.

        2. This followed by dissection and separation of the lower third of GB body from its bed,
           using suction-irrigation probe or hook dissector. Dissection continued downward till the
           GB pedicle (duct and artery).

        3. Mass ligation of cystic artery and duct, using intracorporeal note by vicryl number 1
           suture.

        4. Then the surgeon cut above the ligature using diathermy on scissor or ultrasound sealing
           device. During this step the cut end of the GB was grasped by forceps trying to prevent
           spillage of its content, if happened, stones were collected in a bag and extracted.

        5. Then GB was dissected from its bed as usual and extracted in a bag. In cases where the
           GB was hugely distended, it was aspirated firstly to facilitate its grasping. Also in
           cases of Mirizzi syndrome the GB was opened direct on the stone to remove it, to
           facilitate grasping of GB then we continued as described above
    
  