
    
      The proposed study will be a randomized, controlled trial, conducted under Exception From
      Informed Consent (EFIC), comparing patients who undergo emergency tracheal intubation with
      one of two different endotracheal tubes (ETTs), one of which is designed to prevent
      ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP): 1) An ETT fitted with a lumen to allow continuous
      aspiration of subglottic secretions and made with a polyurethane cuff (EVAC-PU-ETT); and 2) A
      standard ETT with a polyvinylchloride cuff (PVC-ETT). Approximately 1,074 adult patients
      requiring endotracheal intubation in the ED or hospital for acute respiratory distress or
      failure will be randomly assigned in an equal fashion to be intubated with one of the two
      ETTs (537 patients in each group). Because endotracheal intubation is performed in an
      emergency setting, the unit of randomization will be the intubation kits containing, in a
      concealed manner, one of the two types of ETT. The intubation kits are placed in areas where
      emergency intubation teams receive their intubation equipment supplies, primarily in the ICUs
      and in the emergency department. The study is designed to allow all patients requiring
      emergency intubation to be potentially eligible for enrollment to ensure the applicability of
      the study findings to a generalizable setting of patients receiving emergency intubation
      outside the operating room.

      The trial primary aim is to determine if EVAC-PU-ETT is as safe as PVC-ETT and if long-term
      patient quality of life and cognitive function are better in PU-CASS-ETT, compared with
      PVC-ETT. The investigators will also monitor any device-related adverse events. Additional
      secondary endpoints include the incidence of infection-related ventilator associated
      conditions (IVAC) and ventilator associated events (VAEs), as defined by the Center for
      Disease Control, respiratory antibiotics use, incidence of "clinical" VAP, 28-day
      ventilator-free days, mean daily Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, length of
      ICU and hospital stay, and mortality up to six months will serve to evaluate other clinical
      meaningful consequences resulting from the occurrence of VAP. Furthermore, the study will
      perform economic evaluation (cost-consequence approach) of quality of life, healthcare
      resource utilization and cost for hospitals. Primary and secondary endpoints will be compared
      between the PU-CASS-ETT and PVC-ETT groups, using an intention-to-treat approach.
    
  