
    
      Intra-articular proximal tibial fractures are relatively common in the elderly. They
      constitute 8% of all fractures in patients over 65 years. Open reduction and internal
      fixation (ORIF) is the golden standard treatment for these fractures.

      The treatment with ORIF is associated with significant co-morbidity due to complicating
      concomitant factors, such as osteoporosis, poor co-operation, infection and inadequate
      stability of osteosynthesis. A high failure rate (30-79 %) of fixation of tibia plateau
      fractures in elderly people has been reported. Most of these fractures occur in elderly
      persons who are at risk to lose their ability to walk independently, because of partial
      immobilization is required initially and full weight bearing is not allowed during 6 to 8
      weeks after the operation. The risk of post-traumatic osteoarthritis has been reported to be
      5.3-times higher than in the normal population even if adequate stability is achieved and
      other conditions normalized for fracture healing. It has also been reported that total knee
      replacement (TKR) performed for post-traumatic arthritis after tibial plateau fracture lead
      to worse outcome compared with TKR due to primary osteoarthritis. In addition, previous
      operations increase the risk of complications after TKR. The complication rate in secondary
      TKR has been reported to be over 18 %.

      The available data regarding TKR as a primary treatment option for proximal tibial plateau
      fracture suggest that fast mobilization and return to normal daily activities may be
      achieved. These data also suggest a low rate of complications. There are no randomized
      controlled trials comparing the outcomes of the traditional treatment option (open reduction-
      internal fixation, ORIF) and TKR as primary treatment of these fractures. In this study
      investigators compare the outcomes of locking plate osteosynthesis and total knee
      arthroplasty according to Oxford knee score, pain, ability to walk, or quality of life one
      year after randomization in 98 patients aged over 65 years.
    
  