
    
      We plan to enroll 80 patients in this prospective randomized clinical trial. Eligible
      patients will be randomized into two groups. All patients will have pre-operative Early
      Treatment of Diabetic Retinopathy Study (ETDRS) vision measured and pre-operative OCT
      (Humphrey-Zeiss Medical Systems, San Leandro, CA) in both eyes. OCT measurements will include
      total macular volume, central foveal thickness, and average macular thickness.
      Pre-operatively, all cataracts will be graded using the LOCS III classification system.10
      Group 1 will receive pre-operative topical nepafenac to maintain intra-operative pupillary
      dilation which is standard care for cataract surgery. Following surgery Group 1 will be
      treated with standard post operative cataract treatment, including a topical antibiotic and a
      topical corticosteroid. Group 2 will also receive pre-operative topical nepafenac to maintain
      intra-operative pupillary dilation. Following surgery patients in Group 2 will be treated
      with topical nepafenac, a topical antibiotic, and a topical corticosteroid. Group 2 will be
      given the 3ml bottle of nepafenac to take home and instructed to use it three times per day
      for one month. Intra-operative surgical parameters including ultrasound time and average
      percent phacoemulsification power will be recorded for all surgeries. All patients will be
      seen on post-operative day one, one week, one month, and two months. At the two month visit,
      best corrected ETDRS vision and OCT will be repeated in both eyes. The two month visual
      acuity and post-operative OCT will be analyzed to evaluate the effect of nepafenac on CME
      following cataract surgery. Wilcoxon signed rank test will be used to compare pre-operative
      and post-operative differences between visual acuity and OCT measurements. The Spearman
      correlation will be used to compare the variables in the study including cataract density,
      ultrasound time, average percent phacoemulsification power, and OCT measurements.
    
  