
    
      IRB Application

      III: Title: T-Wave Alternans for Acute Coronary Syndrome Patients Objective: Chest Pain is a
      common and high-risk presenting symptom in the Emergency Department. One of the central
      challenges Emergency Physicians face is differentiating cardiac causes of chest pain from
      non-cardiac causes. A rich array of mature technologies exists to aid in this process. None,
      however, has shown adequate sensitivity within the first 12-18 hours of symptoms to reliably
      exclude cardiac ischemia. As a result many patients are admitted to Coronary Care Units for a
      period of observation which typically involves serial blood analysis and continuous cardiac
      monitoring. An estimated $13 billion dollars per year are devoted to this "Rule-out MI"
      process. The majority, typically 80%, of these patients are ultimately found not to have
      cardiac disease. That is, their chest pain is ascribed to gastro-esophageal reflux, or
      esophageal or chest wall muscle spasm as an explanation for their symptoms.

      While no test can reliably discriminate cardiac from non-cardiac symptoms in the emergency
      department, a test that improves our ability to identify a subset of patients who are safe to
      discharge would be of immense utility in reducing unnecessary hospital admissions.

      Background: In the past 15 years T-Wave Alternans (TWA) testing has become accepted among
      cardiac electrophysiologists as a means of identifying patients at high risk for ventricular
      arrhythmias. TWA testing is typically performed in conjunction with a cardiac stress test and
      involves computerized analysis of the EKG for subtle alternate beat variations in the
      amplitude of the T-wave segment. The test is completely non-invasive, can return results
      immediately, and can be performed with compact, portable equipment. An extensive body of
      literature has emerged demonstrating the test's very high negative predictive value for
      various groups of patients with regard to ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden cardiac
      death. For example, Rosenbaum studied patients referred for electrophysiological testing due
      to high clinical suspicion of risk of sudden cardiac death. His landmark paper (Electrical
      Alternans and vulnerability to ventricular Arrhythmias, N Engl J Med 1994;330:235-41) found
      that a positive TWA test identified a subset of patients in this group with 81% mortality
      over 20 months versus 6% for those in whom the test was negative. The predictive value of TWA
      testing for cardiac arrhythmia in this group was equivalent to invasive electrophysiological
      testing. Numerous subsequent studies have corroborated these findings in specific patient
      populations such as Post-MI patients, Congestive Heart Failure patients, and patients with
      Syncope. TWA testing was approved (Nov 2001) for Medicare reimbursement at approximately $260
      per test. The "HearTwave System" from Cambridge Heart Inc (Boston MA) gained FDA approval in
      Apr 2001 for testing "any patient at risk for ventricular arrhythmia." The test has been
      validated in the context of traditional cardiac stress testing but there is not much clinical
      literature on the utility of the test in other contexts. Specifically, there are no reports
      of the applicability of TWA testing to Emergency Department patients with acute chest pain.

      Verrier et al. (J Amer Coll Cardiol 2001; 37:1719-25) found in an animal study that emotional
      stress had a profound multiplicative effect on the magnitude of TWA caused by cardiac
      ischemia. This research supported the idea that the emotional stress of presenting to the
      Emergency Department with acute chest pain or shortness of breath might be an effective
      substitute for the stress that provocative cardiac stress tests (treadmill or pharmacologic
      stress testing) induce. If true, then it would be of great interest to Emergency Physicians
      to measure the predictive value of TWA for cardiac ischemia in patients who are "stressed" by
      acute chest pain.

      In 2003, we performed a preliminary study in the Loma Linda University ED to test this
      research question. We monitored 100 acute chest pain ED patients using the HearTwave TWA
      monitor. We determined that TWA in this setting was relatively common, and that the amplitude
      of TWA seemed to correlate highly with the presence of cardiac ischemia. The results of this
      work were presented at several local and one national meeting of academic Emergency
      Physicians and were received with enthusiasm. A problem with the results was related to a
      limitation of the HearTwave device. The HearTwave is designed for use in conjunction with an
      exercise stress test and requires that heart rate increases over a threshold (105 beats per
      minute) as the test proceeds. Because our recordings were done "passively" in patients at
      rest, the data was inappropriate for the proprietary algorithm used by the HearTwave and so
      our analysis required a different processing technique that was qualitative rather than
      quantitative. Even so, we were able to demonstrate that TWA activity in patients with heart
      rates above a much lower threshold (60 beats/minute) was 100% sensitive for cardiac ischemia
      at a level of specificity of approximately 50%.

      In the present proposal, we seek IRB approval for a protocol very similar to what we used
      before. The main difference will be that we will use a device that gives us access to the raw
      data and enable us to apply our own numerical processing algorithms to measure TWA.

      The study will look at TWA testing in an observational study of approximately 500 emergency
      department patients presenting with symptoms suggestive of cardiac ischemia. The study will
      be conducted at Loma Linda University Medical Center (LLUMC) an academic institution with
      over 44,000 Emergency Department visits per year. All emergency Department patients age 18 or
      older who are being evaluated for possible Acute Coronary Syndrome will be eligible. Actual
      testing will be performed by medical students who will have completed a 1-hour training
      course in the use of the electrocardiographic instrument.

      Methods: The device to be employed in the test is a an FDA approved ECG probe that enables
      capture of the filtered ECG signal to digital storage. The testing procedure is essentially
      identical to standard ECG recording. Ten electrodes are applied to the patient's chest in a
      configuration that does not interfere with standard lead placement. The patient is connected
      via electrical leads to the device and the operator presses a button to initiate the
      measurement cycle. The complete test process typically takes 5-15 minutes. No action is
      required by the patient or anyone else after the test is initiated. Results are stored
      automatically for later review. The results of the test will not be made available to the
      treating physicians and so will not influence treatment decisions. Performing the test will
      not interfere in any way with delivery of standard acute care to the patient. Testing is
      non-invasive - no stimulating current is delivered to the patient. The instrument is designed
      for use with standard electrodes.

      Following testing, patients' data will be processed in several ways. There are two standard
      algorithms described in this literature to measure TWA - the "Spectral Analysis" method, and
      the "Modified Moving Average" method. In addition to these two methods, we will use Neural
      Network Techniques to further analyze the data. These methods allow quantitative
      determination of the degree of TWA present in the data. We will examine the predictive value
      of TWA testing for various measures of cardiac morbidity based on discharge diagnosis,
      results of further cardiac testing, presence of ventricular arrhythmia, myocardial
      infarction, need for revascularization. Follow-up will be made by telephone to the patient or
      their family at 3 months post testing to assess for the occurrence of death, myocardial
      infarction, or revascularization.

      The central question guiding our research is to what extent can TWA testing aid in the
      process of early risk stratification of the acute chest pain patient. We are particularly
      interested in the negative predictive value of the test in clinically low-risk patients.

      Risks: Minimal risk to the patient. Benefits: Individual participants will not benefit
      directly from their participation. If TWA testing shows utility in identifying patients at
      very low risk for ischemic complications then the results would be of immense value in
      guiding the appropriate use of clinical resources in future patients in this context.

      Compensation: Patients will not be compensated for participation. Consent: An investigator
      will discuss the risks, benefits and objectives of the study. Written informed consent will
      be obtained prior to participation on all patients in the study. Because the logistics of the
      study are substantially the same as in our preliminary IRB approved study, we will use a
      consent form that is substantially equivalent as that used in our preliminary study. Subjects
      will be a given a written copy of the T-Wave Alternans in Acute Chest Pain informed consent
      sheet.

      Confidentiality: TWA test results will be used for research purposes only and will remain
      confidential.
    
  