
    
      In a randomized and (for gender and severity of depressive symptomatic) outbalanced design
      the investigators are examining the neuronal processes of a mindfulness based emotion
      regulation training (MBERT) for reducing depressive rumination in a cross-over design.

      Therefore 48 patients with a depressive disorder get a MBERT that consists of one
      psychoeducative session and 8 therapy sessions.

      For checking the efficacy of the MBERT each patient runs three times through the Trier Social
      Stress Test (TSST). As the study design is a cross-over design, half of the patients get the
      MBERT in block 1 (i.e. between the first and the second TSST) and half of the patients get
      the MBERT in block 2 (i.e. between the second and the third TSST). In the block where they
      don't receive the MBERT the patients don't get any treatment within the scope of the study
      (waiting period), but any treatment as usual (TAU), including pharmacotherapy and
      psychotherapy, can be continued and started at each point of the study.

      For analyzing the neuronal processes the investigators are measuring the cerebral oxygenation
      using functional near-infrared-spectroscopy (fNIRS) during the TSSTs as well as during the 8
      therapy sessions.

      Using an ecological momentary assessment (EMA), the investigators additionally are collecting
      data of the actual stress level, stressful events, rumination, equanimity, self-compassion,
      mindfulness and sleep quality two times a day. Thus the investigators can (1) observe the
      individual reaction to stress in the daily life, and (2) recheck if the patients are able to
      transfer the learned strategies from the MBERT in their daily life. For those patients that
      received the MBERT in the first block the investigators (3) additionally have data to
      evaluate the sustainability (i.e. the lasting effectivity) of the MBERT.

      As a control condition, 48 healthy subjects will get a single TSST session.
    
  