
    
      The incidence of surgical site infections following the orthopedic surgery is about 1%. The
      number of prosthesis infections is estimated between 2000 and 2500 new cases a year in
      France.

      Multiple medical and surgical care strategies are possible depending on the acute or chronic
      presentation, early or delayed antibiotic therapy; antibiotic therapy alone or associated
      with joint lavage, or with a prosthesis change in one or in two stages; after a long or short
      period of time, with or without fitting spacer. The practices are very heterogeneous for
      chronic infections depending on the terrain on which infection occurs and modalities of
      antibiotic therapy remain controversial. The treatment failure rate at 1 year is estimated at
      20%.

      The hypothesis raised is that the implementation of a clinical pathway would improve the
      performance of the medical and surgical management of chronic infections of prosthetic hip.

      Objectives: To determine the contribution of a clinical pathway to improve the effectiveness
      of medico-surgical management of hip prosthesis infections in terms of clinical cure.

      The secondary objectives are: To evaluate medical and surgical practices in diagnosis and
      treatment of hip prosthesis infections; identify the success factors and therapeutic failure
      of medical and surgical supported hip prosthesis infections in terms of clinical cure;
      determining management of quality indicators.

      Methods: The clinical path will be developed by a committee of experts from the national and
      international recommendations, a review of the literature focused on the prosthesis
      conservation strategies and audit practices at the University Hospital of Grenoble.

      The clinical path will be evaluated by an interventional trial clustered with control group,
      randomized, stepped wedge (inclusion staggered in time in 4 X 3 months) with an evaluation at
      one year.

      The study population will include all patients treated for hip prosthesis infection in
      hospitals participating in the Alps, in a period of 16 months.

      The primary endpoint will be the clinical cure at one year, defined as the absence of
      clinical signs of infection, inflammatory syndrome (C-Reactive Protein <10 mg / L), and
      radiological signs of infection.

      Analysis: The association between the primary endpoint and the introduction of a clinical
      path will be quantified by the odds ratio estimated using a logistic regression model with
      adjustment for baseline characteristics of patients and inclusion of non-independence of
      observations.
    
  