
    
      Trial objectives

      Main outcome measures: The following aqueous dynamics parameters will be measured: IOP,
      aqueous flow rate, trabecular outflow facility and uveoscleral outflow. These parameters will
      be measured pre-treatment (up to 2 months before glaucoma surgery) and repeated 3 months and
      12 months post-surgery. Measures will be taken from the operated eye and the contra lateral
      non-operated eye which will be used as the control.

      Trial design

      This is a prospective observational study with the contra lateral untreated eye being used as
      control. Baseline measures will be conducted at a routine clinic visit up to 2 months before
      glaucoma surgery after 4 weeks of treatment washout.

      Post-treatment follow-up measurements of the main outcomes will be conducted 3 months and 12
      months after surgery, again, after 4 weeks wash out. A number of additional eye tests will
      also be performed to collect data for the study at the pre-operative appointment when the
      baseline measurements are taken and at the post-operative follow-up appointments 3 months and
      12 months after the surgery. Other data will be collected from eye tests that are routinely
      performed pre-operatively and at the post-operative follow-up appointments 1 day, 1 week, 1
      month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after their surgery.

      Study participants will be recruited from patients attending the Ophthalmology Department
      Outpatients Clinic at St Thomas' Hospital, London, United Kingdom who have a diagnosis of
      glaucoma or OHT (ocular hypertension) requiring glaucoma drainage surgery. One hundred
      patients with glaucoma or OHT and where a clinical decision has been made that they need
      glaucoma surgery will be included in the study such that 100 eyes undergoing surgery will be
      included together with the contra-lateral untreated eyes that will be used as controls for
      comparison with the treated eyes.

      Data will be collected for the study at the following routine appointments that patients
      undergoing glaucoma surgery are asked to attend: a pre-operative appointment, surgery, and
      follow-up assessments 1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months after
      surgery. Baseline measurements will be taken up to 2 months before glaucoma surgery.

      At the baseline assessment demographic information will be collected

      Details of participants' relevant past medical history will be collected at the baseline
      pre-operative assessment and at 12 months post-surgery.

      All tests will be performed on both eyes as the contra-lateral non-operated eye will be used
      as control.

      Aqueous parameters

      • Aqueous flow rate: Participants will be asked to self-administer 3 to 6 drops (depending on
      their age) of fluorescein sodium 2% topically into both eyes at 5 minute intervals on the
      night before the fluorophotometric scans. Fluorophotometry will be performed using a scanning
      ocular fluorophotometer from 9:00 am -12:00 midday. Four sets of triplicate scans will be
      collected at 1 hour intervals to determine the aqueous flow rate (Ft). The 3 scans are done
      in quick succession, taking approximately 2 seconds in total to complete the set. Following
      each set of scans, IOP will be measured using pneumatonometry. and rebound tonometry. IOP
      will be recorded as the mean of a total of 12 measurements per eye: 3 measurements every hour
      alternating between eyes.

      Patients who have had previous cataract surgeries or iridotomy/iridectomy will be excluded
      from this aspect of the measurements as fluorophotometry is inaccurate in these eyes.

        -  Outflow facility: Tonographic outflow facility (C) measurement will be performed using
           an electronic Schiøtz tonographer (Model 720, Berkeley Bioengineering Inc, USA) between
           9:00 am -12:00 midday. The facility of outflow will be measured from the rate of decay
           of IOP in the supine position during application of a recording Schiøtz tonometer over a
           period of 4 minutes with a standard 5.5 gram weight. The "R" values of the curve at
           every 30-second time point will be manually entered into the McLaren tonography computer
           program. The program fits a second-degree polynomial by least squares to the nine data
           points and determines the best-fit values for time 0 and time 4 minutes by
           extrapolation.

        -  Intraocular pressure (IOP): Pneumatonometry and rebound tonometry will be used to
           measure IOP for patients undergoing fluorophotometry. The IOP measurements will be
           recorded at 1 hour intervals between the hours of 9:00 am -12:00 midday following each
           set of fluorophotometric scans.

        -  Uveoscleral outflow: There are currently no reliable clinical methods of measuring
           uveoscleral outflow (Fu) and episcleral venous pressure (Pv). Fu will be therefore
           calculated using the Goldmann equation (see below) with an assumed episcleral venous
           pressure of 8-11 mmHg:

      Ft = C(IOP - Pv) +Fu Where:

      Ft = Measured aqueous flow rate Fu = Ft - C(IOP - Pv) Fu = Calculated uveoscleral outflow C =
      Tonographic outflow facility (value computed by the measurement device) IOP = Mean morning
      intraocular pressure as measured by pneumatonometry Pv = Episcleral venous pressure (8-11
      mmHg, exact value calculated based on patient parameters)

      Routine tests

      At the pre-operative visit when baseline measurements are taken and at each routine
      post-operative follow-up visit (1 day, 1 week, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, and 12 months
      after surgery) patients will undergo a clinical ophthalmological examination including the
      following tests and examinations:

        -  Visual acuity measurement (Snellen and ETDRS charts will be used. Best Corrected
           Distance Visual Acuity (BCVA) and Non Corrected Distance Visual Acuity (NCVA) will be
           measured using ETDRS (early treatment diabetic retinopathy study) charts. Best Corrected
           Near Visual Acuity (BCVA) will be measured using a standard near vision chart).

        -  Slit lamp examination

        -  Visual fields

        -  IOP (intraocular pressure) measurement (Goldmann applanation tonometry will be used to
           measure IOP, except when there is irregular corneal astigmatism or other corneal
           problems which may preclude accurate reading. The IOP measurement will be done after
           application of topical anesthetic (eye drop) with fluorescein)

        -  Gonioscopy

        -  Dilated fundoscopy

        -  Anterior chamber depth and axial length

        -  Central corneal thickness

        -  Refraction (routine at baseline only)

      Description of the surgical interventions

      There are potentially four types of operation that patients may have as part of their
      glaucoma care in the department:

        -  Trans-trabecular meshwork implants (Hydrus implant or iStent implant)

        -  Ciliary Ablation Treatment (Diode laser or HiFu ultrasound treatment)

        -  External (sub-conjunctival) Drainage Surgery (Trabeculectomy, Baerveldt implant or Ahmed
           Implant)

        -  Suprachoroidal Shunt Surgery (STARflo)
    
  