
    
      Although 60-80% of AML patients can achieve complete remission through conventional
      chemotherapy, relapse is still a common problem. For patients unlikely to respond,
      re-induction attempts may be dismal, leading to more organ toxicity and increased tumor
      resistance. In addition, 10% to 40% of patients are primary induction failure (PIF) or
      resistant disease. AML with PIF or relapse still represents one of the most poor outcomes. In
      such settings, allogeneic transplantation(allo-HSCT) remains the best prospect of curative
      potential in a small percentage of patients.

      However, several retrospective studies have reported long-term survival rates only of 10% to
      40% for patients with AML not in remission at the time of allo-HSCT. Michel Duval et al
      reported that leukemia progression was the single most frequent cause of failure( 42% for
      AML) for these patients with advanced disease. It is widely accepted that advanced disease
      status at transplantation is a significant adverse-risk factor for post-HSCT relapse. Thus,
      how to improve the recurrence rate of these advanced patients after transplantation is still
      the main problem.

      Dose intensity is a main cause for relapse. In order to improve the outcome of allo-HSCT for
      advanced leukemia, many scholars design the intensified conditioning or the sequential
      strategy of cytoreductive chemotherapy followed immediately by intensified myeloablative
      conditioning (MAC) regimens.With increasing dosage, the chance of relapse decreases but the
      incidence of acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) and non-relapse mortality(NRM) increase.
      How to well-balance NRM versus relapse is still the subject of much debate and investigation.
      So many centers developed reduced intensity conditioning(RIC) regimens based on the
      combination of alkylating agents with a purine analog and TBI, whereby the dose of TBI or the
      alkylating agent is usually reduced by at least 30% compared with a conventional ablative
      regimen. And an increased dose of alkylating agents as part of RIC may be associated with
      better leukemia free survival and the lower NRM.

      Apart from the conditioning regimen, curative potential of allo-HSCT is largely based on
      immune-mediated graft-versus-leukemia(GvL)effects caused by donor T cells contained in the
      graft. The occurrence of GvHD is thought to be associated with a GvL effect. Since 1990, it
      has been known that leukemic relapses after allo-HSCT can be successfully treated by the
      induction of a GvL reaction. Strategies of adoptive immunotherapy such as donor lymphocyte
      infusion (DLI) and withdrawal of immunosuppression are proved to be able to enhance GvL
      effects. Many results show that the clinical benefit is limited to a minority of patients
      relapsed posttransplant, so new strategies such as prophylactic DLI (pDLI) before overt
      relapse is used in many center. But the results is varied from each centers. Liga M et
      reported that Patients with leukemia who received low-dose pDLI after allo-HSCT is associated
      with a relatively high incidence of severe GvHD. Furthermore, finding matched unrelated
      donors(MUD) again in a timely manner may be difficult and limit access to this treatment and
      the DLI process itself is more complicated.

      Cyclosporine(CsA) withdrawal is generally accepted as first-line treatment in patients with
      relapse after allo-HSCT. In some studies, the early withdrawal of immunosuppression even in
      the absence of DLI, can prevent overt morphologic relapse in advanced patients.. AH
      Elmaagacli et al studied the immunomodulating effect of withdrawal of immunosuppression, the
      result showed that a probability of 10% for achieving and remaining in remission with AML 3
      years after relapse posttransplant, patients with advanced CML and ALL had no chance of
      achieving and remaining in remission in the same time period. The best results have been seen
      in CML in early relapse. F Rosenow et al showed that low-tumor burden, defined by the blast
      count in BM aspirates, is one of the important prognostic factors for successful immune
      intervention. In a retrospective analysis, Sairafi et al also demonstrated that early immune
      intervention in case of impending relapse was more effective compared with late intervention
      after overt relapse. Since withdrawing immunosuppression allows for increased GvL effects,
      prevention may be the most feasible and effective means of managing relapse after allo-HSCT.
      On the basis of these results, we designed a prospective clinical study to decrease relapse
      risk in patients achieving CR with early reduction of immunosuppressive agents.As
      usual,during the first month, blood CsA levels were kept at 100-150 ng/mL in patients with
      sibling donors and 200-300 ng/mL in patients with a matched unrelated donors (MUD) and
      mismatched related donors(haplo-SCT). In the absence of GVHD, CsA was discontinued after 3-4
      months when HLA-identical sibling donors were used and after 6 months when unrelated donors
      were used.In this clinical study,immunosuppressive agents were adjusted according to the
      schedule. Usually in the absence of GvHD, immunosuppressive agents were gradually reduced by
      6 weeks and discontinued in three months after transplant in the advanced patients even if
      complete donor chimerism (CDC) achieved in matched unrelated donors(MUD) while
      immunosuppressive agents were gradually reduced by 2 months and discontinued in four months
      after transplant in the advanced patients in haploidentical SCT. If donor chimerism had not
      achieved CDC with no significant acute GVHD at four weeks after HSCT, immunosuppressive
      agents were gradually reduced. If GvHD was present during the time of immunosuppressive
      agents reduction, CsA was added again and tapering was done over longer periods.
      Immunosuppressive agents were regularly reduced by 3 months and discontinued in the 5 months
      without GvHD in the CR group. We used the result of chimerism as the reference. The key point
      in this clinicaltrial was emphasizing the early reduction of immunosuppressive agents
      according to the time point after transplant and the clinical symptoms. The ultimate goal of
      therapy is to minimize GvHD while maintaining GvL effects in order to enhance long-term
      disease control in the advanced patients.
    
  