
    
      When drug resistance is detected by molecular methods such as the Xpert MTB/RIF assay,
      second-line Multi Drug-Resistant (MDR) Tuberculosis treatment is started in the complete
      absence of detailed resistance information. The diagnosis of Multi Drug-Resistant
      Tuberculosis is confirmed only on availability of Line Probe Assay (LPA)/Drug Susceptibility
      Testing (DST) results. Extremely Drug-Resistant (XDR) Tuberculosis is diagnosed by in vitro
      phenotypic resistance to Rifampicin, Isoniazid, fluoroquinolones and injectable second-line
      drugs (i.e., amikacin, kanamycin, or capreomycin). Existing culture based Drug Susceptibility
      Testing provides results after 6-8 weeks. This duration may be further increased by other
      existing laboratory challenges, such as culture contamination.

      Furthermore, initial regimens are often not optimal and sometimes completely ineffective as
      there is a lack of Drug Susceptibility Testing to support them. More importantly, even
      optimal regimens are changed due to patient intolerance of the drug's side effects.

      Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS) has the advantage of determining the complete Deoxyribonucleic
      acid (DNA) sequence of an organism's genome at a single time point. Using this technology,
      genotypic mutations conferring resistance to anti-tuberculosis drugs can be identified. This
      information will assist in identifying not only potential resistant drugs, but also
      susceptible drugs and thus enable a more accurate and appropriate choice of regimen. In
      addition, drugs that will not add value to the treatment outcome, but will increase rates of
      adverse drug reactions, can be eliminated earlier, improving drug-resistant TB treatment
      outcomes.

      In this proposal, we aim to use Mycobacterium Tuberculosis (MTB) whole genome sequencing
      prior to the selection of a drug-resistant tuberculosis treatment regimen and thus provide an
      individualized treatment strategy for drug-resistant tuberculosis. By adopting this method,
      we hope to improve culture negative survival rates at 6 months post treatment initiation .

      This study will include 448 adult patients (age ≥ 18 years) that meet inclusion criteria.
      Patients referred by provincial satellite facilities with microbiological confirmation of
      drug-resistant tuberculosis (e.g. Xpert MTB/RIF assay / Line Probe Assay) to King DinuZulu
      Hospital (KDH) will be recruited. Patients randomized to the control arm will receive
      standard of care (SOC) treatment. Patients randomized to the intervention arm will be given
      an individualized treatment regimen based on whole genome sequencing conducted on
      Mycobacteria Growth Indicator Tube (MGIT) positive sputum samples collected at the screening
      visit.
    
  