
    
      Asthma is a chronic inflammatory disease of the airways characterized by reversible airflow
      obstruction and a bronchial hyperreactivity in response to a variety of stimuli. In most
      patients, the onset of asthma symptoms may be controlled. However, many of them may manifest
      asthma attacks or crises of breathing called exacerbations, which occur with breathing
      problems, wheezing, coughing or tightness of chest, and may threaten their life. Such
      exacerbations are caused by a combination of environmental and genetic factors. However,
      since studies so far have been limited, a reduced number of genes associated with the
      predisposition to these complications have been identified. In addition, some studies have
      used next-generation DNA sequencing techniques to characterize the microbiome (i.e.,
      microbial community) of the airways, finding changes related to asthma. The main hypothesis
      of the Genomics and Metagenomics of Asthma Severity (GEMAS) study is that exacerbations of
      asthma are caused by a combination of the intrinsic genetic factors of the individual,
      changes in the respiratory microbiome and the interaction between both factors. The
      objectives of this project are: 1) to identify genetic variants that are associated with
      asthma exacerbations; 2) to examine the changes occurring in the microbial communities of the
      oral cavity and respiratory tract in individuals with exacerbations; 3) to analyze the
      association of the host genetic variants and the microbiome changes related to exacerbations.

      A total of 300 Spanish subjects with asthma with and without a history of asthma
      exacerbations in the past 12 months will be recruited. Saliva, nasal and pharyngeal samples
      will be collected to study the oral cavity and the upper respiratory tract microbiome through
      next-generation sequencing technologies. Sequencing of the 16S ribosomal RNA (16S rRNA) gene
      will allow to characterize the bacterial diversity and abundance, as well as to infer the
      functionality of the microbiome in each sample. These parameters will be used to establish
      correlations between the microbiome and the presence of asthma exacerbations. Finally, the
      association between the genetic variation associated with exacerbations in genomic studies
      and the measurements of abundance, diversity and functions related to exacerbations will be
      jointly examined.
    
  