
    
      After obtaining written informed consent from eligible patients, study staff will randomize
      patients, collect demographics and hospital admission details from patients' hospital charts,
      and complete the Charlson Comorbidity Index (CCI) for all patients. The CCI will be completed
      using information gathered from patients' hospital chart. They will then perform the Barthel
      Index (BI) and Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) to determine a baseline physical
      ability of the patient.

      The BI measures the extent to which patients can function independently and has mobility in
      their activities of daily living (ADL). The SPPB is a group of measures that combines the
      results of the gait speed, chair stand and balance tests (Guralnik et al., 2000). It has been
      used as a predictive tool for possible disability and can aid in the monitoring of function
      in older people. The Charlson Comorbidity Index categorizes and scores the comorbidities of
      patients. The CCI can be used to predict short term and long-term outcomes such as function,
      hospital length of stay and mortality rates.

      The target sample size will be 75. This will be divided between intervention and no
      intervention (control). Patients will be allocated to either intervention with peddle bike
      for additional unsupervised exercise or current standard of care as control group.
      Randomization will be done using RedCap.

      Patients randomized to intervention would receive a Medical Exercise Bike Pedal Exerciser
      Mini Peddler to allow for an additional 20 minutes a day of un-supervised physiotherapy both
      during the week and on weekends. Patients would be provided with an information pamphlet on
      the benefits of staying active during a hospitalization. Each bike will have an LCD monitor
      to keep track of patient use. They will receive a short teaching session on how to properly
      use the bike and record their use in their log. Exercise time (in minutes), distance (in
      kilometers) and calories will be recorded off the bike LCD monitor after each session and
      recorded in the patient's daily exercise log. They will also be assisted with follow-up
      meetings with the research therapist, and the involvement of the family (if available) from
      the outset, which has previously been shown to improve compliance. Patients randomized to the
      Bike Pedal Exerciser intervention will be assessed daily by the study staff & the medical
      team to ensure patients remain safe for use of the bike.

      All participants (both intervention and control) will receive a Stepwatch to monitor their
      activity. This will be worn at all times in the study with the purpose to measure overall
      activity between the two groups. The investigators will manually remove the activity of the
      peddle bike from their overall activity in the intervention group to give a baseline activity
      rate. This will be to monitor for baseline activity in both groups and ensure that the
      intervention participants are not substituting the peddle bike for usual daily activity.

      Deconditioning will be measured for all study participants on study day 3 and study day 6 (or
      the day of discharge) using the Timed Up and Go (TUG) test and Short Physical Performance
      Battery. For the TUG, patients will be asked to stand up from a chair, walk three metres,
      turn around, and walk back to the chair and sit.

      After hospital discharge the research staff will follow up with all patients for 2 brief
      telephone interviews. On day 3 after discharge, Patient Satisfaction surveys* will be
      conducted by to assess patient satisfaction with their experience with their hospital stay &
      Peddle Bike program. They will also conduct the European Quality of Life, 5 dimensions*
      (EQ-5D-5 L) instrument to assess quality of life. At 30 days after randomization, the
      research staff will contact patients to conduct a brief interview consisting of: a functional
      status assessment (Barthel Index) and to collect data regarding clinical outcomes (ER visits,
      re-hospitalizations, and falls). Each telephone interview is expected to last approximately
      10 minutes.

      Peddle bikes will remain in a patient's room for the duration of their hospitalization and/or
      enrollment and will be cleaned between patient use to decrease risk of contamination.

      Patients are assessed daily by their medical team as part of their standard care when
      hospitalized. If the team flags the patient as being incapable of using the peddle bike
      safely (i.e. patient is delirious or aggressive), the patient will be removed from the study.
    
  