
    
      Cocaine abuse continues to be an epidemic. Co-morbid psychiatric disorders and high risks
      behaviors compound the morbidity, economic costs, and social destruction associated with this
      public health crisis. This is a 12 week, prospective, intent-to-treat, double-blind,
      randomized, placebo-controlled study of Seroquel XR™ versus matched placebo, combined with
      cognitive-behavioral group therapy, for the treatment of cocaine dependence in non-psychotic
      individuals.

      We will conduct this study at the American Lake (Tacoma) and Seattle campuses of the VA Puget
      Sound Health Care System, recruiting veteran and non-veteran participants currently using
      cocaine from the greater Pierce and King Counties region. It is anticipated that 120 subjects
      will be consented and screened for study participation and that 60 subjects will be
      randomized to treatment.

      After subjects have provided informed consent, they will enter a 1 week screening phase
      during which medical, psychiatric, and substance use measures and assessments will be
      administered to determine study eligibility. At baseline, we will assess cocaine use, cocaine
      craving, psychiatric symptoms, and high risk behaviors. Also at this visit, subjects will be
      randomly assigned to treatment with quetiapine (target dose 400 mg/day) or placebo. During
      the treatment phase, subjects will visit the clinic once a week for safety monitoring,
      completion of ratings and questionnaires, UDS's, and participation in a cognitive-behavioral
      therapy group. At end of study, week 12, a physical examination will be administered and a
      UDS and clinical laboratory values obtained. In addition, substance use, psychiatric
      symptoms, and high risk behaviors will be assessed. To monitor safety and further evaluate
      treatment effects, we will ask participants to return for a follow-up visit at week 16.
    
  