
    
      Polycystic ovary syndrome is the common cause of the female infertility that features insulin
      resistance and hyperinsulinemia participate in the reproductive as well as metabolic
      disturbances.

      In many studies, metformin treatment reduces androgen levels and attenuates hyperinsulinemia
      in women with PCOS. This favorable effect on insulin and androgens levels, justifies the use
      of metformin in reproductive disturbances in PCOS women. Metformin treatment was shown to
      diminish ovarian androgen secretion, while lowering insulin levels in women with PCOS.

      In women with PCOS, metformin treatment may increase ovulation, improve menstrual cyclicity,
      and reduce seum androgen levels. Metformin has direct effects on the ovary and also reduces
      the level of insulin that act upon the ovary. It has been indicated that metformin has
      direct, insulin-independent actions on theca cell steroidogenesis, because in human ovarian
      theca-like tumor cells, metformin suppressed androstenedione production. Metformin also exert
      a direct effect on granulosa cells and subsequent reduction of steroid production.

      Metformin was shown to improve endothelium dependent vasodilation in insulin resistant
      patients and potentially protect against atherogenesis and cardiovascular disease.

      Considering gonadotropin ovulation induction or IVF in women with PCOS, metformin
      coadministration improves the pregnancy outcome and reduces the risk of ovarian
      hyperstimulation syndrome. Metformin therapy throughout pregnancy can reduce the risk of
      early miscarriage or the incidence of gestational diabetes.

      All patients were pretreated for 3 weeks with monophasic oral contraceptive (OC)(Yasmin;
      Bayer Schering Pharma, Berlin, Germany) before COS. Five days after OC discontinuation, COS
      for IVF/ICSI was commenced. GnRH antagonist protocol was used for COS in all subjects.
      Patients were randomly allocated into the metformin or control groups, using sealed
      envelopes.
    
  