
    
      Setting and participants:

      Eligible OSA patients, living in the greater Amsterdam area, were referred to the Slotervaart
      Medical Center by their family physician. All patients underwent a thorough medical
      examination, including a full polysomnographic (PSG) recording, at the departments of
      Neurology, Pulmonary Medicine, and ENT, as well as a thorough dental examination at the
      Department of Oral Kinesiology of ACTA. OSA patients were invited for participation in this
      study when they fulfilled the inclusion criteria and exclusion criteria.

      Randomisation and allocation:

      After written informed consent was obtained, the patients were randomly allocated to one of
      three therapy groups (MAD, nCPAP, or placebo; see below). To ensure that the groups were of
      approx. the same size, block randomisation was used. Block sizes were 6, 12, and 18; sizes
      were randomly varied. The allocation sequence was automatically generated and subsequently
      concealed by an independent co-worker, who kept a paper copy in a lockable drawer. Sealed
      opaque envelopes were used to conceal the allocation from the principal investigator.

      Interventions and blinding:

      Three forms of therapy interventions were used in this parallel-group study. First, an
      individually fabricated MAD with an adjustable protrusive mandibular position at a constant
      vertical dimension was used. Second, nCPAP of the REMstar Pro system was used (Respironics,
      Herrsching, Germany). Third, a thin (< 1 mm), hard acrylic-resin palatal splint with only a
      partial palatal coverage was used as a placebo.

      Patients were blinded to the nature of the assigned therapy (placebo or active). After
      evaluating the therapy, all patients were asked if they were of the opinion that they had
      received an active or placebo treatment. Blinding of the analyst was ascertained by assigning
      codes to data sets and by analyzing these sets in random blocks.

      Procedure:

      From all patients, two full polysomnographic (PSG) recordings were obtained in the sleep
      laboratory of the Slotervaart Medical Center, using Siesta hardware and Pro-Fusion software
      (Compumedics, Abbotsford, Australia): one before therapy assignment (baseline PSG) and one
      after 6 ± 2 months (mean ± SD) of treatment (therapy evaluation PSG). For the MAD and nCPAP
      groups, the third and fourth PSG recordings for therapy evaluation were performed 6 months
      and one year after the first therapy evaluation (long-term follow-up). The primary and
      secondary outcome measures were obtained at baseline and at therapy evaluations.

      The MAD and nCPAP were titrated before the start of the treatment. The titration of the nCPAP
      was performed during a third sleep laboratory examination. The pressure was increased in
      incremental steps of 1 cm H2O/h, until respiratory disturbances and respiration-related
      arousals were reduced to ≤ 5/h, and snoring was minimized.

      For the titration of the MAD, four ambulatory PSG recordings were obtained at regular
      intervals, using Monet hardware and Rembrandt Software (Medcare Automation B.V., Amsterdam,
      The Netherlands). The most effective protrusion position of the MAD (i.e., the mandibular
      position that yielded the lowest AHI value) was chosen from among four randomly offered
      positions (viz., 0%, 25%, 50%, and 75% of the maximum protrusion).

      For the placebo group, the study procedure was made equally intense as that for the MAD group
      by making four ambulatory PSG recordings at regular intervals as well.
    
  