
    
      Background: Acute-on-chronic liver failure (ACLF) is a recently discovered syndrome, which is
      understood as an acute deterioration of decompen-sated liver cirrhosis. It is defined on the
      basis of organ failure(s) and associated with high short-term mortality. ACLF is caused by a
      precipi-tating event that results in excessive systemic inflammation. ACLF is mostly
      precipitated and associated with bacterial infections but 40-50% of the underlying cause is
      unclear. Surgery, with or without liver involvement, has been defined as such a precipitating
      event. It is long known, that surgery in liver cirrhotic patients, depending on stage of
      cirrhosis as well as on type of surgery, bears a great risk but is still in-evitable in some
      cases. Child-Turquotte Score has been used for risk stratification of postoperative
      mortality. The development and out-come of ACLF after surgical interventions have not been
      characterized yet. In addition, underlying causes as well as molecular mechanism leading to
      ACLF after surgical intervention have not been identified. The aim of this trial is to
      further prospectively investigate patients with cirrhosis undergoing surgery to identify
      clinical markers and molecular mechanisms involved in development of ACLF.

      Objectives: Defining precipitants and predictors of development of ACLF after surgical
      interventions, allowing to develop a risk stratification for elective procedures in cirrhotic
      patients.

      Identifying molecular mechanisms of post-interventional ACLF and thus preparing the ground
      for development of new therapeutic approaches.

      Study design: Prospective, observational study. Patients will be screened according
      inclusion/exclusion criteria. After informed consent sample processing will be possible from
      max. 1 week before scheduled surgery.

      Primary endpoints: Development of ACLF within 28 and 90 days after visceral or non-visceral
      surgery in patients with portal hypertension (liver cirrhosis and idiopathic non-cirrhotic
      portal hypertension)

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Mortality at 1 month, 3 months and 1 year.

           Following endpoints will be evaluated:

           " Time to death and mortality (overall and surgery-related) " Time to and rate of
           unplanned rehospitalizations after surgery " Any Infection and differentiated by site of
           infection (SBP, pneumonia, urinary tract infection, blood stream infection, Clostridium
           difficile-associated enterocolitis " Postsurgical acute hepatic decompensation and ACLF

        2. To assess the changes in the intestinal microbiota in both groups and evaluate its
           effect on the primary endpoint.

        3. To assess the potential socioeconomic impact.
    
  