
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the progression-free survival of patients with stage IV melanoma treated with
           aldesleukin with vs without allogeneic large multivalent immunogen melanoma vaccine
           LP2307.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the clinical response in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To compare the 1- and 2-year survival rates in patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To determine whether an immune response is generated after vaccination in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive allogeneic large multivalent immunogen melanoma vaccine LP2307
           intradermally on day 1 and aldesleukin subcutaneously (SC) on days 7 and 8. Treatment
           repeats every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive aldesleukin SC on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for 12 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity. Patients with disease progression may cross over and receive treatment on arm
           I.

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for correlative laboratory studies.
      Samples are analyzed for immune responses to keyhole limpet hemocyanin and tetanus toxoid
      (control antigens) by ELISA assay; IFN-γ production by CD8 T cells in response to
      melanoma-derived peptides by ELISpot assay; delayed-type hypersensitivity response to
      vaccination; and frequency of peripheral blood lymphocytes, including T cells, B cells, NK
      cells, and monocytes, by flow cytometry.

        -  Arm III Crossover: Patients who have progressive disease on Arm II will be offered
           crossover to Arm I provided they continue to meet all study criteria.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 2 months for 1 year, every 3
      months until disease progression, and then periodically thereafter.
    
  