
    
      Objective: To know the effect of 4 sessions of treatment by interferential therapy, and SWD
      on the balance and dynamic postural component using Y balance test

      Methods:

      Study design: Random sampling through lottery methods Blinding: Participants were not aware
      of the group they were in Allocation concealment: Not done Inclusion criteria: Physical
      assessment of the knee joint participants complains of pain, osteoarthritis, Patellofemoral
      knee pain syndrome, pain due to altered biomechanics of knee joints (structural and
      functional) Exclusion criteria: History of previous surgeries, participants on steroids,
      Vitamin deficiencies, osteoporosis, open wounds, recurrent ACL repair, Affliction due to
      metastasis or post-cancer patients

      Treatment specifications:

      Duration of intervention: Treatment will continue for 4 sessions/week, with each session
      lasting 15-20 minutes.

      Intervention:

      Experimental group-1: Interferential therapy will be given to the patients with knee pain for
      4 sessions for 15-20 minutes and the examination of the balance will be done with Y balance
      tests Pre-Post. 4 electrodes methods placed diagonally to each other creating a beat
      frequency at the center. Intensity to the percieved tolerable limits. The 'medium frequency'
      currents (medium frequency in electromedical terms is usually considered to be 1KHz-100KHz).
      These medium frequency currents, passed through the tissues simultaneously, where they are
      set up so that their paths cross & they literally interfere with each other. This interaction
      gives rise to an interference current (or beat frequency) which has the characteristics of
      low-frequency stimulation

      Experimental group-2: SWD will be given to the patients with knee pain for 4 sessions for
      10-15 minutes with Continuous Mode and intensity: comfortable warmth, timing 15 mins and
      examination of the balance will be done with Y balance tests Pre-Post.

      Technical specification : Technical specification of Generator frequency: 27.12 MHz, ± 0.6%
      Output power: continuous High-Frequency max. 400 W, pulsed High-Frequency max. 1000 W (peak)
      Pulse duration: ca. 400 µs Pulse repetition frequency: 15-200 Hz adjustable in 10 steps Mains
      supply: 230-240 V / 50 Hz Mains voltage variation: approx. ± 10% Current consumption: approx.
      6 Ampere (at 230 V) Dimensions (width, without arms): 56x43x92.5 cm Length electrode arms: 93
      cm Weight: ca. 80 kg.
    
  