
    
      Changes in dyspnoea, coughing and/or sputum production often precede exacerbations but as
      symptoms vary within-same day and across days, patients cannot easily judge the significance
      of such changes with the result that exacerbations remain unreported and untreated.
      Furthermore due to heterogeneity amongst COPD patients, predictions must be personalised to
      be clinically meaningful. Remote monitoring and POC systems have evolved rapidly but none
      have yet convincingly demonstrated the capability to predict exacerbations and stratify
      episode severity.

      To address the above problem, COPDPredictTM has been created and developed. This System
      automatically processes information that is regularly sent by patients using COPDPredictTM),
      which connects to peripheral monitors via Bluetooth and uses intelligent software to
      determine a patient's health through a combination of wellbeing scores, lung function and
      measurements of key biomarkers in blood and saliva. The clinical team has access to a secure
      web portal (dashboard) which allows them to monitor patient data, case manage and make
      informed decisions on clinical practice.

      Depending on the degree of change from a given patient's 'usual health', timely alerts are
      sent to the individual, with sign-posting to an action plan. Alerts are also sent to
      clinicians who support and advise patients via App's secure messaging facility. If patients
      fail to improve with self-treat plan or if an episode triggers an 'at high risk alert' from
      the start, clinicians are prompted to be involved and intervene with escalated treatment

      The Clinician facing dashboard allows for "real-time" case management and the ability to
      remotely monitor the patients and facilitate interaction. Clinicians can choose to escalate
      treatments based on the results being transmitted by the patients.

      This clinical investigation asks if COPDPredictTM can be used by patients with COPD at home
      and the clinicians managing the patients to improve self-management and help them identify
      exacerbations, intervene promptly and avoid hospitalisation. The clinical investigation will
      randomise 384 patients, from 4 hospitals in the West Midlands. United Kingdom, who have
      frequent AECOPD to use either the SSMP and RM (if needed according to the SSMP) or the
      COPDPredict App and RM (if needed according to the App self-management plan or clinician
      input).
    
  