
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Since the appearance of online videogames, there has been a growing interest in how people
      behave socially on virtual media that grants people the possibility of adopting a whole new
      identity as a customized character. A previous study observed a tendency from players to
      create their videogame character so that it would resemble more their ideal selves than their
      actual ones, and actually reported their virtual avatar as having more desirable personality
      traits than their actual self. Additionally, in a more recent study, it was observed that the
      level of immersion during gameplay and a high discrepancy between the ideal and actual selves
      favored that people created their virtual characters as more similar to their ideal self.
      Thus, people who are already satisfied with their actual self may instead tend to create a
      virtual self that is entirely different from both their actual and ideal selves. The mere
      fact of exploring different identities has been shown to be rewarding by itself, without the
      need for the new identities to fulfill any perceived limitations.

      However, none of these studies has been conducted using a constructivist framework. Theories
      based on that framework, such as the Personal Construct Theory (PCT), provide a tailored
      assessment for each individual's perception of the world and themselves instead of
      classifying them into pre-established dimensions that may, or may not, belong to their
      meaning system. Based on this theory, the Repertory Grid Technique allows the assessment of
      the degree to which people perceive themselves as similar or different from other people, and
      their representation of what they would like to be (i.e., "ideal self"). Moreover, in the
      videogame research field, the PCT also permits to explore gamers' construal of their virtual
      self, and whether it resembles more their ideal self, their actual self, or none. From the
      repertory grid, other measures can also be extracted that will help on this research, such as
      their self-ideal discrepancy, which represents the distance between the actual self and the
      ideal self, the presence of cognitive conflicts within participants' construct systems, or
      their interpersonal construct differentiation, defined as the tendency of a construct system
      to perceive the self and other elements through several dimensions, with different nuances
      (an indicator of cognitive complexity). For this project, the researchers will extract two
      additional measures as a result of including the virtual self in the participants' grid.
      These measures are the self-virtual discrepancy, understood as the distance between the
      actual self and the virtual self, and the virtual-ideal discrepancy, which is the distance
      between the virtual self and the ideal self. These measures will allow to assess to which
      degree the participants' videogame virtual characters are perceived as similar or different
      to their actual identity outside the game and to their idea of how they would like to be.

      Other factors may affect players' identity exploration by means of their virtual selves.
      Therefore, other instruments will be included to measure participants' psychological
      distress, as well as more specific ones such as those targeting the level of immersion during
      the game and the main motivations that draw them to play.

      As mentioned before, there are no empirical data regarding this issue yet. However, from a
      theoretical perspective, there can be several configurations of the relationships between
      actual, ideal, and virtual selves, leading to four types of online videogame players'
      virtual-self construal. The researchers have labeled each type of player according to how
      they would construe their virtual-self in relation to their actual and ideal selves.

        -  The first is the projection-type players, referring to those who construe their virtual
           identities as close to their ideal self, presumably to experiment with those attributes
           they perceive as more desirable. People who see themselves as more distant from their
           ideal selves could tend to fall under this category. This could serve as a strategy to
           obtain validation in the virtual environment while in the real world they mostly
           experience invalidation because their self is far from being ideal.

        -  The second type, named by the researchers as the exploration-type player. In contrast to
           the previous type, these players create virtual avatars that are more distant to both
           their actual and ideal selves as a way to explore alternative identities, not
           necessarily tied to their need to experience their ideal attributes, but rather for the
           enjoyment of exploring a completely different identity. Those players who already
           perceive themselves as very close to their ideal selves would be more likely to fall
           into this type since they would not feel such a need to experience their ideal self
           through a virtual character.

        -  For the third type, the term proximal-type player was chosen. It encompasses players
           whose virtual self resembles their actual self, regardless of its distance from the
           ideal self. A way this type of players may be encountered can be either when the level
           of immersion during the game experienced was too low for them to feel identified with
           their virtual avatar, or in the case, they played the game in a more competitive manner
           rather than as an interaction modality with other characters. Another explanation for
           why this type of player may not express a different aspect of their self through their
           virtual avatar may be because of a low interpersonal construct differentiation, which
           would make it harder for them to hold different instances of their identity.

        -  Lastly, there is the unspecified-type player, including those players whose virtual self
           is perceived as nearly equidistant from their actual and ideal selves without those two
           being necessarily close. Although mathematically, this may be a possible outcome from
           the actual-ideal-virtual self relationships, there is no theoretical premise that would
           account for this eventuality. Hence, it should be considered as a rare possibility to be
           carefully studied in case its prevalence was significant.

      OBJECTIVES:

      With this project, the researchers aim to explore how different identities may be explored
      thanks to virtual environments and how different factors may affect this identity
      exploration. More specifically, they want to assess how different people may create their
      virtual self differently and how these differences may be reflected in the previously
      predicted typology of players.

      With regard to the player experience during the game, the researchers want to investigate
      whether the level of perceived immersion may influence a players' construal of their virtual
      self. Also, players' motivation for playing online videogames can lead to different
      experiences of the virtual self, and thus they want to investigate whether players'
      competitive orientation will influence the tendency to explore alternative identities through
      their virtual avatars as compared to those who enjoy more the social aspects. On the other
      hand, the researchers want to explore players' psychological distress and self-esteem as
      factors influencing the way they project their ideal self on their characters.

      Another objective is to explore the role of cognitive conflicts or dilemmas in the
      participants' way of representing their self virtually. The researchers expect that a greater
      amount of internal conflict could influence the way players explore different identities
      through a virtual avatar since cognitive conflict can be a source of dissonance when a person
      construes their ideal self.

      Secondarily, the researchers aim to study the role played by other variables on the way these
      players conceive their virtual self, such as their interpersonal construct differentiation,
      an indicator of cognitive complexity. However, this objective will be studied in a more
      exploratory manner, since there is still no theoretical background on the matter.

      PROCEDURE

      Participants will be contacted by making an online call on Internet forums, asking players
      who may be interested in participating to access an online survey using Qualtrics.

      The survey will begin with the informed consent form, previously approved by the ethical
      committee. After reading and accepting the informed consent, participants will be presented
      with demographical and playing habits questions such as age, sex, country, employment status,
      average hours of play per week, whether or not they play professionally, and whether or not
      they have a record of severe mental illness or substance misuse. After that, they will answer
      the PENS, CORE-OM, and RSE questionnaires. The total duration of the survey will be 12
      minutes, approximately.

      After completing the survey, participants will be asked to indicate a date and hour when they
      will be available to appoint a virtual meeting conducted by Discord, one of the most
      widespread videoconference software within the gaming community. During this meeting, a
      predoctoral researcher will administrate the RGT to the participant, which will last for
      between 45 and 90 minutes. Each grid will be analyzed with the GRIDCOR 6.0 software, or with
      a more advanced version.

      Participants will receive no payment for their collaboration, but upon completion of this
      project, those who wish it will receive a brief feedback report of their ratings.

      For the analysis of the gathered data, the RStudio software will be used. The researchers
      will carry out a K-means cluster analysis in which they will specify participants to be
      clustered in three groups using their self-virtual and virtual-ideal discrepancies as the
      clustering criteria. Once the analysis has rendered the three clusters, the researchers will
      label them according to the previously mentioned player typologies. It is expected that there
      will be one group where the self-virtual discrepancy will be lower, indicating a proximal
      type of players. The researchers also expect that the two remaining clusters will be
      differentiated in terms of virtual-ideal discrepancy. Those with a higher discrepancy will be
      labeled as exploration-type and those with a lower discrepancy will be labeled as
      projection-type. Projection-type participants are also expected to have lower self-esteem
      than the other clusters.

      A one-way ANOVA will be conducted to assess if there is a significant difference in
      self-virtual discrepancy between proximal-type players and the other two groups. Another
      one-way ANOVA will be carried out to assess check if there is a statistically significant
      difference between projection-type and exploration-type players in terms of self-ideal
      discrepancy. Through these analyses, the researchers expect to validate the typology of
      online videogame players based on their construal of their virtual-self.

      After that, the researchers will carry out a multiple linear regression model, taking the
      self-virtual discrepancy as the outcome and using as independent variables the experienced
      immersion, taken from the correspondent scale from the PENS and the degree of cognitive
      complexity, inferred by means of the cognitive differentiation measure from the grid.

      Another one-way ANOVA will be conducted to test whether if there are differences between the
      three groups in terms of their motivation toward the social or competitive aspects of the
      game, which will be inferred through the "relatedness" and "competence" scales from the PENS.

      Finally, the researchers will carry out a multiple linear regression model within each group
      of players, taking the virtual-ideal discrepancy as the outcome for the projection and
      exploration types, whereas the outcome for the proximal type will be the self-virtual
      discrepancy, and using as predictors the level of cognitive conflict, the level of cognitive
      differentiation, and the measures of self-esteem, psychological distress, immersion,
      relatedness, and competence.
    
  