
    
      Pesticides are a common environmental exposure due to their widespread use for agricultural,
      residential, and public health purposes. Farmers and their families represent a unique
      population for studying the chronic health effects of pesticides because farmers know what
      chemicals they use, furthermore, farmers tend to remain at the same location over most of
      their adult life. The Agricultural Health Study (AHS), a cohort of approximately 89,000
      pesticide applicators and spouses from Iowa and North Carolina, is the largest US cohort
      study of individuals working with pesticides. The AHS cohort was enrolled in 1993 to 1997 to
      assess human health effects associated with well-characterized exposures to pesticides and
      other agricultural factors. Detailed exposure data were collected at enrollment and in two
      five-year follow-up interviews. As a result, the AHS has a wealth of information on pesticide
      use by both farmers and their spouses, as well as the ability to account for changes in
      pesticide use over time. Information on medical history and important covariates was also
      collected at enrollment and in the follow-up interviews, and will continue to be collected
      over time.Only mortality and cancer incidence are updated annually through linkage to vital
      statistics and cancer registries; all other health outcomes are based on self-reported
      information from participants.The accuracy of self-reported health outcome information can
      vary from quite good (e.g., asthma) to poor (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis). In order to ensure
      high quality epidemiologic analyses, validation of self-reported disease is necessary prior
      to statistical analysis. To date, several health endpoints have been validated through
      follow-up with AHS participants and their physicians. The purpose of the current protocol is
      three-fold: 1) update information on medical history and other important covariates through
      ongoing follow-up interviews of the cohort; 2) validate self-reported diseases among cohort
      participants over the duration of cohort follow-up (at least through 2020); and 3) complete
      initial contact of potential participants to inform them of other health outcome studies
      being conducted within the cohort by an outside institution.

      We will contact AHS cohort members to complete a follow-up interview allowing one of three
      modes of response: self-administered paper questionnaire, self-administered web survey
      (CAWI), and interviewer-administered telephone interview (CATI). We will contact proxy
      respondents if the participant is unable to provide information.

      We will validate a variety of diseases of interest as they are ascertained in the cohort.
      While the characteristics of the diseases may vary, the strategy for disease validation is
      similar to the cohort wide follow-up. Validation efforts may also include a request for
      permission to contact the participant s physician, and contacting the physician s office to
      obtain the relevant medical information. We will contact proxy respondents if the participant
      is unable to provide information.
    
  