
    
      Background:

      Prior rehabilitation outcome studies had many weaknesses. They had: a) evaluated
      rehabilitation effects only in isolated subgroups, b) focused on functional ability rather
      than on quality of life, c) not used randomized control groups, and d) had inadequate sample
      sizes. Differences in methodological approaches have resulted in inconsistent findings. The
      lack of long-term benefits suggests that services may need to be continued at home or in
      subacute care settings to optimize their effectiveness. Unfortunately, prior research did not
      include behavioral outcomes. The potential benefits of rehabilitative care could thus not be
      evaluated by these studies in more meaningful detail, and they did not accurately reflect the
      psychosocial objectives of rehabilitation.

      Objectives:

      The goal of this study was to measure the additive effect of outpatient, subacute
      rehabilitation as follow-up services to acute, inpatient rehabilitation on adults diagnosed
      with a disabling disorder in four major diagnostic groups (nervous, circulatory,
      musculoskeletal, and injury).

      Methods:

      A randomized clinical trial was conducted to determine the effects of subacute rehabilitative
      care on: 1) physical function, 2) health and mental health, 3) mortality, 4) family function,
      5) personal adjustment, and 6) use of health care resources. Patients hospitalized for the
      first time with a disabling condition [n=180] were provided inpatient rehabilitation and then
      randomly assigned to either subacute rehabilitation at home [n=90] or to usual outpatient
      follow-up [n=90] in which only medical services were provided but no scheduled rehabilitative
      therapies were offered. To compare the two groups, analysis of covariance was conducted for
      the outcome variables. The between subjects factor was subacute rehabilitative care versus
      usual medical services as an outpatient.

      Status:

      Complete.
    
  