
    
      After diagnosed of EEC by hysteroscopy, patients meet the study criteria will be enrolled.
      Age, height, weight, waist circumstances, blood pressure, basic history of infertility and
      blood pressure will be collected. Blood tests, including fasting blood glucose (FBG), fasting
      insulin (FINS), OGTT 2h blood glucose and insulin, blood lipids, SHBG, sex hormone levels,
      anti-müllerian hormone(AMH), creatine kinase(CK) and renal/liver function tests will be
      performed before treatment to evacuate their basic conditions. Each subject will receive body
      fat testing by Inbody 520.

      Patients will receive MA (megestrol acetate) 160 mg by mouth daily plus rosuvastatin 10mg by
      mouth daily for at least 6 months. Then hysteroscopy will be used to evaluate the endometrial
      condition every 3 months, and intra-operative findings will be recorded. Complete response
      (CR) is defined as the reversion of endometrial atypical hyperplasia to proliferative or
      secretory endometrium; partial response (PR) is defined as regression to hyperplasia with or
      without atypic; stable disease (SD) is defined as the persistence of the disease; and
      progressive disease (PD) is defined as the appearance of higher pathological progression, or
      myometrial invasion, or extra-uterine metastasis. Continuous therapies will be needed in PR
      or NR. Patients with PD will be recommended for hysterectomy.

      Due to personal reasons, patients may not accept hysteroscopic evaluation every three months,
      then the longest duration will be 8 months. For patients remained SD after 6 to 8 months of
      treatment but refused hysterectomy, a multiple disciplinary discussion would be held for
      individual case, and alternative treatment would be given.

      Two months of maintenance treatment will be recommended for patients with CR, and
      participants will be followed up for 2 years.
    
  