
    
      This is a prospective, observational, single-center registry that will enroll 100 patients.
      All patients presenting to Beaumont Hospital for elective invasive coronary angiography and
      possible ad hoc percutaneous coronary intervention balloon angioplasty will be considered for
      inclusion. Patients must meet all inclusion and exclusion criteria prior to consent. All
      information requested as part of this study will be obtained from clinical data as part of
      each subject's standard medical care. Cardiac catheterization and percutaneous coronary
      intervention will be performed according to standard guidelines and clinical practice. All
      aspects of clinical care of the patient will follow routine standards as determined by
      institutional policies, published clinical practice guidelines, and the treating physician.

      After completion of routine invasive coronary angiography and upon determining that the
      patient has either (1) an epicardial de novo coronary artery lesion of indeterminate severity
      (>50% to <70% stenosis) that requires IVUS analysis for further delineation of stenosis
      (blockage) severity; or (2) a severe epicardial de novo coronary artery lesion that requires
      PCI for definitive treatment, combined NIR-IVUS imaging will be carried out in the
      target-vessel. Upon completion of NIRS-IVUS imaging of the target-vessel, percutaneous
      intervention will be performed in the standard fashion if deemed clinically appropriate. Upon
      completion of target-vessel intervention, NIRS-IVUS imaging will then be repeated in the
      target-vessel.

      Upon completion of the treatment of the target-vessel, NIRS-IVUS will be performed in any
      other major epicardial vessel containing a stenosis ≥30% if deemed appropriate by the
      treating cardiologist.

      Patients will be carefully monitored throughout their hospital stay and will be followed
      either by office visit or by telephone at 6 months (± 7 days); 12 months (± 14 days); 24
      months (± 30 days); 36 months (± 30 days); 48 months (± 30 days); and 60 months (± 30 days).

      The patient's medical records will be accessed to collect data about medical history and
      activities during the course of the study. All data will be collected by using standard case
      report forms. Follow up data after discharge will be collected using a phone script
      questionnaire . All data forms will include unique study identifiers to protect the
      participants personal identity. All data will be recorded in an Excel spreadsheet and kept on
      a secure computer requiring password entry.

      There are no additional required medical procedures as part of this protocol beyond the use
      of the NIRS-IVUS catheter during the index procedure.
    
  