
    
      An obstacle to the roll-out of evidence-based treatments (EBTs) for severe mental illness
      (SMI) is that the context for the implementation typically differs from the original testing
      context causing a lack of "fit" between the setting and the EBT. The investigators propose to
      evaluate if adapting a specific treatment to improve the contextual fit improves outcomes in
      a setting that typifies this challenge-community mental health centers (CMHCs).

      Following the Experimental Therapeutics Approach, the target is sleep and circadian
      dysfunction. In SMI, sleep and circadian dysfunction undermines affect regulation, cognitive
      function and physical health, predicts the onset and worsening of symptoms and is often
      chronic even with evidence-based SMI treatment. Prior treatment studies have been
      disorder-focused-they have treated a specific sleep problem (e.g., insomnia) in a specific
      diagnostic group (e.g., depression). However, real-life sleep and circadian problems are not
      so neatly categorized, particularly in SMI. Hence, the investigators developed the
      Transdiagnostic Intervention for Sleep and Circadian Dysfunction (TranS-C) to treat a wide
      range of sleep and circadian problems experienced in SMI.

      With NIMH support, including a study in CMHCs, the investigators established that TranS-C
      engages the target. Yet gaps remain: 1) Thus far, the TranS-C providers have been employed,
      trained and supervised by the university. The investigators will determine if TranS-C can be
      effectively delivered by providers within CMHCs. 2) The investigators will test a version of
      TranS-C that has been adapted to improve the fit and to address potential barriers to scaling
      TranS-C. The rigorous adaptation process used theory, data and stakeholder inputs. 3) The
      investigators will study ad hoc adaptations made by providers to TranS-C. 4) The
      investigators include two stages; namely, the Implementation Phase (2 years) and the
      Sustainment Phase (1 year). The latter responds to urgent calls to study the sustainability
      of EBTs.

      Guided by the Replicating Effective Programs (REP) framework, in this Hybrid Type 1, 4-year
      study, 8 CMHC clinic sites will be cluster randomized to either Standard or Adapted TranS-C.
      Then, within each CMHC site, patients will be randomized to immediate TranS-C or to Usual
      Care followed by Delayed Treatment (UC-DT). A total of 104 providers and 624 patients.
      Patients will be assessed pre, mid and post-treatment and at 6 months follow-up. UC Berkeley
      will co-ordinate the research, facilitate implementation, collect data etc. Providers within
      an established network of CMHCs will implement TranS-C. SA1 is to confirm that both Standard
      vs. Adapted TranS-C, compared to UC-DT, improve sleep and circadian functioning and reduce
      functional impairment and disorder-focused psychiatric symptoms. SA2 is to evaluate the fit,
      to the CMHC context, of Standard vs. Adapted TranS-C via provider ratings of acceptability,
      appropriateness and feasibility. SA3 will examine if better fit, operationalized via provider
      ratings of acceptability, mediates the relationship between treatment condition and patient
      outcome. This research will determine if sleep and circadian problems can be effectively
      addressed in SMI in CMHC settings, test two variations of TranS-C that each have unique
      advantages and focus on community providers and typical community patients.
    
  