
    
      The main objective of Brest Stroke Registry is to regroup all confirmed cases of stroke over
      a defined geographical zone in order to calculate an incidence.

      There are three prospective medium-term goals:

      - In respect with public health epidemiology:

        1. To obtain incidence data and evaluate the regional and international divergences

        2. To obtain the mortality data in short and long term. Since the onset of the registry, it
           has been implemented a study on the mortality of stroke patients of Brest Registry. This
           study has been realized independently for both types of stroke, i.e. ischemic and
           hemorrhagic, with different caused mortality. This mortality was studied at medium-term
           (≤ 28 days) as well as at long-term (> 28 days). There will be a collaboration project
           between Public Health Surveillance (InVS), Brest University Hospital and Rennes network
           on all causes of death.

        3. Pharmaco-epidemiology

      In clinical terms, the registry offers an opportunity to do an inventory of all current
      practices (diagnosis, therapies and the subsidiaries) and propose in this manner the best
      management of stroke. This strategy is in line with the pilot programs deployed by the French
      High Health Authority (HAS) for improvement of quality and safety of the health care. The
      bleeding risk associated with anticoagulants and anti-platelet agents in people of Brest as
      well as that of Dijon and Lille (in collaboration with their respective registry) will be
      analyzed.

      This study has gained a particular characteristic since 2012 with emerging new oral
      anticoagulants (OAC) which have shown less associated bleeding risks compared with vitamin K
      antagonists (randomized controlled trials).

      •In terms of clinical research :

        1. Study the impacted consequences of stroke by socio-economic characteristics of the
           territories in the Pays de Brest

        2. Identify short and long term clinical predictors of mortality in patients who have had a
           hemorrhagic stroke.

        3. To identify clinical predictors of mortality in the short and long-term patients with
           ischemic stroke.

        4. To identify genetic predictors of mortality and long-term recurrence of patients with
           ischemic stroke

        5. Identify stroke identification algorithm from existing databases
    
  