
    
      ABSTRACT Objective: Zeneo1 is a needle-free injection device. We performed a pharmacokinetic
      study to investigate the bioequivalence of methotrexate administered subcutaneously using
      either the needle-free injection device or a conventional needle and syringe.

      Research design and methods: This was a single-dose, open-label, laboratory-blind, randomized
      crossover study performed in adult healthy volunteers. Each participant received two
      methotrexate injections (each 25mg), one via needle-free injection device and one via
      conventional injection, with a 21-28 day wash-out interval between dosing. For each
      participant, the administration site for both injections was either the abdomen or the thigh.

      Main outcome measures: The primary pharmacokinetic outcome parameters were AUC(0-t) and Cmax.

      Bioequivalence was assessed by standard criteria: whether 90% confidence intervals of
      geometric mean ratios for the two administration methods were within 80-125%.

      Results: Fifty-two individuals completed the study. Bioequivalence criteria were met for
      AUC(0-t), for the overall analysis (both injection sites: 90% confidence interval:
      99.4-103.1%), and for each injection site separately. Bioequivalence was similarly
      demonstrated with AUC(0-1). Bioequivalence criteria for Cmax were fulfilled for abdominal
      administration but not for the overall analysis. Injection via the needle- free injection
      device was well tolerated.

      Limitations: Limitations include conducting the study in healthy volunteers and the
      relatively small subject number (albeit satisfactory for bioequivalence).

      Conclusions: This study shows that methotrexate injection via needle-free injection device is
      bioequivalent to a conventional needle and syringe in relation to AUC(0-t) and AUC(0-1).
      Studies of needle-free injection device use in patients requiring methotrexate therapy are
      planned.
    
  