
    
      In preparation for the trial, in February and March of 2012, a US-based clinical psychologist
      and expert trainer in TF-CBT traveled to Lusaka Zambia and trained 20 counselors in TF-CBT.
      This included supplemental training of the already established and trained national TF-CBT
      supervisors from SHARPZ and the University of Zambia (UNZA). Counselors will take on 1
      practice case each in TF-CBT. Local supervisors will meet with the counselors in groups on a
      weekly basis to monitor the intervention and will be in regular phone and email contact to
      assist with the initiation of cases. The US-based TF-CBT experts (Drs. Murray and Dorsey)
      will be in contact with the supervisors on a weekly basis (via skype) to assist with the
      supervision and provide ongoing support to the supervisors and the counselors. This follows
      the Apprenticeship Model of Training and Supervision (Murray et al., 2011).

      As part of the study, 11 assessors will be trained on a comprehensive intake assessment
      process. The process uses an adapted initial intake form that is currently used by the
      partner organization to collect basic demographic, health, and other information about the
      client and a parent or guardian and adds a standard mental health and functioning assessment
      instrument based on the earlier qualitative and quantitative research conducted by the JHU
      faculty. All children age 5-8 enrolled in the study will receive the demographics section,
      the PTSD-RI and the Shame measures as well as section one of the World AIDS Foundation
      measure that covers the topics of HIV Testing and Substance Abuse. Children ages 12 years and
      older will also receive the World Aids Foundation (WAF) questionnaire section 2 that asks
      questions related self-efficacy and sexual relationships and violence. Only children ages 12
      and older who report yes to having experienced sexual intercourse of any form will be asked
      section 3 of the WAF which includes questions related to their relationship with their
      partner, sexual behaviors and HIV-risk behaviors commonly connected to trauma and mental
      health symptoms. Adults participating in the study will be given a demographics section, a
      section related to services received and the Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL).

      The proposed study will be embedded within the ongoing SHARPZ program. We will study the
      effectiveness of TF-CBT for children who are affected by trauma with significant mental
      health symptomatology. The partner organizations will continue to provide services to anyone
      who seeks their services regardless of whether they meet eligibility for our proposed study,
      however those who meet our inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in the research
      component of the SHARPZ service program.

      Qualitative exit interviews: Following completion of the therapy by the first set of 20
      participants, assessors will ask these intervention participants what has changed since the
      intervention began and what change they attribute to the intervention. Interviews will be
      open ended, written by the assessors (not tape recorded) and identifying information will not
      be recorded. The research team will review these qualitative exit interviews to identify any
      unexpected positive or negative effects of the intervention. Questions on the more
      significant and/or frequent responses will be added to the original assessment instrument.

      Post-intervention quantitative assessments will be done with the expanded assessment
      instrument (see qualitative exit interviews above). All post intervention quantitative
      interviews (including with the wait controls) will be conducted approximately 2-3 weeks after
      the client has completed the intervention or control period (approximately 12-14 weeks).
      Those randomized to the intervention will also receive a second post assessment 4 months
      after receiving the first post assessment. Control cases will only receive one post
      assessment after the wait list period so that they may then receive the intervention, unless
      found to be harmful or ineffective, as soon as their wait list period is over.

      Following completion of the trial, the data will be analyzed, and if the intervention is
      found to be effective, it will become a permanent part of the services provided by the
      counselors at SHARPZ and the partner organizations.
    
  