
    
      The main purpose of the study is to analyze whether Interpersonal psychotherapy (IPT) and
      Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) are effective psychotherapies for depressed patients,
      with respect to changes in working capacity and psychiatric diagnosis. A secondary purpose is
      to study moderating factors in the two methods. The study has a randomized design. It will be
      performed at the Psychiatric Clinic in Sundsvall.

      The differences in effect between different forms of psychotherapy for depression, when
      reduction in symptoms is used as outcome criterion, are rather small. In a recent
      meta-analysis, differences in efficacy between seven forms of psychotherapy were compared
      (Cuijpers, van Straten, Andersson & van Oppen, 2008). The efficacy was on the whole the same.

      In the guidelines from National Board of Health and Welfare in Sweden, CBT and IPT are
      recommended as the first hand choices for treatment of mild and moderate depression. This
      recommendation is based on studies from other countries. Comparative randomized studies of
      CBT and IPT have not been published in Sweden.

      Hypotheses The main hypotheses in this study is that CBT and IPT are both effective
      treatments for Major Depressive Disorder, and that they have equal effects with regard to
      remission from depression, but that CBT is more effective than IPT when return to employment
      is the outcome measure. Three moderator hypotheses will be tested. The first moderator
      hypothesis is that patients with attachment avoidance get better results with CBT, whereas
      patients with attachment anxiety get better results with IPT. The second hypothesis is that
      patients with higher RF get better results with IPT than with CBT. The third moderator
      hypothesis is that women respond better to IPT and men to CBT, particularly if relational
      functioning is considered. In the moderator hypotheses, both remission from depression and
      return to work will be outcome criteria.

      Method Participants Patients who seek treatment with the diagnosis Major Depressive Disorder
      (MDD), and who indicate mild or moderate depression on Beck's Depression Inventory will be
      asked to participate. The inclusion criterion is thus Major depressive disorder with mild or
      moderate severity. Exclusion criteria are psychosis, ongoing drug abuse, serious
      neuropsychiatric disorder, personality disorder cluster B. Patients with severe depression
      will also be excluded. We will also exclude patients who have used the disability pension and
      only include patients who have sickness benefit, as it is improbable the psychotherapy with
      14 sessions will be enough for patients with disability pension. There will be no treatment
      arm with only medication. Ongoing medication is no obstacle for participation, but changes in
      medication will be avoided if possible. Medication will be registered. The patients will be
      randomized to the treatment alternatives. In all, 96 patients will take part in the study.

      Sixteen therapists will participate in the study. Eight of them will give CBT and eight will
      give IPT. The therapists have at least the basic level of psychotherapy training according to
      Swedish norms. They are psychologists, social workers, and psychiatric nurses. They have been
      trained in their respective methods, have experience in it and have ongoing supervision,
      which will continue during the study.

      Treatments Interpersonal therapy (IPT) will be delivered according to the standard manual
      (Weissman, Klerman & Markowitz, 2000). IPT is a manualized, problem-focused treatment,
      originally created for depression treatment but now also using manuals for other disorders.
      The working mechanism of the treatment is supposed to be the patient's increased ability to
      connect the mood with interpersonal events, thus enabling him or her to influence the mood by
      solving interpersonal problems. Four distinct problem areas have been defined as associated
      with depression. The patient and the therapist start the treatment with identifying the
      patient's psychiatric and interpersonal problems. At the end of the introductory phase, a
      problem area is selected as the main focus. The remaining sessions, up to the termination
      phase, are devoted to helping the patient to find ways of handling the selected problem. The
      therapy will include 14 sessions.

      Cognitive behavior therapy will be delivered according to the manuals of a) behavior
      activation during 14 sessions (Jacobson, Martell & Dimidjian 2001) and b) Cognitive therapy
      for depression according to Beck et al. Behavior activation is based on a contextual model of
      depression, where the link between avoidant behavior and depression is the focus and the
      change mechanism is supposed to be activation strategies aiming to undermine punishment and
      increase positive reinforcement from the environment. The conceptualization of depression
      emphasizes the relationship between activity and mood and the role of contextual changes
      which may lead to decreased access to reinforcers associated with depression. The model
      underlines the importance of patterns of avoidance and withdrawal (e.g., of interpersonal
      situations, occupational or daily-life routine demands, distressing thoughts or feelings).
      Contacting potential antidepressant reinforcers may often be experienced as initially
      punishing, and thus avoidance of contact minimizes distress in the short term but is
      associated with greater long-term difficulty, both by reducing opportunities to contact
      potentially antidepressant environmental reinforcers and by creating or exacerbating new
      problems secondary to the decreased activity. Increased activation is presented as a strategy
      to break this cycle (Martell, Addis & Jacobson, 2001). Some therapist are going to include
      mindfulness in their CBT as well.

      The design has effectiveness character in the sense that the exclusion criteria are few and
      the therapies, although manual based, will be carried out in the manner that they are usually
      carried out at this clinic. We will endeavour to ascertain that the therapies are performed
      with accuracy, by having supervision on each therapy form. Adherence will be rated by the
      therapists after each session and by filming a limited number of therapies from each
      therapist, in order to ascertain treatment integrity. The Collaborative Study Psychotherapy
      Rating Scale-6 (CSPRS-6; Markowitz, Spielman, Scarvalone & Perry, 2000), which is the
      standard scale for rating adherence to CBT and IPT, will be used.

      In both therapy forms, the treatments last for 14 sessions. Outcome will be evaluated at
      treatment termination.

      The inclusion of participants started in January 2011 and continues throughout the fall 2013.
    
  