
    
      Background and significance

      Diffusion-weighted (DW) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging is a well established method
      for detecting acute ischaemic injury in the brain and is being increasingly applied to the
      study of brain structure and organisation (1,2). The technique provides information on the
      motion of water molecules and uses no ionising radiation. The possibility of using DW MRI to
      probe neuronal microstructures in highly ordered neuronal systems, such as the spinal cord,
      has been recognised as having great clinical potential. However, the combination of
      susceptibility artefacts from the surrounding bony structures, motion of the cerebrospinal
      fluid (CSF), carotid and vertebral artery pulsations and respiratory motion have hampered
      clinical studies. Recently, several techniques have been developed to address these problems
      (3,4) and two of these methods will shortly be available for use at the Scottish Rite campus
      of CHOA.

      We propose to apply DW imaging of the spine to the following groups of patients :

        1. Patients with tethered cords.

        2. Patients with Chiari I malformations.

        3. Normal children undergoing a MRI of the spine.

      All of the studies would be performed on children who have already been referred for a MRI
      and the diffusion sequences would be performed after the requested MRI exam is complete. No
      additional sedation and/or contrast would be required. Informed consent would be requested
      from the parents for all of these studies. The additional imaging time required for the
      diffusion studies would be less than 10 minutes. We plan on enrolling 60 patients with normal
      spines and 30 patients with abnormal spines in this study.

      Tethered cord. Tethered spinal cords are a group of complex developmental malformations of
      the spinal cord of which the most common cause is children with repaired spina-bifida or
      myelomeningocele. Although these are usually operated on shortly after birth, all repaired
      myelomeningoceles have some degree of tethering. The basic problem is exacerbated because as
      children grow their spinal cords do not grow as quickly as their spinal columns, so the
      spinal cord must be able to freely ascend on the inside of the spinal column during growth.
      If various abnormal structures are holding onto the spinal cord from below it stretches the
      spinal cord, leading to chronic local ischaemia, which can in turn lead to a progressive loss
      of function. The signs and symptoms associated with cord tethering are often non-specific and
      are poorly understood. Diffusion MRI may be very useful in the monitoring of tethered cords
      since initial studies on adults with cervical spondylosis have implied that it is more
      sensitive than conventional MRI imaging in depicting pathological changes within the spinal
      cord. Hence diffusion MRI has the potential to be a more sensitive method of determining if
      the cord is under stress due to tethering and hence in need of surgery.

      Chiari I malformation A Chiari I malformation is a condition characterised by an abnormal
      inferior projection of the cerebellar tonsils through the foramen magnum, into the upper
      cervical spinal canal. If the degree of projection is small then the condition is generally
      referred to as tonsilar ectopia. Chiari I malformations may be associated with other
      anomalies, most commonly hydrosyringomyelia (which in turn can lead to neurologic deficits
      and scoliosis) and hydrocephalus. Symptoms of a Chiari I malformation most often begin during
      infancy, although they may be delayed until adolescence or adulthood. Symptoms are often
      non-specific and usually include headache, vomiting, muscle weakness in the head and face,
      difficulty swallowing, and varying degrees of mental impairment. Paresis or paralysis of the
      arms and legs may also occur. As they grow older, adolescents and adults with Chiari I
      malformation who previously were asymptomatic may show signs of progressive brain impairment,
      such as involuntary, rapid, downward eye movements. The pathophysiology of syrinx development
      (hydrosyringomyelia) is understood to be a state of chronic interstitial edema of the spinal
      cord due to an accumulation of extracellular fluid.

      A diagnosis of Chiari I malformation is generally made using a conventional MRI scan and is
      often an incidental finding during an evaluation of other abnormalities, making an
      interpretation of the significance of the imaging findings difficult. Patients that have
      symptoms which potentially indicate abnormally positioned tonsils can have normal imaging
      findings, tonsilar ectopia or mild Chiari I malformation. In the case that the cerebellar
      tonsils are not clearly abnormal, according to our conventional imaging diagnostic criteria,
      it can be difficult to determine the cause of the symptoms. They may be caused by the low
      tonsils, in which case a surgical decompression would be performed, or they may simply be
      incidental findings.

      A further problem in determining a strategy for managing patients with a Chiari I
      malformation is that the criteria for surgical intervention are nebulous. Some patients are
      symptomatic with only a minor degree of tonsillar ectopia and others with severe displacement
      of the cerebellar tonsils into the upper spinal canal have no symptoms. Since the correction
      of a Chiari I malformation requires surgery it is generally reserved for patients showing
      clear evidence of progressive clinical symptoms. Any technique that can provide information
      on pathological changes within the spinal cord would be a very important complement to the
      clinical data and the anatomical information provided by conventional MRI. At present it is
      difficult to predict which patients are predisposed to developing syringomyelia on the basis
      of conventional imaging findings alone and DW-MRI may be able to provide useful complementary
      information.

      Normal patients. To date the only information regarding the values for diffusion within the
      spinal cord comes from a limited number of studies on normal, adult, volunteers. It is known
      that the diffusion properties of the brain vary significantly with age and it is expected
      that the diffusion properties of the spine will show a similar variation. Thus, in order to
      be able to properly interpret the results of the studies on children with suspected pathology
      it is necessary to have a control group in order to allow normal values for different age
      ranges to be established.
    
  