
    
      The NHIC Cardiovascular Project in the United Kingdom has been established to enable the
      sharing and repurposing of routinely captured clinical data for re-use in research. Data
      sharing for this study has been enabled by establishing a data sharing agreement between each
      of the collaborating hospitals. The data sharing agreement allows data to be shared between
      National Health Service (NHS) hospitals in accordance with an anonymisation and
      de-identification profile approved by each information governance department, ensuring that
      patient identities are protected. Ethics approval for each dataset has been obtained which
      detailed the further de-identification steps to ensure that research datasets are fully
      anonymised.

      The cardiovascular theme clinical leads developed a standard target data model specification
      to capture the longitudinal record for patients who presented with a suspected acute coronary
      syndrome, characterised by the request of a troponin test (NHIC-Troponin Study). The data
      model was patient centric allowing for minor discrepancies between dataset areas such as
      missing discharges or test results returning outside of episodes of care. The model included
      156 data points, grouped into demographics, cardiovascular risk factors, emergency department
      attendance and inpatient episodes, biochemistry, revascularisation and mortality. All
      patients were followed up on the NHS Spine Application, Summary Care Record until death or
      censoring on 1st April 2017.

      This dataset comprised all patients who had a troponin measured at each of the five major
      academic centres between 2010 (2008 for University College Hospital) and 2017. The
      investigators identified a total of 257948 patient records who underwent troponin testing
      during the study period.

      A Committee of Experts validates the protocol methodology and supervises the data management.
      A Steering Committee oversees study proposals including hypotheses, study design and
      statistical analyses including planned outcome measures.
    
  