
    
      The key step in choosing a strategy for treating acute cerebral insufficiency is the
      assessment of the severity of cerebral damage and prognosis. The importance of correcting the
      severity of damage and prognosis for the choice of treatment strategy is beyond doubt.

      At the same time, the complexity of objective evaluation is preserved throughout the world,
      after more than 40 years, has become an integral part of clinical practice worldwide. The
      findings obtained using GCS showed a strong relationship with those obtained using other
      indicators of severity and outcome. Although the scale of Glasgow coma is considered routine
      method, it has a number of significant drawbacks.

      First, the verbal response of GCS tests often becomes inadequate in psychomotor-excited
      patients. On the contrary, in many patients with depressed consciousness, the verbal response
      is insufficient. Moreover, the GSC verbal response assessment cannot be applied to critical
      patients or those who have undergone intubation.

      Secondly, and most importantly, GSC does not assess brain stem reflexes, eye movements, or
      complex motor responses in patients with altered consciousness. In addition, the GCS score is
      numerically skewed toward the motor response (the maximum number of points given for the
      motor response). These deficiencies previously caused repeated attempts to improve GCS:
      reaction level scale (RLS85), comprehensive consciousness level Scale (CLOCS), clinical
      neurological assessment (CNA) , Coma Recovery Scale (CRS), Glasgow-Liege Scale (GLS),
      Innsbruck Coma Scale (ICS), 15 and 60-second test (SST). Similar scans, tests are very long
      and laborious. None of these subsequently gained enough weight to replace GCS.

      Third, despite the fact that GSC is regularly used in therapeutic and surgical intensive care
      units and resuscitation units, as well as the fact that it is usually used in conjunction
      with the APACHE system assessment, reliability in predicting outcomes in patients is
      unsatisfactory. Fourthly, Rowley and Fielding found that the reliability of the GCS score
      increases with the experience of its users and that user inexperience is associated with a
      high error rate.

      The new coma scale, Full Outline of UnResponsiveness (FOUR), is based on the minimum number
      of tests needed to analyze the severity of cerebral damage and prognosis. Universal and
      suitable, including for patients with altered consciousness. The FOUR scale has four
      categories studied. In contrast to GCS, the number of components and the maximum rating in
      each category are four (E4, M4, B4, R4). This is significantly easier than in GCS with
      different points for each category. The FOUR scale is suitable for assessing a patient with a
      locked person syndrome, as well as in the presence of a vegetative state. Conditions when the
      eyes can open spontaneously, but cannot follow the pointer. The motor or motor component is
      recorded primarily on the limb. Response options include the presence of status epilepticus,
      myoclonus. Also, the motor response combines decorticative regimen and generalized myoclinic
      status. Hand position tests (thumb up, fist, and peace sign) are reliable for assessing
      wakefulness. Three reflexes assessing brain stem depression, testing the functions of the
      midbrain, pons and medulla oblongata, are used in various combinations. The clinical sign of
      acute dysfunction of the third pair of FMN (unilateral pupil dilation), pupillary and
      oculomotor reactions is assessed. Separately, the functioning of the respiratory center, as
      the lower part of the brain stem, is considered. In intubated patients, the presence of
      independent attempts between cycles of mechanical ventilation is assessed. The value of 0 in
      all responses is the basis for considering the diagnosis of brain death. The FOUR evaluation
      of the lung is reproducible and takes several minutes.

      The use of the FOUR scale in an intensive care unit and intensive care unit was validated in
      2009 at the Mayo Clinic - one of the largest private non-profit medical and research centers
      in the world. A team led by F. M. Wijdicks. To determine whether the values of the FOUR scale
      are equally suitable for use by both doctors and nurses without neuro-resuscitational
      experience, the values of the FOUR scale were prospectively tested when used by the staff of
      the intensive care unit. The indicators obtained by experienced and inexperienced paramedical
      staff of OriIT and doctors were compared.

      The FOUR scale is actively used both abroad and in Russia. At the same time, at the moment,
      there is no Russian version of the FOUR scale approved and accepted by the PAR.

      The purpose of this study is to examine the validity of the Russian version of the FOUR Full
      Outline of UnResponsiveness scale. (further FOUR) A multicenter prospective non-randomized
      cohort study is planned. The research centers are located on the basis of the intensive care
      unit and intensive care, the Neurological department for patients with acute endocrine tumors
      of the Sverdlovsk Regional Clinical Hospital No. 1, Yekaterinburg, the Department of
      Neuro-Reanimation MAU GKB No. 40, Yekaterinburg, the intensive care unit and intensive care
      Regional Hospital No. 1 named after. Ochapovskogo Krasnodar. The task is to compare the
      accuracy and prognostic significance of the FOUR scale when used by an ICU specialist, a
      neurologist, nursing staff, during bedside and telemedicine examinations. For the evaluation,
      it is planned to examine in 200 visits 200 adult ICU patients (including the ICU of the
      Department of Neurology) with the clinic of the leading syndrome of acute cerebral
      insufficiency, as a manifestation of the underlying disease of the vascular pathology of the
      brain or cranial trauma. The basis for the comparison of the severity of cerebral damage and
      prognosis is to use the values of the FOUR and GSC scales, the component of organ damage -
      the SOFA scale. The data obtained from a bedside and telemedicine examination, randomly
      selected by a couple of employees (reanimatologist / neurologist, nurse / neurologist,
      neuroreanimatologist / neurologist, neuroreanimatologist / reanimatologist.) Will be compared
      against the background of the assessment of vital functions, depth and quality of sedation,
      analgesia. The basis of statistical analysis is proposed to take pairwise weighted For record
      keeping, an individual registration card
    
  