
    
      Opioid overdoses are a leading cause of death for Americans under 50 years old, with recent
      years recording the most opioid overdose deaths on record. US Emergency Departments (EDs)
      have seen a parallel increase in opioid-related visits (a 100% increase from 2005 - 2014). ED
      patients presenting for an overdose are at greatly elevated risk for a repeat overdose and
      death. Thus, an overdose-related ED visit is both a critical and opportune time to prevent
      recurrent opioid overdose and overdose death through increased uptake in addiction treatment.
      The most effective means to promote engagement in treatment following an ED visit for opioid
      overdose remains unknown. To address this critical evidence gap, the investigators will
      compare the effectiveness of two ED-based behavioral interventions to increase treatment
      uptake and reduce the risk of future overdose among ED patients who are at greatest risk of
      accidental drug-related death.

      In response to RI's overdose crisis, in 2014, the state's largest ED (Rhode Island Hospital)
      began a proactive campaign to improve the care of overdose patients. The program includes an
      ED-based behavioral intervention either by in-house clinical social work staff or peer
      recovery support specialists ("peer navigators"). Following the introduction of these
      interventions in the ED, there was 10-fold increase in the proportion of patients engaging in
      addiction treatment within 30 days of the initial ED visit. While this preliminary data is
      promising, the effectiveness of the peer navigators versus the social work intervention is
      not known.

      The investigators propose a randomized controlled trial of early ED behavioral interventions
      following an opioid overdose. The investigators hypothesize that peer navigation will result
      in greater early treatment engagement and reduction in recurrent opioid overdose compared to
      a standard intervention delivered by a clinical social worker.

      The investigators will determine the effectiveness of peer navigation versus a standard
      behavioral intervention delivered in the ED to overdose patients and those at risk of
      recurrent opioid overdose. A total of 650 ED patients will be recruited (n=325 per arm) and
      followed for 18 months. Effectiveness will be measured objectively through linkage to
      administrative statewide databases, with two primary endpoints: (1) engagement in formal
      addiction treatment (e.g., inpatient services, outpatient services, medication assisted
      treatment (MAT)) from a licensed substance abuse treatment provider within 30 days following
      the ED visit, and (2) reduction in 18-month recurrent ED visits for an opioid overdose.
      Exploratory outcomes of interest are: overdose fatality, repeat ED visits related to opioids,
      and successful completion of an addiction treatment program and/or long-term retention in
      MAT.

      The investigators will explore if there is heterogeneity of treatment effect related to
      patient characteristics. The investigators anticipate that there will be individuals within
      each treatment arm who will vary in their response to the intervention. Specifically, the
      investigators will examine if the effects of the interventions are modified by baseline
      characteristics such as age, sex, race, type of opioid used, and history of comorbid chronic
      pain, depression or PTSD. Understanding these factors will allow us to further optimize
      subsequent interventions.
    
  