
    
      Rationale: Iodinated contrast media are regularly used in diagnostic and interventional
      procedures. The intravascular use of these contrast media can cause acute kidney injury
      (Contrast Induced Nephropathy). Contrast Induced Nephropathy is associated with increased
      morbidity and mortality. There are no treatment options, therefore preventive measures should
      be taken. Volume expansion reduces the risk of Contrast Induced Nephropathy. Current
      guidelines for the prevention of Contrast-Induced Nephropathy advise that high risk patients
      be admitted for hydration with intravenous normal saline for a period of 8-24 hours. This
      proposal evaluates an alternative method of hydration; home hydration with salt tablets.

      Objective: To investigate if home-hydration is a non inferior alternative for in-hospital
      hydration in the prevention of Contrast Induced Nephropathy in high risk patients.

      Study design: multi-centre randomized controlled trial.

      Study population: Adult patients > 18 years undergoing an elective procedure involving
      intravascular administration of iodinated contrast media and at high risk for the development
      of Contrast Induced Nephropathy (as defined by guideline criteria).

      Intervention: Arm A: sodium chloride 1g/10kg of body weight/day per os on day -2 and -1
      before contrast exposure. With a maximum dose of 10 gram sodium chloride a day.

      Arm B: Nacl 0.9% total 1000ml in 4 hrs or (in case of heart failure or severe renal failure)
      12 hrs before and in 4 or in 12 hrs after contrast administration.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The incidence of Contrast Induced Nephropathy, effect on the
      need for hospitalisation, patient satisfaction.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Patients who are randomized for home hydration will receive salt tablets and
      start 48 hrs before the procedure. The risk of taking salt tablets is low, there are some
      reports of nausea. Because the investigators exclude patients who have decompensated heart
      failure the use of these amounts of salt is considered safe and the investigators do not
      expect signs of overhydration. The investigators monitor this by a telephone consult, 24
      hours after the intake of the first tablets. Body weight and intake of tablets will be
      monitored. Before contrast administration a blood and urine sample will be taken.

      Patients who are randomized for intravenous hydration will be admitted and will receive
      standard treatment for high risk patients with the addition of one blood and urine sample
      taken before contrast administration.

      In all patients 48-72 hours after contrast administration a blood sample is taken to check
      for the development of CIN, this is standard treatment according to the guidelines.

      The investigators will ask all patients to fill in a questionnaire on patient satisfaction.
    
  