
    
      Severe refractory atopic dermatitis is a chronic inflammatory pruritic skin condition that
      affects both children and adults. The disease is marked by periods of exacerbation and
      remission. Symptoms of atopic dermatitis may resolve by adolescence; however, it is estimated
      that the disease may persist in 50 percent of affected children well into adulthood.

      Current possible treatments of atopic dermatitis include the use of topical corticosteroids,
      calcineurin inhibitors, phototherapy, as well as systemic medications i.e., methotrexate,
      cyclosporine, azathioprine, mycophenolate mofetil and interferon gamma. The difficulty with
      long-term treatment of this disease lies in its chronic nature associated with severe
      episodes. The combination of chronicity and severity of episodes of this diseases demands
      more effective and better-tolerated therapeutic options than those that are currently
      available. While the pathways of allergic inflammation are different than those of other
      inflammatory conditions, certain elements may overlap, providing targets for immune
      modulation. One of these targets is the interleukin-1 (IL-1) receptor.

      The IL-1 receptor plays an important role in the development and maintenance of Th2
      responses. Genetic, in vivo and in vitro data demonstrate a significant role for IL-1
      signaling allergic and skin inflammatory conditions. This pilot study is therefore designed
      to assess the safety and efficacy of IL-1ra, a natural inhibitor of the IL-1 receptor, in
      disrupting atopic pathophysiologic pathways. Specifically, we will treat severe refractory
      atopic dermatitis associated with evidence of multiple specific allergic sensitivities. Up to
      8 patients ages 10-30 with severe refractory dermatitis will be enrolled. Patients will be
      initially evaluated to establish the diagnosis of severe refractory AD as evidenced by SCORAD
      score greater than 40, followed by a 2 month (8 week) run-in period, a 3 month (12 week)
      treatment period of 3mg/kg/day anakinra given subcutaneously, followed by a 3 month (12 week)
      post-treatment evaluation period. In order to be considered evaluable for response, patients
      must have received a minimum of 67 out of 84 doses (80 percent) of anakinra. The primary
      endpoint is lack of an increase in serious infections, the secondary endpoint is a reduction
      of 30 percent or more in SCORAD score, and tertiary endpoints are cellular phenotypic and
      cytokine responses to IL-1 receptor blockade in atopic patients.
    
  