
    
      Background:

        -  Enzastaurin, is a macrocyclic bisindolylmaleimide which disrupts the intrinsic
           phosphotransferase activity of conventional and novel PKC isoforms via an interaction at
           the ATP binding site, displays selectivity in inhibiting the isoforms. Preclinical
           studies demonstrate potent anti-angiogenic activity of enzastaurin and studies in normal
           volunteers and solid tumor patients demonstrate the drug is very well tolerated at doses
           that achieve a biologically active serum concentration.

        -  Carboplatin has shown activity as monotherapy in the treatment of recurrent malignant
           gliomas in adults and preclinical data generated in our laboratory demonstrates additive
           anti-glioma activity with enzastaurin. The safety profile of carboplatin and the
           preclinical and clinical data supports its use in combination with enzastaurin in
           patients with malignant gliomas.

      Objective:

      -To establish the maximally tolerated dose of enzastaurin in combination with carboplatin in
      patients with refractory primary brain tumors not on any enzyme-inducing anti-epileptic drugs
      (nEIAED) and for patients on EIAEDs.

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically proven malignant glioma are eligible for this study.

      Design:

      -Patients will be stratified into two groups based on their anti-epileptic medications
      (nEIAEDs = Group A, EIAED = Group B)

      Group A: Each cycle of therapy will consist of enzastaurin administered daily for 4 weeks
      with no breaks between cycles. All patients will receive a 7-day lead-in treatment period
      (Cycle 1) consisting of a loading dose of oral enzastaurin on Day 1 at 1125mg, followed by
      enzastaurin administered once daily at 500mg for 6 additional days in order to achieve steady
      state pharmacokinetics of enzastaurin. The first dose of carboplatin will be administered on
      Day 8 of Cycle 1, which will consist of 35 days. Following the lead-in treatment period, the
      first combination cycle of enzastaurin and carboplatin (Cycle 2) will commence as a 28-day
      cycle. Within each combination cycle, enzastaurin will be orally administered at 500mg once
      daily on Days 1 through 28 and carboplatin will be administered as an intravenous infusion
      over approximately 30 minutes on Day 1 every 28 days. The carboplatin dose will be 3 AUC for
      dose level one. For dose levels 2, 3, and 4, the carboplatin dose will be 4, 5 and 6 AUC,
      respectively.

      Group B: Each cycle of therapy will consist of enzastaurin administered daily for 4 weeks
      with no breaks between cycles. All patients will receive a 7-day lead-in treatment period
      (Cycle 1) consisting of a loading dose of oral enzastaurin on Day 1 at 1125mg, followed by
      enzastaurin administered once daily at 875mg for 6 additional days in order to achieve steady
      state pharmacokinetics of enzastaurin. The first dose of carboplatin will be administered on
      Day 8 of Cycle 1, which will consist of 35 days. Following the lead-in treatment period, the
      first combination cycle of enzastaurin and carboplatin (Cycle 2) will commence as a 28-day
      cycle. Within each combination cycle, enzastaurin will be orally administered once daily on
      Days 1 through 28 at 875mg and carboplatin will be administered as an intravenous infusion
      over approximately 30 minutes on Day 1 every 28 days. The carboplatin dose will be 3 AUC for
      dose level one. For dose levels 2, 3, and 4, the carboplatin dose will be 4, 5 and 6 AUC,
      respectively.

      National Cancer Institute (NCI) registered this trial with Eli Lilly as sponsor. NCI did not
      update the record. In June 2013, NCI transferred the trial to Lilly's clinicaltrials.gov
      account and Lilly updated the record with the trial status, study start date, and completion
      dates. This trial is not an applicable trial under Food and Drug Administration Amendments
      Act of 2007 (FDAAA).
    
  