
    
      Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major public health problem with an estimated
      180 million people infected worldwide. In the United States, an estimated 4.1 million people
      are infected and HCV is the principal cause of death from liver disease and leading
      indication for liver transplantation. A combination of ribavirin (RBV) and pegylated
      interferon (peg-IFN) is the currently recommended therapy for chronic HCV infection. However,
      this therapy achieves viral clearance in only 19% to 52% of patients infected with HCV
      genotype 1 and 76% to 80% of patients infected with genotypes 2 and 3. Current therapy is
      also associated with a high incidence of adverse events and low cure rates in several
      populations. Novel therapies that do not rely on an interferon backbone will be required to
      enhance cure rates in various populations. Recent data show that adding an HCV serine
      protease inhibitor (such as boceprevir [BOC]) to peg-IFN and RBV results in HCV eradication
      rates of 70% to 80% among HCV-monoinfected subjects. However, whether human immunodeficiency
      virus (HIV)-infected subjects will have similar rates of response to triple combination
      therapy is presently not known. Previous data have suggested that HIV-infected patients with
      chronic HCV infection have much lower eradication rates to peg-IFN and RBV than
      HCV-monoinfected subjects. This study will explore whether HIV/HCV-coinfected subjects have a
      lower response rate to a BOC/peg-IFN/RBV regimen than HCV-monoinfected subjects. Participants
      who have chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 monoinfection (N=50) or coinfection with HIV-1
      (N=50), and who are na(SqrRoot) ve to IFN-based HCV treatment, will receive combination
      therapy with BOC (800 mg three times a day, every 7 to 9 hours, with food), weekly peg-IFN
      alpha-2b (1.5 mcg/kg/week) and twice daily RBV (weight based) for a maximum of 44 weeks,
      after a 4-week lead-in of peg-IFN and RBV. BOC received recent FDA approval for treating HCV
      monoinfection in combination with peg-IFN and RBV, and the approved labeling will be followed
      in this study. The primary endpoint is comparative efficacy in HCV-monoinfected and
      HIV/HCV-coinfected subjects. Secondary endpoints include determination of host predictors for
      therapeutic response, emergence of resistance biomarkers, and early viral kinetics. The
      findings from this study will aid in the understanding of whether HIV infection affects HCV
      antiviral and host responses to combination therapy using BOC/peg-IFN alfa-2b/RBV.
    
  