
    
      This study does not involve taking any medications.

      You will be asked to provide study personnel with authorization to request medical records
      from your physician, the hospital, and/or from other health care facilities where you were
      diagnosed with cancer. The information gathered will be used to help verify the diagnosis.
      Study personnel may also need to contact you in the future by phone, mail, or e-mail in order
      to ask questions about the status of your health.

      For this research study, you will be asked to have around 4 tablespoons of blood drawn from a
      vein in your arm or you will also be asked to provide a sample of cheek cells by spitting
      into a collection container. The blood and cheek cell samples will be used for special tests
      to look for genes that may play a role in the development of CLL. You will also be asked to
      complete a family history questionnaire and a risk factor questionnaire. The family history
      questionnaire and the risk factor questionnaire will each take 60 minutes to complete. You
      will need to contact your family members before you send the completed family history
      questionnaire back to the study staff. You must ask for their permission to send the study
      staff their contact information. Family members with CLL or other leukemias or lymphomas, as
      well as a sample of your unaffected family members, will then be contacted by study personnel
      about participating in the study.

      If you live in Houston, or the surrounding area, study personnel can arrange to collect the
      samples at the time and place of your convenience. If you do not live in the Houston area,
      sample collection instructions and supplies will be mailed to you. The blood sample may be
      drawn at your doctor's office, or at a clinic or hospital of your choice. All mailing costs
      will be paid by the study. No travel to M. D. Anderson will be required.

      All blood and cheek cells collected will only be used by researchers involved in this study.
      Genetic information from the analysis of your blood and cheek cells will be included in a
      repository of genetic information at the National Institutes of Health, but no personal
      identifying information will be sent. All information will be kept confidential. Neither you
      nor your doctor will receive the results of these tests and they will NOT be put in your
      medical record.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 450 participants will be enrolled by M. D. Anderson
      researchers. A total of 4000 participants will be enrolled in this multicenter study.
    
  