
    
      Surgical injury to tissue causes a variety of profound physiologic reactions which are
      essential for the restoration of an organisms' homeostasis. The inflammatory response
      involves a surge of stress hormones (i.e. ACTH, cortisol, catecholamines), activation of the
      complement system, migration of leukocytes to the site of injury, the release of cytokines
      (i.e. interleukins, tumor necrosis factor), as well as other cellular products (i.e.
      superoxide radicals, proteases, growth factors) (1-3). An appropriate inflammatory cascade is
      essential for tissue reconstitution and infection control. The associated impairment of
      multiple organ function is generally mild, because of the physiological reserve of the
      biological systems. However, a systemic inflammatory response may also lead to postoperative
      complications in the elderly, neonates, and patients with significant co-morbidity (4, 5).
      Indeed, mediators of inflammation may induce fatigue and prolong convalescence in healthy
      patients. On the other hand, dysregulation or suppression of the inflammatory process may
      lead to improper wound healing, infection and, as demonstrated recently, even an increase in
      cancer recurrence due to reduction in natural killer cell activity (6, 7).

      Anesthetic management may affect both immunostimulatory and immunosuppressive mechanisms
      either directly by modulating functions of immune cells or indirectly by attenuating the
      stress response. For example, inhalational anesthetics inhibit neutrophil function and
      depress lymphocyte proliferation while increasing pro-inflammatory cytokine levels (8, 9)).
      Propofol also inhibits neutrophil and monocyte function, and has strong anti-inflammatory and
      anti-oxidative effects (10). Opioids attenuate the direct cell immune response, but have only
      minimal effects on systemic inflammatory responses (11). It is expected that the choice of
      anesthetic technique may disturb the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory responses
      thus affecting clinical outcomes. A most advantageous anesthetic choice would enhance or have
      a neutral effect on cellular immunity while minimizing contribution to the systemic
      inflammatory response.
    
  