
    
      An asymmetry in the visual input across the eyes early in postnatal life causes amblyopia,
      the most common basis of uni-ocular blindness in humans. If uncorrected, amblyopia results in
      the unaffected eye controlling the binocular visual cortex, while the ability of the affected
      eye to stimulate cortical neurons may weaken to the point of functional blindness. Previous
      attempts to recover vision in adult amblyopes have had limited success, and the investigators
      propose this is due in large part to the significant reduction of synaptic plasticity that
      occurs during cortical development. The investigators propose that optimal recovery from
      amblyopia in adulthood is a two stage process that requires 1) the reactivation of plasticity
      in the adult amblyopic cortex (permissive step) and 2) focused visual experience to stimulate
      perceptual learning (instructive step).

      The Elizabeth Quinlan lab at the University of Maryland has recently shown that binocular
      visual deprivation in adulthood enhances synaptic plasticity in the adult cortex of
      experimental animals in as little as three days. In addition, binocular visual deprivation
      prior to repetitive visual experience stimulates the recovery of spatial acuity in an animal
      model of deep amblyopia. Here the investigators propose to translate this finding to the
      treatment of amblyopia in humans. The investigators propose to use binocular visual
      deprivation to promote synaptic plasticity in the amblyopic visual cortex, followed by visual
      perceptual learning through vision therapy homework, to stimulate the recovery of visual
      function. While visual perceptual learning has been previously shown to enhance visual
      function in amblyopic adults, the gains are slow and modest. The investigators predict that
      "pre-treatment" of the amblyopic visual system with binocular visual deprivation will enhance
      the magnitude and/or time course of learning-induced recovery from amblyopia.

      Twenty-four adult amblyopes, age 18 or older, will be recruited for the study. The
      investigators will exclude amblyopes with strabismus history because the treatment has not
      been designed to improve binocular alignment (motor fusion). Thus, amblyopes will be form
      deprivation amblyopes, especially form deprivation due to anisometropia, with moderate (20/30
      to 20/80) or severe (20/100 to 20/400) acuity in the affected eye. Screening will include an
      extensive application, telephone interview of two personal references, comprehensive visual
      examination, and in-person interview.

      Participants will be fitted with new ophthalmics if indicated and followed for several weeks
      to allow their amblyopia to stabilize. Their visual function will be assessed behaviorally
      and also by direct measurement of neural activity using visually evoked potentials (VEPs).
      Participants will be assigned to one of three groups. One group will be sequestered for zero
      days, one for five continuous days, and one for ten continuous days. Participants in the five
      or ten day sequestration groups will undergo sequestration in groups of two, three, or four.
      After sequestration visual function will again be assessed, both behaviorally and with VEP.
      All participants will then undergo 8 weeks (3 weeks before, 5 weeks after) of vision
      treatment for amblyopia, based on video game play. Vision testing will occur regularly during
      this period and for 10 months thereafter. A third VEP scan will be done at the end of the 8
      week treatment period.

      If successful, this work would transform therapy for adult amblyopia, and focus attention on
      the importance of incorporating methods to enhance synaptic plasticity as an adjunct to
      treatment. In addition, the insight gained from this work could be extended to strabismus,
      eye movement control disorders, and the restoration of optimal neural function after damage
      from stroke or other traumatic brain injury. The proposed experiment will also pioneer the
      use of binocular visual deprivation in human amblyopes, and develop standards for
      implementation, participant sequestration and care.
    
  