
    
      Recently, a series of clinical trial outcome reports have shown that KRAS mutations (and to a
      lesser extent KRAS mutations with BRAF V600E mutation) significantly negatively correlate
      with response to anti-epidermal growth factor (EGFR) mAbs, such as panitumumab, in metastatic
      colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients. WT KRAS status was shown to be required but not sufficient
      to confer sensitivity to panitumumab monotherapy. The molecular mechanisms underlying the
      response or lack of response to EGFR-directed therapies in CRC patients with WT RAS status
      are unknown. Potential mechanisms of response include activation of EGFR through receptor
      mutation or autocrine/paracrine ligand binding, activation while tumors that do not respond
      to EGFR-directed therapy may have activation of other distinct pathways such as VEGF, PDGF,
      and insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor; activating mutations of additional signaling
      proteins downstream of EGFR such as PI3K, and Src, or downstream of KRAS, such as RAF; and
      loss of function genes such as phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN). Identifying prognostic
      and predictive biomarkers to EGFR-directed therapy will prove important for the selection of
      therapeutic combinations to maximize clinical benefit. In addition to ascertaining resistance
      mechanisms other biomarkers such as EGFR gene copy number and expression levels of EGFR
      ligands in tumor cells may be useful to further refine responder population. The current
      approach applies to the panitumumab monotherapy and indicates that KRAS status should be
      considered when selecting mCRC patients as candidates for treatment. Thus, patients who are
      found to harbor KRAS mutation(s) as identified in the pre-treatment liver biopsy specimen
      will not be eligible for continuation on the trial, but following patient consent, the
      pre-treatment biopsy will be studied for pathway activation analysis by a CAP/CLIA compliant
      independent laboratory for research purposes only in the hopes for generating future
      hypothesis on pathway activation correlating with KRAS mutation status and help extend
      research into predictive pathway biomarkers for anti-EGFR therapy.

      This is a two arm prospective non-randomized study that is designed to assess the safety and
      efficacy of Gleevec and Vectibix in the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer to the
      liver. It also studies the change in phosphorylation levels of Gleevec速 targets (PGDT) and
      tumor burden in patients treated with Gleevec速 monotherapy followed by Gleevec速 + Vectibix速
      combination therapy versus treatment with standard of care (panitumumab).
    
  