
    
      Hernia repair is the most frequent elective operation performed in general surgery. Chronic
      pain or persistent neuralgia has been recognized as a complication after inguinal hernia
      repair but was reported in the 1980s as a rare and infrequent condition. Studies from the mid
      1990s have reported a higher frequency, with up to 50% of patients reporting pain after
      hernia repair more than 1 year after surgery. Chronic pain after hernia repair can be
      disabling, with considerable impact on quality of life. The natural history of postoperative
      pain, including its prevalence, etiology, duration, associated disability and it's social and
      economical impact remain undefined.

      The Cooperative Hernia Study (1996) assessing postoperative pain in a prospective trial
      including 315 open non-mesh repair patients with 2 years follow-up found at 1 year, 62.9% of
      groin or inguinal pain and 11.9% of patients had moderate to severe pain; 53.6% had pain and
      10.6% of patients continued to report moderate to severe pain 2 years postoperatively.

      In a prospective consecutive case series study of 500 consecutive operations in 466
      unselected adult patients for open groin hernia repair in Denmark (1994-1996), 1 year after
      surgery, 19% of patients had some degree of pain, 6% had moderate or severe pain. Pain
      restricted daily function 6% of patients.

      A cross-sectional cohort study based on the Danish Hernia Database (1998) to determine the
      incidence of groin pain 1 year after inguinal hernia repair and to assess the influence of
      chronic groin pain on function, detected 28.7% of pain in the groin area and 11.0% of the
      patients reported that pain was interfering with work or leisure activity. There were no
      difference in the incidence of pain with regard to the different types of hernia, the
      different types of surgical repairs, or the different types of anesthesia.

      A questionnaire survey of a historical cohort of 351 patients who underwent inguinal hernia
      surgery in Aberdeen - Scotland (1995-1997) reported 30% chronic pain. Character of this pain
      was predominantly neuropathic.

      Definition of chronic pain The definition of "chronic pain" by the International Association
      of the Study of Pain is "pain lasting for 3 months or more". There is no consensus on neither
      in the definition, nor the severity grades of CSPOP in the literature. In the Cooperative
      Hernia Study, Cunningham et al. clearly described mild, moderate, and severe pain. Mild pain
      was defined as an occasional pain or discomfort that did not limit activity, with a return to
      lifestyle before hernia; moderate pain, as pain preventing return to normal preoperative
      activities (i.e., inability to continue with activities before hernia such as golf, tennis,
      or other sports, and inability to lift objects without pain, that patients had been lifting
      before the hernia occurrence); and severe pain, as pain that incapacitated the patient at
      frequent intervals or interfered with activities of daily living (i.e., a pain constantly
      present, or intermittently present but so severe as to impair normal activities, such as
      walking). Other studies defined chronic pain as "that persisting for one year
      postoperatively". One Dutch study defined pain as pain in the groin or scrotum lasting more
      than 1 month after surgery. In our study chronic pain is defined as a minimal score > 4 using
      the quadruple visual analogue scale (VASQ) 3 months after procedure.

      Characteristics and etiology of chronic pain Somatic, neuropathic, and visceral chronic pain
      syndromes are described. Cunningham et al. reported the somatic pain syndrome as the most
      common type of chronic post hernia pain. The pain is localized to common ligamentous
      insertion to the pubic tubercle. Somatic pain may be due to the damage to the pubic tubercle
      during the stapling of mesh prosthesis or from deep muscle layers. Incorporation of the
      periosteum of the pubic tubercle into the most medial suture during open hernia repair is
      accused. Neuropathic pain is probably attributable to damage to the ilioinguinal or
      genitofemoral nerve. Neuropathic pain usually develops in the sensory distribution of an
      injured nerve. Chronic residual neuralgia occurs as a result of surgical handing of sensory
      nerves. The nerve trauma can be due to partial or complete division, stretching, contusion,
      crushing, electrical damage, or sutures compression. Secondary nerve damage can occur due to
      irritation or compression by an adjacent inflammatory process such as granuloma. Neuropathic
      pain described as pulling, tugging, tearing, throbbing, stabbing, shooting, numbing, and
      dull. The onset of neuropathic pain is often delayed, occurring after a latent period of days
      to weeks. Pain is often aggravated by ambulation, stooping or hyperextension of hip and
      sexual intercourse; and alleviated by recumbent position and flexion of the hip and thigh. In
      laparoscopic hernia repair when stapling the mesh, it can penetrate the wall of the inguinal
      canal entrapping and irritating the sensory nerves. Kinking of the nerves may cause chronic
      irritation. The third pain syndrome described in the literature is visceral. For example,
      pain encountered only on ejaculation due to dysfunction of periurethral structures involved
      in ejaculation. One possible mechanism is the injury to either somatic sacral or sympathetic
      nerves, resulting in dyssynergia of the ejaculatory effector muscles. It can also be due to
      stricture in the spermatic duct from the scar tissue or twisting of the cord.

      Prognosis of chronic pain Once chronic pain is installed, it does not change without a
      radical treatment. Cunningham et al. reported a prevalence of mild, moderate, or severe pain
      of 63% at 1 year postoperatively, which was reduced to 54% after 2 years. Those patients who
      reported moderate to severe pain at 1 year (12%) continued to report persistent pain at 2
      years (11 %).

      Risk of developing chronic pain

        -  Predisposing psychological factors Preoperative psychological state of patient
           (Depression, dependencies, drug consumption etc.) or history of chronic pain with
           previous surgery or accident may be a predicting factor.

        -  Surgical factors Recurrent hernia, preoperative pain and absence of visible bulge before
           surgery, delayed onset of symptoms after surgery, high pain scores at one week
           postoperatively and requirement of four or more weeks before returning to work are
           reported as risk factors for developing of chronic pain.

      Impact of surgical technique Several different surgical techniques are studied with each
      other in the literature and different meta analyses, each with different point of interest,
      gives different lectures of the reality. Despite the fact that there is no consensus in the
      literature, surgical technique is clearly one of the key parameters. The overall frequency of
      chronic pain is higher in studies with specific measurements, where pain is the primary
      outcome of interest.

        -  OMR vs. non-mesh repair The hypothetical advantage of tension free repair on chronic
           pain issue is not confirmed. Two retrospective cohort studies coming from the tenors of
           open mesh repair, reported less chronic pain with mesh repair. This advantage of mesh
           repair on pain scores versus conventional no-mesh repairs is not confirmed by randomized
           controlled trials.

        -  LR vs. OMR The only study comparing laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal (TEP) repair
           (Polypropylene mesh without fixation) with classic OMR (Lichtenstein) comes from Kumar
           et al. They find overall 30% of "chronic pain and discomfort" (22,5% for LR, 38,3% for
           OMR) after a mean of 21 months post hernia repair. Medical Research Council trial
           reported a significantly higher incidence of chronic pain after open repair than after
           laparoscopic repair (37 % versus 29 %) at 1 year. This trial, however, included non-mesh
           repairs in the open group and transabdominal preperitoneal (TAP) and TEP repairs in the
           laparoscopic group. In a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials of laparoscopic
           and open prosthetic mesh repair of groin hernia, EU Trialists found that chronic pain is
           less likely to occur after laparoscopic repair than after open repair.

        -  TEP or TAP? The TAP repair is historically the technique of choice in the north america.
           Most of the literature compares TAP to another technique. In this technique, flat, heavy
           weighted polypropylene meshes were used and fixed with staplers or tackers. Peritoneal
           tears were also closed with the same technique. Higher rates of chronic pain were
           reported after TAP repair versus TEP repair. Nerve entrapment during these several
           stapling procedures was probably the main reason. TAP is also strongly associated to
           "rare but serious vascular and visceral complications". The Medical Research Council
           trial reported that all serious complications occurred in patients undergoing the TAP
           approach. Most of the postoperative complications as sepsis on bowel fistula with mesh,
           mechanical ileus on adherences or port site hernias are seen in TAP repair. In our
           practice TEP repair is the technique of choice. Dissection is realized without the use
           of balloon dissector, an anatomic, preformed anatomic polyester mesh implanted without
           fixation by stapling, tacking or suture.
    
  