
    
      Participation in the study entails completing a baseline and 1-month post MBSR follow up
      research appointment. A baseline research appointment must occur within 30 days (+/- 15 days)
      of the MBSR start. The 1 month follow up appointment must be completed within 30 days (+/- 15
      days) after the MBSR course end. At each research appointment, disease activity, patient
      reported outcome measures (PROMs), and blood will be collected for future analysis. Patients
      will also be asked to complete the PROMs through an online survey platform using email, at
      MBSR course start, week 4 of the MBSR course, and at MBSR course end. Participants in the
      MBSR arm will also be recommended to perform self-directed meditation for 20-40 minutes per
      day, on off-days, throughout the 8-week session, as is typical for the MBSR course.
      Compliance with home meditation will be recorded on a take-home "practice" sheet that will be
      collected each week during the MBSR course.

      If patients do not wish to participate in the MBSR course but are willing to participate in
      the study as a control, patients may also be consented. Controls will be asked to attend a
      baseline and 3-month research appointment where disease activity, PROMs, and blood donation
      would be obtained. Participants will also be asked to fill out PROMs (online) at 4 weeks. If
      a patient does not wish to participate in either arm of the MBSR study, patient will continue
      with routine psychological care for patient's anxiety and depression.

      Blood samples will be collected at the baseline research appointment and the follow up
      research appointment, if the patient is willing. These samples will be drawn and banked for
      future analysis of inflammatory markers and cytokine expression.

      Participants will be sent a health care usage survey after 3 months (coinciding with research
      visit 2; 1 month post-MBSR research visit or 3-month follow up research visit if control).
      Health care usage will continue to be screened for up to 1 year post research visit 1 via the
      electronic medical record.
    
  