
    
      The study will evaluate the comparative effectiveness of two psychosocial approaches,
      Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and peer support through the use of Certified Recovery
      Specialists (CRS's)/ Certified Peer Specialists (CPS's) provided within the context of
      office-based buprenorphine treatment. Patients will be randomly assigned to receive either
      (1) standard Medication Management (MM) as typically provided at the site, (2) MM with
      office-based CBT, (3) MM with CRS/CPS, and (4) MM with both CBT and CRS/CPS. In MM, patients
      will be seen by providers at least weekly until stable, and stabilized patients will then be
      seen by the provider on a monthly basis. If a patient needs a higher level of care, they will
      be referred to appropriate specialty treatment to ensure their safety. In the CBT study arms,
      CBT will be provided through 12 individual manualized sessions scheduled to coincide with
      patients' MM appointments when possible. As outlined by the National Institute on Drug Abuse
      (NIDA), sessions will cover standard CBT topics and include exercises and homework.
      Meta-analyses and reviews have concluded that CBT is an effective treatment across a range of
      SUDs and has helped to enhance treatment retention, improve medication adherence, and address
      ancillary problems. In the CRS/CPS study arms, CRS's/CPS's will meet with clients following
      their first OBOT session to assist them in accessing community resources and overcoming
      treatment barriers, and provide ongoing patient navigation services to promote attendance at
      OBOT appointments. These appointments will occur either in-person or over the phone and all
      meetings will be tracked by the CRS/CPS. Studies indicate that peer-delivered services for
      individuals with mental health disorders are effective in engaging "difficult-to-reach"
      individuals and improving multidimensional outcomes. In the combined CBT/CRS study arm,
      clients will receive the individual CBT sessions and be assigned to a CRS/CPS.
    
  