
    
      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease is an important cause of morbidity in solid organ
      transplantation recipients. Viral reactivation, either of donor origin or endogenous latent
      virus involves a complex series of steps. A number of factors contribute to the CMV
      reactivation from latency including exogenous immunosuppression, pre-existing host immunity,
      and cytokine dysregulation [1,2]. Symptomatic patients are classified as having CMV disease,
      which presents as a viral syndrome (fever, malaise) or as tissue invasive disease, such as
      hepatitis or pneumonitis. CMV can also have indirect manifestations due to an
      immunomodulatory effect of viral replication, resulting in other opportunistic infections and
      acute and chronic allograft injury [2-4]. CMV disease in organ transplant recipients is
      generally treated with a finite course of intravenous or oral antiviral therapy. However, the
      risk of recurrent CMV disease is estimated to be between 25-30% [5-7].

      The pathogenesis of CMV reactivation, viral replication, disease progression, and viral
      persistence is likely related to a number of host factors in transplant patients, including
      degree and type of immunosuppressive therapy, and pre-existing immunity [8,9]. However, CMV
      is a remarkably complex virus with a large genome encoding approximately 200 open reading
      frames. A number of viral factors likely also play a role in determining the risk of CMV
      disease, the risk of tissue invasion, the response to therapy, and the risk of recurrence
      once therapy is initiated. The virus commits a large percentage of its total genome coding
      capacity to the tasks of modulating host cell behaviour and host response to infection [8,9].
      These include CMV gene products aimed at escaping host defence mechanisms which are commonly
      referred to as CMV immune evasion genes [9-11]. Some of these immune evasion genes encode for
      proteins that can actively interfere with distinct steps in the antigen expression pathway
      and thus contribute to viral persistence despite an active host immune response. For example
      US2, US3, US6, and US11 encode for a protein whose ultimate effect is to reduce the levels of
      MHC class I proteins on the surface of infected cells. The CMV UL141 gene product provides
      protection against killing by a wide array of NK cell populations, via blocking of surface
      expression of NK cell-activating ligand CD155 [26]. Also, human CMV expresses several
      homologues of host G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), of which the chemokine receptor
      homologue US28 is the best characterized [27]. Although the exact significance of US28 has
      not been determined, the protein product may play a role in cell entry, leukocyte chemotaxis,
      viral dissemination and immune evasion [27].

      MicroRNAs MicroRNAs are recently discovered small endogenous non-coding RNAs. These small
      RNAs of ~22 nucleotide length are crucial post-transcriptional regulators of gene expression
      in a wide spectrum of normal and abnormal biological processes including antiviral defence,
      oncogenesis and development in higher eukaryotes. Recently several virus genomes have also
      been found to encode microRNAs. The present understanding of the biological functions of
      virus-encoded microRNAs remains sketchy, with evidence mainly derived from studies on
      individual or a small set of microRNAs encoded by the viruses and their cognate hosts.
      Survival strategies of the virus and counter strategies of host cells through miRNAs of host
      and viral origin and their respective targets form the crux of host virus interactions
      mediated by microRNAs. Thus microRNAs form a complex link between the regulatory networks of
      the host and the pathogen. A thorough understanding of the microRNA-mediated host-pathogen
      interaction is essential in understanding the basic pathophysiological changes associated
      with viral infections

      MicroRNAs and CMV A number of viral microRNAs have been found in CMV. The function of the
      majority of these is largely unknown. Recently, the function of a specific microRNA
      (miR-UL-112-1) encoded by CMV was partially elucidated. Stern-Ginossar et al. used a new
      bioinformatics tool to identify the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-related
      chain B (MICB) mRNA as a target of a miRNA encoded by CMV. MICB is a cellular ligand for the
      activating receptor NKG2D, which is expressed on some natural killer cells, γ/δ T cells, and
      CD8+ T cells. During cellular stress, such as that caused by viral infection, MICB is
      induced, thus activating natural killer and T cells that can lead to the killing of infected
      cells. Therefore blocking this process would probably benefit the virus. Stern-Ginossar et
      al. showed that cells infected with CMV that have been engineered to lack the miR-UL112-1
      were more susceptible to being killed in an NKG2D-dependent manner by natural killer cells.
      The CMV-encoded protein UL16, also provides protection against the detection of infected
      cells by natural killer cells, by sequestering MICB in the intracellular milieu and
      preventing it from reaching the cell surface. Why the virus has two different mechanisms to
      achieve the same goal is not clear, particularly since the closely related NKG2D-ligand MICA
      is induced during viral infection. Members of my laboratory and I have recently described2
      another function of the same miRNA. Successful, persistent infection depends on the
      maintenance of cell viability despite the production of toxic viral proteins. One way in
      which CMV can restrict the production of viral proteins is by restricting viral replication.
      We observed that miR-UL112-1 down-regulates the expression of CMV genes involved in its own
      replication process, in part by targeting a viral mRNA (encoding a protein called immediate
      early 72) that regulates the transcription of viral genes required for acute replication.
    
  