
    
      This study had four stages, the first one make registry from a computer database of
      outpatient clinic faculty of physical therapy Cairo university for all children with cerebral
      palsy under four years old age. In the second stage the files of 100 children registered were
      studied to select spastic cerebral palsy without the following; associated disorders,
      congenital anomalies, perceptual disorders, IQ below 80%, or another diagnosis ( nerve
      lesion, genetic disorders). Before the evaluation stage, every parent of each selected child
      was aware with the purpose of the study and signed the written informed consent that was
      approved by the ethical committee faculty of Physical Therapy Cairo University.Evaluation

      The 83 selected children were evaluated as follow:

        1. Muscle tone assessment Modified Ashworth scale is a valid and reliable test for measure
           muscle tone (Mutlu, 2008) table 1. Then evaluate the tone distribution throughout the
           body to determine its type diplegia, quadriplegia, or hemiplegia.

        2. Severity The gross motor function classification system (GMFCS) is a reliable and valid
           system to classify the children with CP according to their age- specific motor activity
           (Palisano, 2000). GMFCS is a time-independent variable and it has five levels of
           severity (I, II, III, IV &V). The children with level I& II grouped as mild cases,
           children with level III were moderate cases, and those with IV & V levels were sever
           cases.

        3. The gross motor function measure The Gross motor function measure (GMFM-88) is a valid
           clinical assessment tool designed to evaluate gross motor function, and its change over
           time in children with cerebral palsy (Russell, 2013). (GMFM-88) consists of 88 items in
           five dimensions A: Lying and Rolling (17 items), B: Sitting (20 items), C: Crawling and
           Kneeling (14 items), D: Standing (13 items), and E: Walking, Running and Jumping( 24
           items). Each item was scored as 0 - does not initiate, 1 - initiates, 2 - partially
           completes, and 3 - completed, or not tested. The GMFM total scores are a summation of
           the scores for all dimensions and dividing by 5. A percentage score was calculated for
           the total score so it ranges from 0 to 100.

        4. Socioeconomic status (SES) SES was evaluated by a valid and updated of the socioeconomic
           status scale for health research in Egypt scale (El-Gilany, 2012). It includes 7 domains
           with a total score of 84 ; 1- education and cultural domain(for both husband & wife)
           (score = 30); 2- family domain (score = 10); 3- occupation domain(for both husband &
           wife) (score = 10); 4- Family possessions domain (score = 12); 5- home sanitation domain
           (score = 12); 6- health care domain (score = 5); 7- economic domain(score = 5).
           According to the quartiles of the score calculated, the socioeconomic level is
           classified into very low, low, middle and high levels.

      Physical therapy program The trained physiotherapists did the physical therapy interventions
      based on neurodevelopmental technique (NDT) and strength training for all participated
      children in the study for three times per week along sex months. During the study, the
      parents were asked to be adhering to the sessions Follow up After 6 months of the physical
      therapy program, the GMFM88 for 80 children were evaluated again to determine the progress of
      motor functions.
    
  