
    
      There is an increased risk of recurrence of Bipolar Disorder (BD) episodes or worsening
      symptoms in pregnancy after the discontinuation of mood stabilizers. Similarly, changes in
      medication concentration due to the physiological changes in pregnancy may effectively reduce
      the medication dose and thus its efficacy in pregnancy. Therapeutic dose monitoring has
      proven to have great utility in preventing seizure recurrence in women with epilepsy (WWE).
      Similar guidelines to that of women with epilepsy would benefit pregnant women with BD who
      are taking mood stabilizing medications in pregnancy. Current evidence suggests that lithium
      has a more favorable reproductive profile than many mood stabilizing antiepileptic agents.
      However, the pharmacokinetics as well as the utility of therapeutic dose monitoring of
      lithium in pregnant patients with Bipolar Disorder has not been well studied.

      This study is an observational protocol to explore the longitudinal pharmacokinetics (PK) of
      lithium during pregnancy and postpartum in 20 women with Bipolar Disorder. The correlation
      between changes in bioavailability and concentrations ratios and increases in symptoms of
      depression, mania and anxiety and recurrence of syndromal BD episodes that fulfill Diagnostic
      and Statistics Manual of Mental Disorders (IV) (DSM4) criteria will be investigated.

      The primary aims of this study are 1.) To describe the changes in lithium elimination and
      serum concentration across pregnancy and postpartum to establish its efficacious use and
      dosing requirements during childbearing 2.) To evaluate the associations between maternal and
      umbilical cord lithium serum levels. 3.) To explore the relationship between declining
      lithium serum concentrations during pregnancy and the increase in psychiatric symptoms and
      recurrence of syndromal BD.

      To optimize the research yield from this investigation, participants will have the option to
      allow banking of cerebrospinal (CSF) fluid and DNA for future analyses.
    
  