
    
      Migraine is a debilitating chronic condition that affects most of the patient's existence,
      from childhood to late adulthood. During frequent headache attacks, its sufferers show marked
      increased sensitivity to noxious (hyperalgesia) and even non-noxious stimuli, a phenomenon
      called cutaneous allodynia that affects 63% of the patients. Although MRI-based techniques
      have provided insights into some brain mechanisms of migraine, many questions regarding its
      molecular impact in the brain are still unanswered. The overall goal of this project is to
      provide a detailed understanding of the µ-opioid receptor mediated transmission in the brain
      of migraine patients, one of the most important central pain regulatory systems in humans,
      with the long-term objective of developing more focused neuromechanism-driven methods for
      migraine research and therapy.

      Preliminary studies from an earlier project (NINDS-NIHK23 NS0629946) using positron emission
      tomography (PET) with [11C] carfentanil, a selective radiotracer for μ-opioid receptor (μOR),
      have indicated that there is a decrease in µOR availability (non-displaceable binding
      potential; BPND) in the brain of migraine patients during the headache attacks and allodynia,
      including areas like thalamus and periaqueductal gray matter (PAG). µOR BPND is an objective
      measurement, in vivo, of endogenous μ-opioid availability, and its acute reduction reflects
      the activation of this neurotransmitter system. This is arguably one of the neuromechanisms
      most centrally involved in pain regulation, affecting multiple elements of the pain
      experience. Moreover, MRI-based reports have found that those findings co-localize with
      neuroplastic changes in migraine patients. Conventional therapies are unable to selectively
      target those dysfunctional brain regions, and there is a paucity of data on how to reverse
      embedded neuroplastic molecular mechanisms when available medications and surgical therapies
      fail. Several studies with motor cortex stimulation (MCS) have shown that epidural electrodes
      in the primary motor cortex (M1) are effective in providing analgesia in patients with
      refractory central. The rationale for MCS stimulation is based in part on the thalamic
      dysfunction noticed in chronic pain and migraine, and also on studies demonstrating that MCS
      significantly changes thalamic activity. Evidently, the invasive nature of such a procedure
      limits its indication to highly severe chronic pain disorders. New non-invasive brain
      neuromodulatory methods for M1, such as transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), can
      now safely modulate and activate the µOR system, providing relatively lasting pain relief in
      chronic pain patients and migraine. However, the electric fields generated by its most
      conventional analgesic montage are widely spread across the brain, lacking specificity on the
      pain-related structures directly targeted. Recently, a novel high-definition tDCS (HD-tDCS)
      montage created by our group was able to reduce exclusively "contralateral"
      sensory-discriminative clinical pain measures (pain intensity/area) in chronic patients by
      targeting more precisely the putative M1 region. It is hoped that this montage will provide
      durable relief of pain for this episodic migraine population.

      This is a phase 2, single center, two-arm, double-masked, randomized investigation and
      modulation of the µ-opioid mechanisms in migraine (in vivo). We will enroll 60 patients with
      episodic migraine (30 for the active M1 HD-tDCS group and 30 for a sham group). Each
      participant will undergo a sequence of events and evaluations that will include baseline
      assessments, 10 days of HD-tDCS, pre- and post-PET and MRI scans, and questionnaires to
      evaluate pain and quality of life.
    
  