
    
      Background: Influenza vaccine is the most frequently used vaccine in the United States and
      globally. Influenza vaccination provides variable protection against influenza virus
      infection from year to year, with multiple factors contributing to variation in vaccine
      effectiveness. First, viral evolution necessitates regular updates to vaccine strains, and
      the degree of match between vaccine and circulating strains affects vaccine protection. A
      more serious issue, which motivates this study, is that repeated influenza vaccination may
      lead to "focusing" of immune responses to older strains, potentially reducing protection
      against recent strains.

      Aims and objectives: The aims of this trial are: (1) to measure humoral and selected cellular
      immune responses to repeated influenza vaccination, including these responses' associations
      with age, birth year, and prior vaccination history; (2) to identify the characteristics of
      study participants who are vaccinated but still become infected with influenza virus
      ("vaccine failures"); and (3) to predict how influenza vaccinations and infections shape
      immunity.

      Study design: A 4-year immunogenicity study with a randomized controlled design among 820
      adults who are 18-49 years of age. Participants will be randomized to 5 groups in equal
      proportions, where the groups will receive Flublok (Sanofi Pasteur) vaccine (V) or saline
      placebo (P) in years 1-4: group 1: V+V+V+V; group 2: P+V+V+V; group 3: P+P+V+V; group 4:
      P+P+P+V; group 5: P+P+P+P. All participants will receive influenza vaccination at the end of
      the final year. The investigators will collect blood samples and nasal strip samples before
      vaccination and various timepoints after vaccination. Whole blood samples will be collected
      from a subset for later peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) analysis. The investigators
      will actively monitor participants for acute respiratory illnesses throughout the follow-up
      period, and collect and test respiratory swabs and blood samples to identify respiratory
      virus infections and acute immune responses to infection.

      Main outcome measures: The primary outcome measures are the humoral immune responses at day
      30 after vaccination measured by hemagglutinin inhibition and microneutralization assays. The
      investigators will also study a number of secondary outcomes, including the persistence of
      immune responses 91, 182, 273 and 365 days after vaccination, and the immune responses to
      natural laboratory-confirmed influenza virus infections, as well as immunity and immune
      responses to other respiratory viruses including COVID-19 (SARS-CoV- 2).

      Potential implications: Our study will provide novel insight into the effects of repeat
      influenza vaccination and infection on the strength and breadth of immune responses to
      influenza, the mechanisms underlying heterogeneity in vaccine response and vaccine failure,
      and biological factors that could explain variation in influenza vaccine effectiveness.
    
  