
    
      The Trabecular Bone Score (TBS) is a recent imaging tool that indirectly studies bone
      microarchitecture from 2-dimensional images of lumbar biphotonic absorptiometry (DXA). His
      interest is demonstrated in the evaluation of the fracture risk of the general population.
      The study of its interest in chronic renal failure is ongoing, only 3 studies have been
      published to our knowledge.

      Osteopathy of chronic renal failure is a complex phenomenon involving bone remodeling
      disorders, mineralization, mass and bone microarchitecture. In the renal transplant
      population, certain factors, such as anti-rejection therapy, are also involved.

      The impact of fragility fractures induced by these disorders of bone metabolism is a major
      public health issue due to the resulting morbidity and mortality, with mortality doubling in
      comparison to the general population after a hip fracture.

      The bone osteopathy assessment of chronic renal failure is the bone biopsy, however its
      realization is very limited because of its invasiveness.

      Although initially Bone Densitometry was not recommended in the evaluation of the fracture
      risk of chronic renal failure by KDIGO (Kidney Disease Improvement Global Outcomes) of 2009,
      many works published since plead in favor of its realization for the fracture risk
      assessment, in combination with the clinical data of the Fracture Risk Assessment Tool
      (FRAX), as should be recommended in the next KDIGO. Indeed, the decrease in bone density in
      chronic renal failure is associated with an increased risk of fracture.

      Clinical parameters, of course, also play an important role in the evaluation of the fracture
      risk of chronic renal insufficiency, be it the items taken into account in FRAX, certain
      factors related to chronic kidney disease, or even transplantation. kidney transplant.

      To our knowledge, only three studies on the association of TBS with fracture risk of chronic
      renal failure have been published. In particular, they show a significant association between
      the decrease in TBS and the incident fracture risk, independently of bone density and FRAX,
      in a population of kidney transplant recipients, and chronic renal insufficiency in stage 3
      or 4.

      According to KDIGO 2009, the only biomarkers recommended in the evaluation of osteopathy
      chronic renal failure are parathyroid hormone (PTH) and bone-specific alkaline phosphatase
      (BAP), although there is no established threshold for significant increase in fracture risk .
      However, there is little data on other bone remodeling markers such as the Procollagen type 1
      N-terminal propeptide (P1NP) and the C-terminal telopeptide of type 1 collagen (CTX). Some
      studies indicate, however, that they may be of interest in evaluation of osteopathy of
      chronic renal failure .
    
  