
    
      The study will be conducted in patients with advanced NSCLC (stage IIIB-IV) who have MPE
      requiring therapeutic drainage, and are also eligible for treatment with chemotherapy plus
      bevacizumab (as defined in protocol Section 6.0). All patients will undergo placement of a
      Pleur-XTM catheter as part of routine practice. Eligible patients may enroll in the protocol
      prior to, or within 10 days following placement of their Pleur-XTM catheter. Upon enrollment,
      patients will be given a logsheet on which to record the volume of pleural fluid drained from
      their catheter. Only patients who, in the opinion of the treating physician, do not have a
      hemorrhagic pleural effusion (grossly bloody, or pleural fluid hemoglobin concentration > 25%
      of blood hemoglobin concentration) may remain on study. In addition, only patients who, in
      the opinion of the treating physician, have satisfactory placement of their Pleur-XTM
      catheter may remain on study.

      Approximately 15 patients will be enrolled with the goal to treat 10 patients with
      chemotherapy plus bevacizumab. The additional enrollments will be necessary in that it is
      estimated that approximately 1 in 3 patients will be taken off study due to failure of
      Pleur-XTM catheter placement, or discovery of hemorrhagic effusion.

      Patients who remain on study will begin chemotherapy. All eligible patients will receive
      bevacizumab 15mg/kg IV x 1 dose as a single agent. Three weeks later, chemotherapy will be
      initiated according to routine clinical practice along with continued use of bevacizumab.
      Acceptable chemotherapy regimens for this protocol are detailed in Section 5.0 of the
      protocol. Only the administration of bevacizumab will be governed by the protocol (Section
      11.0). Dose reductions of all other drugs will be made according to routine clinical
      practice. Pleural fluid will be drained from the Pleur-XTM at least every other day (qod),
      and volume recorded by the patient in a log book. Pleur-XTM catheters may be removed when
      pleural symphysis is achieved (defined in Section 12.0), or at the discretion of the treating
      physician. The schedule of follow-up visits may vary according to the chemotherapy regimen,
      however all patients must be evaluated in the clinic at least every 3 weeks with a doctor
      visit to record drainage volume, and status of their Pleur-XTM catheter.
    
  