
    
      VTE risk factors in adult hospitalized patients are well established and prevention
      strategies have been implemented for many years. Unfortunately, VTE prevention guidelines are
      not well established in children, and the pathophysiology of pediatric VTE is sufficiently
      different from adults that adult studies cannot be extrapolated to pediatrics. There are no
      randomized trials in pediatrics to determine whether a risk prediction model helps prevent
      pediatric VTEs.

      A risk prediction model was developed that can be applied at admission and updated daily to
      predict pediatric patients at higher risk for developing a VTE. This model was developed from
      electronically extracted data from all admissions to the Monroe Carell Jr. Children's
      Hospital at Vanderbilt from January 1, 2010 to October 31, 2017. Cases were identified based
      on ICD-9/10 codes. Potential covariates were identified from previous studies and known risk
      factors for VTE development. The variables with the highest adjusted odds ratio (OR) for
      developing VTE were history of thrombosis (OR 8.7, 95% confidence interval (CI) 6.6-11.3,
      p<0.01), presence of a central venous line (OR 4.9, 95%CI 4.0-5.8, p<0.01), and cardiology
      consultation (OR 4.0, 95%CI 3.3-4.8, p<0.01). Additional significant variables include
      whether a blood gas was performed, infectious disease consultation, diagnosis of cancer, age,
      mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration (MCHC), red cell distribution width (RDW), lactate,
      and whether surgery was performed.

      There have been several smaller pediatric VTE risk prediction models that have been developed
      and published. However, none of these have been evaluated for efficacy in a prospective
      trial, and none of these studies have used a randomized trial approach to evaluate benefit in
      identifying pediatric patients at high risk for developing VTE. Therefore, the investigators
      are performing a randomized, pragmatic trial to evaluate the pediatric VTE risk prediction
      model and its efficacy at predicting pediatric patients at higher risk for developing a VTE.
    
  