
    
      There is an initial observational phase to this study followed by a parallel group, two-arm
      multi-centre pragmatic randomised controlled trial (interventional phase).

      In the observational phase patients will be given their diagnosis of dissociative seizures by
      a neurologist/epilepsy specialist and will be told about the CODES study. In addition to a
      leaflet on dissociative seizures they will, if interested in the study and are willing to be
      referred to a psychiatrist, be given an information sheet about DS and about the study and
      the doctor will document their agreement to be contacted by a research nurse/worker. This
      person will arrange to contact them, clarify study details, obtain informed consent, collect
      demographic details and explain seizure diary recording. They will then contact the patient
      fortnightly (bi-weekly)for seizure data. The investigators initially aim to recruit ~500
      patients at this stage.

      After 3 months the patient will be reviewed by a neuropsychiatrist/ liaison psychiatrist/
      psychiatrist with interest in DS who will undertake a clinical assessment, review the
      patient's eligibility for the interventional phase of the study and if eligible will explain
      the RCT. Patients will be given a further leaflet on DS and a Participant Information Sheet
      and the psychiatrist will document interested patients' willingness to again be contacted by
      a research nurse/worker. That person will then explain the RCT in greater detail, obtain
      informed consent, undertake a baseline assessment including a MINI and instruct patients to
      keep seizure records for which data will be collected fortnightly. .Randomisation of between
      298 and 356 people (depending on follow-up rates) to either CBT plus standardised medical
      care (SMC) or to SMC alone will occur after informed consent has been obtained and baseline
      measures have been collected. The stratification factor will be liaison/neuropsychiatry
      centre. The research workers and trial statistician will remain blinded. Computer-generated
      randomisation will be conducted remotely (for more details see www.ctu.co.uk - randomisation
      - advanced) by the King's Clinical Trials Unit (KCTU) at the Institute of Psychiatry,
      Psychology and Neuroscience. The investigators will maintain strict allocation concealment.
      The investigators will test the RWs' blinding by asking them to record when they think that
      allocation was revealed and record the group to which they thought patients had been
      allocated.

      CBT will be delivered over 12 sessions (each approximately one hour in length) over a 4-5
      month period with one booster session at 9 months post randomisation. The investigators'
      treatment model has been developed from a single case study, trialled in an open label study
      and then in a Pilot RCT. The model is based on the two-process fear escape-avoidance model
      and conceptualises DS as dissociative responses to cues (cognitive/emotional/physiological or
      environmental) that may (but not in all cases) have been associated with profoundly
      distressing or life-threatening experiences, such as abuse or trauma, at an earlier stage in
      the person's life and which have previously produced intolerable feelings of fear and
      distress. Written handouts supplement the content of face-to face therapy sessions. The
      investigators will record therapy sessions and undertake treatment fidelity ratings.
      Therapists will receive training prior to treating study patients.

      Neurologists and psychiatrists with an interest in DS will deliver standardised medical care
      (SMC). They will have guidelines as to the delivery of standardised medical care. Information
      leaflets will be given to the patients. The research team will provide this material. SMC by
      psychiatrists will include support, consideration of psychiatric comorbidities and any
      associated drug treatment and general review but no CBT techniques.

      The investigators allow for some local variation in the number of neurology and psychiatry
      SMC sessions after randomisation.

      Measures will be recorded at baseline, six months and 12 months post randomisation. In
      addition to quantitative analyses, a nested qualitative study will investigate experiences of
      CBT and SMC and factors acting as facilitators and barriers to participation, as well as of
      healthcare professionals'.experiences of delivering the study.
    
  