
    
      The voice is that the carrier wave of verbal communication. It's created within the voice box
      l by vibrations of the mucous membrane of the vocal folds leading to the assembly of the
      first laryngeal sound. It depends on the larynx that's the voice generator, the oral fissure
      beside the tongue and teeth that articulate the voice, and therefore the nose with the
      paranasal sinuses that participate in the resonance.

      Any disruption of the performance of voice is termed dysphonia. Dysphonia is outlined as
      perceptual audible deviation of a patient's habitual voice as self-judged or judged by his or
      her listeners .

      "Hoarseness" or "dysphonia" are terms usually used to describe a change within the quality of
      the voice in which the voice are often raspy, breathy, strained, fatigued, rough, tremulous,
      or asthenic. There is also a change in pitch, loudness or voice breaks. The prevalence of
      hoarseness in children ranges from 6 to 23 percent . Boys were statistically more probably to
      have dysphonia (7.5%) over girls (4.6%) . the etiology of childhood dysphonia is
      multifactorial and factors that in previous studies have been connected to dysphonia are
      health- related factors , personality triats, and environmental factors . Health related
      factors such as recurrent inflammation of respiratory airway, Allergy and chronic cough.
      Personality triats such as hyperactivity and impulsiveness, besides previous history of
      excessive crying, Environmental factors such as pollution by noise, dryness, cold air or dust
      and fumes.the most common laryngeal diagnosis for children with hoarseness in a treatment -
      seeking population was vocal fold nodules, followed by vocal cysts, and acute laryngitis.
      They attribute this to vocal overuse or misuse.

      Chronic rhinosinusitis is a frequently noticable condition in otorhinolaryngology clinic. 5 %
      to 13% of childhood viral upper airway infections may lead to acute rhinosinusitis, with a
      proportion of these to progress to a chronic rhinosinusitis. Chronic rhinosinusitis is
      defined as a minimum of ninty continuous days of two or additional symptoms of infected
      rhinorrhea, nasal blockage, headache, or cough and either endoscopic signs of nasal mucosal
      swelling and oedema, mucopurulent nasal discharge, or nasal polyposis may be associated with
      CT scan findings showing mucosal changes within the ostiomeatal complex and/or sinuses in a
      pediatric patient. The post nasal discharge is usually thick mucopurulent that goes onto the
      oropharyngeal and the laryngeal tissue resulting in frequent throat clearing, and cough which
      cause mechanical trauma and hoarse voice quality. Previous studies revealed that the voice in
      individuals presented with chronic sinusitis had lower values in fundamental frequency
      compared with those that have not sinusitis.
    
  