
    
      Background: The presence of cancer in the axillary lymph nodes on needle biopsy in patients
      with early stage breast cancer before neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) has been the
      determinant of the need for axillary treatment (in the form of axillary lymph node dissection
      (ALND) or axillary radiotherapy (ART)) after completion of NACT. Treatment to the axilla
      damages lymphatic drainage from the arm and patients can subsequently develop lymphoedema,
      restricted shoulder movement, pain, numbness, and other sensory problems. As more effective
      chemotherapy is now available that results in complete eradication of cancer in the axilla in
      around 40 to 70% of patients, extensive axillary treatment might no longer be necessary in
      patients with no evidence of residual nodal disease.

      Aim: To assess whether, omitting further axillary treatment (ALND and ART) for patients with
      early stage breast cancer and axillary nodal metastases on needle biopsy, who after NACT have
      no residual cancer in the lymph nodes on sentinel node biopsy, is non-inferior to axillary
      treatment in terms of disease free survival (DFS) and results in reduced risk of lymphoedema
      at 5 years.

      Methods:

      Study design: A pragmatic, phase 3, open, randomised, multicentre trial and embedded economic
      evaluation in which participants will be randomised in a 1:1 ratio.

      Study population: T1-3N1M0 breast cancer patients aged 18 years or older, with needle biopsy
      proven nodal metastases, who after NACT have no residual cancer in the lymph nodes on dual
      tracer sentinel node biopsy and removal of at least 3 lymph nodes (sentinel nodes and marked
      involved node).

      Intervention: All participants will receive human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
      (HER2)-targeted treatment, endocrine therapy and radiotherapy to breast or chest wall, if
      indicated according to local guidelines. Patients in the intervention group will not receive
      further axillary treatment (ALND or ART), whereas those receiving standard care will receive
      axillary treatment (ALND or ART) as per local guidelines. Follow-up is annually for at least
      5 years.

      Outcomes: The co-primary outcomes are disease free survival(DFS) and self-reported
      lymphoedema defined as 'yes' to the two questions participants will be asked - 'arm heaviness
      during the past year' and 'arm swelling now' from the Lymphoedema and Breast Cancer
      Questionnaire at 5 years.

      Secondary outcomes: arm function assessed by the QuickDASH (disabilities of the arm, shoulder
      and hand) questionnaire; health related quality of life assessed using euroqol EQ-5D-5L;
      axillary recurrence free interval (ARFI); local recurrence; regional (nodal) recurrence;
      distant metastasis; overall survival; contralateral breast cancer; non-breast malignancy;
      costs; quality adjusted life years (QALYs) and cost-effectiveness.

      Sample size: A sample size of 1900 patients would have the ability to demonstrate a 3.5%
      non-inferiority margin with a 5% 1-sided significance level and 85% power, allowing for 7%
      non-collection of primary outcome data assuming a 90% 5-year disease free survival rate in
      the control arm. It would also be able to detect at least a 5% difference in proportion of
      patients with lymphoedema with 90% power, a 5% 2-sided significance level and allowing for
      25% non-collection of primary outcome data over 5 years.

      Analysis plan: All analyses will be carried out on an intention-to-treat basis to preserve
      randomisation, avoid bias from exclusions and preserve statistical power. Time to event
      outcomes, including disease free survival and axillary recurrence free interval, will be
      assessed using Kaplan-Meier curves and compared using Cox proportional hazards models. The
      proportion of patients experiencing lymphoedema at 5 years will be compared across trial arms
      using a chi-squared test and a logistic regression model used to adjust for stratification
      variables. Arm morbidity and health related quality of life will be scored using the
      appropriate manuals and assessed using a longitudinal mixed model regression analysis if
      model assumptions valid or a standardised area-under-the-curve analysis. For economic
      evaluation, incremental cost per QALY gained at 5 years will be estimated.

      Timelines for delivery: Total project duration is 120 months based on 6 months for set up; 60
      months recruitment period (including an 18 months internal pilot phase); and 54 months for
      follow up, analysis, writing up and dissemination.
    
  