
    
      In the management of open angle glaucoma, frequently more then one procedure is necessary to
      control the intra ocular pressure. There is still no consensus whether this second
      intervention should be a second trabeculectomy or a shunt device. In the present study we
      compare a second trabeculectomy versus Ahmed silicone shunt device in open angle glaucoma
      patients with previous trabeculectomy without proper IOP control.

      40 Patients with clinically uncontrolled open angle glaucoma with previous trabeculectomy
      surgery were selected from the glaucoma sector of Federal university of Sao Paulo. Patients
      were randomized to one of two groups:

        1. Silicone Ahmed Implant

        2. Second trabeculectomy

      Surgery description:

      Ahmed silicone tube implant: A fornix-based conjunctival flap was created between two
      adjacent recti muscles. Before placement of the tube implant body to the sclera, tube was
      irrigated with saline solution to open the valve mechanism. The implant's polypropylene body
      was sutured to sclera with 6.0 silk suture. The tube then trimmed and the anterior chamber
      was entered from 1mm posterior to corneoscleral limbus with 23-gauge needle. A human donor
      scleral flap was placed over the tube and sutured to the sclera with 10.0 nylon suture. The
      conjunctiva was sutured to the limbus.

      Second Trabeculectomy: A fornix-based conjunctival flap was created in the opposite superior
      quadrant of the previous trabeculectomy. Mitomycin-C was used under the conjunctival flap for
      up to 4 minutes (0,3mg/mL) and rinsed with 30mL saline solution. Scleral flap with crescent
      bevel and sclerectomy with a punch. Iridectomy and flap suture with nylon 10-0. Conjunctival
      suture with nylon 10-0.

      Follow up after surgery was in the 1st, 4th, 7th, 15th, 30th days and after that monthly or
      whenever needed for clinical reasons.
    
  