
    
      The Glasgow and Clyde weight management service (GCWMS) delivers a specialist
      multi-disciplinary, multi-component weight management programme throughout the Glasgow and
      Clyde area. In a recent evaluation of the service, the authors highlighted that 27% of the
      patients who are referred to the programme do not opt into the service. This describes
      patients who are referred via their GP practice and do not contact the service to opt into an
      initial assessment.

      Similarly, Brook et al described initial uptake and engagement of a small weight management
      programme of 502 patients. In addition to completing an extensive questionnaire, patients
      were requested to call to make an appointment with the service personally. Of those referred
      to the programme, 46% did not opt in.

      Engaging patients in a weight management programme is especially difficult, even when the
      intervention is provided via the primary care route. For example, The Counterweight Project,
      a weight management programme delivered via the GP surgery, has been taken up by a number of
      surgeries in Scotland, however after 2 years, one fifth of enlisted practices failed to enrol
      patients onto the programme.

      Even when GP's do address matters of weight related behaviour, there is often disagreement
      from the patient that the topic has been raised. In a sample of 456 patients, 39% of patients
      disagreed with GP reporting about the content of the discussion during consultations
      regarding weight, diet and physical activity. In particular, GP's reported more occasions of
      discussing weight than patients in 12.5% of consultations. Patients' likeliness to engage in
      a weight management programme is also influenced by practice endorsement and opinion of the
      GP of the intervention available in addition to other factors: clear understanding of the
      programme, clear understanding of the programme goals, structured pro-active follow-up and
      perception of positive outcomes.
    
  