
    
      Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly malignant digestive tract tumor that is projected to
      become the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in both the United States and
      Germany by 2030. The majority of patients have locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) or
      metastatic pancreatic cancer (MPC) at initial diagnosis; in fact, less than 20% of newly
      diagnosed patients are eligible for surgical resection . The 5-year relative survival rate
      for PC is 8%, and for those cases diagnosed at a distant stage, the 5-year survival is 3%.
      For LAPC, chemotherapy, such as FOLFIRINOX (5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and
      oxaliplatin), gemcitabine plus albumin-bound paclitaxel, or gemcitabine monotherapy, is
      considered first-line therapy.

      However, chemotherapy has been shown to have little effect on the survival rate of those with
      PC, leading to the evaluation of new interventions. Recently, radiofrequency, microwave,
      cryoablation, and other minimally invasive therapies have been proven to be effective in the
      treatment of LAPC. However, these temperature-dependent ablation methods may damage
      peripancreatic vessels, the duodenum, and the bile and pancreatic duct, leading to high
      morbidity and mortality. Irreversible electroporation (IRE) is a new, nonthermal local
      ablation method for solid tumors. It utilizes targeted delivery of millisecond electrical
      pulses that induce permeabilization of cell membranes, resulting in unrecoverable nanoscale
      perforation and apoptotic cell death without damaging the structural components of tissues.

      IRE has recently been found to have unique advantages and effectiveness in the treatment of
      PC. There are different proportions of exposed cells in the IRE zone and the reversible
      electroporation (RE) zone with a standard default electric field intensity of 1500 V per cm .
      In the RE zone, the permeability of the cell membranes caused by electroporation can promote
      the diffusion of drugs into the cells and increase cytotoxicity , which might further
      increase tumor treatment efficacy. Indeed, a preclinical experiment has proven that IRE may
      potentially reduce local recurrence by allowing increased gemcitabine tissue delivery in the
      RE zone.

      With the above in mind, this randomized, controlled clinical trial combined systemic
      chemotherapy and IRE for the treatment of LAPC. The aim of this study was to assess the
      progression-free survival (PFS), objective response rate (ORR) and adverse events after
      combined therapy, with a view of achieving a more effective treatment method for LAPC.
    
  