
    
      Clopidogrel owes its antiplatelet effect to irreversible inhibition of the purinergic
      platelet receptor, P2Y12. It is estimated that approximately 4%-30% of patients treated with
      conventional doses of clopidogrel do not display adequate platelet response. Moreover,
      patients with low response to clopidogrel may be at higher risk for atherothrombotic events.
      Clopidogrel, being a prodrug, requires oxidation by the hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP450)3A to
      generate an active metabolite.The level of CYP3A4 activity has been shown to correlate with
      the inhibitory effect of clopidogrel on platelet aggregation in healthy volunteers. However,
      CYP3As expression and activity vary among individuals. It is estimated that most of this
      variability is caused by individual genetic makeup.Polymorphisms of the P2Y12 receptor may
      also play a role in the variability in clopidogrel response. The P2Y12-H2 haplotype was
      associated with higher maximal platelet aggregation in response to adenosine diphosphate
      (ADP) as compared to the P2Y12-H1 haplotype probably due to an increase in the number of
      receptors on the platelet surface. It has also been suggested that carriers of the H2
      haplotype might be at higher risk of developing peripheral artery disease.

      Comparisons: Presence of CYP3A5 polymorphism and of the H2 haplotype compared to absence of
      these polymorphisms on the antiplatelet response to clopidogrel across a wide range of
      clopidogrel dosing regimens in patients with suspected or demonstrated coronary artery
      disease (CAD) scheduled to undergo elective percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI).

      Platelet aggregation was measured by optical aggregometry with (ADP) 20 μmol/L as the agonist
      in patients before clopidogrel initiation and at the time of diagnostic coronary angiography.
      Genotyping was performed by standard polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method to identify
      expressors of CYP3A5 and P2Y12 H2 haplotype carriers.
    
  