
    
      Patients who have difficulty conceiving naturally often seek medical advice. These patients
      often undergo initial treatment with insemination using oral or injectable medications.
      However, if this fails to achieve a pregnancy, patients often undergo in vitro fertilization
      (IVF). IVF is a process which involves a protocol of injectable medications to stimulate the
      ovary to produce several eggs at once. These eggs are retrieved under ultrasound guidance and
      fertilized in the laboratory. After 3-5 days of growth in the laboratory, the appropriate
      number of embryos is then transferred back to the patient's uterus.

      Sometimes, patients who go through ovarian stimulation and IVF do not respond well. These
      patients have low estrogen levels, few eggs retrieved, and fewer embryos to transfer back to
      the uterus. Overall, they have lower pregnancy rates than other patients. It is not clear
      which medication protocol would give them the highest chance of pregnancy. Two protocols, one
      called the "E2/antagonist" protocol and the other called the "OCP/microdose" protocol, are
      routinely used in poor responder patients. But, they have never been prospectively compared
      so it is not possible to say whether one approach is better.

      In order to determine which medication protocol results in more pregnancies, we propose to
      randomize poor responder patients who are scheduled to undergo treatment with IVF to one of
      these two protocols. These two protocols are already standard care in IVF centers around the
      world. Following randomization, the clinical care of study participants will be the same as
      all other IVF patients. Specifically, the adjustment of medication, egg retrieval, and embryo
      transfer procedures will be identical to non-study patients undergoing IVF.

      HYPOTHESIS We hypothesize that the poor responder patients undergoing ovarian stimulation for
      IVF with the E2/antagonist protocol will have a higher pregnancy rate than those in the
      OCP/microdose group.
    
  