
    
      About 50% of patients with CRC will develop a metastatic disease. Majority of patients have
      unresectable disease and unresectable liver-dominant disease represents 25% of all mCRC.
      Morbidity and mortality in patients with mCRC are mainly due to unresectable liver
      metastases. In this setting, chemotherapy (doublet or triplet) plus biological agent remains
      the standard of care since no prospective randomized trial demonstrates the efficacy of local
      treatments (chemoembolization or hepatic arterial infusion chemotherapy). Actually median PFS
      in patients with unresectable liver-dominant mCRC is range between 9 to 12 months and more
      effective treatments must be evaluated.

      ICI are to date ineffective in pMMR mCRC due to low level of tumor mutational load.
      Nevertheless, radiation induces an immunogenic cell death able to convert a "nonimmunogenic"
      neoplasm into an "immunogenic" neoplasm. In patients with liver-dominant mCRC SIRT has not
      shown survival improvement but only delayed disease progression in the liver. ICI improve
      efficacy of radiation both in irradiated lesions and non-irradiated lesions (abscopal
      effect). One explanation of the absence of PFS improvement with SIRT in first-line setting
      could be the progression of the extra-hepatic disease. Indeed, the rationale of SIRTCI 01 is
      to combine SIRT and ICI to induce an immune response and an abscopal effect against mCRC in
      order to improve control of hepatic disease (increase local SIRT efficacy with ICI) and
      extra-hepatic disease (increase abscopal effects of SIRT with ICI).

      The aim of this study is therefore to demonstrate the synergistic anti-tumor efficacy of SIRT
      and ICI in patients with unresectable liver-dominant mCRC. Primary endpoint is PFS at 9
      months. Main secondary endpoints are safety, response rate and OS. In addition, exploratory
      biomarker analyses will be performed in order to identify predictive factors of SIRT plus ICI
      efficacy. No safety issue was observed with XELOX/bevacizumab/atezolizumab and
      SIRT/FOLFOX/bevacizumab then the combination evaluated in SIRTCI 01 should be safe. Moreover
      oxaliplatin dose is decreased before SIRT treatment and bevacizumab is added only after SIRT
      treatment. All well-known predictive biomarkers of chemotherapy (mutational status,
      circulating tumor DNA) and ICI (tumor mutational load, immune response) efficacy will be
      analyzed. Additionally, pharmacokinetic analyses of Atezolizumab and centralized imaging
      review will be performed to evaluate morphologic and metabolic predictive markers (CT-scan,
      MRI, FDG PET/CT and Y90 PET/CT) of SIRT plus ICI efficacy.

      This study will be the first one to use SIRT in order to induce immunogenic cell death and
      sensitivity to ICI. Combination of SIRT and ICI could increase immune abscopal anti-tumor
      effects of radiation. Indeed, once activated in one place (liver), the immune system can
      attack tumor lesions anywhere else in the body (lung, peritoneum…) through this abscopal
      effect.

      SIRTCI 01 will provide informations on efficacy and safety of SIRT, ICI and chemotherapy
      combination in patients with unresectable liver-dominant mCRC. SIRT plus chemotherapy as well
      as chemotherapy plus ICI are well tolerated. TheraSphere® will be administered 3 or 4 days
      after cycle 2 or 3 of chemotherapy with adaptation of chemotherapy doses. Moreover, an
      interim analysis is planned to access efficacy of the strategy (first step after 22 evaluable
      patients included). At the time of the interim analysis, a complete review of the toxicities
      will be done to check the safety of the strategy and an independent data monitoring committee
      will monitor in real time all severe adverse events.

      PFS at 9 months has been chosen as primary endpoint because it is a surrogate marker of OS.
      Actually median PFS in first-line setting with a doublet plus a biological agent is range
      from 8 to 11 months in unresectable mCRC and 9 to 12 months in unresectable liver-dominant
      mCRC, corresponding to a PFS of 50%-60% at 9 months. PFS is more reliable than response rate
      at 2-3 months given that the treatments used can induce tumor necrosis (SIRT) and/or initial
      pseudo-progression (ICI). In addition, most of patients will have a disease control/response
      at 2-3 months with this combination.As in all innovative phase II trials, this study should
      well include selected patients . A randomized phase II study with a large population does not
      seem appropriate in view of the limited literature on the safety and efficacy of this
      combination. The alternative clinical hypothesis to obtain 70% of patients alive and without
      progression at 9 months is ambitious and currently not achieved with current chemotherapies
      plus a biological agent.

      The study will include patients with liver-dominant disease. Nevertheless, since the aim of
      the trial is to induce immune abscopal anti-tumor effects of radiation, patients with hepatic
      and extra-hepatic lesions will be included; extrahepatic lesions will be permitted if they
      are not symptomatic and if there is no organ dysfunction (up to 10 lesions). As ICI are very
      effective in dMMR mCRC (marketing authorization ongoing) it has been decided to exclude
      patients with dMMR mCRC.

      The PFS obtain in SIRTCI 01 will provided a rationale for a randomized phase III study
      comparing chemotherapy alone (doublet or triplet ± biological agent) versus chemotherapy,
      SIRT and ICI combination in mCRC patients with unresectable liver-dominant disease.
    
  