
    
      Chronic blood pressure reduction due regular exercise seems to result from the sum of the
      acute decreases that follows each exercise bout (i.e., post-exercise hypotension), a
      physiological effect associated with chronic blood pressure reduction that may predict the
      extent of blood pressure lowering after chronic training interventions. Based on this, the
      same weekly amount of exercise performed more frequently, splitting the total overload into
      multiple sessions, could be more beneficial for blood pressure control. Although physical
      exercise guidelines suggest a total weekly volume in minutes (i.e., 150 minutes per week),
      it's unclear if the same amount of exercise performed in different weekly frequencies could
      induce different blood pressure responses. In addition, other important cardiovascular risk
      factors such as glycemic levels can also be influenced by exercise frequency. Reduction in
      glycosylated hemoglobin is associated with exercise frequency in diabetic patients,
      reinforcing the relevance to compare exercise interventions using different weekly training
      frequencies.

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the effects of a combined exercise program
      performed four versus two times per week on 24-h ambulatory blood pressure and other
      cardiovascular risk factors in middle-aged and older individuals with hypertension. The main
      outcome is the change from baseline to 12 weeks of follow-up in 24-h, daytime, nighttime
      systolic and diastolic ambulatory blood pressure, and glycosylated hemoglobin between the
      intervention groups. Secondary outcomes are the difference between mean change in endothelial
      function, as well as cardiorespiratory fitness, muscular strength and quality of life. We
      anticipate that at 12 weeks, combined exercise program, performed four or two times per week
      with equalized weekly volume/overload, will improve all outcomes in comparison to the
      baseline values and these improvements in blood pressure and glycosylated hemoglobin will be
      more pronounced in four times per week group when compared with two times per week group.

      This study will be a randomized, parallel group, two-arm, superiority trial. Ninety-eight
      participants aged 50-80 years with a previous physician diagnosis of hypertension will be
      randomized to perform two or four sessions per week of combined training using the same total
      weekly overload. Primary outcomes will be 24-h ambulatory blood pressure and glycosylated
      hemoglobin; secondary outcomes will be endothelial function, physical fitness and quality of
      life. The outcomes will be assessed at baseline and at the end of 12 weeks period.
    
  