
    
      200 COPD patients recruited from the outpatient clinic at the Department of Respiratory
      Diseases at Vejle Hospital. Approximately 2600 COPD patients are treated in Vejle.

      For this study a driving simulator is being used. The subjects are placed in front of a
      computer monitor which simulates a horizon on the middle of the screen, and a road that
      appears in the bottom half of the screen. The subjects are encouraged to keep the virtual
      vehicle on the road, using a steering wheel in front of them. Simultaneous, they are required
      to keep focus on both sides of the screen where a line of numbers is frequently changing.
      Every time the number 2 occurs, the subjects must press a button on the steering wheel.

      The subjects´ overall ability to control the driving simulator is being expressed by the
      standard deviation (sd) of distance of the car´s centre to the centre of the road and the
      number of off-road events. Relevant cognitive measurements, such as reaction speed and
      ability to split attention, are quantified by the reaction speed to the occurrence of the
      number 2. The reason for this is that the software of the simulator measures the mean
      reaction time from the number have occurred until the correct button is pressed, and the
      number of nil-responses, where the number 2 is not detected.

      Every participating subject will receive a 5 minutes testing period of the simulator followed
      by 30 minutes of applicable driving time.The other tests will be performed/collected just
      after the driving test.

      Besides the driving simulator and tests (see sections below) following are obtained: 1) Lung
      function (FEV1, FVC and FEV1/FVC), 2) Arterial blood sample including PaO2, PaCO2 and
      carbonmonooxidhemoglobin (HbCO) (1.5 ml), 3) Smoking status and number of pack years, 4)
      Status of oxygen therapy, 5) Number of COPD exacerbations in the last year, 6) Comorbidities
      such as diabetes, metabolic diseases, cardiovascular diseases, kidney insufficiency, 7)
      Medicine, 8) Height and weight, 9) Level of education, 10) Degree of dyspnoea Medical
      research Council breathlessness scale (MRC-scale) and 11) Global initiative for chronic
      Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) classification of airflow limitation.

      The blood samples will be analysed immediately after they are taken, and as a consequence no
      biobank will be established. The information will be gathered from the journals and from
      patient interview in connection with the trial. The information will be used in the
      assessment of possible reasons to COPD patients´ expected reduced cognitive skills.

      The NOX T3TM (see section below) will be delivered in connection with the trial. If the
      patients are diagnosed with OSA they will shortly after receive standard treatment in the
      public Sleep Clinic at Vejle Hospital, if the patients accept. After 2-3 month of treatment,
      the patients will repeat all the tests and blood samples, except the cardiorespiratory
      monitoring.

      To exclude that an improvement of skills is not due to the patients having learned how to
      improve the test, we will establish a control group. The control group must consist of COPD
      patients without OSA who must perform a retest like the patients with OSA.
    
  