
    
      We plan to recruit 20 patients, men with coronary artery disease, for this single center,
      interventional trial with the Probiotic-GoodBelly followed by Vancomycin. The study includes
      6 total visits. Subjects who pass a phone screen will be invited to a screening visit for
      study eligibility (Visit 1) Informed consent will be reviewed; a unique study number will be
      assigned once written informed consent is obtained (no subject will be assigned more than 1
      allocation number); relevant participant medical history will be recorded including currently
      prescribed medications; anthropometric measurements will be taken (height, weight, and waist
      circumference in metric units) and blood pressure will be recorded (measured in triplicate
      and averaged). Subjects will be allowed to take their blood pressure medication on the
      morning of their screening visit, but not the mornings of any of the other study visits to
      limit the acute influence of these medications on endothelial function. If the potential
      participant qualifies for the study, he will return 1 week after the screen for a study
      visit(Visit 2) where he will turn in his stool sample, undergo initial tests of endothelial
      function and receive 3 week supply of GoodBelly Probiotic. After 3 weeks he will have to
      return (Visit 3) for another 3 week supply of his probiotic. After a total of 6 weeks of
      taking the probiotic he will have to return (Visit 4) with his stool sample. He will be asked
      to fast for 6-8 hours prior to the visit to limit the acute dietary influences on vascular
      endothelial function. During Visit 4, endothelial function will determined by brachial artery
      reactivity testing His stool samples will be collected and blood samples will also be taken
      at this visit for systemic measurements inflammatory markers. If he agrees to the optional
      Vancomycin study. He will return after 4 weeks for (Visit 5). He will be asked to fast for
      6-8 hours prior to the visit to limit the acute dietary influences on vascular endothelial
      function. At Visit 5, endothelial function will determined by brachial artery reactivity
      testing His stool samples will be collected and blood samples will also be taken at this
      visit for systemic measurements inflammatory markers. He will then be given a 10 day supply
      of vancomycin. After 10 days he will return (Visit 6) with his stool sample. At Visit 6,
      endothelial function will determined by brachial artery reactivity testing . His stool
      samples will be collected and blood samples will also be taken at this visit for systemic
      measurements inflammatory markers.
    
  