
    
      There will be two aims. Aim 1 will describe and categorize high-need, high-cost populations.
      The investigators will use CareMore inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy claims from years
      2010-2014. The investigators will construct mortality and readmission risk category and they
      will utilize traditional claims-based risk models developed on out of sample data to
      categorize patient risk level. For the high health expenditure category, they will examine
      inpatient, outpatient, and pharmacy data to identify groups of patients who drive
      disproportionate health spending. Finally, for utilization the investigators will use claims
      and outpatient visit data (to the extent any electronic health record (EHR) data becomes
      available) to identify patients with disproportionate visit intensity. The approach to
      describe patients within these groups will be to categorize patients into deciles and utilize
      multivariate regression models to identify demographic, clinical, socioeconomic, and
      geographic characteristics associated with presence in a top decile along each metric. For
      example, the investigators will describe individual and clusters of diagnoses that are
      associated with high spending. They will also examine patients who meet multiple criteria and
      describe associated characteristics. Aim 2 will examine the impact of CareMore's end stage
      renal disease (ESRD) care model. They will use CareMore inpatient, outpatient, skilled
      nursing facilities (SNF), inpatient rehabilitation facilities (IRF), other facilities,
      pharmacy, and post-acute care claims and Center for Medicare and Medicaid (CMS)
      Fee-For-Service (FFS) data from matched geographies. They will also attempt to obtain the
      healthcare effectiveness data information set (HEDIS) data from health plan at patient and
      physician level, CMS stars measure data, available electronic medical record (EMR) data, and
      physician characteristics data to the extent CareMore can provide. They will perform a
      retrospective analysis of claims data. The investigators will use a primary comparison group
      of ESRD patients in Medicare FFS, particularly in localities where no ESRD special need plans
      (SNP) is offered to mitigate some effects of selection. The team will also explore a second
      comparison group of CareMore traditional MA plan enrollees who develop ESRD. They will first
      examine patient, physician, and plan or site characteristics associated with variation in
      utilization of the specialized services including enhanced nutritional counseling,
      personalized care plans, dialysis treatment evaluation, and supplemental medical evaluations
      -- using logistic regression. Second, they will perform a descriptive analysis of the
      association between use of these services and cost and quality outcomes.
    
  