
    
      Aplastic anemia (AA) is an autoimmune hematologic stem cell disease mediated by activated
      T-lymphocytes that leads to bone marrow dysfunction. In the presence of an empty marrow,
      pancytopenia, and transfusion dependence, the severity of the disease is based on neutrophil
      (PMN) count: nonsevere AA (nSAA; PMN > 0.5 × 109/L), severe AA (SAA;PMN 0.2- 0.5 × 109/L),
      and very severe AA (vSAA; PMN< 0.2 × 109/L).

      Allogeneic BMT from an HLA-identical sibling donor or matched-alternative donor is the
      treatment of choice for patients with aplastic anaemia.Transplantation for patients with
      severe aplastic anaemia from an HLA identical sibling donor is now very successful with a
      75-90% chance of long term cure and with overall survival of between 65% and 73% at 5 years
      for matched-alternative donor transplantation. However, these two approachs are limited by
      the availability of HLA-matched donors.

      Patients without HLA-identical sibling donor or matched-alternative donor can be offered
      immunosuppressive treatment (IST) involving injections of Anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) in
      combination with cyclosporine (CsA). The treatment response with ATG is at best between
      60-80%, 30%-40% patients relapse following an initial response to treatment. Moreover, a
      recent study has shown that on multivariate analysis of response at 6 months, only younger
      age, absolute reticulocyte count (ARC) and absolute lymphocyte count (ALC), correlate with
      response to ATG. Patients with SAA or vSAA, with much lower ARC and ALC, were poor response
      to IST and have high risks of dying of infection and bleeding.

      Nowadays, with advances in transplant technology, HLA-mismatched related donors and unrelated
      donors transplantation has achieved good clinical results. Data from the XJ Huang indicated
      that patients with HLA-mismatched related donors achieved 100% donor myeloid engraftment and
      have a survival rate of 64.6±12.4%. Retrospectively analyzed results for 154 patients with
      acquired SAA who received BMT from unrelated donors identified through the Japan Marrow Donor
      Program showed the probability of OS at 5 years was 56% (95% confidence interval, 34%-78%).

      Compared with malignant disease, mismatched related donor or unrelated donor HSCT for SAA
      involves distinct challenges mainly associated with high graft failure and high GVHD. So, if
      we can find a way to promote implantation meanwhile prevent or reduce GVHD , the efficacy of
      HLA-mismatched related donors transplantation can improve.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are multi-potent non-hematopoietic progenitors mainly found in
      BM, cord blood, and adipose tissue. MSCs are attractive because of the ease with which they
      can be isolated and expanded ex vivo, their ability to undergo multilineage differentiation,
      and their lack of immunogenicity. These cells were shown to provide support for the growth
      and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor cells in BM micro-environments. In additon,
      preliminary studies have shown clinical effectiveness of allogeneic MSC in the treatment of
      refractory graft-versus-host disease and an improvement in or resolution of severe aGVHD when
      co-transplantation with MSCs. Due to these properties, MSCs have become an interesting
      candidate for use in cellular therapy and are considered "theoretically perfect cells" for
      potential clinical use against AA mismatched related donors transplantation.
    
  