
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the incidence and severity of acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) after
           HLA-matched or -mismatched unrelated donor peripheral blood stem cell transplantation
           (PBSCT) in patients with hematologic malignancies treated with immunosuppressive therapy
           comprising sirolimus, tacrolimus, and anti-thymocyte globulin as GVHD prophylaxis.

        -  To determine the safety of this regimen in these patients at 6 months after PBSCT.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the time to engraftment (i.e., platelet and absolute neutrophil recovery)
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the length of hospital stay of these patients within 100 days after PBSCT.

        -  To determine the incidence of infections, including CMV and EBV reactivation and
           post-transplant lymphoproliferative disorders, in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the incidence of thrombotic microangiopathy and veno-occlusive disease in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the incidence of chronic GVHD in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To determine the overall and disease-free survival of these patients at 2 years after
           PBSCT.

        -  To determine the Karnofsky performance status of these patients at baseline and at
           various time points after PBSCT.

        -  To conduct immunocorrelative studies prior to and at various time points after PBSCT.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Conditioning regimen: Patients receive 1 of 6 conditioning regimens (standard of care
           treatment) between days -9 and -3, based on diagnosis and the treating physician's
           preference regarding regimen intensity.

             -  Regimen I: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV and busulfan IV.

             -  Regimen II: Patients undergo total body irradiation (TBI) twice daily for 8
                fractions and receive etoposide IV.

             -  Regimen III: Patients undergo TBI once or twice daily for 11 fractions and receive
                cyclophosphamide IV.

             -  Regimen IV: Patients undergo TBI and receive fludarabine phosphate IV and busulfan
                IV.

             -  Regimen V: Patients receive carmustine IV, etoposide IV, cytarabine IV, and
                melphalan IV. Some patients also receive rituximab IV.

             -  Regimen VI: Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV and melphalan IV. Some
                patients also undergo TBI.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation: Patients undergo filgrastim
           (G-CSF)-mobilized allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation on day 0.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis (GVHD): Patients receive tacrolimus IV
           continuously over 24 hours or orally and sirolimus orally beginning on day -3 and
           continuing until day 30 or day 90, followed by a taper in the absence of GVHD. Patients
           also receive anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -3 to -1.

      Blood samples are obtained at baseline and periodically during study for correlative
      biomarker studies. Samples are analyzed by T-cell immunophenotyping, absolute subset number
      quantification, and multi-parameter flow cytometry for evaluation of immune reconstitution,
      T-cell differentiation status, NK-cell recovery, allo-reactivity of donor T-cells after
      transplantation, and regulatory T-cell reconstitution.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  