
    
      Infection of prosthetic joints is a common complication that may occur any time after
      implantation. These infections require a prompt and accurate diagnosis to ensure an optimal
      surgical and medical management of infected patient. Despite acute infections occurring in
      the first weeks after surgery are easy to diagnose or when they are associated to bacteremia,
      diagnosis becomes challenging when infection develops for several months before diagnosis or
      it is caused by low virulent pathogens. Prosthetic joint infections and more widely
      osteo-articular infections represent the classic biofilm related infections. Biofilm is
      usually defined as a microbial community enveloped in a self-produced polymeric matrix.
      Biofilm production allows bacteria to strictly adhere to inert and biotic substrates, evade
      host defenses and resist to antibiotics by building a physical barrier to penetration of
      antimicrobials and favoring dissemination of determinants of resistance. Microbiological
      cultures contribute to diagnosis of infection, providing identification of the pathogen and,
      most importantly, definition of antibiotic susceptibility. Nonetheless, in about 15-20% of
      cases, culture fails to growth the pathogen. Diagnosis of prosthetic joint infection may
      occur either pre- or intra-operatively. In both cases analysis of synovial fluid is crucial,
      especially when performed before surgery when results from culture, leukocyte esterase, alpha
      defensin test, leukocyte count and differential may lead to define the most accurate strategy
      to approach patients with implant failure. However, culture of synovial fluid is
      characterized by a limited sensitivity in respect, for instance to culture of periprosthetic
      tissues or implant components. One of the causes of the lower sensitivity of synovial fluid
      culture might be the presence of the so called "biofilm like aggregates", agglomerates of
      microorganisms embedded in a matrix which has been hypothesized to act as a protective
      barrier. Leukocyte esterase test may give false positive results in samples strongly
      contaminated by blood or with metal on metal reaction, while the high costs for alpha
      defensin determination markedly limited its use. On the other hand, studies aiming to
      evaluate other synovial markers of infections like calprotectin are insufficient to support
      their use in routine diagnosis of prosthetic joint infection.

      An alternative approach to diagnosis of these infections could be represented by use of
      confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) which allows to detect microorganisms in synovial
      fluid and in tissues. This novel approach could also be used for a "real time" diagnosis
      during surgery while waiting for culture results.

      Another issue in diagnosis of prosthetic joint infections is related to assessment of
      antimicrobial susceptibility. In fact, it is well known that biofilm embedded bacteria are
      more resistant to antibiotics than their planktonic counterpart. Since available methods for
      determination of antibiotic susceptibility are based on planktonic cells, it may be
      hypothesized that they underestimate the real antimicrobial concentration able to inhibit
      growth of bacteria embedded in a biofilm as occur during infection. Although several methods
      have been proposed to evaluate antimicrobial susceptibility pattern of biofilm
      microorganisms, none of them has been proposed for routinely use. However, in some cases when
      therapy fails to eradicate infection, evaluation of antibiotic susceptibility of biofilm
      embedded bacteria could provide important information to optimize antimicrobial therapy.

      Therefore, diagnosis of biofilm related infections, particularly prosthetic ones is quite far
      from being optimized. In this sense, development of a panel able to shorten turn around time
      of microbiological analyses and to improve patient management could significantly ameliorate
      approach to patients, limiting worsening in patient's quality of life and reducing costs for
      health system.
    
  