
    
      Vitamin D receptor gene mutations have been associated with increased incidence of arterial
      hypertension. While, hyperlipidemia and lipoprotein oxidation in bone is leading to
      osteoporosis by inhibiting osteoblastic differentiation It has been reported that vitamin D
      supplementation has shown pro-atherogenic effects in rats, and its deficiency is associated
      with the deterioration of atherogenesis These contradictory findings on the progression of
      atherosclerosis were examined in this study.

      Aim: This study will be conducted to assess possible reduction in lipid profile
      (LDL-Triglycerides-cholesterol) among pre-menopausal women in vitamin D group compared to
      standard treatment group after 3 months & 6 month of follow up as prophylaxis step for
      atherosclerosis.

      Subject and methods: Randomized clinical trial with double blinding will be performed on two
      groups study group and control group. The cases will recruited from outpatient clinic of
      medicine department in Mansoura university Hospital.

      Sample size: based on pilot study after start of trial

      Study groups:

      Intervention group: High dose vitamin D3 IM treatment group according to vitamin D3 level
      after laboratory assessment.

      Standard treatment group: Balanced diet mix of Carbohydrate, lipid, protein and fat diet
      minerals and vitamins for same period of follow up.

      Inclusion criteria : pre-menopausal females (35-45 years old)

        -  No co morbidity

        -  Negative history of contraceptive pills or drug history of cholesterol lowering drugs

        -  Absent chronic diseases

      There is possible recruiting of postmenopausal women according to difficulty in finding
      pre-menopausal women.

      Methods: study patients will be subjected to:

        -  Full history taking,clinical examination, Anthropometric measurements.

        -  Laboratory investigations: Vitamin D3 assessment for all study patients.

      Outcome that will be measured before and after follow up:

        1. Serum 25 hydroxy Vitamin D3

        2. C reactive protein

        3. Serum Calcium level

        4. Complete Lipid profile: LDL-HDL-Triglycerides -Total cholesterol quantitative and
           qualitative assessment.Patient will be fasting for at least 12-14 h then 5 mL venous
           blood sample will be drawn from each patient into plain tube and left to clot. Serum for
           routine analysis and the other aliquot will be stored at -21°C analysis will be
           separated by centrifugation into two aliquots; one will be used
    
  