
    
      Bupropion and varenicline are effective pharmacotherapies for smoking cessation, but their
      population level impact is limited by a combination of factors. Both bupropion and
      varenicline are only available through prescription, however smoking cessation clinics are
      few in number and only about 25% of smokers receive information on smoking cessation aids
      from their healthcare provider. Mass distribution approaches, bypassing clinics and
      physicians, have been successful for nicotine replacement therapy in many jurisdictions,
      including Ontario. However, bupropion and varenicline have the potential to make a greater
      impact given their superior results from the clinical trials. Bupropion and varenicline
      present a unique challenge as they are prescribed medications, therefore we have proposed a
      variant of the mass distribution method to test whether it is practical to distribute them to
      a large number of people over a expansive geographic area (i.e., Ontario).

      We hypothesize that engaging smokers with the opportunity to receive free bupropion or
      varenicline, to initiate an appointment with their physician to obtain a prescription that
      would be filled and mailed to the smoker from a central pharmacy would be a logistically
      feasible approach to reach high number of smokers from a wide geographic area. Our second
      hypothesis is that consistent with the results from clinical studies, in the general
      population varenicline would be associated with a higher abstinence rate than bupropion, and
      both varenicline and bupropion groups would achieve higher abstinence rates than those making
      quit attempts without any pharmacotherapy aid.

      This is an open label, proof-of-concept study, wherein 2000 eligible participants will have
      the opportunity to receive bupropion (Zyban®) or varenicline (Champix®) for 12 weeks in
      conjunction with weekly motivational emails. Eligible participants will discuss with their
      doctor which of the two medications is appropriate for them to use as smoking cessation aid.
      It is also possible that the participant and his/her doctor may decide not to pursue smoking
      cessation using either of these medications. These participants will form a third
      intervention group, receiving only the weekly motivational emails. All participants will set
      a quit date of their choosing, but those receiving medication will set a quit date 7 days
      after starting the medication. The participants will enroll in the study via the study's
      website, at which time they will read the consent form, answer the eligibility questions and
      complete the baseline questionnaire. Data related to the outcome measures and adverse events
      will be collected at 4, 8 and 12 weeks after the start of treatment and at 6 and 12 months
      after the end of treatment.
    
  