
    
      The increasing evidence indicates that exercise after a MI is associated with decreases in LV
      end-diastolic/ systolic volumes and increases in LV ejection fraction (LVEF), improvement in
      activity tolerance and quality of life, and reduction in the overall and
      cardiovascular-related mortality. However, on account of the heterogeneity in exercise
      intervention, limitation in methodology, and the varied characteristics of study populations,
      some other trials reported that post-MI exercise does not alter LV remodeling or cardiac
      function. Thus, more strict randomized controlled studies are needed to evaluate the benefits
      of exercise after MI and provide more indisputable evidence for guidelines and health
      professionals.

      As an important component of Chinese Qigong exercises, Baduanjin exercise has origins in
      ancient martial arts that have been practiced for thousands of years. It is a combination of
      moderate-intensity physical activity, meditation, and body awareness, which designed to
      improve holistic health. Baduanjin exercise can systematically exert the movable joints and
      muscle, enhance cardiopulmonary functions, and concurrently modulate mind and spirit,
      ultimately achieve the integration of mind and body. Many clinical studies have demonstrated
      the beneficial effects of Baduanjin exercise on decreasing cholesterol and triglyceride
      concentrations, controlling systemic hypertension, stabilizing glucose and glycosylated
      hemoglobin levels. Some review articles have described Baduanjin exercise as a therapy with
      potential to exert positive impacts on cardiopulmonary function. Additionally, several recent
      studies have proven the benefits of Baduanjin exercise including preventing ischemic stroke,
      relieving pain and stiffness, and improving sleep quality and psychological well-being.
      However, it is not known if Baduanjin exercise could be a feasible approach for post-MI
      individuals because the scientific basis for this intervention is limited. To address a
      research gap, the BE-PREMIER (Baduanjin Exercise PREvents post-Myocardial Infarction left
      vEntricular Remodeling) trial is designed and to assess LV remodeling in clinically stable
      post-MI patients after a 12-week period of Baduanjin exercise-based cardiac rehabilitation.
    
  