
    
      Cardiac arrest and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is a specific model of global
      ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) injury. Among all organ systems, brain is least tolerable to
      ischemic insult and I/R injury, which accounts for the usually poor survival and neurological
      outcomes in these patients even with initial success in resuscitation. Therapeutic
      hypothermia (TH) has been proven to significantly improve the survival and neurological
      prognoses in patients resuscitated from cardiac arrest. It has been recommended as a standard
      therapy in the post-resuscitation care since 2002. In the past few years, NTUH and FEMH have
      been actively promoted the application of TH in the post-resuscitation care, and both have
      achieved important progress. Based on these, the investigators seek to further improve the
      survival and neurological outcomes in this group of patients. Among the therapies with
      potential additive or synergistic protective mechanisms, propofol has been extensively
      studied, and shown to exhibit great potentials in mitigating ischemia-reperfusion injury via
      the antioxidative, anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective mechanisms. As sedatives are basic
      requirement during TH according to technical and ethical concerns, the combination of
      propofol and TH is not only justified but highly anticipated. The investigators therefore
      seek to investigate the potentials of propofol in further improving the survival and
      neurological prognoses in this era of therapeutic hypothermia.

      Methods: This .is a prospective, single-blinded randomized clinical trial. The inclusion
      criteria include: (1) non-traumatic cardiac arrest (2) no regain of consciousness after
      return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) (3) age >=20 years old and <= 90 years old. The
      exclusion criteria include (1) age < 20 y/o or > 90 y/o (2) pregnancy (3) traumatic cardiac
      arrest (4) fail to achieve ROSC (5) conscious recovery after ROSC (6) contraindications for
      TH, such as massive bleeding, infections, etc (7) terminal diseases (8) conscious disturbance
      before cardiac arrest (9) fail to obtain informed consent (10) families refuse to undergo
      clinical trial. The study will be divided to two groups: (1) Lorazepam group: lorazepam
      infusion at a rate of 0.5 mg/kg/hr during TH. (2) Propofol group: propofol infusion at a rate
      of 3 mg/kg/hr during TH. The primary endpoints will be (1) survival (2) neurological outcomes
      as indicated by cerebral performance category (CPC) scale. The secondary endpoints include
      (1) 99mTc ECD scan (perfusion and viability), (2) clinical and EEG evidences of seizure. The
      blood pressure and heart rate will continuously monitored during TH and propofol/lorazepam
      infusion.

      Expected Results: (1) Test if propofol further improves the survival and neurological
      outcomes in post-CPR patients undergoing TH (2) Test if propofol further improves cerebral
      perfusion and neuron viability in post-CPR patients undergoing TH (3) Test if propofol
      reduces the incidence and severity of seizures post-CPR, (4) Test if propofol significantly
      influence hemodynamics when combined with TH Clinical Implications: Propofol is a clinically
      available sedative agent. If this trial demonstrates that propofol further improves the
      survival and neurological outcomes in post-resuscitation patients undergoing TH, it would
      become an important evidence justifying implementation in clinical practice
    
  