
    
      Fresh Prescription (Fresh Rx) Program is a fruit and vegetable prescription program that
      brings together the healthcare system and the food system. This fosters innovative
      relationships to enhance the understanding of the correlation between food choices and
      health, increase consumption of locally grown fruits and vegetables, and build a healthy
      sustainable food system. This promising approach to a healthier food system connects patients
      to fresh, locally grown produce while providing direct economic benefits to small and midsize
      farmers and improving health and quality of life for participants.

      The Fresh Rx program allots up to $80 ($10 per visit for up to eight visits) for purchase of
      fresh fruits and vegetables at that FQHC's farmers' market (referred to as the Mercado). The
      Mercado, which is located outside the entrance to the health center, is a collection of
      several local produce farmers. The Mercado operates every Thursday (9am-1pm) and will occur
      over 15 weeks from June 2018-October 2018. In addition to selling fresh produce, the Mercado
      also offers many other positive health promoting activities including cooking demonstrations,
      nutrition education and exercise events.

      Fresh Rx participants are able fill their prescription at the Mercado for fresh produce up to
      eight times during the 15-week Fresh Rx program. The visits can, but do not necessarily need
      to be in consecutive weeks. The provided debit cards are loaded with the $10 stipend at each
      visit.

      A list will be generated from the electronic medical records of the FQHC, of all non-pregnant
      patients with type 2 diabetes who had a HbA1C >8.0% over the 6 months prior to the start of
      the Fresh Rx Program. Using simple randomization, the list was randomized into two groups:
      The Intervention group and the control group. Those selected for the intervention group and
      the control group will be contacted by telephone and offered participation by a Community
      Health Worker. Once agreeable to participate, both groups will be brought into the center to
      sign an informed consent. At that time, they will have their BP, weight and HbA1C tested.

      All Fresh Rx participants will complete a basic program orientation that includes receiving
      their Fresh Rx debit card that can be used with Mercado vendors. All participants will then
      have their BP, weight and HbA1C checked inside the FQHC after their last visit to the Mercado
      or within three months of the completion of the Fresh Rx program (January 2, 2019).

      All control group participants will be given flyers describing all the health and wellness
      programs at the FQHC including the Mercado. No incentive will be given for the Mercado.
      Control group participants will be given a $10 gift card to a national brand pharmacy (no
      fresh produce available). The enrollment time for the control group will overlap the Fresh Rx
      group (June-September 2018). After a 3-month time period, control group participants will
      return and have a repeat BP, weight and HbA1C tested. They then will be given a $20 gift card
      to the same national brand pharmacy.
    
  