
    
      Rational As opposed to controlled mechanical ventilation, partial modes of assisted
      ventilation maintains a certain level spontaneous activity of respiratory muscles. As a
      consequence, assisted ventilation may contribute to prevents ventilator induced diaphragm
      dysfunction (1-3), improves gas exchanges (4), reduces the use of sedative agents, which can
      ultimately shorten weaning from mechanical ventilation (5).

      The most widely used partial ventilatory assistance mode is pressure support ventilation
      (PSV) (6), in which a constant preset level of pressure assists each inspiration regardless
      of the patient's inspiratory effort. Mismatching between patient demand and level of
      assistance, which the investigators will term patient-ventilator dysharmony in the present
      project is therefore possible and can be potentially harmful. On the one hand,
      underassistance may induce respiratory discomfort and dyspnea (7), which is an immediate
      cause of suffering, generates anxiety and is a source of delayed neuropsychological sequelae
      such as dark respiratory recollections and post-traumatic stress disorders(8-12). One the
      other hand, overassistance may cause lung overdistension and volutrauma (13). Finally, both
      underassistance and overassistance may generate patient-ventilator asynchrony that is
      associated with poorer clinical outcomes (14). Of notice, underassistance is likely to be
      associated with an asynchrony named double-triggering while over assistance is more commonly
      associated with ineffective efforts(15).

      Proportional modes of mechanical ventilation have been designed to overcome this weakness of
      (PSV). Indeed, as opposed to PSV that delivers a constant level of assistance regardless of
      the patient inspiratory effort, proportional modes of ventilation adjust the amount of
      assistance delivered with respect to the patient's efforts. Proportional Assisted Ventilation
      (PAV) is one of these modes and adjusts ventilator assistance to the activity of respiratory
      muscles estimated by an algorithm (16-23). Previous studies have shown the potential benefits
      of PAV to prevent the risk of overassistance(24) and in turn to reduce the prevalence of
      ineffective effort (25-28). In addition, PAV increases the variability of the breathing
      pattern (17, 20-23, 29-32). To date, data on the impact of PAV on dyspnea and patient
      ventilator asynchrony are scarce (24-28, 33). Most of these works have been conducted in
      healthy subjects or in ICU patients with no severe dyspnea nor severe asynchrony (24-28, 33).
      To our knowledge, there are no data in patients with severe patient-ventilator dysharmony.

      Because PAV adjusts the level of assistance to the activity of respiratory muscles, a
      surrogate of the respiratory drive, it is licit to hypothesize that PAV should prevent severe
      patient-ventilator dysharmony, defined as either severe dyspnea or severe patient-ventilator
      asynchrony.

      The objective of the present research proposal is to evaluate the impact of PAV on dyspnea
      and patient-ventilator asynchrony in ICU mechanically ventilated patients in intensive care
      with severe patient-ventilator disharmony defined as either severe dyspnea or severe
      patient-ventilator asynchrony.

      The specific objectives are to compare in these patients the impact of a switch of the
      ventilator mode from PSV to PAV in terms of:

        1. The intensity of dyspnea quantified by a self-assessment visual analogic scale and by
           two electrophysiological tools such as the electromyogram of extradiaphragmatic
           inspiratory muscles and the pre inspiratory potentials on the electroencephalogram (see
           below, Patients and Methods).

        2. The prevalence of two major patient-ventilator asynchronies that are ineffective efforts
           and double triggering (see below, Patients and Methods).

      Materials and methods used and statistical methods

      This observational, single-centre prospective study will be performed in the Medical
      intensive care unit (ICU) of the Respiratory and ICU Division of Pitié-Salpêtrière hospital,
      Paris, France.

      1. Population, sampling The inclusion of patients will be done after informing patients and
      obtaining their informed consent.

      1.1 Inclusion criteria Patients will be included as soon as the meet the following criteria.

        -  Intubation and mechanical ventilation for a respiratory cause with severe hypoxemia
           defined as a PaO2 to FiO2 ratio <300 recorded at least once during the present ICU stay.

        -  PSV ventilation for > 6 hours.

        -  Severe patient-ventilator disharmony

        -  Decision of the physician in charge of the patient to switch mechanical ventilation from
           PSV mode to PAV.

        -  Remaining duration of mechanical ventilation estimated ≥ 24 hours. 1.2 Exclusion
           criteria Exclusion criteria will be as follows.

        -  Severe hypoxemia defined as a PaO2 to FiO2 ratio <150 mmHg.

        -  Delirium according to the CAM-ICU (1)

        -  Hemodynamic instability defined by the need for intravenous fluids or catecholamine
           during the previous 24 hours.

        -  Age <18 years; pregnant woman. 1.3 sample size Our objective is to study a convenient
           sample of 24 patients. Given the recruitment unit, the duration of the study should be 6
           months.

           2 Study design A first 10-minutes recording in PSV will be performed. Dyspnea-VAS,
           IC-RDOS will be measured at the beginning and at the end of this period. EMG and EEG
           will be recorded continuously. Patients will be subsequently switched to PAV.

      The PAV mode will be delivered by Puritan Bennett 980 ventilator (Covidien, Boulder, USA).
      Levels of PEEP and FiO2 will be kept constant. The level of assistance in PAV, named
      %-assistance will be set in order to keep the patient in a respiratory effort zone
      corresponding to a respiratory muscles pressure time product (PTPmus) between 50 and 150 cm
      H2O • s / min (8). As it is not possible to calculate directly the PTPmus at bedside, the
      investigators will use as a substitute its main component, the pressure peak muscle of the
      airways according to the previous report from Carteaux et al.(8). This setting has been
      described extensively and its use has been the subject of a feasibility study in 50 patients.
      After a 10-minutes stabilization period, a 10-minutes recording will be performed.
      Dyspnea-VAS, IC-RDOS will be measured at the beginning and at the end of this period. EMG and
      EEG will be recorded continuously.

      During the whole procedure, the usual hemodynamic and respiratory variables - non-invasive
      blood pressure or invasive if any, pulse oximetry, respiratory rate, - will be monitored
      continuously.

      4 Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be conducted with the Prism 5.0 software
      (GraphPad Software, USA). The distribution followed by the analysed data will be evaluated by
      the normality test of Kolmogorov-Smirnov. Probability of Type I error p less than or equal to
      0.05 will be considered statistically significant. To investigate the effects of ventilation
      mode, the descriptors of dyspnea, the amplitude of the EMG as well as the PPI will be
      compared using a Mann-Whitney test. The prevalence of main asynchronies will be compared with
      a
    
  