
    
      The purpose of this trial is to examine three potential mechanisms of inadequate response to
      Exjade® in patients with transfusion dependent iron overload including patients with
      thalassemia syndromes, sickle cell disease and bone marrow failure.

      Hypothesis: Patients have physiologic barriers to adequately respond to deferasirox that may
      include absorption, pharmacokinetics of drug metabolism, hepatic clearance and/or genetic
      factors.

      Study objectives Primary objective

        -  To evaluate three potential mechanisms for inadequate response to deferasirox in a small
           cohort of patients with hemoglobinopathies.

        -  Oral pharmacokinetics measured with Cmax and AUC following standard dose deferasirox.

        -  Hepatobiliary excretory function

        -  Accessibility of chelatable iron pool by deferoxamine challenge Secondary objective(s)

        -  To identify risk factors that can predict adequate response including demographics,
           disease status, presence and severity of liver disease, trough levels of deferasirox at
           outpatient visits and pharmacogenomics.

        -  To investigate usefulness of potential surrogate measures of response including serum
           deferasirox levels, Hepatobiliary Iminodiacetic Acid (HIDA)nuclear medicine scan to
           evaluate hepatic excretory function and urinary iron excretion by deferoxamine
           challenge.

      This is an investigator-initiated, pilot-scale, open-label physiological assessment of
      patients who respond poorly to deferasirox compared with patients who respond well. We plan
      to study 2 groups of patients: a)10 patients who have demonstrated poor responses and b) 5
      control patients with good responses as defined further in the protocol. The study has two
      parts.

      Part I: Both groups of patients will have inpatient physiological assessments with a dose of
      35mg/kg of deferasirox.

      Part II: Inadequate responders eligible to continue on deferasirox will continue on a dose of
      35 mg/kg for three months during which time serial pharmacokinetic levels will be studied.
      The control patients will resume their previous clinically appropriate dosing (likely less
      than 35 mg/kg) and for three months have serial pharmacokinetic levels drawn as well.

      The study will begin with an outpatient screening visit when demographics and historical
      information as well as a physical examination will be obtained and reviewed for eligibility.
      At that visit patients will be able to sign informed consent. Shortly thereafter patients
      will be admitted to the GCRC at Children's Hospital Boston for part I of the study, a 2-3 day
      stay during which PK and nuclear medicine studies will be performed as well as the
      deferoxamine urinary iron excretion challenge. Patients who are eligible will continue on to
      part II of the study, and for 3 months and will be monitored for compliance, PK and ferritin
      changes on appropriate deferasirox doses.
    
  