
    
      Major depressive disorder affects twice as many women as men. Women are at increased risk for
      depression in life phases, where endogenous sex steroid hormone milieu changes; such as in
      puberty, during late pregnancy to postpartum and across menopausal transition. This includes
      a subtype of MDD, perinatal depression (PND) that affects 10-15% of mothers postpartum and
      has a recurrence rate of 40% in subsequent pregnancies. PND is a disabling disorder that
      affects the entire family, including development and future health of the infant.

      The underlying risk and resilience mechanisms in MDD are far from clear, consequently,
      current treatment strategies are suboptimal. Women who develop PND might be particularly
      sensitive to the rapid and large changes in sex steroid hormone milieu, seen in the
      transition from high levels of sex steroid hormones, in particular estradiol, in pregnancy to
      low levels in the hormone withdrawal phase postpartum. Thus, PND is most likely has a
      distinct pathophysiology, which may provide a unique opportunity for protecting mental health
      by targeted short-term prevention in the immediate postpartum period.

      Intriguingly, recent human data has provided direct evidence for sex hormone manipulation to
      provoke subclinical depressive symptoms in about 12% of healthy volunteers. The phenomenon
      was linked to changes in estradiol, which were induced by the pharmacological manipulation
      with a Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone agonist. Estradiol affects critical domains and key
      brain regions known to be dysfunctional in women with major depressive disorder. Estradiol
      sensitivity predisposes to PND, which can be demonstrated at the level of gene transcription
      in clinical cohorts, and is also directly supported by recent research results. Such
      peripheral markers of estradiol sensitivity may prove useful in identifying individuals at
      excess risk for PND, also in their first pregnancy, and thus may help direct preventive
      efforts for the women who can benefit the most.

      Transdermal estradiol emerges as a promising preventive treatment option for the postpartum
      onset of PND supported by epidemiological, preclinical, and clinical research, robust and
      rapid response to estradiol in some pilot postpartum depression (PPD) trials with few side
      effects and minimal breastmilk passage to the infant. Further, transdermal estradiol appears
      to be effective in preventing clinically significant depressive symptoms among perimenopausal
      women, which is another group of women in hormonal transition phase.

      Previously, a double-blind randomized, controlled trial (RCT) showed effect of treatment with
      transdermal estradiol on manifest PND. A recent pilot RCT with transdermal estradiol as a
      candidate treatment for postpartum depression failed to achieve its primary outcome, but
      notably, did reduce depressive symptoms postpartum compared to placebo.

      Rather than treating manifest depressive episodes postpartum, the investigators here propose
      a different approach: to target, and potentially prevent, early risk mechanisms in the first
      three weeks postpartum, and to direct this preventive strategy towards women in high risk.
      This immediate and early postpartum timing corresponds to the peak risk period and covers the
      peak of hormonal decline postpartum.

      This trial aims 1) to evaluate the preventive effect of transdermal estradiol treatment in
      the immediate postpartum on depressive episodes in a subgroup of women at high risk for
      Perinatal Depression with postpartum onset, and 2) to determine if a set of biomarker gene
      transcripts can identify this subgroup and thus form the basis for future personalized
      prevention or treatment.

      Methods The Maternal Mental Health (MAMA) Trial is designed as a double-blind, 1:1
      randomized, placebo-controlled superiority trial setting involving maternity wards at three
      university hospitals in the Capital Region of Denmark.

      Women who are singleton pregnant in third trimester with a prior history of perinatal
      depression (onset before six months postpartum) and aged 18 to 45 years are eligible to
      participate.

      The women will be assessed for eligibility by the midwife or obstetrician when attending
      antenatal care at the outpatient clinic. Eligible participants who verbally consent to
      receive more information about the trial will subsequently be contacted by telephone. Written
      informed consent is obtained before inclusion in the MAMA Trial.

      The randomisation will be conducted by the capital region pharmacy. Trial participants,
      clinical care providers, research assistants, investigators, outcome assessors, and data
      analysists will all be blinded to allocation.

      The investigators calculated that a sample of 2*88 complete cases would provide the trial
      with 80% power (at a two-sided alpha level of 0.05) to detect a reduction in postpartum
      depression of 50%. Thus, with a study number of 2*110, the design is considered solid and can
      tolerate 22% dropouts.

      The primary statistical analysis will be performed on basis of the intention-to-treat
      principle. The investigators will compare data on the primary outcome for the two groups for
      the superiority of estradiol over placebo with Pearson's chi-squared test.

      Secondary outcomes with a continuous distribution will be compared between groups with
      respect to the mean (Student's t-test) if the distribution is unimodal and symmetric, or to
      the median if the distribution is unimodal but asymmetric, or otherwise to the ranks of the
      observations (Mann-Whitney test). A test on the difference in proportions will be used for
      binary secondary outcomes and a Pearson's chi-squared test will be used for categorical data.

      As a sensitivity analysis, we will use an instrumental variable approach to estimate causal
      treatment effect using randomisation as an instrument.

      Ethical considerations The short-term administration of estradiol transdermally is not
      expected to pose unacceptable or intolerable side-effects, disrupt breastfeeding or pass to
      the infant in any dosages that may pose a risk to the infant. Should un-expected side effects
      for mother or infant occur or be suspected, the treatment will be disrupted immediately. When
      removing the patch, serum concentrations of estradiol return to baseline levels within 24
      hours. Participants who develop levels of mental distress or depressive symptoms that
      approach clinical thresholds will be referred to relevant and timely psychiatric care by a
      trained clinician. All potentially sensitive personal data will be anonymized. The trial will
      adhere closely to the Helsinki declaration.

      Prospect There is a pressing need to develop a preventive strategy to depressive episodes
      during pregnancy and childbirth, that is targeted, cheap, short-term, and easy to implement.
      Such work holds promise to positively affect women's mental health, their families, and
      importantly, if successful, may also improve long-term outcomes of the infant's physical and
      mental health.
    
  