
    
      - With the development of specialized devices and experience, off-pump coronary artery bypass
      (OPCAB) has been a well-established less invasive technique for coronary revascularization.
      Compared with conventional on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), OPCAB avoids the
      use of cardiopulmonary bypass and cardioplegic arrest, and is associated with decreased
      morbidity, shorter length of stay in ICU and hospital, and less perioperative complications,
      especially in elderly patients with severe comorbidities. "One-stop" (also named
      simultaneous) hybrid coronary revascularization is also a novel, safe and feasible minimally
      invasive approach in selected patients with multivessel coronary artery disease (CAD). It
      allows surgical and interventional procedures to be performed consecutively in the "one-stop"
      hybrid operating suite, an enhanced operating room equipped with radiographic capability,
      wherein the left intramammary artery (LIMA) is placed on the left anterior descending artery
      (LAD) by minimally invasive procedure, immediately followed by percutaneous coronary
      intervention/stenting on the non-LAD lesions. However, few studies are now available on the
      outcomes of coronary revascularization between the new hybrid strategy with conventional
      OPCAB. This study is a single center randomized clinical trial to compare 1-year clinical
      outcomes of "one-stop" hybrid coronary revascularization with OPCAB in selected patients with
      multivessel CAD with suitable coronary anatomy.

      Sample size:

      - We examined the results of SYNTAX trial and of our institution published previously. The
      1-year MACCE rate (the primary endpoint) is estimated as being 13% for OPCAB. The sample
      calculated for this trial is 400 patients.

      Design/Methodology:

      - Trial design: A single center randomized clinical trial comparing "one-stop" hybrid
      procedure versus conventional OPCAB in 400 patients with suitable anatomy who need
      revascularization.

      Intervention: Patients will be randomized to undergo either "one-stop" hybrid procedure or
      conventional OPCAB.

      - Randomization: Patients will be evaluated by both a cardiac surgeon and an interventional
      cardiologist. After obtaining informed written consent, patients will be randomized to
      receive "one-stop" hybrid procedure or conventional OPCAB. An expertise-based randomization
      will be used.

      The data adjudicators will be blinded to the study. Due to the nature of this study, the
      operating surgeons, cardiologists, anesthetists, other operative room staff, and ICU staff
      will not be blind in this study.

      Study intervention:

      - Candidates will be randomized to receive "one-stop" hybrid procedure or conventional OPCAB.
    
  