
    
      Valvular heart disease is common and increases with age. In the past, valvular heart disease
      was typically caused by rheumatic heart disease, which remains a significant public health
      burden in developing countries. In industrialized nations, however, the rheumatic diseases
      has fallen substantially and valvular heart disease is now mainly degenerative in origin.

      Valvular heart disease encompasses a number of common cardiovascular conditions that account
      for 10% to 20% of all cardiac surgical procedures.

      Clinical examination is not a reliable guide to diagnosis or severity. This gap in the
      clinical valvular heart disease and the late presentation of many with severe disease
      emphasizes the importance of quantitative, high-quality cardiac imaging.

      Imaging needs to assess: 1) valve morphology to determine the etiology and suitability for
      invasive intervention; 2) hemodynamic severity; 3) remodeling of the left ventricle and right
      ventricle; 4) involvement of the aorta and 5) the prediction of adverse cardiovascular
      events.

      A number of imaging modalities are currently available to evaluate valvular heart disease in
      a comprehensive manner allowing correct assessment of both valve morphology and function.
      Doppler-echocardiography is the most frequently used tool for this purpose because it is
      cost-effective, widely available and, in the majority of the cases, provides sufficient
      information for clinical patient management and possible surgical planning.

      For a long time, cardiac catheterization and invasive angiography have been regarded as the
      "gold standard". However, this invasive approach exposes patients to radiation and iodinated
      contrast media, carrying the non-negligible risk of life-threatening complications but
      nonetheless far from optimal especially regarding the precise quantification of valvular
      regurgitation.

      Due to considerable improvements in hard- and software design in the last decade, magnetic
      resonance imaging has claimed its role as a central player in a large variety of cardiac
      diseases offering unique information about the mechanism of valve disease, quantifying the
      severity of disease, and discerning the consequences of the lesions including the effects on
      left ventricular volume, left ventricular systolic function, and left atrial volumes. Because
      of both its high accuracy and reproducibility, magnetic resonance imaging has become the
      preferred imaging modality in an increasing number of clinical trials. Also in the field of
      valvular heart disease, considerable progress has been achieved.

      Today, cardiovascular magnetic resonance has a number of unique advantages over other imaging
      modalities. It provides a view of the entire heart without limitations from inadequate
      imaging windows or body habitus. Additionally, in some patients, information from clinical
      history and physical examination or other diagnostic tests may be discordant with
      echocardiographic findings where there is a significant clinical role for cardiovascular
      magnetic resonance. cardiovascular magnetic resonance also can obtain imaging data in any
      imaging plane prescribed by the scan operator, which makes it ideal for accurate
      investigation of all cardiac valves: aortic, mitral, pulmonic, and tricuspid. It can be
      considered an excellent adjunct to echocardiography for investigating patients with valve
      disease.
    
  