
    
      Pretest:

      Initially, five clinicians in the field will be asked to give feedback on the A-IADL-Q-SV
      German. Issues that need to be discussed include clarity of 1) answer options 2) the gradient
      of difficulty 3) activities or sentences. Adjustments will be made if necessary and
      documented.

      At least five knowledgeable informants will then complete the A-IADL-Q-SV while thinking out
      loud and are asked to write down comments and issues on 1) the relevance of all items, 2) the
      applicability / meaning of the activities in Switzerland and 3) the understandability of the
      questions. The results will be reviewed in order to identify whether translation
      modifications will be necessary (e.g. rewording of items/response options). Additionally, the
      completed questionnaires will be explored to detect high proportions of missing items or
      single responses. If adjustments will be made, they will be discussed with the developer to
      finalize the translated German version.

      Validation:

      The A-IADL-Q-SV German will be tested in the community (people with normal cognition)and
      three memory clinic settings (people with MCI, mild dementia) including a total of 100
      informants from people with normal cognition, MCI and mild dementia.

      Construct validity will be assessed whether the A-IADL-Q-SV German shows the expected
      correlations with the mini mental state examination (MMSE), the cumulative dementia rating
      (CDR), the Lawton Brody Scale, the IQCODE and the Depression im Alter scale (DIA-S) Internal
      consistency will be assessed using item response theory (IRT) by investigating whether the
      translated version fits the graded response model of the original version and whether the
      assumptions of IRT are still met (unidimensionality, local independence and monotonicity).

      Measurement invariance will be investigated using IRT by investigating whether differential
      item functioning is present in the comparison of the item characteristic curves of the
      original and translated version.

      Responsiveness will be examined whether the A-IADL-Q-SV is able to discriminate people with
      MCI from people with normal cognition/ mild dementia Test-Retest reliability will be assessed
      on item level
    
  