
    
      The overall goal of IMPACT was to improve patient outcomes by optimizing drug therapy through
      a community practice model that integrates pharmacists into family practices.

      This multi-site demonstration project involved 7 pharmacists, approximately 70 physicians and
      approximately 150,000 patients. Within each practice site, a pharmacist with special clinical
      training worked 2.5 days per week for 2 years and coordinated a multifaceted intervention
      aimed at optimizing drug therapy to improve patient outcomes (blood pressure, cholesterol,
      diabetes, pain control, constipation, etc.) The integrated pharmacist conducted patient
      assessments for medication problems, optimized office system medication management (e.g.
      develop process for handling of medication samples), and provided education (academic
      detailing ) focussed on key therapeutic areas. Pharmacists were provided with ongoing support
      from a training and mentorship program and the services of the Ontario Pharmacists'
      Association Drug Information Centre.

      The family physicians and other members of the practice worked closely with the pharmacist in
      implementing these strategic interventions. Family physicians from a range of practice models
      (Ontario Family Health Networks, Primary Care Networks, and other types of family physician
      group practices) participated in this project.

      Quantitative and qualitative methods were used to evaluate the process of integration,
      pharmacist service uptake, drug-related patient outcomes, and the costs associated with
      program implementation for sustainability. The integration of the physicians and pharmacists
      at the practice sites were evaluated with the aim of generating a practical and transferable
      practice model. The main hypothesis was that pharmacist integration into family practice will
      optimize medication use, clinical care and clinical outcomes.
    
  