
    
      In this randomized controlled trial the investigators will enroll 40 patients scheduled for
      elective thoracic surgery (minithoracotomic or video-assisted thoracoscopic segmentectomies
      and lobectomies). Patients will be randomized in two groups: BEST PEEP and STANDARD PEEP. In
      OLV the investigator will set a TV = 5ml/kg IBW in volume control ventilation (VCV) and an
      adequate respiratory rate (RR) to keep PaCO2 < 60 mmHg. With the patient in lateral decubitus
      and open chest, a cycling step RM (in pressure control ventilation, RR =10/min, I:E=1:1, up
      to Paw = 40 cmH20 with a PEEP = 20 cmH2O, lasting 2.5 minutes) and a PEEP decremental
      titration trial (in VCV, from 16 to 4 cmH2O) will be performed to all patients. Then, after
      another RM, in STANDARD PEEP group a PEEP of 5 cmH2O will be set, and in BEST PEEP group an
      individualized PEEP (the one corresponding to the lower driving pressure, +2 cmH2O) will be
      applied till the end of surgery. A blood gas analysis will be performed before surgery, with
      the patient in supine position breathing room air (T1). The respiratory mechanics (Ppeak,
      Pplateau, PEEP, driving pressure) and blood gas (PaO2, PaCO2, pH, HCO3, lactates) parameters
      will be then collected at the following time points: T2 - 5 minutes after induction, patient
      supine, two lung ventilation; T3 - lateral decubitus, chest open, OLV, before RM; T4 - 10
      minutes after second RM; T5, 6, 7 - every hour after T4; T8 - at the end of OLV, before lung
      re-expansion; T9 - patient supine, two lung ventilation, before neuromuscular block reversal.
      Postoperatively all patients will spend at least one hour in a Recovery Room, in
      oxygen-therapy through a Venturi mask with FiO2 = 60%. A blood gas analysis and data about
      pain (NRS scale 0-10) and sedation (Ramsey score) will be collected at 1 hour postoperatively
      (T10). The primary outcome of the study is intra- and postoperative oxygenation and secondary
      outcomes are intraoperative respiratory mechanics parameters.
    
  