
    
      The yearly incidence of depression is estimated to be 3-5%, with a lifetime prevalence of 17%
      in western societies.Furthermore, Major depression is associated with increased mortality
      from somatic disorders such as cardiovascular disease, stroke, and endocrinological diseases.
      WHO and others stated that unipolar depressive disorders was the leading cause of disease
      burden in the western world in 2002 accounting for 9,0% of all disability adjusted life
      years. Projecting the current development in disease patterns unipolar depression is expected
      to be the second highest cause of global disease burden in 2030. With remission rates of
      approximately 50% using medical antidepressant therapy, the search for alternative or
      augmentation therapy is a key issue in depressive research.

      In 2001 a meta-analysis concluded that the effect of exercise training could not be
      determined due to lack of good quality research. The authors found that the majority of
      trials were without blinded outcome assessment, lacked intention-to-treat analysis, and most
      had short follow-up. In this context, one of the authors in 2004 launched a pragmatic
      randomized controlled trial investigating the effect of exercise training on depressive
      symptoms - the DEMO trial(10). The 165 included participants were randomized to either
      aerobic, non-aerobic, or relaxation training in a four-month training programme. The primary
      outcome was the Hamilton depression rating scale (HAM-D17) and data collection ended June 1st
      2007. After four month intervention there were no overall effect of exercise on depressive
      symptoms; the estimate at four month between non-aerobic and relaxation training was -0.9
      (95%CI: -3.2 to 1.4) and between aerobic and relaxation training was 0.99 (95%CI: -1.3 to
      3.3). These results do not support any biological effect of exercise on major depression.
      However, the majority (115/165) of patients had received antidepressant medication for more
      than six weeks at baseline thus the lack of a positive result could partly be explained by a
      treatment resistant group. A subgroup analysis of patients not medicated at baseline
      estimated the effect between non-aerobic and relaxation training to -1.7 (95% CI: -6.0 to
      2.5) and between aerobic and relaxation training to 0.3 (95% CI: -3.9 to 4.6). The number of
      patients in this important sub-group, means that any conclusion on non-medicated patients is
      underpowered. In addition the literature suggest that the possible effect of exercise on
      depression is frequency and intensity related. In the DEMO trial the participants only
      trained twice pr. week.

      This result from the DEMO trial is somewhat in contrast with the abundant publications of
      animal research showing that exercise stimulates hippocampal neurogenesis and in theory
      improves depressive symptoms and cognitive skills. The hippocampus is involved in cognitive
      functions such as memory and learning processes as well as regulation of the hypothalamus. In
      depression and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer and Parkinson Disease, which
      share features like impaired memory and learning abilities, the hippocampus is characterized
      by atrophia. In addition to a decreased hippocampal volume, brain imaging studies have
      observed reduction in volume of prefrontal cortex of depressed patients, though postmortem
      studies have less evident results.

      Prospective studies on healthy adults suggest that exercise has a beneficial effect on
      cognitive functions or reduces an age related decline in these. Research on rodents suggest
      that an increase in memory and learning in relation to exercise is mediated through an
      up-regulation of brain derived neurotrophic factor, which has the ability to stimulate
      synaptic-plasticity.

      Interestingly the exercise induced cell proliferation is inhibited by peripheral blockade of
      either insulin growth factor 1 (IGF-1) or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), which
      could indicate that the exercise induced neurogenesis is dependent of IGF-I/VEGF. The role of
      IGF-I in neurogenesis is supported by studies showing an increase in new hippocampal cells in
      sedentary animals given IGF-I infusion. Fibroblast growth factor 2 (FGF-2) also increases in
      the rat hippocampus in response to exercise, however FGF-2 injections into the adult rat
      hippocampus do not increase neurogenesis. The importance of IGF-I in neurogenesis is
      emphasized by the fact that homozygous IGF1 -/- mice at the age of to months had reduced
      brain weight affecting all major brain areas, especially the volume of the dentate gyrus(33)
      in contrary to BDNF null mutant mice that did not show major hippocampal deficits.

      Furthermore, it has been shown that antidepressant treatment up-regulates sBDNF in humans and
      a relationship between genetic variants of BDNF locus and depression have been implied. On
      this background it could be argued that low BDNF levels contribute to the pathophysiology of
      depression, and that exercise has a beneficial effect on cognitive function in patients with
      depression through an up-regulation of IGF-1, VEGF and BDNF.

      The effect of exercise on hippocampal neurogenesis and cognition have recently been supported
      in a human study measuring cerebral blood volume in the dentate gyrus by magnetic resonance
      imaging.

      On this background the investigators have designed this randomized trial comparing aerobic
      exercise and no treatment in light to moderate depression. This trial will employ adequate
      methods of reducing bias such as centralized randomization, blinded outcome assessment, and
      analysis according to the intent-to-treat principle. In addition the investigators plan to
      include a healthy control group to establish any differences in biological response to
      exercise

      Objectives The primary objective for the DEMOII superiority trial is to assess the beneficial
      and harmful effect of aerobic exercise versus stretching exercise in patients diagnosed with
      moderate depression according to ICD-10. The primary outcome will be an assessment of
      depressive symptoms as measured with the Hamilton Depression Scale (HAM-D17), by outcome
      assessors blinded to intervention group.

      The secondary objective is to measure the effect of exercise on neurogenesis in the
      hippocampal region by cerebral blood volume. The assessors will be blind to participation
      status.

      Tertiary objects is to evaluate cognitive skills, brain derived neurotrophic factor, insulin
      like growth hormone 1, vascular endothelial growth factor, and other variables associated
      with the development of cardiovascular disease (interleukin 6, maximal oxygen uptake, BMI,
      tumour necroses factor alpha and blood pressure).
    
  