
    
      Sound localization is the primary function of binaural hearing and facilitates speech
      recognition in noise. In case of unilateral or asymmetrical hearing loss, speech recognition
      in noise requires a constant adaptation of the head position to compensate for deafness.
      There is a significant impact of these deficits for socio-professional integration with a
      globally reduced quality of life . A researcher has found a significant correlation between
      performance for speech recognition in noise and the level of quality of life level assessed
      by a Spatial and Qualitative Hearing Scale (SSQ).

      Subjects with bilateral profound deafness treated with cochlear implant (CI) usually recover
      excellent scores for speech recognition in quiet conditions. Nevertheless, hearing
      restoration is only partial and binaural hearing includes the fields where hearing remains
      impaired, as illustrated by the studies on sound localization or speech recognition in noise.

      Studies using functional MRI, MEG or EEG to investigate neuro-functional reorganization
      following single-sided deafness show a reduced asymmetry in the hemispherical processing of
      auditory information, documented by an increase of cortical activity ipsilateral to the
      better ear, whether it is lateralized to right or left. However, the neural modifications
      underlying spatial hearing processing have hardly not been explored.

      The mismatch negativity (MMN) is a specific potential, evoked by an auditory stimulation
      using two sounds almost similar. The presence of this MMN indicates that the auditory system
      is able to discriminate these 2 sounds, regardless of the subjective feedback reported by the
      subject.

      The use of MMN to describe neural reorganization following cochlear implantation is
      expanding. Stimuli as diverse as pure sounds, tonal bursts or phonemes may be used, but to
      the investigator's knowledge there is no study investigating localization processes
    
  