
    
      After the patient provides written informed consent, they will be given a survey to collect
      baseline data. Because input may be solicited from the caregiver, consent will also be
      obtained from a caregiver. Participation is optional for the caregiver and a caregiver is not
      required for the participant to be in the study. If the caregiver does not consent to
      participate in the study, his/her input during meetings will not be documented in the
      research record. "Caregiver" may vary from patient to patient, but for the purposes of this
      study would be an individual who listens to the interview and responds to questions related
      to the patient's psychosocial history, goals and values. This information gathered from the
      caregiver supports the details of the consult but does not stand alone. The caregiver does
      not complete an evaluation of the interview but can reach out to study coordinators if the
      interview causes any distress.The first consultation will be scheduled with a palliative care
      provider, but will take place after the standard of care meeting with the social worker so
      that the palliative care clinician can read the social work note and not have to review the
      same information. Within one to seven days after the meeting with palliative care, patients
      will be asked to complete a 15 minute interview to provide feedback on the meeting. A brief
      questionnaire will also be administered to the palliative care provider who conducted the
      consultation, ideally immediately after the meeting. Patients will meet at least monthly with
      the palliative care provider while they remain at the transplant center. Patients will
      complete additional self-assessments at day 60+/- 7 days and 90+/- 7 days after their
      transplants. These surveys may be completed by mail if the patient has been discharged from
      the center. The medical records of participants will be reviewed to pilot items collecting
      data about references to the palliative care consultation and use of ACP within the first 100
      days after HCT. Costs for participants will be retrieved from the inpatient and outpatient
      accounting systems for the first 100 days after HCT. Participants may decline to participate
      in any part of the study or discontinue participation at any time.
    
  