
    
      Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a leading cause of chronic liver disease globally, with
      devastating complications such as cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma and death. Vertical
      transmission (VT) of HBV is a worldwide public health concern because infected children are
      at high risk of developing chronic liver disease. It is a particular problem in the
      Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC); preliminary data suggest that approximately 3% of
      children have HBV infection due to VT. However, VT is preventable. Pregnant women with risk
      factors can be identified and treatments given which can virtually eliminate transmission.
      Unfortunately, despite the high burden of HBV, neither HBV testing of pregnant women nor
      interventions to prevent HBV VT are routinely performed in the DRC and elsewhere in
      sub-Saharan Africa. This pilot feasibility study will address this healthcare gap by
      identifying women with HBV early in their pregnancies and intervening to prevent VT by (1)
      treating mothers with high-risk HBV (defined as HBeAg positivity and/or HBV viremia >10^6)
      with tenofovir and (2) providing HBV vaccine to HBV-exposed infants within 24 hours of birth.
      This pilot study will piggyback onto an existing study that is evaluating the DRC's HIV
      Prevention of Maternal-to-Child Transmission Option B+ (PMTCT+) strategy. Combining programs
      to prevent VT of HBV and HIV enables using the same personnel and infrastructure to implement
      both interventions. Furthermore, tenofovir, used to treat HBV infections, is already used in
      the DRC to treat HIV. Researchers hypothesize that utilizing the existing PMTCT+
      infrastructure in the DRC will provide a cost-effective platform to prevent HBV VT. If
      effective, this model of treatment will inform future public health efforts and wider policy
      recommendations that can be applied in the DRC and throughout the Sub-Saharan African region
      to reduce the burden of HBV.
    
  