
    
      An estimated 6.2% of US adults will be homeless at some point in their lifetime. Homeless
      adults have higher rates of disease, greater risk of interpersonal violence, shorter life
      expectancies, and disproportionately higher health care utilization and costs compared to
      housed individuals. A significant contributor to morbidity and mortality among homeless
      adults is the high prevalence of alcohol use. Approximately 33% of homeless adults have
      current alcohol dependence, a rate nearly 8 times that of the general population. Although
      shelter-based treatments are common, compliance is typically poor. Identifying factors that
      influence alcohol use would significantly improve the ability to develop effective
      interventions and engage homeless adults in treatment.

      Relatively little is known about the environmental, cognitive, and behavioral antecedents of
      alcohol use in homeless adults. Like other subgroups, alcohol use has most often been
      examined using traditional lab/clinic based assessment methods that are not well suited to
      capturing the complicated street-level interactions experienced by most homeless adults.
      Traditional assessment methodologies may also provide biased and/or inaccurate estimates due
      to recall biases and errors in memory, particularly in this complicated population.
      Ecological momentary assessment (EMA), in which handheld devices (e.g., smartphones) are used
      to capture moment-to-moment experience, is currently the most accurate way to measure
      phenomena in natural settings. Additionally, recent technological advances have made it
      possible to collect continuous geolocation data alongside EMA. Researchers can now link
      environmental risks and protective factors to outcomes, without reliance on subjective
      reporting alone.

      This pilot study will develop and test a "just-in-time" adaptive intervention to reduce
      alcohol use among homeless adults. Phase I will use smartphones and passive sensing to
      monitor geolocation, psychosocial variables (e.g., stress, urge to drink), and alcohol use in
      a group of 80 homeless adults enrolled in shelter-based treatment for an AUD. Phase II will
      use this information to create a risk algorithm and tailored treatment messages that
      anticipate and intervene to prevent alcohol use. Phase II will modify an existing app,
      previously validated for smoking cessation, to create the intervention. Phase III will pilot
      test the newly developed app for utility, satisfaction, and preliminary effectiveness in a
      group of 40 homeless adults with an AUD who are enrolled in shelter-based treatment. Alcohol
      consumption will be validated via a transdermal alcohol sensor (i.e., SCRAM) worn by
      participants in Phases I and III.

      The central hypothesis is that alcohol use is strongly affected by moment-to-moment risk and
      protective factors. This study will be able to use EMAs to identify and automatically
      intervene during moments when people are at high risk for drinking. This hypothesis is based
      on preliminary findings among homeless, justice-involved, and socioeconomically disadvantaged
      safety-net hospital patients. If effective, this smartphone app could significantly improve
      treatment engagement, drinking outcomes, and quality of life among homeless adults with AUDs.

      This project will:

        1. Use EMA to identify environmental (i.e., geolocation), cognitive, and behavioral
           antecedents of alcohol use among 80 homeless adults with an AUD who are receiving
           shelter-based treatment.

        2. Informed by Aim 1 findings, develop a "just-in-time" adaptive intervention to reduce
           alcohol use, including an alcohol use risk algorithm and corresponding theory-based
           treatment messages.

        3. Examine feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary effectiveness of a just-in-time
           adaptive smartphone app among 40 homeless adults with an AUD who are receiving
           shelter-based treatment.
    
  