
    
      Title:

      Natural History of Systemic and Nasal Mucosal Immunity to Influenza and SARS-CoV-2 in Adults
      after Vaccination

      Study Description:

      Yearly influenza vaccination is necessary due to short-lasting influenza immunity and
      changing strains of circulating influenza. With limited effectiveness of yearly influenza
      vaccines and the ongoing potential for an influenza pandemic, there is a need for a better
      understanding of influenza immunity to develop improved vaccines. Severe acute respiratory
      syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS CoV-2) vaccines have been developed in response to the
      coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic. There is a critical need to also understand the
      changes in long-term immunity in those who receive a SARS CoV-2 vaccine to develop improved
      vaccines. We will investigate the changes in long-term immunity of NIH workers after
      vaccination with influenza and/or SARS-CoV-2 and throughout the following year via blood and
      nasal sampling.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objectives:

      Characterize the systemic anti-influenza humoral immune response to vaccination over 1 year.

      Characterize the systemic anti-SARS-CoV-2 humoral immune response to vaccination over 1 year.

      Secondary Objectives:

      Characterize the nasal mucosal anti-influenza humoral immune response to vaccination over 1
      year.

      Characterize the nasal mucosal anti-SARS-CoV-2 humoral immune response to vaccination over 1
      year.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoints:

        1. Systemic anti-influenza antibodies as measured by:

             1. Hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) antibody titers

             2. Neuraminidase inhibition (NAI) antibody titers

             3. Anti-Hemagglutinin (HA) head antibody quantitative enzyme linked immunosorbent
                assay (ELISA) (immunoglobulin [Ig] M, IgG, IgA)

             4. Anti-HA stalk antibody quantitative ELISA (IgM, IgG, IgA)

             5. Anti-Neuraminidase (NA) antibody quantitative ELISA (IgM, IgG, IgA)

        2. Systemic anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies as measured by:

             1. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 spike antibody quantitative ELISA (IgM, IgG, IgA)

             2. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 receptor binding domain (RBD) antibody quantitative ELISA (IgM,
                IgG, IgA)

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Mucosal anti-influenza antibodies from nasal samples as measured by:

             1. Anti-HA head antibody quantitative ELISA (IgA, IgG)

             2. Anti-HA stalk antibody quantitative ELISA (IgA, IgG)

             3. Anti-NA antibody quantitative ELISA (IgA, IgG)

        2. Mucosal anti-SARS-CoV-2 antibodies from nasal samples as measured by:

             1. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 spike antibody quantitative ELISA (IgA, IgG)

             2. Anti-SARS-CoV-2 RBD antibody quantitative ELISA (IgA, IgG)

      Study Population:

      NIH staff (N=100) who are 18 years and older. NIH staff may include employees and
      contractors, fellows and volunteers. Accrual ceiling N=150.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      Participants will be enrolled at the NIH Clinical Center (CC).

      Study Duration:

      5 years
    
  