
    
      Design and methods Definition of adverse events

        1. Error in insulin administration Insulin not given exactly as prescribed (including in
           the written protocol used in the ICU). The error may be a planning error or an
           implementation error regarding the nature of the insulin, dosage, preparation
           modalities, or administration modalities. Insulin therapy requires monitoring of
           capillary blood glucose levels.

        2. Error in anticoagulant prescription Non respect of the recommendations about
           indications, dosages, administration modalities, contraindications, drug-drug
           interactions, and laboratory monitoring using the VIDAL (French Drug Compendium),
           learned societies, ICU protocols, and local drug committees. Either unfractionated
           heparin or low-molecular-weight heparin may be involved

        3. Error in anticoagulant administration Anticoagulant not given exactly as prescribed. The
           error may be a planning error or an implementation error regarding the nature of the
           anticoagulant, dosage, preparation modalities, administration modalities, dosing times,
           or dosing intervals. Either unfractionated heparin or low-molecular-weight heparin may
           be involved.

        4. Unplanned catheter removal Unplanned complete removal of a central venous catheter by
           the patient or by staff while caring for the patient.

        5. Unplanned extubation Extubation not planned by the physicians. Unplanned extubations can
           be categorized as self-extubation by the patient, or accidental extubation for technical
           reasons (porosity, section of the balloon, poorly secured tube), and during patient care
           (bathing, taking radiographs, transportation, care).

      Randomization procedure We will use a multicenter cluster randomized design to assess the
      effectiveness of a multifaceted intervention. Our statistician will randomly assign each unit
      to compliance with ICU guidelines as usual or implementation of the multifaceted intervention
      to prevent one of the AEs. Randomization will occur at the ICU level. Units that do not use
      the intervention program will serve as controls. The randomization procedure will be repeated
      every 2 1/2 months for a total of four 21/2-month periods in 2007-2008. During the month of
      January, the study will be prepared at each site, where a clinical research assistant will be
      trained in the use of RheaTM data collection software (http://outcomerea.org/rhea/install).

      In the Iatroref II study, anticoagulant prescription or administration errors occurred in
      59/1377 (about 6%) patients, insulin administration errors in more than 20% of patients, and
      unplanned catheter or endotracheal tube removal in 4% of patients. For this study, we
      collapsed unplanned catheter removal and unplanned extubation into a single group and
      administration error and prescription error of anticiagulant in another single group.
      Assuming that more than 2400 patients will be admitted to the four study ICUs during the
      study period, the study would have greater than 80% power for detecting a 4% absolute
      decrease in anticoagulant errors, a 3% absolute decrease in unplanned catheter or
      endotracheal tube removal, and a 10% absolute decrease in insulin treatment errors. We will
      use the two-sided score test for comparisons (Farrington and Manning). P levels ≤0.05 will be
      considered statistically significant.

      Interventions In each study ICU, a physician trained in clinical research and a a clinical
      research assistant will prepare the study during the two weeks preceding randomization. The
      intervention for each AEs will include three components: meeting with the ICU nurses and
      physicians, distribution of educational materials including a pocket card showing the
      recommendations about prevention of each AE, and quality improvement sessions twice a month.
      At each site, the physician trained in clinical research and the clinical research assistant
      will lead feedback meetings with the ICU staff every 2 weeks 1) to provide feedback about AEs
      that occurred in the last 2 weeks, 2) to review compliance with recommendations on the pocket
      card, and 3) to analyze the causes of AEs and suggest practice changes if appropriate. A
      report on each meeting will be drafted.

      Intervention for insulin administration errors

        1. Meeting with the ICU staff to discuss the epidemiology of patients admitted with
           diabetes mellitus outside the ICU, the pathophysiology of insulin resistance in ICU
           patients, and clinical studies of glycemic control and mortality in wards and ICUs.

        2. Pocket card showing how and why to control blood glucose and giving the guidelines for
           controlling blood glucose levels with insulin infusions according to the protocol in
           each study ICU.

        3. Feedback meeting twice a month on insulin administration errors in the unit,
           preventability, and appropriate changes in insulin treatment procedures.

      Intervention for anticoagulant administration errors

        1. Meeting with the ICU staff to discuss the pathophysiology of anticoagulants (heparin and
           HBPM), indications, AEs, and specific problems in the ICU (e.g., use during dialysis and
           in patients with renal failure).

        2. Pocket card showing the nature of the anticoagulants, AEs, route of administration (IV
           or enteral), specific problems in the ICU (e.g., use during dialysis and in patients
           with renal failure).

        3. Feedback meeting twice a month on anticoagulant administration errors in the unit,
           causes of noncompliance with prescriptions, and preventability.

      Intervention for anticoagulant prescription errors

        1. Meeting with the ICU staff to discuss the pathophysiology of anticoagulants (heparin and
           HBPM), indications, AEs, and specific problems in the ICU (e.g., use during dialysis and
           in patients with renal failure).

        2. Pocket cards with the nature of the anticoagulants, indications, dosage, route of
           administration, and Aes, as recommended by the French Society for Anesthesiology in 2005
           in a consensus conference.

        3. Feedback meeting twice a month on anticoagulant prescription errors in the unit, causes
           of noncompliance with recommendations, and preventability.

      Intervention for unplanned extubation and catheter removal

        1. Meeting with the ICU staff to discuss the epidemiology, risk factors, mortality, and
           prevention of unplanned extubation and catheter

        2. Pocket card showing methods for securing catheters and endotracheal tubes, the sedation
           protocol, and the weaning protocol of each ICU.

        3. Feedback meeting twice a month on occurrence of these AEs in the unit, causes, and
           preventability

      Study population All patients admitted to the four study ICUs after January, 2007 will be
      included. No patients will be excluded. The study has been submitted to the appropriate
      ethics committee.

      Data collection Patients Data are collected in the Outcomerea database. For each patient, the
      clinical research assistant will complete a case-report form on a computer using data capture
      software (Rhea) then will import all records to the Outcomerea database. The following
      information will be recorded prospectively: demographic characteristics (age, sex, and body
      mass index); underlying diseases using the Knaus classification [8]; admission category
      (medical, scheduled surgery, or unscheduled surgery), invasive procedures (arterial or venous
      central catheter, Swan-Ganz catheter, and endotracheal intubation), nosocomial infections
      (ventilator-associated pneumonia, nosocomial bacteremia, urinary tract infections, surgical
      site infections, and sinusitis), and decisions to withhold and/or withdraw life-sustaining
      treatments. The location of the patient prior to ICU admission will be recorded, with
      transfer from wards being defined as admission to the same hospital or another hospital
      before ICU admission. Severity of illness will be recorded at admission and once a day
      thereafter. Day 1 is the interval from admission to 8 A.M. on the next day; all other days
      are calendar days from 8 A.M. to 8 A.M. The Simplified Acute Physiology Score (SAPS II) [9]
      at admission and the Logistic Organ Dysfunction (LOD) [10] score are computed using the worst
      physical and laboratory data during the first 24 hours in the ICU. Duration of stays in the
      ICU and acute-care hospital and vital status at ICU and hospital discharge will be recorded.

      Adverse events All AEs will be collected during all four periods, regardless of the
      intervention being implemented. For each AE, Rhea software will be used to collect the date
      and time of occurrence, clinical consequences (from a predefined list), therapeutic
      consequences (from a predefined list), preventability, severity, and relation with death on a
      five-item scale (excluded, very less unlikely, less unlikely, unlikely, likely, certainly).
      An open box will be available for description of the AEs if needed.

      Statistical analysis A hierarchical (patients/center) logistic model will be used to evaluate
      the impact of each intervention. The intervention, as well as interactions between periods
      and specific interventions, will be taken into account.
    
  