
    
      (i). Chronic hepatitis B

      Chronicity of HBV following acute infection is strongly age-related; the majority (90%) of
      infants acquiring HBV perinatally go on to develop chronic infection, while most persons who
      acquire HBV later in life resolve their infection [ref 1]. Patients with chronic HBV have a
      15-25% lifetime risk of liver cirrhosis and hepatic cancer. An estimated 5,000 people die
      each year from complications of chronic HBV infection (cirrhosis and hepatocellular
      carcinoma).

      Three drugs have been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of
      chronic HBV: interferon-α (IFN-α), lamivudine, and adefovir dipivoxil. Only one-third of
      chronic HBV patients develop a sustained response to IFN-α treatment, and adverse effects are
      common [ref 2]. Use of the newer orally-administered nucleoside analogues (lamivudine or
      adefovir dipivoxil) typically causes rapid initial clearance of virus and is associated with
      fewer adverse effects; however, seroconversion rates are low, and long-term therapy with
      lamivudine (required for sustained responses) frequently results in resistance [ref 2].
      Adefovir dipivoxil has, so far, not shown the high rate of resistance observed with
      lamivudine, but it is expected that resistance will eventually develop [ref 3]. In summary,
      major problems with currently approved therapy of HBV include expense, toxicity, and
      development of resistance.

      (ii). Chronic hepatitis C

      Chronic viral hepatitis due to hepatitis C is an enormous medical problem, affecting
      approximately 170 million people worldwide (WHO) [ref 4]. In the U.S., an estimated 2.7
      million people suffer from chronic HCV, with 10,000-12,000 deaths per year attributable to
      the disease (ref 5). Chronic HCV infections in the U.S. are usually acquired through
      injectable drug use, sexual contact, or receipt of contaminated blood products (before
      antibody screening was initiated in 1990). Most persons exposed to HCV (75%) develop
      asymptomatic chronic infection. Eventually, 15%-20% will die of cirrhosis and liver cancer
      without intervention [ref 4].

      Only two drugs are licensed for treatment of chronic hepatitis C: IFN-α (standard or
      pegylated) and ribavirin. Sustained responses to IFN-α monotherapy have occurred in up to 35%
      of patients; higher responses can be observed with combination treatment (pegylated IFN-α and
      ribavirin) [ref 6,7]. Responses to combination therapy is closely linked with HCV genotype
      (types 2 and 3 most responsive). A significant number of patients relapse or do not respond
      to standard treatment, and retreatment is typically less effective than initial therapy [ref
      8].

      (iii). 4-methlyumbelliferone

      Umbelliferones (7-hydroxycoumarins) [ref 9] are substances present in many species of plants,
      especially umbelliferae, fabaceae, and oleaceae, which include such common plants as manna
      ash, sweet woodruff, German chamomile, celery, parsley, and others. In nature, umbelliferones
      help protect plants from cellular damage, infestation, trauma, and infection. Their
      7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives (4-methylumbelliferones) [ref 10] are used in liver therapy, as
      reagents, plant growth factors, sunscreens, choleretics, and spasmolytics. They are also used
      as light-protective agents, in the calibration of medical lasers, and in analytical chemistry
      for the quantitation of nitric acid.

      Products containing 4-methylumbelliferone as their active substance have been available in
      the USA and Europe since 1990, as dietary supplements (under trade names Heparvit®,
      Heparmed®, DetoxPro®). These products are promoted as supporting liver function and improving
      detoxification. In many parts of Europe, products containing 4-methylumbelliferone are also
      available as drugs, and used as spasmolytics and choleretics [ref 11] (improving liver
      detoxification systems through increased bile production).

      7-hydroxycoumarins are also natural metabolites in the body that play important roles in the
      metabolism of ethanol, chemotherapeutic drugs, acetaminophen, anabolic steroids, and other
      hepatotoxic drugs [ref 12]. Indeed, measurement of concentrations of 4-methylumbelliferyl
      glucuronide (a metabolic product of 4-methylumbelliferone) is a common assay for determining
      the level of toxicity of liver-toxic drugs [ref 13].

      The broad potential medical benefits of 4-methylumbelliferone as a hepatoprotectant,
      anti-inflammatory agent, chemotherapeutic agent, and antiviral substance have been described
      [ref 13,14]. More recent studies indicate that 4-methylumbelliferone (and other
      7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives) may be effective against Helicobacter pylori [ref 15], several
      types of cancer [ref 15-19], and Alzheimer's disease [ref 20].
    
  