
    
      Participants:

      Patients with diagnosed type 2 diabetes recruited through local papers and Facebook. The
      participants receives both oral and written information before signing a written consent.

      Pretest Each participant participate in a 1½ hour long pretest in which basic information is
      collected. This information include gender, age, weight, height, diabetes-age, marital
      status, medicine and education/job. Furthermore they complete two questionnaires; the
      Diabetes Attitude Scale(DAS) and Health Literacy. The pretest-session ends with a VO2max test
      to find the participants maximal heart rate and their maximal oxygen consumption. Before
      leaving an appointment is made on when to get a visit at home with the purpose to get
      instructions on how to train and get the equipment.

      DAS The questionnaire consisted of 33 statements divided into subgroups. The participant is
      instructed to consider each statement in terms of how much they agree with the statement and
      they is instructed to answer all the questions. A higher score overall indicates a positive
      attitude towards diabetes and the result can also be viewed as results in subgroups.

      Health Literacy Health Literacy is found using the Danish TOFHLA (Test Of Functional Health
      Literacy in Adults). The Danish TOFHLA consists of a 17-item numeracy part and 50-item
      reading comprehension part. The numeracy part of the Danish TOFHLA assesses the participant's
      ability to understand financial assistance, keep a clinical appointment, understand
      instructions for taking medication, etc. In the Danish TOFHLA, the test of reading
      comprehension is conducted as a modified cloze procedure in which random words are deleted
      from a reading passage (31). In this case, every fifth to seventh word is deleted in
      healthrelated reading passages, and the participant then selects the most fitting word from a
      list of four possible words. The total scores for the Danish TOFHLA test are divided into
      three levels: inadequate (score: 0-59), marginal (score: 60-74) and adequate (score 75-100).

      VO2max Bicycle test to exhaustion with direct measurement of oxygen consumption by
      Breath-by-breath on Masterscreen CPX. Warm-up for 5 min. on 50-75 watt followed by
      incremental increase in intensity by 25 watt each minute until exhaustion. The test is
      qualified as a VO2max test if Respiratory Exchange Ratio (RER) exceeded 1,1. Otherwise it was
      categorized as a VO2peak.

      Training The participants is instructed to train 3 times/week for 5 weeks. Before each
      training a HR-sensor (Polar H7 Smart Bluetooth) is applied and connected to Endomondo via
      their smartphone. The training consists of 10 x 60 sec work on a bike at an intensity of ~90%
      of max HR interspersed by 60 sec of recovery sessions. The HR used for training is calculated
      based on the max HR found by VO2max test at pretest.

      Feedback At Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays the participants gets feedback via Endomondo. The
      feedback focuses on the intensity and frequency of training. If no training is logged for a
      week the participant will be contacted through mail.

      Interview At the end of the training period the equipment is obtained and a semi-structured
      interview performed and taped on a dictaphone (app). The interview is classified into three
      areas: The training, the use of the equipment and the feedback. The interview is then
      transcribed and analyzed in NVIVO.

      A phenomenological approach is chosen as the interest is focused on the individuals
      experiences of the phenomenon and thereby describe the phenomenon
    
  