
    
      Intervention study, prospective, comparative before-after, no control group, The sample was
      chosen for convenience and consisted of all patients during the eight months of the execution
      of research, met the inclusion and exclusion criteria, ie 23 patients. The recruitment of
      patients was very limited due to the complexity of their health condition. We included
      patients older than 18 years, with over 24 hours of stay in the intensive care unit, who were
      begin physical therapy. We excluded those who were hemodynamically unstable heart disease or
      severe, severe symptomatic stenosis, decompensated heart failure, uncontrolled arrhythmias,
      high blood pressure (systolic greater than 200 mmHg, diastolic greater than 110 mmHg), mean
      arterial pressure below 60 mmHg , uncontrolled systemic disease or end stage; limb with
      unstable or acute musculoskeletal injury, severe dementia or aggressive behavior that does
      not allow performing the procedure properly, injury or infection of the central nervous
      system and neuromuscular diseases which take motor control extremity, patients with inotropic
      or vasoactive treatment associated with severe sepsis or multisystem dysfunction.

      To assess muscle strength in the grip using the Baseline ® hand dynamometer. The range of
      motion were measured using the electronic goniometer Biometrics ®. Functional capacity was
      assessed using the Functional Independence Measure (FIM) (8), an instrument that allows the
      classification of individuals according to the score in independent, partially dependent or
      dependents.

      Range of motion was measured articular shoulder abduction and flexion, hip abduction,
      dorsiflexion standing collar. Dynamometry was applied during the initial evaluation or after
      the patient's consciousness allowed, bilaterally, choosing the best score of three. The FIM,
      was filled out at the foot of the patient bed, by the evaluators. Were followed for clinical
      outcome in four days of starting treatment, and dynamometry applied only if the state of
      consciousness allowed. Evaluations were completed once the patient was transferred to the
      Special Care Unit (SCU).
    
  