
    
      This study is a phase I-II, multi-center, prospective, open-label, single-arm, clinical trial
      to evaluate Pharmacokinetic (PK), efficacy, and safety of human plasma-derived fibrinogen
      concentrate (FIB Grifols) in adult and pediatric participants with congenital
      afibrinogenemia.

      Approximately 10 adult participants (≥18 years) with congenital afibrinogenemia will be
      administered a single dose of FIB Grifols at 70 mg/kg body weight and will be followed for
      PK, efficacy, and safety assessments.

      After the safety of fibrinogen concentrate FIB Grifols is assessed in at least 10 adult
      participants and no safety issues are raised by the sponsor, the study will start to enroll
      approximately 10 pediatric subjects (<18 years) who will be dosed with study drug and
      followed for PK, efficacy, and safety assessments.

      All enrolled participants (both adult and pediatric) will have documented congenital
      fibrinogen deficiency manifested as afibrinogenemia but will not have received any
      fibrinogen-containing product therapy within the preceding 21 days before the infusion of
      study drug.

      All participants (both adult and pediatrics) will be infused with the investigational product
      at 70 mg/kg body weight. PK parameters that will be calculated from plasma fibrinogen levels
      measured at different time points include: incremental in vivo recovery [IVR], area under the
      curve (AUC) calculated as AUC from zero to 14 days (AUC^0-14days) and AUC from zero to
      infinity (AUC^0-∞), maximum plasma concentration (C^max), time to the observed maximum plasma
      concentration (t^max), half-life (t^1/2), mean residence time (MRT), volume of distribution
      (Vd), and clearance (Cl).

      Hemostatic efficacy of the investigational product will be assessed by means of rotational
      thromboelastometry (ROTEM) measure of maximum clot firmness (MCF) at baseline and 1 hour
      post-infusion. Other thromboelastographic measures as well as standard coagulation tests will
      be also determined pre- and post-infusion.

      Clinical safety, viral safety, and immunogenicity will be assessed in this clinical trial.
      Safety variables include adverse events (AEs), vital signs, physical assessments, laboratory
      tests, viral markers, and antibodies against human fibrinogen.

      A monitoring plan will be implemented by the sponsor to carefully monitor and evaluate
      allergic/hypersensitivity reactions and thrombotic events during the study.

      Stopping criteria have been established for immunogenic and thrombogenic events. If a single
      case of any these events is reported after a participants has been dosed with study drug, any
      further enrollment and dosing of participants in the study will be suspended until the event
      can be adequately assessed by the sponsor. The enrollment and dosing will only resume if the
      sponsor deems it is safe to do so.
    
  