
    
      Probiotics are defined as 'live microorganisms which, when administered in adequate amounts,
      confer a health benefit on the host'. The influence of probiotics on pathogens flora can
      derive from three principal modes of action: innate and acquired host defense modulation,
      production of antibacterial substances and competitive exclusion mechanism. In particular,
      Lactobacillus reuteri has been studied for its antibacterial and anti-inflammatory
      properties.

      It is a heterofermentative bacterium and the distinct strains have different characteristics.
      In particular it acts as an antibiotic, induces oxidative stress on pathogens, is resistant
      to proteolytic and lipolytic and present anti-inflammatory properties.

      TRIAL DESIGN Parallel-arm, mono-center, statistician operator and examiner blinded RCT. The
      trial will have 6 months of duration.

      STUDY POPULATION Forty-four (44) adults, aged 18-75 years, meeting the criteria of
      periodontitis stage III and IV, grade C, will be entered into study. It is expected that
      forty (40) subjects will complete the study.

      PRIMARY OUTCOMES

      - Change in (Pocket Probing Depth) PPD: change in mean value for each patient will be
      calculated. Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up visits.

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES

        -  Pocket closure

        -  Risk of progression of periodontitis

        -  Change in BoP: change in percentage of sites positive to bleeding on probing.

        -  Change in Plaque Index (PI): change in percentage of sites with presence of plaque.
           Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up visits.

        -  Change in Periodontal Attachment Level (PAL): change in mean value for each patient will
           be calculated. Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up
           visits.

        -  Change in Recession (REC): change in mean value for each patient will be calculated.
           Baseline values will be compared to the values recorded at follow-up visits.

        -  Changes in microbial composition and proportion of sequences identified as Lactobacillus
           reuteri in the deepest residual pockets
    
  