
    
      Schizophrenia is a chronic, severe, and disabling brain disorder that affects 2.4 million
      people in the United States. Individuals with schizophrenia may have difficulties with
      cognitive functioning, including problems with attention, memory, and organizational thought
      processes. These factors can lead to decreased productivity and poor work performance, which
      may make holding a job difficult. Research has shown that certain types of psychological
      therapies, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, are useful in reducing the severity of
      schizophrenic symptoms. The purpose of this study is to determine whether a computer-based
      cognitive enhancement training program, in combination with a work therapy program, will
      enhance workplace performance, productivity, and quality of life in individuals with
      schizophrenia.

      This study will enroll individuals with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder.
      Participants will undergo a cognitive assessment at baseline. They will then be randomly
      assigned to either a 12-month cognitive enhancement training program plus a 12-month work
      therapy program or a 12-month work therapy program alone. Participants in the cognitive
      enhancement training program will receive feedback on their cognitive strengths and
      weaknesses based on the outcomes of the baseline assessment. The training component will be
      comprised of 150 computer-based exercises that focus on improving memory, attention, and
      organizational skills. Participants will attend two weekly meetings: one will focus on
      providing feedback regarding goal-setting and problem-solving, and the other will focus on
      improving verbal skills and social information processing. Individuals taking part only in
      the work therapy program will attend two non-cognitive discussion groups per week. All
      participants will work up to 20 hours a week in an approved work environment, and will have
      access to appropriate support services. Following the end of the program, participants will
      have the option of working an additional 12 months. Schizophrenia symptoms, quality of life,
      and neuropsychological and rehabilitation effects will be assessed at the end of Years 1 and
      2.
    
  