
    
      This is a prospective, randomized study comparing rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) with
      conventional coagulation testing for diagnosing post-injury coagulopathy and guiding
      haemostatic resuscitation strategy in severely injured patients arriving at the trauma center
      who are likely to require transfusion therapy.

      Our global hypothesis is that:

        1. r-TEG is an effective tool for early identification of specific coagulation
           abnormalities via real time analysis, providing rapid results at the point of care
           (POC),

        2. r-TEG can be used to guide resuscitation strategy by permitting transfusion based upon
           individual patient deficits,

        3. r-TEG will result in appropriate transfusion of plasma, cryoprecipitate, and platelets
           in the individual trauma patient,

        4. r-TEG will result in reduced transfusion requirements in patients with post-injury
           coagulopathy.

      Our specific study aims are:

        1. To compare r-TEG parameters [TEG-ACT, alpha angle, K value, MA (maximum amplitude), G
           value (clot strength), and fibrinolysis (EPL=estimated percent lysis)] with conventional
           coagulation testing [aPTT, INR, platelet count, fibrinogen level, D-dimer] in their
           ability to diagnose and monitor coagulation abnormalities in the trauma patient
           specifically.

        2. To compare blood product administration (packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma,
           cryoprecipitate and apheresis platelets) in the first 24 hours post-injury when
           transfusion is guided by r-TEG versus conventional coagulation tests.

        3. To determine whether normalization of r-TEG values predicts cessation of coagulopathic
           bleeding better than normalization of conventional clinical coagulation tests based upon
           clinical impressions of the treating surgeons and review of operative records and
           outcome.

        4. To determine and compare patterns of transfusion ratios of packed red blood cells: fresh
           frozen plasma: platelets for resuscitation of patients with post-injury coagulopathy in
           the r-TEG versus conventional coagulation test guided groups for the first 24 hours
           post-injury.

        5. To determine and compare the timeframes of blood product administration throughout the
           first 24 hours post-injury when transfusion is guided by r-TEG versus conventional
           coagulation testing.

        6. To compare the incidence of hemorrhage-related deaths as: very early mortality (<2 hours
           post-injury), early (2<6 hours post-injury) and delayed (6-24 post-injury) based upon
           review of death/autopsy records for date, time and cause of death in patients whose
           resuscitation is guided by r-TEG versus conventional coagulation testing.

        7. To compare a) the incidence of transfusion associated lung injury (TRALI), transfusion
           associated circulatory overload (TACO), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and
           multiple organ failure (MOF); b) the length of stay in the surgical intensive care unit
           (SICU) and the number of ventilator free days in the SICU; and c) late mortality (>24
           hour to Day 30), including day number and cause of death, in patients whose
           resuscitation is guided by r-TEG versus conventional coagulation testing.
    
  