
    
      HIV-positive patients with unhealthy alcohol use are not often motivated to decrease their
      alcohol consumption and rarely receive treatment for their drinking. To address these
      challenges, we plan to provide treatment in HIV clinics, highlight to patients the impact
      alcohol can have on their medical conditions, and use Contingency Management (CM) with a
      stepped care design to adjust treatment to patient response. CM is an evidence based therapy
      that promotes abstinence from substance use, including alcohol. Since CM has not been studied
      for unhealthy alcohol use in HIV-infected patients we will include a stepped care strategy
      that provides Addiction Psychiatrist Management (APM) (with alcohol pharmacotherapies as
      indicated) and Motivational Enhancement Therapy (MET) for patients who do not achieve
      abstinence with CM. Phosphatidylethanol (PEth), is a validated biomarker that can confirm
      alcohol abstinence over three weeks. To capture the range of adverse effects of alcohol on
      health, we will include patients with at-risk drinking, alcohol use disorder, and medical
      conditions that can be adversely impacted by alcohol including those with a detectable HIV
      viral load, tobacco use disorder, liver fibrosis, untreated hepatitis C, depression and those
      taking psychoactive medications that interact with alcohol. The goal of the Financial
      Incentives, Randomization with Stepped Treatment (FIRST) Trial is to compare onsite CM plus
      stepped care versus treatment as usual (TAU) in a randomized clinical trial of HIV-positive
      patients with unhealthy alcohol use at seven HIV clinics. CM patients will receive onsite CM
      counseling sessions with financial rewards contingent on abstinence demonstrated by
      breathalyzer and PEth. Rewards can also be awarded for addressing medical conditions impacted
      by alcohol and achieving alcohol treatment goals. After three months, patients will be
      stepped up to APM and MET if PEth results indicate they have not attained abstinence. This
      randomized clinical trial will test the hypothesis that CM plus stepped care leads to greater
      abstinence, decreased alcohol consumption and improved HIV biomarkers as measured by the VACS
      Index.
    
  