
    
      ALI, a life-threatening condition that involves inflammation of the lungs and fluid
      accumulation in the air sacs, typically leads to low blood oxygen levels and respiratory
      failure. Common causes of ALI include pneumonia, sepsis, and lung trauma. Symptoms, including
      breathing difficulty, low blood pressure, and organ failure, usually develop within 24 to 48
      hours of the original injury or illness. Most patients require immediate care in an intensive
      care unit (ICU), and the main form of treatment is mechanical ventilation, which delivers
      oxygen and a continuous level of pressure to the damaged lungs. The ARDS Network (ARDSNet) is
      a group of hospitals and medical centers that conduct research to improve treatment options
      for people with ARDS and ALI. This study will enroll people who participated in the ARDSNet's
      ALTA, OMEGA, EDEN, or SAILS study; these studies are investigating new treatments to improve
      survival and reduce the amount of time people remain on mechanical ventilation in the ICU
      after ALI. It is not known whether the ARDSNet's treatments have any prolonged benefit for
      patients after they leave the hospital. The purpose of this study is to evaluate
      participants' quality of life and long-term health outcomes after they receive the ALTA,
      OMEGA, EDEN, or SAILS study treatments.

      This study will enroll participants who were in the ALTA, OMEGA, EDEN, or SAILS study. ARDS
      Network trial participants from sites that approved this follow-up study will be contacted by
      phone at 6 and 12 months to complete a collection of surveys. These surveys assess quality of
      life, mental health, memory and cognition, physical functioning, fatigue, employment and
      health insurance status, and health care utilization. At the end of each follow-up,
      participants will be asked for feedback regarding their experience during the follow-up.

      For participants from a sub-set of ARDS Network study sites participating in this study,
      researchers will review participants' medical records and information collected during the
      ARDSNet studies. Six and 12 months after ALI, participants will attend study visits at which
      time walking ability, lung function, and muscle strength will be measured. Weight, dietary
      changes, and changes in muscle and fat composition will also be assessed. Participants will
      take part in interviews to evaluate memory and cognition. If participants cannot attend the
      study visits, research staff will either visit participants' homes to complete the
      evaluations or conduct some of the evaluations over the phone.
    
  