
    
      Study design: The investigators plan to perform a non-controlled, non-randomized, open-label,
      pilot clinical trial to evaluate the effect of an 8-week VLCD intervention on NAFLD. The main
      variable of this study is the magnitude of liver steatosis and fibrosis assessed
      non-invasively by elastography. The investigators will compare these variables before and
      after the VLCD intervention. The investigators do not plan to include a parallel control
      group because the main objective of this budget-limited pilot clinical trial is to collect
      preliminary data for a larger grant proposal. Data prior to VLCD intervention will serve as
      control for each subject. Hereby, it is hypothesized that VLCD reduces liver steatosis and
      fibrosis.

      Study Subjects: Potential adult participants with obesity [age ≥ 21 years old; body mass
      index (BMI) ≥ 30 kg/m2 and ≤ 50 kg/m2] will be recruited at the Weight Management Clinic, at
      the Diabetes Center and at the Digestive Health Center, all at University of Iowa Health Care
      (UIHC). The investigators will invite potential participants with sex-specific abnormal ALT
      (female ≥ 32 U/L; male ≥ 41 U/L), but less than 100 U/L, with negative tests for viral
      hepatitis C and autoimmune hepatitis, and elastography results positive for fibrosis grade F2
      through F4 (that is, LSM between 6 and 124 kPa) and/or steatosis grade S1 through S3 (that
      is, CAP ≥ 248 dB/m) within the last 6 months. The above tests, along with complete blood
      count (CBC), basic metabolic profile (BMP), TSH with reflex free T4 and A1c are routinely
      obtained as part of the standard of care at the recruitment clinics. Oral health status of
      these patients will be obtained from the available dental charts, if not, a dental
      examination will be performed. With IRB authorization, the investigators will interrogate the
      charts to verify whether subjects meet criteria for participation. Case managers will contact
      potential participants by telephone, electronic mail or letter.

      Detailed sessions:

      Visit #1 (enrolment visit): Subjects who meet the above criteria will be invited for visit #1
      at UIHC Clinical Research Unit. Subjects will fast for 12 hours for visit #1. After signing
      informed consent, the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be reviewed again. Clinical history
      and physical exam will be charted from the last clinical note. Subjects will fill the AUDIT
      C, a screening questionnaire for alcohol consumption. Vitals signs (that is, seated and
      standing blood pressure and heart rate, ambient air pulse saturation of O2, weight, height,
      and neck and waist circumferences). Blood samples for sodium, potassium, creatinine, CBC,
      AST, ALT, triglycerides, glucose, insulin, A1c (table 1) and miR will also be drawn during
      visit #1. Female participants at reproductive age will be asked to provide urine sample for
      pregnancy test. Unstimulated saliva will be collected from the participants by asking them to
      spit into a collection tube. Supplies for stool collection with instructions for sample
      return will be provided for assessment of baseline fecal microbiome testing. Stools samples
      should be returned to the research center before VLCD initiation. The participant will also
      meet the research manager for education about the VLCD and physical activity interventions
      during visit #1. The research manager will dispense 2-week worth of Optifast® replacement
      meals, a Fitbit device and a wireless scale.

      Visit #2: At the end of week #3, the participant will return to the UIHC Clinical Research
      Unit, when vital signs will be assessed and blood samples for laboratory tests will be drawn
      (table 1). On visit #2, sodium, potassium and creatinine will be assessed. Participants will
      complete of an adverse event questionnaire. Very low-calorie diets will be dispensed at visit
      #2.

      Visit #3: At the end of week #5, the participant will return to the UIHC Clinical Research
      Unit, when vital signs will be assessed and blood samples for laboratory tests will be drawn
      (table 1). On visit #3, sodium, potassium, creatinine, ALT, AST, and uric acid will be
      assessed. Participants will complete of an adverse event questionnaire. Very low-calorie
      diets will be dispensed at visit #3.

      Visit #4 (closing visit): At the end of week #9, the participant will return to the UIHC
      Clinical Research Unit for visit #4. Subjects will fast 12 hours for visit #4 when saliva and
      blood samples for sodium, potassium, creatinine, CBC, ALT, AST, triglycerides, glucose,
      insulin, A1c (table 1) and miR will be collected. The participant will be instructed to bring
      a stool sample for microbiome analysis using collection supplies dispensed beforehand. The
      post-VLCD elastography will be performed during the final visit. Participants will complete
      of an adverse event questionnaire. The participant will also meet the research manager and
      receive education about transitioning from VLCD to a low calorie, low fat diet during the
      closure visit. The participants will be instructed to weight themselves weekly after the VLCD
      intervention. The research manager will contact the participant by telephone or video-call to
      assess adherence to low calorie, low fat diet and to review the weight trajectory 1 and 2
      months after termination of the study.

      Telephone and/or video-call contacts: Between visits #1 and #4, the research manager will
      contact the participant by telephone or video-call on a weekly basis for diet and physical
      activity compliance, and assessment of adherence, response and adverse events of VLCD for 8
      weeks.

      Very low-calorie diet treatment: The VLCD program will last 8 weeks and then will be followed
      by a gradual re-introduction of food through the next 2 months. The only sources of nutrition
      during this phase are the Optifast® products providing up to 800 kcal per day. Two liters
      (67.63 fl oz) of water should also be consumed each day. Participants will receive Optifast®
      replacement meals at no cost. The replacement meals will be dispensed at the UIHC Clinical
      Research Unit on weeks #1, #2, and #4. Participants will be instructed to use 5 replacement
      meals per day (800 kcal total) with 40% of calories as protein, 40% as carbohydrate, and 20%
      as fat (Ard, Lewis et al. 2019).

      Exercise intervention: Participants will be provided a Fitbit activity monitor (Inspire 2) to
      wear on the wrist each day throughout the 8-week VLCD intervention. Participants will also
      receive access to the Fitbit mobile app. Participants will be encouraged to wear their Fitbit
      24 hours/day for a 7-day period (baseline). Participants will then connect with a health
      coach via Zoom. During this conversation, participants will: 1) establish a daily walking
      goal with the intent of meeting the physical activity guidelines (150 minutes/week of
      moderate intensity physical activity); 2) identify and problem solve barriers that are
      preventing them from being active; 3) establish an action plan for meeting their walking
      goal. Participants will be encouraged to self-monitor their progress towards their daily
      goals by accessing the dashboard on the Fitbit app each day. Participants will also be
      invited to a private social network through the Fitbit app. In the social group, participants
      will receive educational/motivational on the benefits of physical activity and tips for
      becoming more active. Finally, participants will be invited to participate in regular walking
      games and challenges through the Fitbit app to help them meet their walking goal.

      The investigators will objectively measure physical activity (steps, time spent engaged in
      sedentary, light-intensity, moderate-intensity, and vigorous-intensity activity) on a daily
      frequency. The Fitbit Inspire 2 is a small tri-axial accelerometer-based activity monitor.
      Fitbits have been demonstrated as an accurate measure of daily steps (overall mean error =
      -9%), time spent sedentary (overall mean error = <10%), energy expenditure (overall mean
      error = +4%) in free living conditions when compared to accelerometers which are considered
      gold standard field measures of physical activity. The investigators will track user's daily
      physical activity throughout the 8 weeks through the Fitbit website. Participants will be
      encouraged to wear the Fitbit monitor 24 hours/day throughout the 8-week intervention
      including sleep time. Participants should remove the monitor only to charge it and during
      swimming/bathing when the monitor will be submerged in water. Participants will need to
      create a Fitbit profile and share their username and password with our team so that we can
      download their physical activity data through the Fitbit website. Compliance with the
      intervention (days met walking goal) will also be measured with the Fitbit activity monitor.
    
  