
    
      Prostate cancer is an important cause of death and disability in US men, but the value of
      screening for the disease with the prostate specific antigen (PSA) test remains highly
      controversial. Many primary care physicians use PSA testing routinely, with little patient
      counseling. Interventions to Improve Shared Decision-Making: Prostate Cancer Screening is a
      prospective study of educational interventions to improve shared decision-making of
      physicians and their patients about prostate cancer screening. Physicians will be randomized
      by practice site to receive standard informational brochures (control group) or a novel
      web-based interactive curriculum that provides education about prostate cancer screening,
      including potential benefits and harms, fundamentals of effective patient counsel, and shared
      decision-making. In addition, patients at intervention sites will be randomized to receive
      either the brochure or a patient-oriented interactive curriculum covering content similar to
      that contained in the physician tool. The intervention will be evaluated among 140 physicians
      within a variety of primary care settings (i.e., University-based clinics, staff-model
      managed care clinics, and military affiliated outpatient clinics). Approximately 10-15 actual
      patients of each participating physician will complete a post-visit questionnaire describing
      their discussion with their doctor about prostate cancer, PSA, and their decision about
      whether to be screened. Physicians in all groups will also see one unannounced standardized
      patient (SP) trained to portray a patient interested in discussing PSA. Study groups will be
      compared on the extent of shared decision-making they engage in with both actual and
      standardized patients. Pre- and post-study changes in physician knowledge and attitudes about
      PSA as well as the physicians' pre- and post-study PSA test ordering rates will be
      ascertained.
    
  