
    
      • Research Design

      Randomized, single-blind clinical trial

      • Research Methodology

      Target population

        -  42 Patients, aged between 18-90 years old, with distal and lateral subungual toenail
           onychomycosis diagnosed clinically and mycologically

        -  Patients were recruited from Dermatology clinic, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital

             -  Exclusion criteria

                  1. Those with nail changes because of skin disease or associated systemic
                     diseases

                  2. Those who had previously used anti-fungal medications within 3 months for
                     systemic and 1 month for topical therapy.

             -  Methods

                  1. Patients will be informed of the details of the study including predicted
                     possible adverse events due to the treatments and primary aids.

                  2. They will be included in stratified randomly by poor prognostic factors, then
                     divided into two groups (A: methylene blue-mediated photodynamic therapy
                     (MB-PDT) and B: 5% Amorolfine Nail Lacquer by block randomization of size 4
                     and 6.

                  3. For 24 weeks,

        -  Group A

             -  The use of PDT consisting of 6 treatment sessions with interval of 15 days between
                each session

             -  Patient will be instructed that apply 40% urea cream under occlusive dressing for 5
                days prior to PDT.

        -  Group B

             -  Patients will be detailed instruction regarding the use of 5% Amorolfine Nail
                Lacquer as its recommended protocol.

             -  Total duration of the follow-up is 18 months

      Evaluation tool

        -  Nail photographs by using dermoscope for onychomycosis severity index (OSI) evaluation

        -  Either Scrape or nail clipping, which is positive prior to the treatment, will be
           performed for microscopic study and culture.

        -  Safety will be assessed through adverse events.

        -  Patients' satisfaction will be evaluated at the end of the treatment.
    
  