
    
      Background and rationale The diaphragm muscle helps to control breathing: upon inhalation,
      the diaphragm contracts, helping to draw air into the lungs. Air is exhaled when the
      diaphragm relaxes. Measurement of diaphragmatic movement is an important tool in assessing
      function of the diaphragm. With the introduction of ultrasound technology to the bedside, the
      motion of the diaphragm and lungs can be visualized in real time. This affords practitioners
      the ability to detect when the diaphragm is paralyzed or is not moving properly. For example,
      the phrenic nerve, which controls diaphragm movement, is often anesthetized during
      interscalene brachial plexus block. As a result, the diaphragm on the block side is
      paralyzed, compromising breathing. This can have serious implications for patients who
      already suffer from respiratory difficulties.

      There are several previously described methods for assessing diaphragm movement using
      ultrasound. The investigators wish to compare two methods to determine which one is more
      user-friendly and offers the fastest time to measure diaphragm movement. The first method
      will rely on the ability to identify and image the right and left diaphragms through the
      acoustic windows of the liver and spleen, respectively, and then record diaphragm movement in
      M-mode. The second method will rely on the ability to identify the location of the diaphragm
      by imaging lung sliding, followed by re-orientation of the ultrasound probe to enable
      measurement of changes in diaphragm thickness with respirations. The investigators
      hypothesize that, due to the more obvious visibility of the structures involved, the second
      method will result in more accurate confirmation of diaphragm paralysis.

      Study objectives The primary objective is to determine which of two ultrasound-based methods
      of imaging the diaphragm offers the fastest and easiest way to confirm diaphragm paralysis. A
      secondary objective is to determine the inter-rater reliability among two individuals using
      the same scanning method.

      Hypothesis The investigators hypothesize that imaging lung sliding with ultrasound followed
      by diaphragm thickness measurement will be easier and faster for practitioners to detect
      diaphragm motion/paralysis.

      Study procedures Following informed written consent, eligible patients will be recruited in
      the University of Alberta pre-admission clinic (PAC) or day ward. Once the patient arrives in
      the block area, a study investigator will scan the patient's diaphragm on both sides using
      one of the two scanning methods. The scanning method to be used will be determined randomly;
      the investigator will be given a sealed envelope containing brief instructions on the method
      of diaphragm imaging to be used. The investigator will scan one side of the patient and then
      the other side. The order of scanning will be left to the participating investigator. A study
      team member will record the length of time taken for the investigator to obtain what they
      deem to be optimal images, which will be saved on the ultrasound machine. Following this, the
      regional block will be administered.

      Once the regional block is deemed to be working, the second set of diaphragm scans will be
      done. A study investigator will be given brief instructions on how to perform the scanning
      method, which will be the same one done pre-block. Again, time taken to obtain optimal images
      will be recorded, and the images will be saved on the ultrasound machine. This will end the
      study procedure, and the patient will be transferred to the operating theater.
    
  