
    
      Rationale: Proton therapy (PT), currently being introduced in the Netherlands, delivers
      radiation dose more conformal than photon radiotherapy, therefore healthy tissue damage is
      expected to be lower and at least similar tumouricidal effects are described. This increases
      the therapeutic window of radiotherapy which could be used for intensified treatment to
      patients prone to locoregional failure. From photon radiotherapy it is known that
      stratification of patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is possible
      using different positron-emission tomography (PET-)techniques. Distribution of tumour
      hypoxia, a main cause of resistance to radiotherapy, and glucose metabolic need have been
      described. PT, in contrast to photon therapy, results in activation of endogenous atoms in
      the irradiated tissues which can be measured using PET and reflect dose deposition and tissue
      composition. This provides a unique application of PET in this treatment modality as quality
      assurance of proton therapy and potentially as biomarker of tissue response to proton
      therapy. The main hypothesis is that early during PT, PET is capable of discerning a subset
      of patients with increased risk of locoregional failure with a univariate hazard-ratio of at
      least 4.0. At this time point, treatment intensification would still be possible.

      Objective: To assess whether early changes in hypoxia between baseline and in the (end of
      the) second week of proton therapy are predictive for time-to-local recurrence in patients
      with HNSCC (primary). Secondary objectives include: to compare the role of hypoxia-PET to
      more readily available PET of glucose metabolism, to describe spatial conformity between the
      PET-scan and the location of the recurrence, to determine the potential of adaptive
      replanning based on two-timepoint PET-imaging. In a pilot setting the feasibility of
      activation PET in a clinical setting for quality assurance of PT-plans and potential
      biomarker of PT-induced tissue changes will be explored.

      Study design: Prospective, single-arm, observational cohort study with invasive measurements.

      Study population: Adults diagnosed with primary, unresected invasive HNSCC, planned for PT ±
      systemic therapy with curative intent with at least one measurable lesion larger than 2 cm at
      baseline (n=40).

      Intervention: All patients are asked to undergo one additional baseline 18F-FAZA PET-scan
      (hypoxia) at baseline 18F-FDG PET-imaging (glucose metabolism) is already performed during
      clinical work-up. Both 18F-FAZA and 18F-FDG PET-scans will be repeated in the (end of the)
      second week of PT, unless no hypoxia is witnessed at baseline, then only the 18F-FDG PET-scan
      is repeated. In a pilot setting, 10 patients are asked to further undergo activation
      PET-scanning immediately after PT in the first, second and last week.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The main study parameters are the percent change in hypoxic
      tumour volume between baseline PET and interim PET of hypoxia and the percent change in total
      lesion glycolysis between baseline PET and interim PET of glucose metabolism. The primary
      endpoint is 3-year local recurrence-free survival (LRFS).

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Each PET-acquisition will be performed in radiotherapy position using fixation
      devices (mould mask). The procedures of PET-imaging of 18F-FAZA (hypoxia) and 18F-FDG
      (glucose metabolism) each involve preparation (hypoxia: none, glucose metabolism: 6h fasted),
      intravenous injection of a radiopharmaceutical, a waiting period in solitude (hypoxia: 2 h,
      glucose metabolism: 1 h), followed by PET-acquisition (hypoxia: 10-20 min, glucose
      metabolism: 5-10 min). Occurrence of infusion-related reactions (e.g. allergy) is highly
      unlikely. The radiation burden attached to each of these procedures are 6.8 mSv (hypoxia) and
      2.9 mSv (glucose metabolism). The pilot substudy requires immediate transfer from PT-gantry
      to scanner followed by a 30-min PET-acquisition three times, resulting in an additional
      radiation burden of ~0.5 mSv per procedure. All other procedures are part of clinical
      protocol. There will be no individual benefit for enrolled subjects. Financial compensation
      for study-related travel expenses have been arranged. However, where possible, each study
      procedure will be combined with a regular visit to the PT-facility.
    
  