
    
      Background and Objectives:

      Management of acute ischemic stroke consists of thrombolytic drugs aiming at opening occluded
      vessels. Tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) is the only drug approved by the FDA (1, 2). The
      use of TPA is significantly limited by a relatively narrow therapeutic window of up to 3-4.5
      hours following stroke onset (3, 4). Use of TPA outside of this time window is associated
      with an unacceptably high risk of hemorrhage including symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage
      (sICH) (5, 6). While TPA is efficacious in reducing stroke associated disability its effects
      are limited by the phenomenon of early re-occlusion after successful reperfusion of the
      occluded artery.

      Previous reports have shown that among patients receiving IV TPA within 3 hours of stroke
      onset 61% re-perfuse at 1 hour, with about 67% of these having partial recanalization and 33%
      complete recanalization of the occluded artery (7). reperfusion rates at 2 hours tend to be
      much lower ranging around 30-40% implying early re-occlusion (8). Indeed it was found that
      25% of the patients that have successfully reperfused will re-occlude the artery within 2
      hours (7). Re-occlusion of an already reperfused artery was more common in elderly patients
      with severe ipsilateral carotid stenosis and higher NIHSS scores and was associated with poor
      outcome (7). We speculate that re-occlusion is much more common in atherothrombotic strokes
      compared with embolic stroke. In embolic stroke TPA disintegrates the occluding embolus
      frequently and there is no remaining exposed endothelium or plaque that would trigger
      thrombosis (9). In contrast, in atherothrombotic stroke TPA disintegrates the occluding
      thrombus leading to re-perfusion less frequently (9) and the exposed thrombogenic elements
      within the ruptured plaque remain in place triggering repeated platelet activation and
      re-thrombosis.

      Because primary reperfusion is less frequent in patients with atherothrombotic large vessel
      stroke and re-occlusion is more common in these patients and both these processes involve
      platelet aggregation and activation at the site of thrombosis we argue that addition of
      anti-platelet agent would be able to increase reperfusion rates and decrease re-occlusion
      rates in these patients.

      Aspirin is the most commonly used antiplatelet agent in stroke patients. It has a relatively
      long half life and a relatively rapid onset of therapeutic effect(10, 11). Furthermore, an
      additional aspirin bolus may reverse a state of aspirin resistance in patients suffering a
      stroke while on aspirin(12, 13). Aspirin is safe when given to patients with acute stroke as
      soon as the diagnosis is made (14, 15).

      Because the FDA approval of TPA use for stroke patients had a pre-requisite of not using
      concurrent anti-thrombotic drugs in the 24 hours after TPA administration the safety of
      aspirin needs to be studied in a randomized trial. However, it should be noted that pre-TPA
      aspirin use was not associated with an increased ICH risk in patients given the drug (16) and
      therefore pre-morbid aspirin use is not considered a contraindication for TPA administration
      in acute stroke.

      The study will be a randomized double blind study exploring the safety of adding 500 mg of
      aspirin given P.O. to standard doses of IV TPA.

      STUDY ENDPOINTS:

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT

      1. Safety (mortality, symptomatic ICH, asymptomatic ICH). SECONDARY ENDPOINTS

        1. Proportion of patients achieving excellent functional outcome as determined by a
           modified Rankin score (mRS) < 2 and Barthel index (BI) > 85 obtained at 3 months after
           stroke onset.

        2. Good neurological outcome as assessed by NIH stroke scale score at discharge < 5 or
           showing improvement of at least 8 points from the initial stroke score.

        3. Good neurological outcome as assessed by NIH stroke scale score at 3 months < 5 or
           showing improvement of at least 8 points from the initial stroke score.

      Inclusion and Exclusion Criteria

      INCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Patients must meet all of the inclusion criteria.

        1. Diagnosis of acute ischemic stroke with onset less than 4.5 hours prior to the planned
           start of intravenous alteplase. Acute ischemic stroke is defined as a measurable
           neurological deficit of sudden onset, presumed secondary to focal cerebral ischemia.
           Stroke onset will be defined as the time the patient was last known to be without the
           new clinical deficit. Patients whose deficits have worsened in the last 4.5 hours are
           not eligible if their first symptoms started more than 4.5 hours before. If the stroke
           started during sleep, stroke onset will be recorded as the time the patient was last
           known to be at baseline.

        2. Disabling neurological deficit attributable to acute ischemic stroke in the middle
           cerebral artery territory.

        3. NIHSS less than or equal to 18 for left hemisphere strokes, NIHSS less than or equal to
           16 for others.

        4. Evidence of MCA occlusion (stem or branch) prior to drug administration by TCD, CTA or
           MRA.

        5. Age 18-85 years, inclusive.

        6. Able to sign informed consent.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA:

      Patients will be excluded from study participation for any of the following reasons:

        1. Current participation in another study with an investigational drug or device within,
           prior participation in the present study, or planned participation in another
           therapeutic trial, prior to the final (day 30) assessment in this trial.

        2. Absence of acoustic window to insonate the MCA on the involved side.

        3. Time interval since stroke onset of less than 3 hours is impossible to determine with
           high degree of confidence.

        4. Symptoms suggestive of subarachnoid hemorrhage, even if CT or MRI scan is negative for
           hemorrhage.

        5. Evidence of acute myocardial infarction defined as having at least two of the following
           three features: 1) Chest pain suggestive of cardiac ischemia; 2) EKG findings of ST
           elevation of more greater than 0.2 mV in 2 contiguous leads, new onset left bundle
           branch block, ST segment depression, or T-wave inversion; 3) Elevated troponin I.

        6. Acute Pericarditis.

        7. Women known to be pregnant, lactating or having a positive or indeterminate pregnancy
           test.

        8. Neurological deficit that has led to stupor or coma (NIHSS level of consciousness [item
           I a] score greater than or equal to 2).

        9. High clinical suspicion of septic embolus.

       10. Minor stroke with non-disabling deficit or rapidly improving neurological symptoms.

       11. Baseline NIHSS greater than 18 for left hemisphere stroke or greater than 16 for others.

       12. Evidence of acute or chronic ICH by head CT or MRI.

       13. CT or MRI evidence of non-vascular cause for the neurological symptoms.

       14. Signs of mass effect causing shift of midline structures on CT or MRI.

       15. Persistent hypertension with systolic BP greater than 185 mmHg or diastolic BP greater
           than 110 mmHg (mean of 3 consecutive arm cuff readings over 20-30 minutes), not
           controlled by antihypertensive therapy or requiring nitroprusside for control.

       16. Anticipated need for major surgery within 72 hours after start of study drugs, e.g.,
           carotid endarterectomy, hip fracture repair.

       17. Any intracranial surgery, intraspinal surgery, or serious head trauma (any head injury
           that required hospitalization) within the past 3 months.

       18. Stroke within the past 3 months.

       19. History of ICH at any time in the past.

       20. Major trauma at the time of stroke, e.g., hip fracture.

       21. Blood glucose greater than 200 mg/dl.

       22. Presence or history of intracranial neoplasm (except small meninigiomas) or
           arteriovenous malformation.

       23. Intracranial aneurysm, unless surgically or endovascularly treated more than 3 months
           before.

       24. Seizure at the onset of stroke.

       25. Active internal bleeding.

       26. Major hemorrhage (requiring transfusion, surgery or hospitalization) in the past 21
           days.

       27. Major surgery, serious trauma, lumbar puncture, arterial puncture at a non-compressible
           site, or biopsy of a parenchymal organ in last 14 days. Major surgical procedures
           include but are not limited to the following: major thoracic or abdominopelvic surgery,
           neurosurgery, major limb surgery, carotid endarterectomy or other vascular surgery, and
           organ transplantation. For non-listed procedures, the operating surgeon should be
           consulted to assess the risk.

       28. Presumed or documented history of vasculitis.

       29. Known systemic bleeding or platelet disorder, e.g., von Willebrand's disease,
           hemophilia, ITP, TTP, others.

       30. Platelet counts less than 100,000 cells/micro L.

       31. Congenital or acquired coagulopathy (e.g., secondary to anticoagulants) causing either
           of the following:

             1. Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) prolongation greater than 2 seconds
                above the upper limit of normal for local laboratory, except if due to isolated
                factor XII deficiency.

             2. INR greater than or equal to 1.4. Patients receiving warfarin prior to entry are
                eligible provided INR is less than 1.4 and warfarin can be safely discontinued for
                at least 48 hours.

       32. Life expectancy less than 3 months.

       33. Other serious illness, e.g., severe hepatic, cardiac, or renal failure; acute myocardial
           infarction; or complex disease that may confound treatment assessment.

       34. Severe renal failure: Serum creatinine greater than 4.0 mg/dL or dependency on renal
           dialysis.

       35. AST or ALT greater than 3 times the upper limit of normal for the local laboratory.

       36. Treatment of the qualifying stroke with any thrombolytic, anti-thrombotic or GPIIbIIIa
           inhibitor outside of this protocol.

       37. Any administration of a thrombolytic drug in the prior 7 days.

       38. Treatment of the qualifying stroke with intravenous heparin unless aPTT prolongation is
           no greater than 2 seconds above the upper limit of normal for local laboratory prior to
           study drug initiation.

       39. Treatment of the qualifying stroke with a low molecular weight heparin or heparinoid.

       40. Known hypersensitivity to TPA.

       41. Anticoagulation (evidenced by abnormal INR, aPTT, or platelet count) caused by herbal
           therapy.

      METHOD:

      Eligible patients (n=20/group) will be recruited after obtaining informed consent. Patients
      will be randomized to receive rt-TPA 0.9mg/kg (10% of the total dose as an IV bolus and the
      reminder IV over 60 minutes) + placebo or rt-TPA 0.9mg/kg + aspirin P.O. at a dose of 500mg
      at the time of TPA administration.. Randomization will be accomplished using an IVRS
      automated system. Randomization will be into time tiers of 0-1.5 hours from symptom onset,
      1.5-3 hours from symptom onset and 3-4.5 hours from symptom onset for each dose tier. Overall
      60 patients (30 TPA + active drug and 30 TPA only are to be recruited). Study medications
      will be supplied by the hospital and will have a total volume, color and odor that will be
      identical to placebo. At the end of recruitment the randomization codes will be opened and
      the data safety monitoring board (DSMB) will determine the safety of continuing the study in
      the next dose tier. Samples will be collected for safety data (renal, hepatic and coagulation
      studies) and sent to local laboratories in each center. Investigators will be notified
      immediately on any lab results by fax and email. ECGs will be read at a central facility and
      investigators will be notified on any abnormal result immediately via fax and email. All AE
      and SAE will be reported immediately.

      EVALUATIONS

      Safety:

      Hemodynamics: Patients will be monitored non-invasively for blood pressure, heart rate,
      oxygen saturation q2rhs in the first 24 hours post stroke and then every 6 hours for the next
      24 hours and then every 12 hours for the reminder of the hospitalization.

      Coagulation tests: PT, PTT and PLT blood counts will be evaluated daily in the first 3 days
      of hospitalization.

      Blood tests: Blood chemistry, liver function tests and cardiac enzymes will be evaluated
      daily for the first 3 days and then at discharge.

      Cardiac rhythm: ECG will be evaluated daily on a 12 lead recording on the first 3 days of
      hospitalization and then at discharge.

      CT: Brain CT will be obtained prior to drug administration and in included patients repeated
      scans will be obtained at 96-120 hours to evaluate final infarct size. In cases of suspected
      hematoma brain CT would be obtained immediately and the number of patients sustaining an ICH
      following drug administration will be recorded.

      All other adverse events (AE) and serious adverse events (SAE) will be recorded and promptly
      evaluated by the data safety monitoring board that will decide whether or not these events
      are drug related and which will have the authority to prematurely terminate the study in case
      an unexpected SAE emerges and appears to be drug related. AE and SAE will be defined
      conventionally such that AE is any adverse event and SAE as an AE necessitating prolongation
      of hospitalization or any adverse event that is potentially life threatening).

      NEUROLOGICAL Included patients will be examined before and after randomization with the
      National Institute of Health stroke scale (NIHSS) on days 1,2,3,5 and discharge and on
      outpatient visits at months 1 and 3-post stroke.

      FUNCTIONAL OUTCOME Patients will be evaluated with the Barthel index (BI) and modified Rankin
      score (MRS) administered on discharge day and during outpatient visits at month 1 and 3-post
      stroke.

      References:

        1. Tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke. The National Institute of
           Neurological Disorders and Stroke rt-PA Stroke Study Group. N Engl J Med.
           1995;333:1581-1587

        2. Hacke W, Kaste M, Fieschi C et al. Intravenous thrombolysis with recombinant tissue
           plasminogen activator for acute hemispheric stroke. The European Cooperative Acute
           Stroke Study (ECASS). JAMA. 1995;274:1017-1025

        3. Albers GW, Bates VE, Clark WM et al. Intravenous tissue-type plasminogen activator for
           treatment of acute stroke: the Standard Treatment with Alteplase to Reverse Stroke
           (STARS) study. JAMA. 2000;283:1145-1150

        4. Hacke W, Donnan G, Fieschi C et al. Association of outcome with early stroke treatment:
           pooled analysis of ATLANTIS, ECASS, and NINDS rt-PA stroke trials. Lancet.
           2004;363:768-774

        5. Graham GD. Tissue plasminogen activator for acute ischemic stroke in clinical practice:
           a meta-analysis of safety data. Stroke. 2003;34:2847-2850

        6. Burgin WS, Staub L, Chan W et al. Acute stroke care in non-urban emergency departments.
           Neurology. 2001;57:2006-2012

        7. Rubiera M, Alvarez-Sabin J, Ribo M et al. Predictors of early arterial reocclusion after
           tissue plasminogen activator-induced recanalization in acute ischemic stroke. Stroke.
           2005;36:1452-1456

        8. Molina CA, Ribo M, Rubiera M et al. Microbubble administration accelerates clot lysis
           during continuous 2-MHz ultrasound monitoring in stroke patients treated with
           intravenous tissue plasminogen activator. Stroke. 2006;37:425-429

        9. Molina CA, Montaner J, Arenillas JF et al. Differential pattern of tissue plasminogen
           activator-induced proximal middle cerebral artery recanalization among stroke subtypes.
           Stroke. 2004;35:486-490

       10. Barnett HJ. Aspirin in stroke prevention. An overview. Stroke. 1990;21:IV40-43

       11. Schror K. Antiplatelet drugs. A comparative review. Drugs. 1995;50:7-28

       12. Wang TH, Bhatt DL, Topol EJ. Aspirin and clopidogrel resistance: an emerging clinical
           entity. Eur Heart J. 2006;27:647-654

       13. Sztriha LK, Sas K, Vecsei L. Aspirin resistance in stroke: 2004. J Neurol Sci.
           2005;229-230:163-169

       14. The International Stroke Trial (IST): a randomised trial of aspirin, subcutaneous
           heparin, both, or neither among 19435 patients with acute ischaemic stroke.
           International Stroke Trial Collaborative Group. Lancet. 1997;349:1569-1581

       15. CAST: randomised placebo-controlled trial of early aspirin use in 20,000 patients with
           acute ischaemic stroke. CAST (Chinese Acute Stroke Trial) Collaborative Group. Lancet.
           1997;349:1641-1649

       16. Levy DE, Brott TG, Haley EC, Jr. et al. Factors related to intracranial hematoma
           formation in patients receiving tissue-type plasminogen activator for acute ischemic
           stroke. Stroke. 1994;25:291-297
    
  