
    
      Background: Intermittent fasting has greatly increased in popularity over the past decade
      owing to its ability to produce clinically significant weight loss. The most popular form of
      intermittent fasting is time restricted feeding (TRF). TRF typically involves confining the
      eating window to 8-10 h, and fasting for the remaining hours of the day. During the eating
      window, individuals are not required to count calories or monitor food intake in any way.
      Despite its growing popularity, only three human trials have examined the effect of TRF on
      body weight. While these preliminary studies show promise for TRF as a weight loss
      intervention, all of these previous trials are limited by short duration (2-4 months), the
      lack of a control group, and no comparison to traditional dieting approaches (daily calorie
      restriction (CR)). The present study will be the first long-term trial (48-weeks) to compare
      the effect of TRF to daily CR for weight management and improved glycemic control in
      individuals with obesity.

      Hypotheses: The present proposal will test the following hypotheses: (Hyp1) The TRF group
      will be more adherent with the intervention versus CR, which will result in greater energy
      restriction, weight loss and weight loss maintenance; (Hyp2) The TRF group will experience
      greater improvements in insulin sensitivity, insulin resistance, HbA1c and other metabolic
      disease variables (fasting insulin, triglycerides, LDL cholesterol, and blood pressure)
      versus CR; (Hyp3) The TRF group will experience greater improvements in markers of
      inflammation (TNF-alpha, IL-6, IL-B, IL-10, hs-CRP) and oxidative stress (8-isoprostane,
      4-hydroxynonenal adducts, protein carbonyls, and nitrotyrosine) versus CR.

      Methods: A 48-week randomized, controlled, parallel-arm trial, divided into 2 consecutive
      periods: (1) 24-week weight loss period; and (2) 24-week weight maintenance, will be
      implemented. Adults with obesity (n = 300) will be randomized to 1 of 3 groups: (1) 8h-TRF (n
      = 100) ad libitum food intake from 12pm to 8 pm, fasting from 8 pm to 12 pm daily, (2) CR (n
      = 100), 25% energy restriction every day; or 3) control (n = 100), ad libitum food intake
      daily with no meal timing restrictions.

      Significance: If the aims of this application are achieved, this study will be the first to
      show that TRF can be implemented as an alternative to traditional dieting (i.e. daily calorie
      restriction) for long-term weight management. This study will also show that TRF can be used
      as an effective non-pharmacological therapy to improve insulin sensitivity and decrease
      metabolic risk factors in individuals with obesity.
    
  