
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether substitution of cisplatin with cetuximab will result in comparable
           5-year overall survival.

      Secondary

        -  To monitor and compare progression-free survival for "safety".

        -  To compare patterns of failure (locoregional vs distant).

        -  To compare acute toxicity profiles (and overall toxicity burden).

        -  To compare overall quality of life (QOL) short-term (< 6 months) and long-term (2
           years).

        -  To compare QOL Swallowing Domains short-term and long-term.

        -  To compare clinician-reported versus patient-reported CTCAE toxicity events.

        -  To explore differences in the cost effectiveness of cetuximab as compared to cisplatin.

        -  To explore differences in work status and time to return to work.

        -  To compare patient-reported changes in hearing.

        -  To compare CTCAE v. 4 late toxicity at 1, 2, and 5 years.

        -  To evaluate the effect of tobacco exposure (and other exposures) as measured by
           standardized computer-assisted self interview (CASI) on overall survival and
           progression-free survival.

        -  To pilot CASI collection of patient reported outcomes in a cooperative group setting.

        -  To determine whether specific molecular profiles are associated with overall or
           progression-free survival.

        -  To investigate associations between changes in serum biomarkers or human papilloma virus
           (HPV)-specific cellular immune responses measured at baseline and three months with
           overall or progression-free survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to T stage (T1-2 vs T
      3-4), N stage (N0-2a vs N2b-3), Zubrod performance status (0 vs 1), and smoking history (≤ 10
      pack-years vs > 10 pack-years). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      Patients may complete quality-of-life questionnaires and risk factors for head and neck
      cancer surveys at baseline, periodically during study, and at follow-up for 1 year.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 1-3 months, every 3 months for
      2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  