
    
      At-risk drinking is common among diabetic patients and is associated with inferior diabetes
      treatment adherence and outcomes. While methods for reducing alcohol use in this population
      have been largely unexplored to date, brief interventions to reduce at-risk drinking have
      been well-validated in other patient populations and offer the promise to reduce at-risk
      drinking among diabetic patients, resulting in improved diabetes treatment adherence and
      outcomes.

      We hypothesize that adding a brief alcohol intervention to standard diabetes treatment,
      relative to general health education, will reduce overall drinking volume and heavy drinking
      days among diabetic patients who are at-risk drinkers.

      Furthermore, we expect participants who receive the brief alcohol intervention to have better
      diabetes treatment adherence and outcomes than the participants receiving general health
      education. We also expect that reduced alcohol consumption will mediate the effect of the
      brief alcohol intervention on diabetes treatment adherence and outcomes. In addition, we will
      explore potential treatment mechanisms.

      The proposed study is a randomized, two-group design with repeated measures over time,
      comparing a brief alcohol intervention plus standard diabetes treatment to general health
      education. For this study, we will recruit a sample of 240 Type 2 diabetic patients from a
      large, urban primary care clinic. To be eligible for the study, patients must report at-risk
      drinking and poor diabetes treatment adherence.

      This study holds the promise of establishing an efficacious intervention approach for Type 2
      diabetic patients who are at-risk drinkers and are likely to maintain poor diabetes treatment
      adherence and outcomes in the absence of a change in their drinking behavior, resulting in
      increased diabetes-related morbidity and mortality. The intervention proposed in this study
      represents a novel approach to reducing at-risk drinking among diabetic patients that, if
      efficacious, can be readily integrated into the treatment of diabetes in a variety of
      treatment settings. In addition, this study will provide valuable information regarding the
      relationship between alcohol use and diabetes treatment adherence and outcomes and about the
      mechanisms of change in alcohol use among Type 2 diabetic patients who are at-risk drinkers.
    
  