
    
      The different glycemic responses after the consumption of carbohydrate-based products are
      associated with different rates of digestion and absorption of the carbohydrates in the human
      body. Therefore, food products rich in carbohydrates can be classified based on their ability
      to be digested, absorbed and to affect post-prandial glycemia. Epidemiological studies
      suggest that following a diet including carbohydrate-based foods inducing a low and slow
      glycemic response is associated with reduced risk to develop some non-communicable diseases
      (such as type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease), to control inflammatory status, which
      is the trigger of several pathologies, and to reduce fasting insulin. Depending on the food
      composition, a low glycemic response is not always associated with a low plasma insulin
      concentration. For instance, high protein or lipid concentrations in the food matrix have
      been demonstrated to induce low post-prandial glycemic responses, but not a reduction in
      insulin secretion. Avoiding a high insulin post-prandial response after consumption of foods
      represents a preventive factor against the risk of overweight and hyperlipidemia, type 2
      diabetes, and cancer. Therefore, the evaluation of both glycemic and insulinemic
      post-prandial response curves is necessary in order to demonstrate the true beneficial effect
      of the consumption of low glycemic index foods. Among several factors which can influence the
      post-prandial glycemic and insulinemic responses (such as macronutrient composition and the
      cooking process), the technological aspects through which the foods are produced represent an
      important one. Several studies reported a low glycemic response after the consumption of
      pasta compared with bread, and this is due to the technological structures characterizing the
      two matrices. Pasta is one of the major sources of carbohydrates consumed in Italy.
      Therefore, the aim of the present study is to investigate the effect of pasta and bread on
      the plasma response of glucose and insulin, as well as c-peptide in order to clearly
      discriminate the different biological effect induced by the technological process in the
      production of pasta, compared to foods beginning with the same ingredients. Moreover, the
      study aims to create a solid basis for future studies for evaluating the effect of pasta
      consumption, as the main source of carbohydrates, in a context of a balanced diet, for
      maintaining health.
    
  