
    
      Gastric adenocarcinoma is a common form of cancer which is associated with a poor prognosis.
      Up to 22% of gastric adenocarcinomas arise via the microsatellite instability (MSI) /
      mismatch repair (MMR) pathway. These cases can be detected either by mismatch repair
      immunohistochemistry (IHC) or microsatellite instability testing. Detection of mismatch
      repair deficiency or microsatellite instability is important because patients with this type
      of gastric adenocarcinoma are shown to benefit from a different therapeutic approach. High
      concordance between mismatch repair immunohistochemistry and microsatellite instability
      testing has already been demonstrated. The implementation of either method is largely based
      on local availability. The Idylla MSI test presents a novel method of establishing MSI status
      in comparison to pre-existing MSI testing platforms. The Idylla MSI tests uses a fully
      automated, ultra-rapid system that can work on formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissue with
      no need for preceding DNA extraction. Implementation of the Idylla MSI test could reduce
      reporting turnaround times and requires less technical expertise to perform in comparison to
      other platforms.

      The investigators department does not currently have the facilities to perform MSI testing on
      any platform, so the advantages of introducing the Idylla MSI test would also include the
      generic advantages of MSI testing. These advantages include: the ability to quickly check
      cases shown to have possible MMR loss on IHC (i.e. equivocal cases) with MSI testing; and
      providing an alternative to MMR IHC for screening of Lynch syndrome, reducing the burden on
      reporting pathologists and reduce the inter-observer variability associated with IHC
      interpretation.

      The Idylla MSI test already demonstrates high concordance with other MSI testing platforms
      but has yet to be compared to the department's accepted standard of MMR IHC. This project
      aims to compare the Idylla MSI test to in-house MMR IHC to establish whether the two methods
      are concordant in reporting MMR / MSI status in gastric adenocarcinoma.
    
  