
    
      Biliary atresia, the most common cause of neonatal cholestasis, results from a fibrosing and
      inflammatory obstruction of extrahepatic bile ducts of unknown etiology. Infants with
      neonatal cholestasis will be enrolled at the time of diagnosis. Those that undergo
      exploratory laparotomy and are diagnosed with biliary atresia will form the "biliary
      atresia".

      The development of the normal bacterial flora is a dynamic process that varies in early
      postnatal ages and may be influenced by disease states. To control for age differences, the
      composition of the microbiome in subjects with other causes of neonatal liver diseases
      (non-biliary atresia or disease-controls) and age-matched healthy subjects (normal controls)
      will be determined.

      Subjects with biliary atresia will be enrolled at diagnosis, at which time a stool sample and
      a 2 mL blood sample will be obtained. Thereafter, a stool sample will be obtained at 3±1
      months after hepatoportoenterostomy (HPE) and at 24±6 months of age. A stool sample and a 2
      ml blood sample will also be obtained if/when subjects are admitted to the hospital for an
      evaluation and treatment of presumed infection (example: ascending cholangitis) and at the
      time of liver transplantation.

      Similar samples will also be obtained from healthy subjects (normal controls) and patients
      diagnosed with other cholestatic syndromes (non-biliary atresia or disease-controls) at ages
      that match those of subjects with biliary atresia. Samples will be used for bacterial DNA
      isolation, which will be used for bacterial and mammalian gene sequencing using
      next-generation sequencing methods, followed by statistical analysis to identify unique
      microbiome compositions or alterations that are associated with particular disease (biliary
      atresia or non-BA controls) or clinical outcomes including response to HPE, ascending
      cholangitis and progression of liver disease.
    
  