
    
      Prevention or reduction of secondary brain injury is a key component in the critical care
      management of patients with a variety of brain insults. Current clinical management
      emphasizes maintaining cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) at or above 70 mm Hg to minimize
      such secondary brain injury. However, due to poor ergonomics in clinical monitoring displays
      it is likely that short episodes of decreased CPP are missed by attending nurses in the
      course of necessary patient repositioning, suctioning, and other routine therapeutic
      activities. Given the crucial role of neuronal perfusion in preventing secondary injury
      beyond that of the original brain insult, refining the nurse's ability to visualize and
      manage CPP on a moment-to-moment basis may allow measurable improvement in short and
      long-term patient functional outcome. Computer interfaces that provide highly visible
      information about CPP will be randomly allocated to intensive care unit beds of patients with
      closed head injury (CHI) or subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in whom intracranial pressure
      monitors and arterial lines have been placed for medical management, stratified by primary
      diagnosis (CHI or SAH) and severity. Continuous data will be collected from 150 patients with
      and 150 patients without the interface monitor for the duration of CPP monitoring. The
      primary hypothesis being tested is that the Glasgow Outcome Score (GOS) 6 months after acute
      care discharge will be significantly better in those monitored with the continuous CPP
      display. Secondary endpoints are GOS at discharge and 3 months after discharge, Functional
      Independence Measure (FIM) score at discharge, and the Functional Status examination at 3 and
      6 months. The percentage of CPP below set levels during hospital monitoring will be
      determined.

      No CPP thresholds have been established that adequately predict how well children who survive
      a brain injury will do. Thus we will describe the association between various CPP thresholds
      and children's outcome up to one year after their brain injury. The target number of children
      to be enrolled is 65.

      Studies suggest that the regularity or variability of physiologic measures, for example,
      heart rate, may give information about how well the system can respond to challenges. Changes
      in variability may be associated with disease. Describing physiologic variability may
      therefore be useful to identify critically ill individuals with brain injury who are less
      able to adapt to challenges and may be a greater risk for further brain injury and poorer
      outcome.

      Measures of the value that individuals place on the various health states are used to
      calculate quality adjusted life years and assess the cost-effectiveness of treatments. While
      measures have been developed to assess how individuals value different outcomes, information
      regarding the value placed on outcomes following brain injury is lacking. We will use these
      measures to carry out interviews of both brain injury survivors and those who have not had a
      brain injury to add to the knowledge in this area.
    
  