
    
      Intimate partner violence (IPV) and sexual assault (SA) are public health issues that impact
      the vast majority of college students in some capacity (as a victim and/or disclosure
      recipient). Most (75+%) victims disclose to informal supports, such as friends.
      Unfortunately, over 80% of victims' disclosures are met with negative social reactions (e.g.,
      blame) from informal supports (used interchangeably with disclosure recipients). Negative
      social reactions predict deleterious psychological (e.g., posttraumatic stress disorder) and
      behavioral (e.g., problem drinking) health outcomes in victims. Although recent research has
      shed light on the factors (e.g., victim attributions) that predict informal supports'
      negative (e.g., egocentric and blaming statements) and positive (e.g., providing emotional
      support) social reactions, there is no intervention to date that targets potential recipients
      of IPV and SA disclosure to inform these individuals of the best methods of responding to an
      IPV or SA disclosure. This type of intervention, if effective in reducing negative social
      reactions in informal supports, could reduce problem drinking and related outcomes in
      victims.

      Thus, in the current study, the investigators evaluate an intervention (i.e., Supporting
      Survivors and Self [SSS]) created for potential informal support disclosure recipients.
      College students are the target population for the initial version of the SSS intervention
      given the high rates of SA, IPV, and alcohol misuse among this demographic. The interactive,
      two-session intervention teaches potential disclosure recipients what to say and not to say
      and ways to promote healthy coping and discourage unhealthy coping in victims. The role of
      alcohol in risk for and outcomes associated with IPV and SA as well as alcohol-specific
      social reactions are addressed in the SSS intervention because alcohol is involved in most
      situations of IPV and SA among college students, and drinking to cope is common among
      victims.

      This study is a small-scale, yet rigorous, initial evaluation of the SSS intervention that
      includes a prospective (i.e., intervention prior to potential disclosure) and experimental
      (i.e., randomized control trial) methodology. Outcome data will be multi-informant (i.e.,
      data from both informal supports and victims) and multi-method (i.e., qualitative and
      quantitative). The investigators will:

        1. Implement and evaluate the effectiveness of the SSS intervention compared to a wait-list
           control condition among potential informal supports. Hypothesis 1a: Individuals
           receiving the SSS intervention (N=450) compared to individuals in the wait-list control
           condition (N=450) will report fewer IPV and SA rape myths as well as greater intentions
           to provide positive social reactions and fewer intentions to provide negative social
           reactions. Hypothesis 1b: Individuals who receive SSS intervention and are subsequent
           disclosure recipients (n=100) will report providing less negative social reactions and
           more positive social reactions than individuals in the control condition who are
           subsequent disclosure recipients (n=100); mediators (e.g., low victim blame) and
           moderators (e.g., victim alcohol use at time of assault) of outcomes will be examined.
           Hypothesis 1c: Individuals who receive the SSS intervention and are subsequent victims
           of IPV and/or SA (n=60) will report less self-blame, PTSD, depression, drinking to cope,
           and problem drinking compared to individuals in the control condition who are subsequent
           victims of IPV and/or SA (n=60); mediators (e.g., engagement in healthy coping) and
           moderators (e.g., gender) will be explored. Methodology: A random sample of college
           students from a public university will be invited to participate in a pre-test (all
           participants), SSS intervention (only participants randomly assigned to this condition),
           and six-month post-test (all participants). A subsample of disclosure recipients in the
           SSS intervention condition will be invited to participate in a qualitative exit
           interviews (after the post-test) to enrich findings and inform SSS revisions.

        2. Determine the feasibility in recruiting victims who disclosed to individuals in the SSS
           and control conditions to complete outcome surveys and gather preliminary effectiveness
           data on the SSS intervention. Hypothesis 2a: Victims who disclose to an individual in
           the SSS intervention (n=50) will report trends towards receiving more positive social
           reactions to disclosure, less negative social reactions to disclosure, and fewer
           symptoms of PTSD, depression, drinking to cope, and negative alcohol-related
           consequences compared to individuals who disclose to an individual in the control
           condition (n=50).
    
  