
    
      Antenatal education Today Danish antenatal classes are primarily offered in auditoriums as
      lectures with a minimum of interaction with the audience. The Danish regions currently aim in
      time to implement antenatal birth and parent preparation classes in small groups for all
      expectant parents. However, it is unknown if 1) antenatal preparation in small groups is
      superior to standard care; 2) what elements the preparation should encompass to meet the
      needs of expectant parents today; and 3) what the cost-effectiveness of antenatal preparation
      in small groups is compared to large-scale preparation in auditoriums.

      Trial objectives and purpose The primary aim is to compare parenting resources, health and
      thriving, and use of healthcare services in newborn families enrolled in a research-based
      standardised antenatal birth and parenting program in small groups with those allocated to
      standard care.

      Development of the program: We have developed a comprehensive, theoretically founded
      parenting program in collaboration with midwives, health care visitors, a psychologist and
      family therapist, parents, and leading national and international researchers and clinicians
      in this field.

      Process evaluation: Focus group interviews with service providers, group facilitators and
      participants will be carried out. Program fidelity e.g. whether the protocol is followed in
      program delivery, and how much of the intended program the participants are receiving, as
      well as program reach e.g. what proportions of the intended groups are participating in the
      program, has an impact on the effect of an intervention. We will evaluate whether the
      protocol is followed in program delivery and how much of the intended program the
      participants are receiving. Participants will be asked to fill in an electronic questionnaire
      on-site at the end of each session. The questionnaire will highlight whether the intended
      subjects of the session have been covered as well as to what extent the participants found
      the information given useful. Group facilitators will be asked to fill in a similar
      questionnaire with the opportunity to explain why certain topics may have been omitted.

      Non respondent/non-participation: What proportions of the intended groups are participating
      in the program will be explored by examining demographic characteristics of those who
      declined to participate in the trial via the national registers, as well as examining
      characteristics of those who accepted and then did or did not show up for the sessions.

      Cost-effectiveness analysis: Finally the incremental societal cost of the intervention will
      be calculated and compared to the measured outcomes in a cost-effectiveness analysis. Direct
      health care costs as well as productivity costs in terms of labour market participation and
      sickness absence. For this we will use data from the obstetric database at Hvidovre Hospital,
      national registers and questionnaires.

      Trial design Individually randomised trial sited at a large birth clinic in the Copenhagen
      Capital Region, Hvidovre Hospital.

      Trial intervention

      The intervention will have two arms:

        1. A research-based parenting program described in more detail below.

        2. Standard care (control group). The pregnant woman and her partner are offered two
           antenatal lectures on birth and breastfeeding in an auditorium.

      The intervention arm: Groups of approximately 6-7 couples (or mothers) will meet three times
      during pregnancy and 1 time 5 weeks after expected due date, for the duration of 2.5 hours
      per session. (The aim is to create groups of 6-7 couples; however, due to fluctuations in
      uptake groups of 4-9 couples will be deemed acceptable). The sessions will include
      information and discussions about emotions and expectations related to birth and parenting,
      identification of social network resources, couple communication, breastfeeding, parent-child
      attachment, directions on taking care of a newborn, and recognising common signs of mood
      disorders and how to react. A website with parenting information and exercises will be
      created and parents will be encouraged to use this material alongside the sessions. In
      addition to gaining knowledge about issues related to birth and parenting, and creating an
      environment where parents can discuss their feelings and concerns, the program aims at
      enhancing expectant parents' awareness of their own resources and problem-solving strategies.
      Furthermore the way the groups are composited will enable participants to establish relations
      with other expectant parents in their local area. All sessions will be led by a midwife. The
      postnatal session will be conducted in collaboration with a health visitor, to increase
      knowledge on available resources in the local communities Informed consent All participants
      considered for this trial will be provided with written and oral information on this trial so
      that participants can make an informed decision about their participation in this trial. A
      project phone line will be established where participants can contact a project member
      throughout the trial if she has further questions, or wishes to withdraw her consent for
      participation in the trial.

      Data collection Data will be collected from both parents using web-based questionnaires at:
      baseline (approximately 18 weeks gestation) (Tp0), 37 weeks gestation (Tp1), 9 weeks after
      expected due date (Tp2), 6 months after expected due date (Tp3), 1 year after expected due
      date (Tp4). Participants will be contacted via e-mail, when due to answer a questionnaire.
      Two reminders will be sent via additional e-mails, the first after a week and the second
      after 14 days. Data will also be obtained from the hospital obstetric database and the
      national registers.

      Concomitant medication/treatment All participants are free to make use of concomitant
      antenatal/postnatal services and parent groups. As use of other services and parent groups
      may influence the outcomes that we are interested in, use and services will be examined,
      documented and given careful consideration in the analyses.

      Explorative outcomes

      In addition to primary and secondary outcomes, there are following explorative outcomes:

      Post-natal depressive symptomatology and anxiety - questionnaire data, EPDS (tp0,1,2)
      Breastfeeding - questionnaire data (tp0,1,2,3) Use of healthcare services i.e.: for the
      parents obstetric intervention i.e. augmentation of labour, vacuum extraction, caesarean rate
      - data from the hospital obstetric database (tp2), and contact to healthcare professionals
      for depressive symptomatology and unscheduled postnatal visits- questionnaire data (tp2,3).

      Family medicine use - questionnaire data (tp2,3) and register data (tp4) Smoking -
      questionnaire data (tp1,2,3,4) Satisfaction with relationship and family break-ups -
      questionnaire data (tp 0,1,2,3,4), and data from the national registers on divorce and
      break-ups (tp4): mental well-being (tp1,2,3,4)

      In this trial the intermediate outcomes of interest are:

      Parenting resources: trust in own ability to cope with: 1) birth (tp1), 2) discharge (tp1) 3)
      parenting (tp1,2,4) breastfeeding (tp0,1); couple communication (tp0,1,2,3,4); social
      support/network (tp0,1,2,3,4) Statistical plan and data analysis Sample size and power
      estimations We are planning a trial of independent experimental and control participant with
      1 control per experimental participant. 2011 data from the HH Obstetric Database (unpublished
      data) indicate that epidural use among pregnant women is 31%. If the true epidural use for
      experimental participants is 25%, we will need to include 1,175 experimental participants and
      1,175 control participants be able to reject the null hypothesis that the epidural use for
      experimental and control participants are equal with probability (power) 90%. The Type I
      error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 5% Amendment 17th
      February 2014: Due to slow recruitment, we reduce the power from 90% to 80%, thus reducing
      the sample size from 2,350 participants to 1,756 participants.

      Power estimation for the secondary outcome Perceived Stress Scale We are planning a trial
      with 1175 experimental participants and 1175 control participants. In a previous study the
      Perceived Stress Scale response within each participant group was normally distributed with
      standard deviation 6 (18). If the true difference in the experimental and control means is 1,
      we will be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the experimental
      and control groups are equal with probability (power) 98.1%. The type 1 error probability
      associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.5.

      Power estimation for the secondary outcome Swedish Parenthood Stress Questionnaire In a
      previous study the Swedish Parenthood Stress Questionnaire response within each subject group
      was normally distributed with standard deviation 0.5 (19). If the true difference in the
      experimental and control means is 0.1, we will be able to reject the null hypothesis that the
      population means of the experimental and control groups are equal with probability (power)
      99.8%. The type 1 error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.5.

      Power estimation for the secondary outcome Parenting Alliance Measure In a previous study the
      Parenting Alliance Measure response within each subject group was normally distributed with
      standard deviation 20. If the true difference in the experimental and control means is 4, we
      will be able to reject the null hypothesis that the population means of the experimental and
      control groups are equal with probability (power) 98.7%. The type 1 error probability
      associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 5%.

      Statistical methods Reporting will follow the guidelines of the CONSORT-statement.
      Statistical analyses will be intention to treat as well as per protocol. The level of
      significance will be 0.05.

      The analysis of the primary binary outcome will be done using logistic regression.

      The results of this analysis will be subjected to a worst case and a best case scenario
      analysis of the potential impact of missing values. In the analysis of the two secondary
      outcome measures a mixed model with repeated measures will be used. The fixed effects will
      include a linear and a quadratic time component and their corresponding interactions with the
      intervention indicator. An unstructured covariance matrix will be used initially. If
      convergence cannot be obtained the spatial power law covariance structure will be tried and
      then the compound symmetric model.

      Using the general linear univariate model it will be tested if the mean values differ between
      the two intervention groups at time 1 (9 weeks following birth).

      If the assumptions of the above analyses cannot be fulfilled with reasonable approximation
      the groups will only be compared at time 1 using a nonparametric test (Mann Whitney).

      The unadjusted analyses are the primary analyses. If possible all analyses will be repeated
      adjusted for the protocol specified stratification variable and the baseline value.

      Three explorative subgroup analyses may be conducted in each case provided the subgroup
      interacts significantly with the intervention.

      Dealing with multiplicity, gate keeping will be used to adjust the observed p values for
      primary and secondary outcomes. Both observed and adjusted p values will be reported.

      Direct access to source data/documentation

      The trial will be carried out in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki in its latest
      form as well as national laws and regulations. The investigators permit audits and inspection
      by providing direct access to source data/documentation. The trial will be monitored by an
      unrelated research group at the National Institute of Public Health. eCRFs will be checked,
      and as minimum the following will be monitored locally:

      All patients for existence (If the CPR number is correct), All patients for documented
      informed consent
    
  