
    
      The study is a phase III, open-label, self-contained, multi-centre, uncontrolled,
      single-country study with a single group. Treatment will be allocated in a non-randomised
      process and stratified by age as 4-9 years (children), 10-17 years (adolescents), 18-64 years
      (adults) and ≥65 years (elderly population). The study will consist of a single primary epoch
      (001) starting at Visit 1 (Day 1) with the administration of a single dose of Boostrix
      vaccine and ending at Visit 2 (Day 31). Blood samples will be collected at Visits 1 and 2.

      Protocol Amendment 1 was developed to implement the following changes:

        -  Wording "parents/Legally Acceptable Representative(s) (LAR[s])" was replaced by the
           wording "parent(s)/adoptive parent(s)". As per Russian legislation, only parents or
           adoptive parents can give consent for the enrolment of their child in a clinical trial.
           No other person is allowed to give consent on behalf of a minor to participate in a
           clinical trial.

        -  The age groups at inclusion to study were amended according to the approved Boostrix EU
           label and physiological particularities i.e., from 3-9 to 4-9 years (children), 10-19 to
           10-17 years (adolescents), 20-64 to 18-64 years (adults) and ≥65 years (elderly
           population).

        -  The inclusion criteria have been amended in order to clarify the following,

             -  Children from four to seven years of age who have received diphtheria, tetanus and
                pertussis vaccination prior to study enrolment as per local recommendations will be
                enrolled

             -  Subjects eight years of age and older who have received diphtheria, tetanus and
                pertussis vaccination to the best of their/subjects' parent(s)/subjects' adoptive
                parent(s) knowledge and did not receive an additional diphtheria, tetanus or
                pertussis vaccination within five years prior to enrolment in the study will be
                enrolled.

      Protocol amendment 2 was developed after the comments from the Russian regulatory authorities
      [Ministry of Health (MoH)]. Adjustments to the text were made to clarify the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria for enrolment of subjects and the conduct of the study. In addition,
      adjustments for the reporting period and assessment of adverse events in the safety sections
      were made for consistency. The newly re-developed and re-validated GSK's DTPa ELISA cut-offs
      were updated as per the most recent CBER recommendation (2017).

      Protocol amendment 3 is developed to accommodate older adults (approximately 58 years old and
      older) who were born before national recommendations in Russia for infant DTP vaccination.
      Adjustments to the text are made in the inclusion criteria to clarify the enrolment of
      subjects for age group eight years and above.
    
  