
    
      Healthy women aged 25 to 64 yrs with histology confirmed ectocervical CIN lesions confined to
      ectocervix without extension to endocervix or vagina will be randomized to single- or
      double-freeze cryotherapy, as per the inclusion criteria will be invited to participate in
      the study.

      They will be explained about the study. Informed consent will be obtained from each recruited
      woman. The cases selected with lesions that can be adequately covered with largest cryo probe
      (2.5 cm diameter) will be randomized between the following arms.

      Arm 1 Single-freeze technique; 3 minutes of freeze and 5 minutes of thaw. Arm 2 Double-freeze
      technique: 3 minutes of freeze and 5 minutes of thaw and cycle repeated once again.

      The patients will be advised about excessive discharge per vagina for 4 weeks and mild
      abdominal cramps.

      They will be advised to abstain from sexual intercourse for 6 weeks. They would be followed
      up after one month for clinical evaluation and at 12th month to determine the cure rates by
      Pap test, HPV Test and colposcopy with or without biopsy.

      The reference investigations to determine cure rates at the end of 12 months would be Pap
      smear, HPV Testing by HC II and colposcopy with or with out biopsy which will be offered to
      all the participants and biopsy will be done on women with colposcopic abnormalities.

      Randomized trial: Stratified by lesion. Randomisation and analysis will be stratified on the
      grades of CIN.

      Randomisation process:

      Each woman eligible for cryotherapy who presents for treatment, will be allocated a
      randomisation number.

      This randomisation number is a 4 digit number: The first digit represent the CIN stage (1, 2
      or 3), the 3 next digits are the sequential number of the patient (from 001 to 999). Each
      sequential number is randomly attributed to a treatment arm. The table containing this
      information will be kept by the principal investigator and is only known by the people
      involved in the treatment.

      The arm the patient has been randomised to will not be known by the people performing the
      follow-up visit in order to avoid any reporting bias. As soon as the patient has been
      randomised to double- or single-freeze, the box corresponding to the sequential number line
      and the CIN column will be marked with 'X'. The randomisation protocol will be rigorously
      followed.

      Women with biopsy proven ASCUS-H and CIN lesion, after obtaining an informed consent will be
      randomized between single and double freeze treatment cases. The first follow-up is after one
      month and the next at 12th month, where patient would be subjected to Pap test, HPV Test by
      Hybrid Capture II and colposcopy with or without biopsy.
    
  