
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of
      combination decitabine and ipilimumab for relapsed or refractory myelodysplastic syndrome
      (MDS) or relapsed or refractory acute myeloid leukemia (AML) in patients who are post
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant (allo-HCT).

      II. To determine the MTD or RP2D of combination decitabine and ipilimumab for relapsed or
      refractory MDS or relapsed or refractory AML in patients who are transplant naive.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine the overall response rate
      (ORR) including complete remission (CR) and complete remission with incomplete count recovery
      (CRi) for AML following 2003 International Working Group (IWG) response criteria.

      III. To determine the ORR including CR, partial remission, marrow CR, hematologic improvement
      for MDS using 2006 IWG criteria.

      IV. To determine the overall survival and progression free survival at 1 year. V. To
      determine the duration of remission. VI. To capture the incidence and severity of acute
      graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in the post allo-HCT cohort.

      VII. To capture the incidence and severity of chronic graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) in the
      post allo-HCT cohort.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure the absolute lymphocyte count (ALC) prior to treatment and during treatment.

      II. To evaluate the genome for evidence of clonal evolution among longitudinal samples (prior
      to treatment, during treatment, and at relapse if relevant) from individual patients.

      III. To evaluate the histopathologic findings of immune response using immunohistochemistry.

      IV. To determine the immune response in the AML tumor microenvironment by using flow
      cytometry and single cell mass cytometry to evaluate T cell subsets.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ipilimumab.

      ARM A (PATIENTS POST ALLO-HCT):

      PRIMING PHASE: Patients receive decitabine intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1-5 out
      of 28 days.

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and ipilimumab IV
      over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and ipilimumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 or 8 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (TRANSPLANT NAIVE PATIENTS):

      PRIMING PHASE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 out of 28 days.

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and ipilimumab IV
      over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 4 cycles in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE PHASE: Patients receive decitabine IV over 60 minutes on days 1-5 and ipilimumab
      IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 4 or 8 weeks for up to 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 52
      weeks (1 year).
    
  