
    
      Young people are disproportionately affected by the current opioid crisis including worse
      retention and outcomes compared to older adults. Further, young adults typically do not have
      access to medications for opioid use disorder (OUD), and for those that do, struggles with
      adherence are a major barrier. Standard approaches to treatment typically do not incorporate
      developmentally informed strategies for engagement, retention, and medication adherence for
      this special population.

      The Youth Opioid Recovery Support (YORS) model is an innovative wrap-around approach that
      attempts to address barriers to treatment engagement in this vulnerable young adult
      population, especially difficulties with medication adherence. Its components include: (1)
      Home delivery of extended release naltrexone (XR-NTX) for OUD; (2) Engagement of families in
      collaborative treatment planning and monitoring focusing on medication adherence; (3)
      Assertive outreach from the treatment team including actively tracking and communicating with
      youth and families by text messaging and social media to promote engagement and adherence;
      and (4) Contingency management to provide incentives for medication adherence. YORS is
      currently showing very promising results in a small pilot randomized clinical trial (RCT) by
      the investigative team.

      The investigators propose to refine and then conduct a more definitive test of the YORS
      intervention for youth with OUD. In the first phase the investigators will conduct
      stakeholder focus groups to get input and feedback on potential refinements, while also
      conducting 3 cycles of pilot testing of these potential refinements. Based on the preparation
      and final synthesis of the intervention refinements, in the second phase the investigators
      will conduct an RCT to test the efficacy of YORS, by randomizing N=120 young adults ages
      18-26 seeking treatment for OUD with XR-NTX at Mountain Manor Treatment Center (MMTC), to
      either the refined YORS intervention or treatment as usual (TAU) for a 6-month course of
      treatment with XR-NTX.

      The primary outcome will be number of XR-NTX doses received. Secondary outcomes will include
      opioid relapse, days of opioid use, time to first opioid relapse, HIV risk behaviors,
      criminal behaviors, psychiatric symptoms, and family member distress and self-efficacy. It is
      hypothesized that participants in the YORS condition will receive significantly more XR-NTX
      doses and will demonstrate less severe opioid use and associated behaviors compared to those
      in the TAU group. The assertive YORS intervention has the potential to improve the real-world
      effectiveness and public health impact of medication for OUD in this very high-risk,
      vulnerable population. If the refined YORS intervention is found to be efficacious, it would
      set the stage for future work including: an economic analysis, a larger multi-site study,
      longer intervention duration, study of extended release buprenorphine, and study of step-down
      to less intensive interventions.
    
  