
    
      Over the past few years, there were growing evidences that clearance of apoptotic cells by
      phagocytosis can result in powerful anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects. The
      defective clearance of apoptotic cells has been linked to autoimmunity and persistent
      inflammatory diseases. Apoptotic cells are cleared in vivo rapidly. Clearance of apoptotic
      cells or apoptotic bodies is histologically undetectable in normal situation by neighboring
      cells, or by macrophages and related scavengers. Defective clearance of apoptotic cells has
      been linked closely to autoimmune and persistent inflammatory diseases.

      The process of discriminating apoptotic from live cells was found to be remarked complex.
      Many phagocytic receptors, bridging molecules, and several 'eat-me' markers on apoptotic
      cells are involved and coordinated interact with each other. A phagocytic-synapse interprets
      the apoptotic-cell-associated molecular pattern (ACAMPS), and determine the behaviors
      subsequent to phagocytosis.

      Clearance of apoptotic cells can be mediated by complement receptors CR3 (CD116/CD18), CR4
      (CD11c/CD18), collections and CD14. However, the clearance of apoptotic cells does not
      usually trigger either inflammation or an adaptive immune response. Clearance of apoptotic
      cells can also be mediated by receptors that were firstly characterized to clear damaged
      cells or altered-self-components.

      The best characterized system for clearing the apoptotic cells is the recognition of
      phosphatidylerine on the apoptotic cells. Phosphatidylserine (PS) was found to distribute in
      the inner layer of plasma membrane phospholipid bi-layer in healthy cells. During apoptotic
      process, inhibition of aminophopholipid translocase and activation of lipid scramblase result
      in exposure of PS on the cell surface.

      Defective macrophage clearance of apoptotic cells linked to autoimmunity. There were emerging
      evidences indicating defective macrophage clearance of apoptotic cells linked to
      autoimmunity.

        1. Systemic exposure to irradiated apoptotic cells induces autoantibody production. Normal
           mice injected with 10^7 syngenic, apoptotic thymocytes developed transient and low titer
           of anti-nuclear antibody, anti-cardiolipin, and anti-ssDNA antibody. All immunized mice
           had IgG deposition in the glomeruli several months after immunization. IgG-deposition
           was not found in the glomeruli of non-immunized or syngenic splenocyte-immunized
           controls.

        2. Defective clearance of apoptotic cells and SLE-like autoimmunity was found to be
           associated C1q deficiency. C1q mice developed systemic autoimmunity spontaneously, with
           a marked excess of free, non-ingested apoptotic cells of the kidney. Although congenital
           deficiency of complement cascade is rare in humans, nearly all patients who were
           deficient in C1q developed SLE-like disease. In both human and mice, inflammatory
           macrophages had defect in the uptake of apoptotic cells and the defect could be rescued
           by adding exogenous C1q.

        3. Mer/kd (Mer knock-down) mice developed autoimmune disease Mer is a member of
           Ax1/Mer/Tyro3 receptor tyrosine kinase family. Growth arrest-specific gene 6 (GAS6) was
           shown to bridge Mer to phosphatidylserine on apoptotic cells. Mer-kd mice had
           macrophages deficient in clearance of apoptotic thymocytes. The phagocytic deficiency
           was restricted to apoptotic cells and was independent of Fc receptor-mediated
           phagocytosis or ingestion of other particles. Mer-kd mice developed progressive
           lupus-like immunity, with antibodies to chromatin, DNA, and IgG. The autoimmunity
           appears to be spontaneously, driven by endogenous antigens, with little polyclonal B
           cell activation.

        4. Impaired phagocytosis of apoptotic material by monocyte-derived macrophages from
           patients with SLE. Reduced clearance of apoptotic cells in SLE patients was observed,
           although apoptosis was normally happened.

      Milk fat globule-EGF factor 8 (MFG-E8) was characterized in mouse milk glycoproteins, 53 and
      66 kD, peripherally associated with the membrane surrounding the lipid droplet (milk fat
      globule membrane, MFGM). MFG-E8 is expressed abundantly in lactating mammary glands and
      secreted in associated with milk fat globules.

      MFG-E8 consists of two repeated EGF-like domains on the terminal side and tandem
      discoidin-like (C-) domains homologous to the C1 and C2 domains of coagulation factor V and
      VIII. The C2 domain can mediate Ca2+-independent binding to PS. MFG-E8 expression is
      up-regulated in lactating mammary gland, and has been detected in other tissues such as
      brain, lung, heart, kidney and spleen in mouse, bovine and human.

      The second EGF-like domain of MFG-E8 contains an integrin-binding motif, namely Arg-Gly-ASP
      (RGD) sequence. The RGD motif is conserved in all known MFG-E8 sequence in different species.
      It can bind to αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrins. MFG-E8 was characterized as a peripheral membrane
      protein, although there was no apparent hydrophobic transmembrane domain, and bind directly
      to MFGM or cell membrane. The MFG-E8 binds to anionic phospholipids, especially
      phosphatidylserine, on the second C (C2) domain independent of Calcium ions.

      Reports indicated that MFG-E8 secreted extracellularly despite its membrane associated
      nature. MFG-E8 was found to be a major component of secretory membrane vesicles (exosomes)
      secreted by murine dendric cell line, D1. The glioma cell line (C6) secrets MFG-E8 into the
      culture media. MFG-E8 is also detected in embryonic gonad extracellularly and in the sera of
      patients with metastatic tumor.

      MFG-E8 was regards as an opsonin that bridge apoptotic cells, which with surface
      phoshatidylserine exposure, and phagocyte bearing αvβ3 and αvβ5 integrins. Hanayana et. al.
      showed that thioglycollate-elicited macrophages produced and secreted MFG-E8. MFG-E8
      significantly bound to apoptotic cells by recognizing aminophospholipids such as
      phosphatidylserine and bound to macrophages via its RGD motif, particularly strongly to αvβ3
      integrin. Transfected NIH3T3 cell with high αvβ5 expression can engulf apoptotic cell in the
      presence of MFG-E8. The MFG-E8 dominant negative mutant that carries a point mutation in the
      RGD motif inhibited phagocytosis of apoptotic cells by peritoneal macrophages in vivo and in
      vitro. Borisenko et. al. estimated that MFG-E8 bind 2~8 fold stronger to oxidized PS than to
      native PS. And they also proposed MFG-E8 might bind to another cofactor, annexin I, on
      apoptotic cells, thus increase protein-membrane interaction.

      Human MFG-E8 gene was located on chromosome 15q25. The cDNA clone contains coding sequence
      for 387 ammo-acid peptides of which 263 (68%) are identical with mouse protein.

      Tingible body macrophages, characterized by CD68+ F4/80-, in spleen and lymph node express
      significant level of MFG-E8. Peritoneal macrophages elicited by thioglycollate secrete
      abundant MFG-E8 protein of 74 kD in the culture supernatant. The macrophages from MFG-E8(-/-)
      mice engulf few apoptotic cells compared to the macrophages from their normal littermates in
      vitro. Addition of recombinant MFG-E8 in the culture restored the ability of MFG-E8(-/-) Mφs
      to engulf apoptotic cells in a doze-dependent manner.

      In germinal centers, somatic hypermutation and secondary BCR rearrangement are involved in
      BCR affinity maturation. The modified BCRs with lower affinity will be removed by apoptosis.
      Tingible body macrophages are responsible for the MFG-E8-dependent clearance of apoptotic
      cells. Tingible body Mφs in wild type mice engulfed and digested the apoptotic B cells
      efficiently, whereas the MFG-E8(-/-) Mφs just wrapped many apoptotic cells without
      engulfment42. The MFG-E8(-/-) mice developed splenomegaly in an age-dependent manner. The
      white pulps in the spleens of the MFG-E8(-/-) mice were greatly enlarged and carried numerous
      germinal centers.

      The follicular zones were enlarged. There were 2 to 3 times more lymphocytes in the spleens
      of the MFG-E8(-/-) mice. An increased number of IgG-producing cells were found in the spleen
      follicles. The female MFG-E8(-/-) mice spontaneously produced high titer of anti-antibodies
      anti-dsDNA and ANA at the age of week 40 but not at w10. Immunization female 10-week-old mice
      twice with KLH promoted ANA production 20 days later in MFG-E8(-/-) but not wild type mice.
      Immune complex deposition, hyper-cellularity of glomeruli, and proteinuria were observed in
      most female MFG-E8(-/-) mice at week 40. Therefore, inefficient engulfment of apoptotic B
      cells by might lead to lupus-like autoimmune disease. Kenichi et al. showed that masking
      phosphatidylserine by MFG-E8 mutant D89E, carrying a point mutation in RGD motif, inhibited
      not only the phagocytosis of apoptotic cells by macrophages of different origins but also the
      production of IL10 by thioglycollate-elicited peritoneal macrophages after phagocytosing
      apoptotic cells. When D89E MFG-E8 was injected into wild type mice intravenously,
      auto-antibodies were induced. The production of auto-antibodies was enhanced by co-injection
      of syngenic apoptotic cells. The auto-antibodies persisted for a long-term and IgG deposition
      on glomeruli took place. These results added in proof that the impairment of phagocytic
      clearance of apoptotic cells leads to auto-antibody production and autoimmune disease.In the
      past 4 years, a growing number of molecules were recognized as receptors for the PS exposed
      on the apoptotic cells. These molecules were capable of mediating phagocytic clearance,
      rendering anti-inflammatory cytokines in the phagocytes, and modulating T cell responses.

      The specific aim of this proposal is to study genetic polymorphism in MFG-E8, PSR and other
      factors implicated in phagocytic clearance of apoptotic cells among Taiwanese. By comparing
      the polymorphism between patients with autoimmune disease (SLE or RA) and healthy control
      subjects, we will investigate if genetic variations among individuals of genes encoding
      proteins involved in clearance of apoptotic cells contribute to the pathogenesis of systemic
      autoimmune diseases SLE and RA.

      Specific aim:

      As described in the above introduction, in order to test if factors involved in clearance of
      apoptotic cells are implicated in pathogenesis of human autoimmune diseases, we intend to
      investigate if the genetic variation among individuals of genes encoding proteins involved in
      clearance of apoptotic cells, MFG-E8 and PSR, contributes to pathogenesis of human autoimmune
      diseases SLE and RA.

      The goal of this proposal:

      We will

        1. Find out genetic polymorphism of human PSR gene in Taiwan by study single nucleotide
           polymorphism (SNPs) of PSR genes among Taiwanese subjects using PCR and DNA sequencing.

        2. Study the PSR SNPs in SLE and RA patients and non-auto-immune control subjects by
           PCR/sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridization.

        3. Compare the allelic distribution of each SNP among patients and control group and find
           if there is disease-associated SNP(s) in PSR gene.

        4. Find out genetic polymorphism of human MFG-E8 gene in Taiwan by study SNPs of MFG-E8
           genes among Taiwanese subjects using PCR and DNA sequencing.

        5. Study the MFG-E8 SNPs in SLE and RA patients and non-auto-immune control subjects by
           PCR/sequence-specific oligonucleotide probe hybridization.

        6. Compare the allelic distribution of each SNP among patients and control group and find
           if there is disease-associated SNP(s) in MFG-E8 gene.
    
  