
    
      This study is a randomized control trial focusing on rates of treatment initiation,
      engagement, and outcome in Black adults assigned to CBT4CBT in the Black Church relative to
      the standard of care for this population. This study is focusing on individuals with AUD as
      the needs assessment indicated that as the most common substance use problem in this setting.
      Moreover, our focus groups and work with Church staff has indicated that alcohol use is less
      stigmatized within the Black and the Church communities than other substance use. Thus, while
      individuals with other substance use will be included, positioning the study as focusing
      primarily on alcohol use will avoid potential issues of stigma and thus may facilitate
      recruitment.

      Selecting a comparison condition for this novel intervention strategy is complex.

      As the primary rationale for delivering treatment in the Black church setting is that this
      national network is seen as a trusted institution in the Black community, our research
      questions center around (1) whether delivering CBT4CBT in the Black church is a safe and
      effective alternative to standard care, (2) whether it engages and retains individuals better
      than standard specialty care, (3) the extent to which this strategy reaches individuals who
      would not otherwise seek treatment for AUD, (4) what kinds of individuals are particularly
      suited to this setting, and (5) the relative costs of this novel form of treatment delivery.
      Thus, a standard specialty care at Midwestern Connecticut Council on Alcohol (MCCA) as the
      comparison condition was selected. MCCA is a non-profit, community-based provider in the
      predominantly Black Dixwell neighborhood, not far from Dixwell Church and has a positive
      reputation in the Black community. The primary treatment modality is group therapy. In 2019,
      MCCA treated over 500 unique individuals (44% female, 35% African American, 20% Latino). MCCA
      staff are diverse and multidisciplinary. Clinic Director Steven Palma has agreed to provide a
      dedicated triage slot for this study so individuals can be admitted and assigned a group
      within one week, reducing a key barrier.

      The two study settings will be balanced in several ways, with few barriers to care, both in
      the same neighborhood, and assignment of participants to a group within one week of
      randomization, thus preserving equipoise and balancing attractiveness of both sites to
      participants as much as possible. They will differ primarily in setting (church versus
      specialty care), in treatment content (CBT4CBT with spirituality elements versus group
      treatment with some CBT content), and group leaders (CHAs versus masters-level staff).
    
  