
    
      The study is being conducted in the physiotherapy clinic of HUJBB. The sample is composed of
      26 volunteers with moderate to severe COPD, of both genders, recruited from the population
      that will start the treatment in pulmonology HUJBB physiotherapy clinic.

      All participants will undergo the assessment base used in HUJBB, blood analysis, heart rate
      variability, AQ20 questionary, 6-minute walk test and Pulmonary Rehabilitation Program.

      The evaluation will be carried out by pre-existing general assessment form and used in
      hospital outpatient. The sheet contains: identification data; medical history; diagnosed
      diseases; Drug use; Use of oxygen; nutrition and exercise habits; Physical exam;
      Investigations; functional kinetic evaluation; Goals; treatment/management. Since these will
      only be used: identification data; diagnosed diseases; Use of Oxygen; nutrition and exercise
      habits and goals.

      Morphological assessment of EOX in blood plasma is performed according to the test known as
      Optical Microscopy for cell analysis in vitro or HLB test, also known under the name Dry
      layer oxidative test, which the investigators refer to as microscopic morphology EOX in
      plasma (EEW). The EEW provides indirect information concerning EOX, among others, using the
      following grading system percentage of discontinuous area of the clot, present in the
      microscope slide: grade I (normal EOX rate, with total area of discontinuity of the
      extracellular matrix (ME) less than 10%), grade II (light EOX with ME discontinuity area
      between 10 to 20%), grade III (moderate EOX with ME discontinuity area between 20 to 30%),
      grade IV ( serious EOX with ME discontinuity area between 30 to 40%) and the grade V (very
      serious EOX with ME discontinuity area above 40%) 18. By lancing on the medial side of the
      digital pulp of the fourth finger of the left hand previously sanitized with alcohol,
      collecting the blood drop will be next to a microscope slide by five light touches this blade
      with the drop. After this procedure, the blade will be kept in place protected from contact
      with the blood and at room temperature (23 ° C) for the nine-minute period for the
      realization of the collected blood clotting process. At the end of this period, the
      morphological patterns of these clots are seen in an increase of 40 times as set out in
      protocolo18 and their assigned qualitative graduation will be logged into a spreadsheet for
      further statistical analysis.

      The coagulated blood will be studied by Videomicroscopy (microscope NIPOM brand), which will
      be selected the best histological field, then a picture which will be analyzed by Image Pro
      Plus you see the fields where there is no blood coagulation will be made, and from this
      discontinuity the program will provide the percentage of oxidative stress. This analysis test
      allows you to have an indirect notion of oxidative stress level in the studied patient and to
      evaluate its therapeutic development.

      The uptake of HRV is performed via a heart rate monitor Polar ® brand of, RS800CX model where
      the FC signal is received by a strap to the signal receiver which is placed in the voluntary
      thorax at the level of the xiphoid the sternum. This funding is recorded in the Polar RS800CX
      monitor and transferred to the Software Polar ProTrainer program through a broadcast
      interface infrared signals, which are stored and subsequently exported to txt format so that
      later can be analyzed by a mathematical routine in Kubios HRV program. In the program will be
      selected 5 minutes from the passage that has better signal stability.

      HRV will be analyzed at rest in the supine position. This test is to evaluate the variability
      of the heart rate response to check the modulation of autonomic control over it at rest in
      the supine position.

      Volunteers will be asked to remain at rest for a period of 10 minutes, avoiding talking to
      the researcher so that the heart rate does not undergo changes. Then will begin the
      collection of heart rate with duration of 10 minutes in the supine position while maintaining
      spontaneous breathing.

      The AQ20 is applied twice to the same patient, once in the first day and a second time after
      the end of the program. Only two researchers participated in the questionnaire.

      The hall used to perform the 6MWT should have a comfortable temperature, and can be a closed
      or outdoor environment, since it is flat, and little traveled so there are no interruptions
      while walking by people who move there. Usually you use a corridor 30 meters long, with no
      obstacles where the time to make a turn must be marked with a cone. The test objective is to
      walk in itself alone pace as far as possible during the six minutes and guiding possible
      cardiorespiratory changes that may arise, being allowed to walk slowly, stop, relax when
      needed returning to walk when you feel able to resume the walk. You must walk without talking
      to the people who are around you to the cone and will back quickly around it so continuing to
      walk without hesitation. The path must be shown to the patient by the examiner and can start
      walking.

      The training will run 2 times a week (Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday ), lasting
      approximately 50 minutes of specific training ( aerobic and strengthening), for 10 weeks,
      making a total of 20 days of exercise.

      During this period volunteers will be told not to perform complementary physical activities
      and/or addition to another rehabilitation program.

      strengthening exercises involve large muscle groups of the regions of the shoulder, knee and
      hip in closed and open chain using the Neuromuscular Facilitation ( PNF) with upper extremity
      exercises within the movements of the diagonals of Kabat method (flexion -adduction -rotation
      external / foreign flexion - abduction -rotation / internal extension - abduction - rotation
      / internal extension - adduction - rotation ). The exercises follow the protocol 3 sets of 10
      repetitions at intervals of 30 seconds of rest.
    
  