
    
      Background and Rationale

      Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a behaviorally defined complex neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by early childhood onset of marked deficiencies in social and communication
      skills and presence of restrictive, repetitive behaviors. Its phenotypic heterogeneity makes
      studying ASD and its treatment a challenging task. Currently, only two FDA approved drugs,
      risperidone and aripiprazole, are available to treat ASD that manage irritability associated
      with the disorder. None have shown conclusive benefit for core features of social and
      communication deficits.

      Research indicates that a disrupted balance between excitation (glutamate) and inhibition
      (gamma amino-butyric acid, GABA) is likely to be one of the underlying mechanisms of ASD.
      This hypothesis is supported by a number of magnetic resonance spectroscopy studies that
      report an excess of glutamatergic excitation and/or a reduction in GABAergic inhibition
      observed in different brain regions including the limbic system and the anterior cingulate
      cortex. Similar findings have also been reported in post mortem studies of the ASD
      brain.Thus, it is expected that drugs targeting this imbalance could be beneficial. For
      example, the GABAB agonist, arbaclofen, was tested in ASD for this reason and showed
      promising results but a large trial failed to show improvement on the primary endpoints of
      lethargy and social withdrawal.

      Memantine, a moderate affinity N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, is known to
      improve communication in patients with Alzheimer's disease and is an FDA approved treatment
      for that disease. Examination of the efficacy of memantine in treating ASD has also been
      driven by the excitatory (glutamate) - inhibitory (gamma amino-butyric acid, GABA) imbalance
      hypothesis of ASD pathology. Memantine binds to the glutamatergic NMDA receptors and
      attenuates glutamatergic excitation. This reduction in excessive glutamatergic activation is
      thought to decrease the "noise" in the neural network system and facilitate learning and
      memory. A few small studies have shown effectiveness for memantine in the treatment of social
      and communication aspects of ASD spectrum disorder (ASD) as well. However, one large clinical
      trial using memantine in ASD reported a failure to respond. These discrepancies in results
      could possibly be due to the heterogeneity in the excitatory-inhibitory imbalance between ASD
      patients thereby causing a variation in response. In such a scenario, having a biomarker to
      predict an individual's treatment response would be invaluable.

      MR Spectroscopy is a non-invasive tool used to examine the biochemical profile of brain
      tissue associated with different psychiatric and neurological conditions including ASD.
      Specifically, 1H-MRS studies in ASD demonstrated the excitatory-inhibitory imbalance in
      various cortical and subcortical regions of the brain, a finding also reported in post mortem
      brain tissue studies. The use of this technique to determine if Glutamate/GABA concentrations
      in certain regions of the brain can predict response to treatment with memantine would be an
      innovative breakthrough in providing more effective individualized treatment for patients
      since very little research has been done to explore this possibility.

      A similar approach has been adopted in a recent ongoing study that uses proton MR
      spectroscopy to map changes in glutamate and GABA following use of riluzole in ASD. Riluzole
      is a drug commonly used in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and is a glutamate antagonist
      that works by blocking presynaptic glutamate release and noncompetitive inhibition of NMDA
      receptors. However, riluzole is not clinically used in the treatment of ASD. To our
      knowledge, only one study so far (apart from the ongoing study mentioned) has examined the
      effects of riluzole in ASD, but as an adjunct to risperidone. The primary outcomes of the
      Ghaleiha et al. study were irritability and repetitive motor behaviors and not core social
      and communication deficits as in the present proposal. The purpose of riluzole in this MR
      spectroscopy study is a proof of principle for its effects on spectroscopy based on its
      glutamate antagonistic effects. By contrast, memantine, which will be studied in the present
      proposal, has some documented evidence from small studies of being beneficial in treating
      social and communication deficits associated with ASD in clinical settings, despite the
      failure of the larger trial.

      The investigator's lab has previously utilized MR spectroscopy techniques to map these
      different compounds in a group of 14 subjects with ASD and identify glutamate and GABA
      alterations in the cerebellum, discovering a relationship to cerebrocerebellar connectivity
      and behavioral outcomes in individuals with ASD.

      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: The investigator proposes a pilot, exploratory, clinical follow-on study
      using proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (1H-MRS) to examine whether the following
      measures can be used to predict treatment response to memantine in ASD:

        1. Glx and/or GABA and the Glx/GABA ratio in the anterior cingulate cortex,

        2. Glx levels in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum

        3. Markers of neuronal integrity, N-acetyl aspartate (NAA), myo-inositol, choline and
           creatine/phosphocreatine levels in the anterior cingulate, dorsolateral prefrontal
           cortex and cerebellum

      Specific Aim 2: To examine whether resting state functional connectivity between the
      dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate and the cerebellum, holds predictive value
      for treatment response to memantine in ASD.

      The anterior cingulate cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and the cerebellum have been
      have been chosen as regions of interest (ROIs) due to known atypical glutamate and GABAergic
      profiles in these regions associated with ASD. The approach of limiting to selected ROIs has
      been adopted in order to ensure patient comfort during the imaging process by reducing the
      time spent in the scanner. Since altered levels for markers of neuronal integrity, such as
      NAA, choline, creatine/phosphocreatine and myoinositol have also been reported in ASD, we
      will be mapping these biochemicals as well in order to explore their effect on treatment
      response. Resting state functional connectivity will also be analyzed for possible
      association with treatment outcome prediction since as mentioned before, a previous study
      from the investigator's has shown a link between alterations in resting state
      cerebrocerebellar connectivity, excitatory-inhibitory ratio in the cerebellum and behavioral
      outcome in ASD using MR spectroscopy.
    
  