
    
      Patients presented with cardiogenic shock (CS) still have a very poor prognosis with high
      in-hospital mortality even in current era of medical practice. Acute myocardial infarction
      (AMI) complicated by CS has been associated with is an in-hospital survival of around 50%
      historically. Recent development of mechanical circulatory support (MCS) showed a better
      survival in the patients who would have been associated with a very high mortality in
      conventional medical treatment. Still the most of the management strategy for this critically
      ill patient subset is empirical and mostly not based on scientific evidence. There have been
      few randomized controlled trials and well-designed registries have been rare.

      Recent randomized controlled trial, IABP SHOCK II trial showed that use of IABP did not
      improve survival in CS patients complicating AMI. With the FDA approval of Impella in CS
      patients, a powerful new tool has become available for hemodynamic support. Impella is a
      transcatheter axial flow pump, delivered percutaneous, with the ability to provide 2.5 to 4.0
      liters/minute of forward flow. In some countries where Impella is not available,
      extracorporeal membrane oxygenator (ECMO) has been widely used in patients with cardiac
      arrest or CS. ECMO is equipped with an oxygenator and may be more beneficial in the patients
      with cardiac and pulmonary failure. Impella is a more physiological device that does not
      compete with native blood flow. However, there is little data available to providers as to
      the best practice patterns associated with the delivery and use of mechanical circulatory
      devices in CS patients, furthermore, no data regarding CS patients originated by non-ischemic
      and post-cardiotomy situation as an etiology of cardiogenic shock.

      Around 20 years ago, it is conducted CS registry and then, Cardshock registry launched in
      2010 and enrolled only 219 patients. Well-designed large scale registries of CS patients are
      scarce. Recently, the investigators conducted retrospective and prospective registry of
      patient with cardiogenic shock (RESCUE I registry) and just finished to enroll 1247 patients
      from 12 centers in Korea between January 2014 and December 2018. ECMO device was used in 496
      patients (40%) and IABP was used in 298 patients (24%). The registry is under analysis to
      investigate clinical characteristics and predictors of in-hospital mortality. The major
      weakness of RESCUE I registry are ;1) major proportion of the patients were enroll
      retrospectively, 2) the etiology of shock was not well defined, and most of enrolled
      population were of ischemic etiology, 3) the variables in the case record form was not
      systematically structured. Based on the RESCUE I registry, the investigators would like to
      launch RESCUE II registry as an prospective registry with well-defined subgroups of ischemic,
      myocardial, post-cardiotomy etiologies, and more systematically arranged variables based on
      prospective protocols or guidelines of management based on RESCUE I registry.

      The investigators believe that the differences of races, management, and difference types of
      MCS can influence the outcomes of CS patients, but still there were no evidence. Mayo clinic
      is one of the top medical centers of excellence with experiences and science in the field of
      critically ill patients. The collaboration of Mayo Clinic team and RESCUE research team in
      Korea will be quite synergistic by sharing their knowledge and experience in the management
      and research in this filed.

      The ultimate goal of RESCUE II is to develop the evidence-based medicine for the patients
      with cardiogenic shock by bringing experienced centers together across the 2 nations who are
      experts in mechanical circulatory support devices as well as the medical management in
      critically ill CS patients. The investigators aim to find optimal monitoring strategy,
      medical management, as well as best protocols for the application of mechanical circulatory
      support.
    
  