
    
      This is a prospective cohort study in which 20 subjects that have suspected ILD who are
      undergoing non-emergent surgical biopsy will be enrolled.

      Patients who have been referred to the thoracic surgery service for VATS biopsy to diagnose
      suspected ILD and meet basic inclusion/exclusion criteria will be approached by the study
      investigators and informed of the study. An informed consent will be obtained during the
      clinic visit with the thoracic surgeon.

      At the beginning of the surgical procedure, under general anesthesia in the operating room,
      patients will undergo flexible bronchoscopy through the endotracheal tube and obtain 10
      standard transbronchial biopsies (S-TBBx) and 5 Cryoprobe biopsies (C-TBBx) with fluoroscopic
      guidance. S-TBBx will be performed using standard biopsy forceps (Boston Scientific, Natick,
      MA) - 2.0mm diameter. C-TBBx will be performed using the cryoprobe (ERBE, Tubingen, Germany)
      -1.9 mm diameter, 78cm in length. This cryoprobe is routinely used in the bronchoscopy suite
      for other applications such as foreign body removal and local treatment of carcinoma;
      therefore it is a technique already employed by the interventional pulmonologists who are
      familiar with its use. Once the biopsies are obtained by the interventional pulmonologist,
      the thoracic surgeon will perform video-assisted thoracoscopic biopsy (VATS) biopsy.
      Following their procedure, subjects will be monitored in the post-anesthesia care unit as per
      standard of care. As part of their ongoing follow-up care, all subjects will be monitored for
      any adverse events that may have resulted from either the surgical or bronchoscopic
      procedure, specifically bleeding or pneumothorax.

      All biopsy samples will be analyzed by a specialist in pulmonary pathology.

      The number and size of all biopsies, architectural preservation of the airways/alveoli, and
      pathological diagnosis will be reported by the pathologist. Diagnostic yield will be
      calculated for each biopsy technique and compared.
    
  