
    
      Diet is critical to effective self-management of diabetes. Thus, people with diabetes receive
      substantial nutrition counseling as part of their care. Among other things, nutrition
      counseling can include nutrition facts, information about portions, menus, discussion of
      barriers to healthy eating, and recommendations to control intake of saturated fats, maintain
      consistent eating patterns, and distribute nutrient intake throughout the day. Despite the
      depth and breadth of nutrition counseling, many people with diabetes implement diet changes
      with limited success.

      The overall objective of this study is to test the feasibility of a new approach to diabetes
      nutrition care, digital food photography and facilitated group discussions. The overall
      hypothesis regarding this new approach is that, by photographing all meals and snacks (i.e.,
      keeping 'photo journals') and participating in discussions about the photographs with peers
      and a nutritionist, people with diabetes will become aware of their behaviors and develop
      concrete strategies to meet nutritional recommendations. This overall hypothesis can be
      further specified as follows:

        -  People with diabetes who receive the new approach to diabetes nutrition care (i.e., the
           digital photos with discussions) will show greater improvements in their nutritional
           profiles and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) values (primary clinical outcomes) than people who
           receive standard diabetes nutrition care.

        -  People with diabetes who receive the new approach to diabetes nutrition care will become
           more satisfied with their diabetes treatment compared to people who receive standard
           care (secondary clinical outcome).

        -  People with diabetes who receive the new approach to diabetes nutrition care will show
           greater improvements in minimizing the barriers that affect their abilities for
           effective self-care compared to people who receive standard care (secondary outcome).

      The study design is that of a single-site, randomized controlled trial with two groups of
      approximately 18 study participants assigned to each (for a total of 36 study participants).
      The study will take place at Joslin Diabetes Center. One group will receive standard diabetes
      nutrition care. The other group will receive the new approach to diabetes nutrition care
      involving digital photography of meals and group discussion of the photographs. All
      participants will complete study questionnaires before the study begins and approximately 1
      month after the completion of the digital photography discussion groups.
    
  