
    
      Background: Men in sub-Saharan Africa are less likely than women to use HIV services. HIV
      testing strategies have dramatically improved for men through HIV self-testing (HIVST) and
      other male-focused strategies, but men who are identified as living with HIV are still less
      likely than women to initiate ART or remain in care, particularly within the first several
      months after initiation. In Malawi, men represent only 31% of new ART initiates2 - and men on
      ART are more likely than women to be lost to follow up (LTFU) at all time intervals of care
      than women. Men's absence from care is concerning not only for their own health, but also for
      the health of girls and young women who continue to be infected at unacceptably high rates.
      Offering ART at home or other locations convenient for men (i.e., home-based ART) for a brief
      period of time may help men overcome barriers related to facility-based treatment, develop
      coping strategies for ART engagement, and better engage in facility-based services over the
      long-term. In this study we will assess the impact of hbART by comparing two arms:

      Facility-Based ART (fbART arm): community-based male-specific counseling followed by linkage
      to a local health facility for ART initiation and continuation.

      Home-Based ART (hbART arm): community-based male-specific counseling followed by home-based
      ART initiation (or at any location that is convenient for participants) and home-based ART
      continuation for a 3-month period, followed by linkage to a local health facility for further
      ART continuation.

      Objective: Our primary objective is to compare the impact of home-based ART against standard
      of care for ART initiation and retention among men identified as HIV-positive through HIVST
      in Malawi. Our specific Aims are:

      Aim 1. Test the effectiveness of hbART versus fbART on ART initiation and 6-month viral
      suppression among men living with HIV.

      Aim 2. Identify predictors of ART initiation and 6-month viral suppression in the hbART arm

      Aim 3. Determine the cost-effectiveness and scalability of hbART at a national level.

      Methods: We will perform an individually randomized control trial with 700 HIV-positive men
      who have not yet initiated ART and a subset of 400 of their female partners. Men will be
      individually randomized 1:1 to one of the two intervention arms described above and will be
      enrolled in the study for 18-months or until 12-month retention (secondary outcome) can be
      measured, whichever comes first. The study will be performed at 10 health facilities
      supported by Partners in Hope (PIH). Data collection will include baseline and follow-up
      surveys at 2-, 4-, and 7-months, as well as medical charter reviews for men at 2-, 4-, 7-,
      and 13-months after study enrollment. Qualitative interviews will be conducted with a subset
      of men and women to understand perceptions of the intervention and experiences with ART
      engagement, and cost data from a provider perspective will be collected for a cost analysis
      of each arm.

      Anticipated results: Findings will establish the effectiveness of home-based ART among men
      living with HIV who have not yet engaged in treatment, and can directly inform HIV programs
      throughout the region. Findings will also help us assess if short-term home-based ART is
      sufficient to engage men in long-term facility-based care, or if additional, more
      resource-intensive services are needed, such as major changes to the structure of
      facility-based ART.
    
  