
    
      With a globally growing number of smokers, up to about half of men and one tenth of women are
      becoming smokers and relatively few stopping, especially in Mainland China.

      It has been proved that tobacco is responsible for even more deaths and diseases. Smokers
      have two to three times mortality in middle age among otherwise similar persons who had never
      smoked. According to the literature review, smoking has been confirmed to be an important
      risk factor to coronary heart disease, chronic obstructive lung disease, cancer, stroke,
      peptic ulcer, peripheral vascular disease, and so on. In addition, tobacco can also increase
      the incidence rate of cancer in lung, oral cavity, naso-, oro- and hypopharynx, nasal cavity
      et.al, as well as myeloid leukemia, among smokers.

      For the male smokers at their reproductive ages, who is preparing to have a baby with their
      partners, smoking may negatively influence their reproductive capacity. Sufficient studies
      found that the quantity and duration of smoking, especially the current smoking is positively
      associated with the risk of erectile dysfunction. Smoking may increase the risk of a higher
      risk of developing oligospermia, asthenozoospermia and teratozoospermia for man in the
      reproductive years, which may lead to the inefficiency of fertilization and even give birth
      to abnormal fetus. Besides, secondhand Smoking (SHS) exposure also have further and longer
      negative effects on their female partner and their baby born in the future. The non-smoking
      population is much more sensitive to the nicotine in the passive smoking than smokers. The
      SHS may increase the risk of respiratory infections, ear problem, immediate adverse effects
      on cardiovascular system, CHD, lung cancer and so on to adults. For the children, the passive
      smoking makes children have a higher chance to get severe asthma, slow lung growth. Hence,
      children and women live with smokers may have a higher risk of premature death and disease.
      Besides, newborns whose mothers were exposed to secondhand smoking showed significantly lower
      scores in the habituation cluster and motor system cluster [16], as well as the delay of
      neurobehavioral development regardless of socio-demographic, obstetric and pediatric factors.
      Conclusively, smoking has direct and indirect negative effect to male smokers in reproductive
      ages themselves and their family members.

      Based on the official statistic figures in 2010, about one third of people in China were
      current smokers, and the number of young smokers is increasing [4]. While most current
      smokers (83.9%) report having no intention to quit smoking (WHO, 2011). On average, between
      60% and 70% of Chinese men continue to smoke into middle age, which is different with the
      western countries. Hence, finding out a solution to decrease the married reproductive male
      smoking rate is extremely crucial.

      Overall awareness of the health hazards of tobacco has improved in the last 15 years in
      China, but is still relatively poor. Even there were several patterns of propaganda and
      education applied in China, the efficiency is not very satisfactory. Hence, an effective
      education intervention that delivery the health hazards of tobacco to male smokers and
      secondhand smoking to their wives and baby born in the future should be developed and
      implemented for reproductive male smokers in China.

      Cigarette can negatively influence the function of respiratory, urinary and other systems, as
      well as increase the risk of different types of cancer. Secondhand smoking is harmful to
      their family members. What's worse, the impact of the reproductive system will further damage
      their baby born in the future. As the overlooking of the impact of maternal smoking on the
      fetus, the smoking cessation research for the male smokers who plan to have a baby is absent.
      For Chinese people, the high prevalence and low quitting rate made this situation much worse.
      In addition, as the cancel of the one-child policy, lots of couples are planning to give
      birth to a baby in the future decades compared with the period the policy was valid.
      Considering the high prevalence of male smoking and upcoming high birth rate in China, more
      smokers, pregnant, and fetus are under the hazard of tobacco use.

      Before applying interventions to help male smokers whose partner got pregnant to quit or
      reduce cigarette smoking, a study exploring their intention to quit smoking and relevant
      factors must be implemented.
    
  