
    
      This is a multi-center, observational study involving retrospective collection of NSCLC
      patients information. All consecutive patients who had a newly diagnosis of NSCLC in 2017
      from healthcare administrative database between January 2017 and December 2017, identified
      through the proposed algorithm, will be considered. All data needed for KPI calculation, even
      if they fall outside January-December 2017 period, will be collected. The end of data
      collection will be defined as patient death or 30 June 2018, whichever came first.

      A set of potential KPIs had been developed from a panel of experts (clinicians, IT experts
      etc..) to investigate the appropriateness of activities within NSCLC care pathway, with a
      special focus on the use of immunotherapy. The following KPIs will be measured to investigate
      the appropriateness of NSCLC patient care pathways, with a special focus on the use of
      immunotherapy:

        1. Percentage of patients who performed biopsy within 7 days from the date of examination
           prescription;

        2. Percentage of metastatic NSCLC patients at diagnosis;

        3. Percentage of major surgical resections within the year of analysis;

        4. Percentage of surgical patients on the total number of patients with exploratory
           thoracotomy in inpatient setting;

        5. Percentage of patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy ( CT or CT+RT within 6 months
           prior to the first major resection date;

        6. 30-day mortality rate from major surgery;

        7. Percentage of patients discussed in the multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting at least
           once in the year of incidence;

        8. Percentage of patients who performed imaging exams such as MRI, TC and PET within 7 days
           from MDT meeting;

        9. Average and range of length of stay;

       10. Average time between biopsy and the first administration of systematic anti-cancer drug;

       11. Percentage of patients treated with immunotherapies;

       12. Percentage of patients who underwent immunotherapy for more than 6 months after first
           dose;

       13. Percentage of patients who underwent anti-cancer drug treatment in the last 30 days of
           life;

       14. Percentage of patients who underwent the first administration of systematic anticancer
           drug within 30 days from discussed in MDT meeting;

       15. Percentage of patients who underwent RT in the last 30 days of life ( excluded
           palliative treatments single fraction);

       16. Percentage of patients who underwent at least one Integrated Home Care (IHC);

       17. Percentage of patients who underwent at least one hospice care;

      The eligible population and data will be gathered retrospectively through an algorithm from
      administrative databases (Hospital discharge cards, pharmaceutical databases as FED and AFT -
      direct and territorial distribution, the regional register of mortality REM, the regional
      register of outpatient specialist medical procedure ASA, the integrated home care IHC, and
      SDHS-hospice). Administrative data will be used as unique resource to identify patients
      cohort and to measure KPIs along care pathway. An evaluation of the NSCLC patients selection
      algorithm will be performed on a sub-population using the electronic health record EHR as
      gold standard.
    
  