
    
      The objective of the trial is:

      i) to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the Cre8 AES vs. the Synergy EES in a broadly
      unselected patient population with coronary artery disease undergoing PCI; ii) to compare the
      safety and efficacy of a personalized DAPT duration (3-, 6-, or 24-month) guided by the
      application of the DAPT score with a standard DAPT duration (12-month) after PCI.

      In particular, the objectives of the trial are to test the following hypothesis:

        -  The Cre8 AES is non-inferior to the Synergy EES with regards to a device-oriented
           composite endpoint (DOCE) at 1-year follow-up.

        -  A personalized DAPT duration based on the DAPT score is superior to a standard DAPT
           duration with regards to a net adverse clinical endpoint (NACE) at 2-year follow-up.

      This is a prospective, randomized, multicenter, investigator-initiated, assessor-blind trial
      to be conducted at interventional cardiology centers in Italy. Patients undergoing PCI will
      be randomized in a 2-by-2 randomization fashion to undergo PCI with the Cre8 AES or Synergy
      EES and to receive a personalized or standard DAPT duration. All patients will be followed at
      3-, 6-, 12- and 24-month after PCI for clinical endpoints.

      Use of experimental and control DES:

      Both the study stent (Cre8 AES) and the control stent (Synergy EES) will be used according to
      their indications for use. The randomly assigned stent is not expected to have an influence
      on the conduct of the procedure that will take place according to the routine practice.
      Eligible patients will undergo PCI as per local protocol, according to current guidelines of
      the European Society of Cardiology on myocardial revascularization. The technique of PCI
      (vascular access route, choice of the vascular sheath diameter, choice of the diagnostic and
      guiding catheters sizes and shapes, choice of the coronary guidewire) will be left to the
      discretion of the operator as per standard individual and local practice. The operator will
      choose the appropriate length and diameter of the stents to be implanted by visual estimate
      or quantitative coronary angiography as per local practice. The Cre8 AES and the Synergy EES
      systems are commercially available and all sizes may be used for the study.

      DAPT duration according to randomization:

      DAPT duration in patients randomized to personalized DAPT regimen: In patients that are
      randomized to a personalized DAPT and have a low DAPT score (<2), DAPT duration is
      recommended for 3 months in case of stable coronary artery disease at the time of the index
      procedure or for 6 months in case of acute coronary syndrome at the time of the index
      procedure. A low dose of aspirin (75 to 162 mg daily) will be administered throughout the
      course of the study. In patients that are randomized to a personalized DAPT and have a high
      DAPT score (≥2), DAPT duration is recommended for 24 months. Changes in the dose or in the
      type of P2Y12 receptor inhibitor (clopidogrel, prasugrel, or ticagrelor) are allowed during
      the course of the study. A low dose of aspirin (75 to 162 mg daily) will be administered
      throughout the course of the study. At 12-month, patients on treatment with prasugrel or
      ticagrelor should continue the same P2Y12 receptor inhibitor. In this specific scenario, it
      is preferable to continue with the same P2Y12 receptor inhibitor (prasugrel 10 mg daily or
      ticagrelor 90 mg daily) or to switch to a low-dose regimen of ticagrelor (60 mg twice daily)
      if clinically indicated or to switch to clopidogrel (75 mg daily).

      DAPT regimen in patients in patients randomized to a standard DAPT duration: In patients that
      are randomized to a standard DAPT duration, oral P2Y12 inhibitors (clopidogrel, prasugrel, or
      ticagrelor) should be administered for 12-month. A low dose of aspirin (75 to 162 mg daily)
      will be administered throughout the course of the study.
    
  