
    
      Study Type: Prospective Randomized Clinical Trial

      Introduction:

      Organ sparing treatment for advanced head and neck cancer can affect the swallowing mechanism
      via fibrosis of the structures responsible for effective and efficient bolus movement from
      the oral cavity and through the pharynx into the esophagus. This fibrosis may result in
      significant impairment of bolus transport. Range of motion exercises for the swallowing
      structures may decrease the fibrotic effects of the radiation treatment and improve
      swallowing outcomes after treatment.

      Intervention:

      Patients who have been diagnosed with head and neck cancer and who will be receiving
      radiation therapy either with or without chemotherapy as cancer treatment will be randomized
      to one of two swallowing treatment protocols. The first protocol will include the initiation
      of intensive swallowing exercises to begin at the start of the cancer treatment. The second
      treatment protocol will include the standard of care which provides swallowing evaluation and
      treatment once symptoms of swallowing dysfunction are experienced by the patient. Patients
      will not be given a choice of swallowing protocol. Those patients randomized to the intensive
      therapy protocol will be required to participate in weekly swallowing therapy sessions either
      in person or over the phone and perform the learned swallowing exercises three times a day.
      In addition, these patients will document their swallowing practice on a daily basis. The
      same investigator will provide all the swallowing treatment assuring that all patients get
      the same treatment approach.

      All patients will fill out a questionnaire about their swallowing ability called the
      Performance Status Scale for Head and Neck Cancer Patients (PSS-H&N). This is a quick,
      clinician rated instrument consisting of three subscales: normalcy of diet, public eating and
      intelligibility of speech. This scale has been proven reliable across raters and sensitive to
      functional differences across a broad spectrum of head and neck cancer patients. This
      questionnaire will be completed at the start of the cancer treatment, at the completion of
      the treatment and at 3, 6, 12 and 24 months after treatment. In addition, the nature of the
      patient's oral intake will be documented by the investigator using the Functional Oral Intake
      Scale (FOIS) which is a seven point scale of diet tolerance. This will be performed at the
      same intervals as the PSS-H&N. Presence or absence of PEG feedings will also be documented at
      these same times. These scales will then be used to compare the swallowing outcomes of the
      patients in the two different treatment protocols.
    
  