
    
      This is a multi center, one arm, open label and prospective study to assess the safety and
      usability of the Solo™ MicroPump Insulin Delivery System .

      The study will include a 30 days treatment period with the Solo MicroPump with no special
      care required for maintaining glycemic control and with an optional extension period of up to
      six month.

      The study will consist of up to 5 visits and one follow up phone call one week after
      termination of the study. In case of participating the extension period, additional visits
      will consist once a month.

      Visit 1 includes eligibility, baseline evaluation and training in handling of the Solo™
      System. If no additional practice is required patients will be enrolled. Visit 2 will
      commence and Solo pump will be filled with insulin. If additional practice is required
      subject will be sent home for an additional training period of a few days practice using
      saline and then return for visit 2.

      Treatment visits will take place at 3, 14 and 30 days after the enrolment. Additional visits
      will take place at 60, 90 and 180 days depending on the extension period.

      Subjects will be asked to record blood glucose measurements, daily activities and
      carbohydrate consumptions between visits.

      Seven days after termination of study treatment a telephone contact with the study subject
      will take place for the purpose of adverse event reporting and the completion of DTSQ
      questionnaire.

      Measurements that will be used for assessing the safety of the device are glucose levels and
      any occurrence of AE's.

      Subjects will complete DTSQ and Performance questionnaires before and at the end of the
      treatment period for usability evaluation.

      Blood and urine tests will be taken at visit 1 and 5, vital signs and physical examination
      will be evaluated at all study visits.
    
  