
    
      Aplastic Anemia( AA), is a set of bone marrow hematopoietic dysfunction caused by a variety
      of causes, with hyperplasia of bone marrow hematopoietic cells to reduce whole blood cells
      and peripheral blood at the characteristics of clinical main performance for anemia, bleeding
      and infection. According to the severity of the bone marrow failure and the progress of the
      clinical course ,it is divided into Severe Aplastic Anemia (SAA) and the Non - Severe
      Aplastic Anemia (NSAA).Severe Aplastic Anemia can be divided into two categories: Very Severe
      Aplastic Anemia (VSAA) and Severe Aplastic Anemia (SAA), with the characteristics of rapid
      progress, refractory, poor prognosis, high mortality .The natural course is six months or so,
      and most patients die in a year . Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation and
      immunosuppressive therapy are two main treatment . The former is by far the only possible
      cure. It is recommended as first-line treatments, if patients have a matched sibling donor.
      The recommended age limit is 40 years old. But for those who have no sibling donor or
      patients older than 40 years old, it is recommend the immunosuppressive therapy.

      The investigators have already summarized the effectiveness of rabbit antithymocyte
      immunoglobulin (ATG), cyclophosphamide (Cy) and cyclosporine, A (CsA) and the combination of
      the umbilical cord blood infusion for SAA/VSAA patients without suitable donor, with short
      duration, without long-term immunosuppressive therapy history. The total effectiveness rates
      has improved to 88%, with shorter immunosuppressive maintaining therapy , rapid hematopoietic
      reconstruction, fewer complications. The aim of this study is to further explore whether this
      solution can accelerate hematopoietic reconstruction of SAA/VSAA patients and its clinical
      curative effect and security. This study scheme has been approved by the Jinan military
      region general hospital medical ethics committee.
    
  