
    
      Progress of research. Timeframe Search

        -  Duration of inclusions: 30 months

        -  Duration of patient follow-up: 7 months

        -  Total duration of the study: 37 months Within the framework of their coverage in AMP,
           the barren couples have a consultation with the doctors of the reproduction and one with
           the biologists. Between these two visits, a spermatic balance assessment (EXAMINATION
           N°0) is made including a semen culture, a spermogram or a test of migration survival
           (TMS) and an elastase.

      On the occasion of this examination, aliquots for the measure of 8OH-dG, fragmentation of the
      spermatic DNA and seminal biochemistry will systematically be taken.

      Within the framework of this standard balance assessment of infertility, it is possible that
      an echography and a MRI of the genital ways are prescribed; if it is the case, the data of
      these examinations will be collected in the case report form. But these examinations will not
      be specifically asked for the search.

      If a leukocytospermia ≥ 0,5*106/ml is discovered or an increase of the elastase ≥ 500 ng /
      ml, the dosages of 8OH-dG, the fragmentation and the seminal biochemistry will be made.

      The patients will then be seen in consultation of biology (CONSULTATION OF BIOLOGY N°0 =
      visit of inclusion and randomization).

        -  If the patients present 8OH-dG > 35 %, and that their semen culture is negative, it will
           be suggested to them being included in the protocol and the randomization will be made
           that very day; the patients will receive or an anti-inflammatory treatment (Prednisone)
           is a treatment placebo.

        -  If 8OH-dG < 35 % it will be suggested to them participating in the study of the
           follow-up of the spontaneous evolution of the SO and of SI over 6 months.

      A first complete balance assessment will be made in 1 month (EXAMINATION N°1) after the
      beginning of the treatment in the study (Prednisone or placebo) so as to estimate the
      evolution at the end of the treatment of the inflammatory and oxidative parameters This
      balance assessment will not be realized at the inclusive but not randomized patient's.

      Patients randomized in the study will have laboratory tests including:

        -  A semen analysis (leukocytospermia)

        -  A measure of oxidative stress (8OHd guanosine assay - assay of protein carbonyl - DNA
           fragmentation)

        -  A seminal biochemistry (acid 1-4)alpha phosphatase, citrate, zinc, fructose, carnitine
           and glucosidase

      A second balance assessment will be asked 6 months (EXAMINATION N°2) after the beginning of
      the treatment for two reasons: the first reason is that the improvement of the spermatic
      parameters is slowly made. If a spermatic change settled down during years she is not going
      to disappear in the fortnight. It is effectively the experience which we have of it.

      Besides the spermatogenesis continuing over three months, a new cycle of production of sperm
      cells can be estimated only more than three months after the treatment. The second reason is
      that the second offenses of the chronic inflammations of the reproductive organ are extremely
      frequent and it is to estimate this rate of second offense that the balance assessment will
      be remotely asked for more by the treatment or in 6 months.

      This review will include all tests of initial assessment:

        -  A semen analysis (leukocytospermia)

        -  A measure of oxidative stress (8OHd guanosine assay - assay of protein carbonyl - DNA
           fragmentation)

        -  A seminal biochemistry (acid 1-4)alpha phosphatase, citrate, zinc, fructose, carnitine
           and glucosidase

        -  An ultrasound of the genital tract and genital tract RMI without injection of any
           compound

      This visit will be scheduled for all patients, whether randomized or not. During this visit,
      the results of tests carried out at 1 month and 6 months after initiation of treatment will
      be analyzed. The investigator will collect adverse events that occurred since the
      randomization visit.

      Patients who during the examination in 6 months have a very significant improvement in their
      semen parameters will propose cryopreserving their sperm.

      Assays and analysis on the semen Collections of semen will be done in the Laboratory of
      Reproductive Biology of each participating centre of research.

      Most assays and analysis will be centralized at the Cochin Hospital. Measurement of elastase
      Elastase assays will be centralized in the Laboratory of Reproductive Biology, Hospital
      Cochin. The assays will be carried out from 150 µl total sperm collected after liquefaction
      and frozen at -20 ° C.

      Migration Survival Test (MST) This test will be done locally in each participating centre. A
      smear slide will be made for a centralized analysis of the morphology, to avoid any "centre"
      effects.

      Seminal Biochemistry The biochemical seminal will be centralized in the Laboratory of
      Biochemistry, Hospital Cochin. This assay, carried out on total sperm collected after
      liquefaction, including assays of acid phosphatase, citrate, zinc, fructose, carnitine and
      1-4.alpha Glucosidase The semen will be collected, centrifuged at 600g for 5 minutes. After
      centrifugation, 500μl of the supernatant will be frozen at - 20 ° C and used for biochemical
      seminal.

      Measurement of oxidative stress The extent of oxidative stress will be centrally assessed in
      Cochin Hospital. This assay, carried out on total sperm collected after liquefaction,
      including the determination of 8OHd-Guanosine, the dosage of protein carbonyl and DNA
      fragmentation.

      The semen will be collected centrifuged at 600g for 5 minutes. After centrifugation:

        -  250μl of the supernatant be frozen at - 20 ° C and used for determination of protein
           carbonyl.

        -  The pellet will be used for the assay of 8OHdguanosine and DNA fragmentation.
           Measurement of sperm motion parameters by CASA The measurement of sperm motion
           parameters by CASA will be performed locally in each participating centre.

      Ultrasound and MRI of the genital tract Ultrasounds and MRI will be performed in the genital
      tract in the central radiology department of hospital Necker.

      Conservation of the remaining sample of semen For patients with very significant improvement
      in their semen parameters during the examination at 6 months, it will be offered
      self-preservation of semen for any subsequent attempt of ART after the end of the study.

      On the other hand, the remaining sample of semen, except if opposition from the patient, will
      be kept after the end of the research for later use in future research on fertility and
      inflammation. This collection will be kept at CECOS - Cochin Hospital, Bldg. Cassini - 27 rue
      du FAUBOURG St Jacques, 75014 Paris under the supervision of Professor Jean-PHILIPPE Wolf.

      Stopping rules Patients may discontinue their participation in research if they wish, at any
      time and for whatever reason, or upon the decision of the investigator. However, the
      treatment should not be stopped suddenly.

      Stopping rules for the participation of a person seeking

        -  Poor adherence to protocol

        -  intercurrent disease between the inclusion visit and the visit at 1 month requiring
           cessation of study. Following the study is that of surveillance.

      Procedures for monitoring output test All output tests should be documented and the
      investigator must specify the reason. For patients considered lost of sight, case report
      forms should be filled to the last visit. The investigator will make every effort to contact
      the patient and to know the reason for leaving the trial and his health.

      Consequences Patients who quit from the trial will not be re-included in the study. Their
      numbers are not effectively reused. These patients will still be followed in the
      non-randomized part of the study.
    
  