
    
      Hypothesis:

      The intervention evaluated in this protocol will significantly improve social support, mental
      health, general health status and distinct dimensions of quality of life in the intervention
      group (IG) compared with the comparison group (CG). Among participants in the IG, the
      intervention will also significantly reduce the number of visits to their primary care
      centers. Furthermore, this intervention will be cost effective.

      Objectives:

      General objective To evaluate the process, effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of an
      intervention to reduce social isolation and its consequent negative impact on health in the
      elderly.

      Specific objectives

        1. To evaluate the implementation process of the intervention (participant profile,
           positive and negative aspects of the intervention, barriers and facilitators in its
           implementation, quality of the intervention, and satisfaction).

        2. To assess the impact of the intervention on social support, self-perceived health
           status, mental health and quality of life among participants, and visits to the primary
           care center.

        3. To determine the cost-effectiveness of the intervention.

      Methods:

      Study design

      This is a mixed methods multi-approach evaluation that includes:

        -  a qualitative evaluation among coordinators and participants who underwent the
           intervention through in-depth interviews and focus groups, respectively;

        -  a quantitative quasi-experimental design, comparing a group of individuals taking part
           in the intervention (IG) with another group with similar characteristics not receiving
           the intervention (CG). Data will be collected at the beginning and at the end of the
           intervention;

        -  an economic evaluation, which includes a cost-utility analysis.
    
  