
    
      Background:

      Multiple ligament knee injuries (MLKIs) represent a spectrum of injury ranging from
      disruption of two ligaments to all four major ligaments of the knee. Concomitant injuries may
      include fractures and injuries to vessels, nerves, tendons, menisci and/or articular
      cartilage. As such, the treatment of MLKIs creates multiple complex problems fraught with
      complications such as poor wound healing, arthrofibrosis, neurovascular injuries, persistent
      pain and instability, and post-traumatic osteoarthritis. Following MLKI, individuals are
      frequently limited with higher demand activities such as in military training, physical labor
      and sports. Return to duty after combat-related MLKIs has been reported to be as low as 41%
      and substantially lower than return to work reported for civilians.

      There is controversy related to the optimal timing of surgery and post-operative
      rehabilitation for the treatment of MLKIs. Early surgical intervention for MLKIs has been
      advocated, however this may be associated with an increased risk for arthrofibrosis.
      Conversely, delayed surgery may be associated with persistent instability. The best evidence
      for timing of rehabilitation is based on evidence following ACL reconstruction, where early
      post-operative rehabilitation is the current standard of care. However, because of the
      frequency of soft tissue repair procedures, post-operative rehabilitation after surgery for a
      MLKI typically involves a period of non-WB and delayed ROM exercises. Due to the lack of
      evidence for the timing of surgery and post-operative rehabilitation, a large scale trial is
      needed to optimize the outcomes for these potentially devastating injuries. Therefore, this
      multicenter clinical trial will investigate the effects of timing of surgery and post-op
      rehabilitation to optimize return to military duty, work and sports for military personnel
      and civilians with a MLKI.

      Objectives, Aims and Hypothesis:

      The overall objective of this project is to investigate the effects of timing of surgery
      (early vs. delayed) and timing of post-op rehabilitation (early vs. delayed) for treatment of
      MLKIs. To achieve this objective, we will conduct two parallel randomized clinical trials.
      The related aims and hypotheses are:

      Specific Aim 1 and Hypothesis: Determine the effects of timing of surgery and post-op
      rehabilitation on time to return to pre-injury level of military duty, work and sports and
      patient-reported physical function. We hypothesize that early surgery, early rehabilitation
      and the combination of early surgery with early rehabilitation will lead to an earlier and
      more complete return to pre-injury military duty, work and sports and better patient-reported
      physical function.

      Specific Aim 2 and Hypothesis: For those individuals whose timing of surgery can not be
      randomized, determine the effects of timing of rehabilitation on time to return pre-injury
      level of military duty, work and sports and patient-reported physical function. We
      hypothesize that early rehabilitation will lead to an earlier and more complete return to
      pre-injury military duty, work and sports activity and better patient-reported physical
      function.

      Overview of Research Procedures:

      Male and female military personnel and civilians between the ages of 16 and 55 with a MLKI
      without a history of prior knee ligament reconstruction that do not have a vascular injury,
      poly-trauma or a traumatic brain injury will be eligible to participate. After obtaining
      informed consent, subjects will undergo a preoperative evaluation, including collection of
      baseline demographics, activity level, and a physical examination.

      To address Aim 1, 392 individuals with a MLKI that present within 6 weeks of injury will be
      randomized to early (within 6 weeks of injury) or delayed (12 to 16 weeks after injury)
      surgery and early (WB and unrestricted ROM exercises starting first week after surgery) vs.
      delayed (knee brace locked in extension, no range of motion exercises and non-weightbearing
      gait for the first 4 weeks after surgery). To address Aim 2, 298 individuals with a MLKI that
      present greater than 6 weeks after injury, have an injury that precludes randomization to
      early or delayed surgery as well as those that refuse surgical randomization will be eligible
      to participate in the trial that compares only early vs. delayed rehabilitation.
      Randomization will be stratified by study site and knee ligament injury pattern.

      Collection of Baseline Demographics and Activity Level:

      Following consent and screening, baseline demographic and pre-injury level of military duty,
      work and sports participation will be recorded. The demographic information to be recorded
      includes age, sex, weight, height, body mass index (BMI), marital status, education level,
      pre-injury military duty, work and sports, smoking history and insurance status.

      Military Duty - For military personnel, to measure military duty prior to injury we will
      record the Military Occupational Specialty Physical Demand Classification and will ask three
      questions from the Injury Surveillance Survey (ability to perform Annual Physical Fitness
      Test; Deployability and Specific MOS Duties).

      Work Activity - To measure work activity prior to injury, we will use the Cincinnati
      Occupational Rating Scale. Additionally, we will record the individual's pre-injury
      employment status (work regular duty full time, work regular duty part-time etc.) and
      occupation.

      Sports Activity and Participation - We will use the Marx Activity Rating Scale to measure the
      subject's level of sports activity in the year prior to injury. To assess sports
      participation, we will also record the type (very strenuous, strenuous etc.) and frequency
      (4-7 times per week, 1-3 times per week etc.) of sports participation as well as the specific
      sport(s) the individual participated in prior to injury.

      Baseline Clinical Examination:

      A standard of care baseline clinical examination will be performed by the individual's
      attending orthopaedic surgery. The examination will include assessment of pain, range of
      motion (ROM), ligament laxity, sensory and neurovascular status (pulses, sensory & motor
      nerve function). Additionally, standard of care radiographs and MRI will be reviewed to
      identify fractures and document the ligament injury. The information from the baseline
      clinical examination will be used to confirm final eligibility in the surgical and
      post-operative rehabilitation trial or the post-operative rehabilitation only trial.

      Interventions:

      Aim 1 - Randomization to Early vs. Delayed Surgery and Post-Operative Rehabilitation -
      Subjects enrolled in the clinical trial for Aim 1 will be randomized to one of four groups:
      early surgery/early rehabilitation, early surgery/delayed rehabilitation, delayed
      surgery/early rehabilitation or delayed surgery/delayed rehabilitation.

      Those randomized to early surgery will undergo surgery within six weeks of injury and those
      that are randomized to delayed surgery will undergo surgery 12 to 16 weeks after injury. In
      all cases, surgery will be in accordance with the principles of anatomic
      repair/reconstruction of injured structures in a manner that will allow for early range of
      motion. Surgical reconstruction with allograft or autograft will be performed for
      mid-substance tears of the ACL and/or posterior cruciate ligament (PCL). Repair or
      reconstruction will be performed for injury to the medial collateral ligament (MCL) and the
      posterolateral corner (PLC) structures (fibular collateral ligament, popliteus tendon, and
      popliteofibular ligament). Injuries to the biceps femoris tendon or iliotibial band will be
      addressed as necessary. Medial and lateral meniscus tears will be repaired or debrided at the
      time of surgery. Neuropraxic nerve injuries will not necessitate early intervention; however,
      if a neurotmesis injury is discovered on MRI, then early intervention for primary repair,
      grafting or benign neglect may be warranted. All surgical findings and procedures will be
      documented on electronic surgical case report forms.

      Two post-operative rehabilitation protocols have been created, differing only in the time to
      begin weightbearing (WB) and ROM exercises. After surgery, all individuals will be placed in
      a hinged brace that is locked in extension. Individuals randomized to early rehabilitation
      will begin WB as tolerated (WBAT) with the brace locked in full extension and unrestricted
      ROM approximately 1 week after surgery at the time of the first post-operative visit.
      Individuals in this group will unlock the brace for ROM exercises, but will keep the brace
      locked at all other times until the criteria to unlock the brace are met. Weightbearing will
      be gradually progressed to full WB no earlier than 3 weeks after surgery pending achievement
      of the criteria for doing so.

      Those allocated to delayed rehabilitation will be placed in a knee brace locked in extension,
      with no range of motion exercise and will utilize a non-weightbearing gait for the first 4
      weeks after surgery.

      Immediately after surgery both groups will begin isometric quadriceps exercises with the knee
      in full extension (quad sets, straight leg raises) and high intensity neuromuscular
      electrical stimulation (NMES) for the quadriceps will be utilized. Use of the post-op brace
      will be discontinued no earlier than 6 weeks after surgery pending achievement of the
      criteria to do so. In the Motor Control and Functional Optimization phases of rehabilitation,
      progression to increasingly demanding activities will be time- and criterion-based to ensure
      that the individual is advanced safely to reduce the risk of further injury.

      Aim 2 - Randomization to only Early vs. Delayed Rehabilitation - Subjects enrolled in the
      trial for Aim 2 will undergo anatomic surgical repair/reconstruction of the injured
      structures as described above, however the timing of surgery will be determined by the
      surgeon and patient after consideration of the individual's specific circumstances related to
      the nature and extent of the MLKI, associated injuries and timing of presentation. Following
      surgery, individuals will be randomized to undergo either early or delayed rehabilitation as
      described above.

      Clinical Follow-Up Visits:

      Information gathered during standard of care clinical follow-up visits will be prospectively
      collected at 1 week and 1, 3, 6 and 9 to 12 months after the date of surgery. This
      information will be documented and will serve to provide additional outcomes related to
      post-operative recovery. The information will include pain, pain medication usage, joint
      effusion, wound and neurovascular status, ROM, WB status, use of a post-op rehabilitation
      brace, imaging and/or laboratory tests ordered and completed, complications and adverse
      events, additional surgical procedures and military duty, work and sports status. Knee laxity
      will also be assessed 3, 6 and 9 to 12 months after surgery.

      Research Follow-Up Visits:

      Subjects in all studies will be followed for 24 months. The primary outcome will be time to
      return to pre-injury military duty, work and sports. To precisely determine the time to
      return to military duty, work and sports, we will administer a brief Return to Activity
      Monitoring Survey on a monthly basis starting 6 months after randomization and continuing
      through the 24-month follow-up. Patient-reported physical function as measured with the
      Activity Limitation Scale of the Multiple Ligament Quality of Life (MLQoL) Questionnaire will
      serve as a co-primary outcome and will be assessed 6, 12 and 24 months after randomization.
      Secondary outcome measures will include additional knee-specific and general patient-reported
      measures of physical function and health-related quality of life. We will also collect
      measures of kinesiophobia, resiliency and functional comorbidities because these constructs
      may affect return to military duty, work and sports.
    
  