
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Assess the safety of intratumoral (IT) autologous dendritic cell (DC) injection in women
           with stage II or III breast cancer receiving neoadjuvant paclitaxel, cyclophosphamide,
           and doxorubicin hydrochloride followed by surgery with or without adjuvant radiotherapy
           and/or hormone therapy.

        -  Determine the clinical and pathologic response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the immune response, in terms of tumor cell apoptosis and the presence and
           characterization of tumor infiltrating white blood cells in resected breast cancer, in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine if IT DC injections administered during neoadjuvant chemotherapy-induced tumor
           cell apoptosis can induce T-cell responses to tumor antigens in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label study.

        -  Leukapheresis: Patients undergo leukapheresis at baseline to collect peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells for dendritic cell (DC) culture.

        -  Neoadjuvant, dose-dense chemotherapy: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over at least 3
           hours on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) on days 4-14 or pegfilgrastim
           SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Beginning 2 weeks after completion of paclitaxel chemotherapy, patients receive
      cyclophosphamide IV and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1 and G-CSF SC on days 4-14 or
      pegfilgrastim SC on day 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Intratumoral injection of autologous DCs: Intratumoral autologous DCs are injected into
           the primary breast mass or palpable axillary node on day 7 of the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd
           courses of paclitaxel chemotherapy. If no tumor can be localized by ultrasound after a
           course of chemotherapy, the DCs are then injected into the site of the tumor bed
           previously localized by clip or marker. In the event that the previously injected
           primary tumor cannot be localized by ultrasound, a palpable lymph node, if still
           present, should be injected rather than the tissue next to the primary tumor clip or
           marker.

        -  Definitive breast surgery: Within 2-4 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant
           chemotherapy, patients undergo modified radical mastectomy or lumpectomy with or without
           standard axillary node dissection.* NOTE: *Standard axillary node dissection is only
           required if no node assessment was done prior to chemotherapy or if the pre-chemotherapy
           sentinel node was positive.

        -  Radiotherapy: Patients undergoing lumpectomy or those with residual disease requiring
           chest wall radiotherapy after mastectomy (e.g., T3 or T4 breast lesions or 4 or more
           axillary lymph nodes) undergo radiotherapy 2-4 weeks after surgery.

        -  Hormone therapy: Patients with estrogen and/or progesterone receptor-positive tumors
           receive adjuvant hormone therapy for ≥ 5 years. Premenopausal patients receive tamoxifen
           citrate and post- or perimenopausal patients receive either tamoxifen citrate or an
           aromatase inhibitor (AI), or both of these drugs in sequence, as determined by the
           treating oncologist.

      Peripheral blood samples are obtained during each DC injection, at staging/biopsy, and then
      periodically for up to 2 years. Blood samples are analyzed by ELISPOT and ELISA assays for
      evaluation of immune response.

      Tumor tissue is obtained by core biopsy of the breast primary and/or palpable axillary lymph
      node at baseline and again after completion of paclitaxel chemotherapy. Tumor tissue is
      analyzed by IHC and RT-PCR for COX-2 and VEGF-A and -C expression levels, as well as T-cell
      and DC infiltration of the tumor. T-cell and DC infiltration is evaluated for correlation
      with clinical outcomes at diagnosis, at the midpoint biopsy following paclitaxel
      chemotherapy, and at definitive surgery.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  