
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the toxicity and feasibility of adding cyclophosphamide and topotecan to
           induction therapy in patients with newly diagnosed or progressive high-risk
           neuroblastoma undergoing autologous peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation.

        -  Determine the feasibility of PBSC mobilization and in vivo PBSC tumor purging in these
           patients after treatment with this regimen.

      Secondary

        -  Determine tumor response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine whether topotecan affects cyclophosphamide pharmacokinetics in these patients.

        -  Correlate host DNA with toxicity and cyclophosphamide and topotecan pharmacokinetics in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine toxicity in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to diagnosis
      (newly diagnosed vs initially stage 1, 2, or 4S that progressed to stage 4 without interval
      chemotherapy).

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive 6 courses of induction therapy.

             -  Courses 1 and 2: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes and topotecan
                IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV
                beginning on day 6 and continuing until blood counts recover.

             -  Course 3: Patients receive etoposide IV over 2 hours on days 1-3, cisplatin IV over
                1 hour on days 1-4, and G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 5 and continuing until
                blood counts recover.

             -  Course 4: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 6 hours on day 1 and
                doxorubicin IV and vincristine IV continuously over 24 hours on days 1-3. Patients
                also receive G-CSF SC or IV beginning on day 4 and continuing until blood counts
                recover.

             -  Course 5: Patients receive etoposide, cisplatin, and G-CSF as in course 3.

             -  Course 6: Patients receive cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and G-CSF as
                in course 4.

      Treatment repeats every 21 days for a total of 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Consolidation therapy: Within 4-6 weeks after completing induction therapy, patients
           receive melphalan IV on days -7 to -5 and etoposide IV and carboplatin IV continuously
           over 24 hours on days -7 to -4.

        -  Stem cell transplantation: Peripheral blood stem cells are collected after course 2 of
           induction therapy and infused on day 0. Patients receive G-CSF IV beginning on day 0 and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Surgery: After course 5 of induction therapy, patients undergo surgery.

        -  Radiotherapy: Beginning 28-42 days after transplantation, patients receive 12 fractions
           of local radiotherapy to all areas of residual soft tissue disease and the primary tumor
           site, even if completely resected.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Beginning 66 days after transplantation, patients receive oral
           isotretinoin twice daily on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 28 days for a total of 6
           courses.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 4 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10-29 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  