
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of enasidenib alone, and enasidenib in
      combination with azacitidine (AZA), for patients with isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 (IDH2)
      mutated myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).

      II. To assess the efficacy of the combination of enasidenib + azacitidine in hypomethylating
      agent (HMA) naive subjects with IDH2-mutated MDS, and to assess the efficacy of enasidenib
      single-agent in subjects with IDH2-mutated MDS who are relapsed/refractory to HMA therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate molecular and cellular markers that may be predictive of antitumor activity
      and/or resistance including evaluation of IDH2 variant allele fraction (VAF) levels during
      treatment and presence of co-occurring mutations.

      II. To assess overall survival, event-free survival and duration of response of enasidenib
      alone, and enasidenib in combination with azacitidine.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess changes in cellular differentiation and changes in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      methylation profiles in IDH2-mutated MDS treated with enasidenib alone and with enasidenib +
      azacitidine.

      II. To evaluate quality of life (QOL) using an MDS-specific measure.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients who are HMA-naive receive enasidenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28
      and azacitidine intravenously (IV) oveer 30-60 minutes or subcutaneously (SC) on days 1-7.
      Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients relapsed and/or refractory to HMA therapy receive enasidenib PO QD on days
      1-28. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for up to 3
      years.
    
  