
    
      Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) is a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) repair enzyme that
      enables normal cell survival as well as certain cancers. Pharmaceutical companies have
      invested heavily in PARP1 inhibitor development because these agents can effectively treat
      certain cancers as single agents, thus sparing those patients from chemotherapy toxicities.
      However, clinical trials testing PARP1 inhibitors have demonstrated mixed results due to the
      inability to measure the degree of PARP1 inhibition in tumors reliably. Accurately measuring
      tumoral PARP1 activity levels before and after PARP1 inhibitor treatment will: (1) enable
      identification of patients whose tumors exhibit PARP activity and are therefore good
      candidates for PARP inhibitor therapy, and (2) confirm that adequate doses of PARP1
      inhibitors are being administered to patients, thus improving dose selection for further
      study in clinical trials. Thus, noninvasive approaches for measuring tumoral PARP1 activity
      would have commercialization potential in not only supporting development of PARP1 inhibitors
      but also after Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval to assess clinical PARP1 inhibitor
      treatment responses.

      Inflammation also contributes to a number of diseases involving the lungs and other organs.
      Increasing evidence suggests that PARP1 may also play a central role in modulating immune
      inflammatory responses. Thus, the data from this trial will also be used to develop this
      approach for studying lung inflammatory responses.

      A new radiolabeled compound, [18F]FluorThanatrace ([18F]FTT), has been generated which can be
      used to measure PARP1 activity noninvasively and quantitatively using positron emission
      tomography (PET). Our data in cancer models show that the uptake of our compound is specific
      for PARP1 activity and correlates with biochemically determined PARP1 activity. Additional
      preliminary data also suggests that decreased [18F]FTT uptake predicts tumor response to PARP
      inhibition with olaparib, a PARP1 inhibitor currently being evaluated in clinical trials.
      Therefore, the investigators are conducting this Phase 0 trial to develop [18F]FTT for
      clinical use in cancer patients.

      To date, no biomarkers have been developed beyond genetic testing for breast cancer 1 and 2
      (BRCA1/2) mutations that can aid in patient selection for treatment with PARP inhibition.
      Moreover, no technologies are available to monitor the efficacy of PARP inhibition. Our
      technology provides both a biomarker for patient selection as well as a means of monitoring
      PARP activity during treatment.
    
  