
    
      The surgical pleth index (SPI)monitored by a oxygen saturation (Spo2) probe, is a
      dimensionless score which is based on the photoplethysmographic analysis of the pulse wave
      and the heartbeat interval. SPI score monitored during surgery is the indicator that may
      reflect a patient's autonomic response to certain noxious stimulus and is correlated to
      his/her nociception level. Once noxious stimulus occur, sympathetically-mediated
      vasoconstriction and cardiac autonomic tone increasing can be reflected by SPI. Several
      studies have since investigated the potential benefits of SPI-guided anesthesia, such as SPI
      could reduce the intraoperative opioid consumption and facilitate extubation after
      surgery.Jain N et al. found that the need for postoperative analgesics decreased although
      fentanyl consumption increased, when SPI guided opioid use Intraoperatively . The level of
      SPI was also reported to be able to predict postoperative pain, which could guide clinical
      use of opioids and improve patient postoperative satisfaction.

      Recent studies on SPI mainly focus on the maintenance period of anesthesia and postoperative
      analgesia, and there is few studies on the application of SPI in anesthesia induction period.
      Hemodynamic stability in induction period has always been the technical key point that
      anesthesiologists pay attention to, especially for patients with cardiovascular and
      cerebrovascular diseases, maintaining hemodynamic stability is particularly important.
      Endotracheal intubation is a common procedure during general anesthesia. The hemodynamic
      fluctuation caused by intubation stimulation is usually caused by the premature timing of
      intubation.

      At present, the timing of intubation is much depended on the clinical experience of an
      anesthesiologist, such as according to the degree of blood pressure, heart rate decline or
      predicted onset of propofol,opioid and neuromascular blocker. This study aims to explore
      whether the SPI can be used in quantitative prediction of intubation timing or prediction the
      hemodynamic reactivity after intubation, and to investigate the influence of age and gender
      on SPI value.
    
  