
    
      This is a two-phase prospective international cohort study of pregnant women and their
      infants from those pregnancies whose goals are to compare the incidence of ZIKV infection
      among pregnant women with and without HIV infection and to determine the risk of adverse
      maternal and child outcomes associated with ZIKV/HIV co-infection across clinical sites in
      the continental U.S., P.R. and Brazil.

      Phase I will enroll pregnant women/infant pairs who are: (1) infected with HIV only; (2)
      infected with ZIKV only; (3) infected with HIV and ZIKV; and (4) not infected with HIV or
      ZIKV. Phase I will assess the feasibility of enrolling a total of 200 pregnant women/infant
      pairs within a year, with a target of 150 HIV-infected women, 50 HIV-uninfected women from
      the continental U.S. sites only, and a minimum of 20 who are co-infected with HIV and ZIKV by
      the end of pregnancy.

      Should the feasibility of Phase I prove successful, Phase II will commence by enrolling up to
      1,800 additional pregnant women/infant pairs to the 4 groups described above. The comparison
      group of HIV-uninfected pregnant women/infant pairs from P.R and Brazil (ZIKV-infected and
      uninfected) will be obtained from data collected in the concurrent International Prospective
      Observational Cohort Study of Zika in Infants and Pregnancy (ZIP study).

      All HIV-infected and uninfected study participants will be tested for ZIKV. Enrolled women
      will be followed throughout their pregnancy and up to six weeks postpartum. Infants born to
      enrolled women will be followed for a full year after birth. Thereafter, the infants born to
      women at continental U.S. and P.R. sites also implementing the Surveillance Monitoring for
      Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) Toxicities (SMARTT) study may be followed up yearly until
      adulthood through SMARTT depending on the availability of funds.
    
  