
    
      The use of psychotropic medication in children and youth with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)
      to treat symptoms of aggression, irritability and related behavioural problems has become
      increasingly common in recent years. Data obtained from clinical and nationally
      representative populations of children demonstrate that approximately 30%-60% of children
      with ASD are prescribed at least one psychotropic medication, and 10% are prescribed more
      than three medications at the same time (Curtin, Jojic & Bandini, 2014).

      Weight gain, which is one of the harmful effects of psychotropic medication, is likely one of
      the most understood risk factors for obesity in children and adults with ASD. In a systematic
      review and meta-analysis of double-blinded, randomized, controlled trials studying the
      metabolic adverse effects of atypical antipsychotics in children and adolescents under 18
      years of age, risperidone, olanzapine and aripiprazole were associated with statistically
      significant weight gain compared with placebo (Almandil et al., 2013). Similar findings were
      reported from a review of literature, using PubMed, on weight gain and increase of BMI among
      children and adolescents (0-18 years old) treated with antipsychotic medications
      (Martinez-Ortega et al., 2013).

      Although clinical trials with different agents have been conducted in an attempt to address
      weight gain in individuals on psychotropic medications, no established treatments or
      preventative measures have been developed to combat psychotropic-induced weight gain (PIWG)
      to date (Curtin, Jojic & Bandini, 2014). A review of published literature using PubMed
      yielded limited and mixed results for using Metformin as the intervention for the treatment
      in combating PIWG (Anagostou et al., 2016; Handen et al., 2017). Based on clinical experience
      in Holland Bloorview's Nutrition Clinic, controlled energy intake combined with elevated
      protein intake (CEEP) may represent an effective and practical strategy for limiting weight
      gain.

      Potential beneficial outcomes associated with protein ingestion include: a) increased
      satiety, which is being satisfactorily full - protein generally increases satiety to a
      greater extent than carbohydrate or fat and may facilitate a reduction in energy consumption;
      b) increased thermogenesis, which is the production of heat in the body - higher protein
      diets are associated with an increase in thermogenesis, which also influences satiety and
      increases energy expenditure; and c) maintenance or growth of fat-free mass (muscle) - an
      elevated protein diet may provide an increase effect on muscle protein synthesis in some
      individuals, favouring the retention of lean muscle mass while improving metabolic profile
      (Paddon-Jones et al., 2018).

      This study's primary objective is to evaluate the feasibility (study designs, methods,
      processes) and acceptability (client/family satisfaction, perceived effectiveness) of a
      controlled energy diet with elevated protein intake in children and youth with ASD who are
      currently taking prescribed atypical antipsychotic medication.

      Children and youth, ages 6-17 years old, with ASD (n=10) on atypical antipsychotic medication
      will be exposed to specific nutrition recommendations involving CEEP for ten consecutive
      weeks. Each participant and parent/guardian will work collaboratively with the RD/RA to
      formulate strategies to slowly increase protein intake in the range of 20-30% of total
      caloric intake and ensure consistent energy intake. Data will be collected through food
      records, anthropometric measurements and informal post-intervention interviews to measure the
      feasibility and acceptability of the study processes and elevated protein dietary changes.
    
  