
    
      Hospital discharge represents a critical time for ensuring a safe transition to the
      outpatient setting and reducing the need for emergency department visits and
      re-hospitalization. Poor coordination of patient care and education on insulin administration
      at the time of patient discharge to home may be associated with medical errors that may
      increase risk of hypoglycemia, hyperglycemia and hospital readmission. No prospective studies
      have examined the impact of a discharge treatment regimen after cardiac surgery. Therefore,
      this study aims to determine the efficacy and safety of an HbA1c based treatment algorithm in
      controlling blood glucose (BG) after discharge. The total duration of the study is 3 months.

      This study will include diabetic and non-diabetic subjects who participated in the American
      Diabetes Association (ADA) trial entitled "Intensive Insulin Therapy in Patients Undergoing
      Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery." The ADA study is a two-arm randomized multicenter,
      open-label controlled trial aimed to determine if intensive insulin control with a BG target
      of 100-140mg/dl will reduce perioperative complications compared to a conventional BG control
      with a target of 141-180 mg/dl in hyperglycemic subjects who undergo coronary artery bypass
      graft surgery (CABG).

      Treatment recommendations at discharge:

        -  Patients with admission HbA1c < 7%:

             -  Patients without a history of diabetes not requiring subcutaneous (SC) insulin in
                the hospital will be discharged on no antidiabetic therapy.

             -  Patients without a history of diabetes requiring SC insulin therapy in the hospital
                will be discharged on metformin monotherapy. A patient without a history of
                diabetes who requires SC insulin is likely a newly diagnosed diabetic. The HbA1c
                value will be important to confirm the diagnosis. If the HbA1c is >6.5%, he/she
                will be diagnosed with diabetes. We do not anticipate that a patient without a
                history of diabetes and with an HbA1c <6.5% will require insulin treatment or oral
                agents long-term. Those patients will be discharged on no anti diabetic therapy
                with repeated testing after discharge to rule out diabetes.

             -  Patients with a history of diabetes will be discharged on their same outpatient
                antidiabetic regimen (diet, oral antidiabetic agents and/or insulin).

             -  Assure there are no contraindications to oral agents (i.e.Thiazolidinediones (TZDs)
                and heart failure; metformin and renal failure or heart failure).

        -  Patients with Admission HbA1c between 7% and 9%:

             -  Treatment naïve patients not on any pharmacologic treatment prior to admission will
                be discharged on metformin monotherapy or a combination of metformin and a single
                dose of basal (glargine) insulin at 50% of total daily hospital dose.

             -  Patients treated with oral antidiabetic agents or glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP1)
                analogs prior to admission will be discharged on pre-admission oral antidiabetic
                therapy plus a single dose of glargine insulin at 50% of the total daily hospital
                dose.

             -  Patients treated with combination of oral antidiabetic agents and basal insulin
                (NPH insulin also known as Neutral Protamine Hagedorn insulin, glargine, detemir)
                prior to admission will be discharged on pre-admission oral antidiabetic therapy
                plus a single dose of glargine insulin or with basal bolus insulin regimen at 50%
                of total daily hospital dose.

             -  Patients not to be treated with oral agents will be discharged on glargine
                monotherapy or basal bolus at 100% of inpatient total daily dose.

             -  Admission HbA1c ≥ 9% prior to admission:

             -  Discharge on basal bolus regimen at same inpatient total daily insulin dose.

             -  Basal insulin (glargine) once daily, at the same time of the day.

             -  Rapid-acting insulin (glulisine) before meals.

             -  Alternative treatment: If no contraindications to oral agents (i.e.,
                Thiazolidinediones (TZDs) and heart failure; metformin and renal failure) restart
                oral agents in combination to glargine once daily at 80% of total daily hospital
                dose.
    
  