
    
      This is a single center, double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial that
      compares PTIC with placebo in adult outpatients with confirmed COVID-19. The study was
      approved by the institutional review board at Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y
      Nutrición Salvador Zubirán (INCMNSZ, reference no. IRE 3412-20-21-1) and was conducted in
      compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki (World Medical Association. World Medical
      Association Declaration of Helsinki. JAMA. 2013;310(20):2191-2194.), the Good Clinical
      Practice guidelines, and local regulatory requirements. All participants will provide written
      informed consent.

      Trial candidates will be identified in a prospective database of patients that go to a
      medical appointment at the hospital and be discharged home with a diagnosis of COVID-19 and
      symptomatic treatment. Diagnosis will base on suggestive symptoms (fever, headache, cough or
      dyspnea, plus another symptom such as malaise, myalgias, arthralgias, rhinorrhea, throat
      pain, conjunctivitis, vomiting or diarrhea) and positive real-time reverse-transcription
      polymerase chain (RT-PCR).

      Staff will reach candidates via telephone calls and inform them about the purpose of the
      study. Once in the hospital study site, and after verifying inclusion (suggestive symptoms
      and PCR) and exclusion criteria, patients will sign the informed consent before being
      randomly allocated to either PTIC or matching placebo. Exclusion criteria includes
      hypersensitivity to PTIC or any of its excipients, COVID-19 patients that require
      hospitalization, all pregnant or breast-feeding patients, patients with chronic kidney
      disease as determined by calculating an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR), or need
      for hemodialysis or hemofiltration, decompensated cirrhosis, congestive heart failure (New
      York Heart Association class III or IV), patients with cerebrovascular disease, autoimmune
      disease, cancer, multiorgan failure or immunocompromised (solid organ transplant recipient or
      donor, bone marrow transplant recipient, AIDS, or taking immunosuppressant biologic drugs or
      corticosteroids).

      During the first day of enrollment, candidates will receive the study supplies that consist
      of the study medication or placebo, a pulse oximeter, and a symptom questionnaire booklet.
      Patients will be instructed on how to administer the study medication, how to use the oxygen
      monitor and how to complete the questionnaires. Also, staff will administer the first dose of
      study medication or placebo on site.

      Phone contact will make daily during the first 3 days of the trial to address participants'
      questions, address any medication-related issues, and encourage completion of questionnaires.
      Additional phone calls will be conducted on a case-by-case basis when participant's survey
      data indicated values outside of expected ranges. For participants that will have a worsening
      disease course (89% or lower while breathing ambient air), study staff will recommend to
      attend at emergency department. If the patient will require hospitalization and treatment
      with dexamethasone, then patient will be eliminated from the study. Patients will be
      evaluated by staff on day 8, 15 and 97 (1, 7 and 90 days after last dose of medication or
      placebo, respectively).

      Participants The study will include non-hospitalized adults with COVID-19 whose symptoms
      start within the previous 7 days counted from the first dose of study medication. Individuals
      will ask to provide personal information (date of birth, type of job, educational level,
      previous contact with infected individuals, and date of symptom onset), preexisting
      conditions (systemic hypertension, diabetes mellitus, cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular
      disease, hypertriglyceridemia, dyslipidemia) and symptoms.

      Real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain Naso/oropharyngeal swab samples will obtain
      and send in a universal transport medium for viruses. Nucleic acid extraction will do using
      the NucliSens easy-MAG system (bioMérieux, Boxtel, Netherlands). RT-PCR will carry out in the
      Applied Biosystems 7500 thermocycler (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, CA, USA) using primers
      and conditions described elsewhere; the cycle threshold value for positivity will 38 (Corman
      VM, 2020).

      Study sample According to a study completed previously in Mexico City (Valencia CA, 2008),
      the mean oxygen saturation readings of a selected elderly sample without cardiopulmonary
      comorbidities was 95.3 ± 1.7%. Since a notorious drop in such readings was not to be expected
      (due to the non-severe nature of disease in our sample of outpatients), it was arbitrarily
      decided that a difference of 2 percentage points (beyond the preceding standard deviation
      cutoff points) between groups would be clinically significant in this pilot study. In this
      regard, total sample size assuming alpha=0.05 and power=0.80 was 32. However, to increase the
      power to detect meaningful differences in frequency of cough between groups (a potential
      indicator of lung disease), it was decided to include 45 patients per group (based on a
      baseline frequency of 60% (Wang DA, 2020) and a reduction of symptom frequency by half with
      the experimental intervention, keeping alpha and power values fixed).

      Randomization Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion to PTIC or matching placebo.
      Randomization schedules will prepare in Excel, which displayed randomization assignment to
      the laboratory manager, who will prepare the study materials, including the study drug or
      placebo. All outcome assessors, investigators, and research staff who will be in contact with
      participants will blind to participant treatment assignment.

      Intervention Participants will receive an intramuscular dose of either PTIC (1.5 ml,
      equivalent to 12.5 mg of collagen) every 12 h for 3 days and then every 24 h for 4 days, or
      matching placebo. Only acetaminophen or acetylsalicylic acid will allow as concomitant
      therapy.

      Data collection Personal data, contact and exposure history, clinical presentation, chest
      computed (CT) tomography, laboratory tests, previous treatment and outcome data will collect
      both prospectively and from inpatient medical records. Laboratory data collected from each
      patient from study days 1 (baseline), 8 (1-day post-treatment), 15 (7 days post-treatment)
      and 97 (90 days post-treatment) will include complete blood count, coagulation profile, serum
      biochemical tests (including renal and liver function tests, electrolytes, lactate
      dehydrogenase, D dimer and creatine kinase), serum ferritin, and biomarkers of infection,
      such as procalcitonin. Chest CT scans will be done in all patients at baseline.
    
  