
    
      The proposed study will adopt a sequential mixed-methods design combining:

      1) An open-label RCT to evaluate the effects of Social Prescribing on participants' general
      wellbeing, social support and healthcare utilisation. This open-label design approach is
      chosen in view of the challenge to blind the participants, investigators, and all peripheral
      staff to the treatment allocation in a practical clinical setting.

      Potential patients will be recruited from 3 community hospitals (namely Bright Vision
      Hospital, Sengkang Community Hospital and Outram Community Hospital)

      Randomisation Patients will be randomised to either the intervention or control group. An
      independent administrator in a central office will generate the entire randomisation sequence
      using GraphPad randomisation sequence software© 2017 before recruitment commenced. This data
      will be password protected and only accessible by the administrator. The individual
      allocation will be revealed to each patient, their ward doctor/clinician, the deprescribing
      and study teams just before the first deprescribing round, hereby ensuring allocation
      concealment.

      Intervention

      Key intervention elements will include:

        -  Upon enrolment, WBCs co-develop a personalised social prescription plan with the
           participant based on Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) using SBAR4;

        -  WBCs refer the participant to inpatient activities that suit the participant's interests
           and preferences; and · WBCs work with a local anchor support network, Community Network
           for Seniors (CNS), to link the participant to community assets based on the social
           prescription plan co-developed. This will take place from seven days prior to patient
           discharge to about 2-month post-discharge. WBCs will stop following up with the
           participant in community once CNS has successfully taken over the case.

      This study will use a SBAR4 tool, an evolved version of the well-known SBAR framework, to
      facilitate the assessment. This tool was previously developed by the Principal Investigator
      and his research team for caring for patients with complex comorbidities and has been widely
      adopted both locally and internationally. The R4 components - Recommendation (i.e. an action
      plan for each SDOH of the patient), Resources (i.e. social and medical resources are mustered
      to support the patient), Responsibilities (i.e. role of the patient, stakeholders and care
      providers, and how they can be activated), and Relationships (i.e. connections with patient,
      caregivers, team members and service providers, are sustained to facilitate addressing SDOH)
      will also guide the WBC to co-develop the Social Prescribing plan with the patient.

      The control group will receive usual care.(including educational pamphlets informing about
      community resources and to improve wellbeing)

      The study aims to recruit 804 participants in total (402 in each group).

      Inpatient The WBCs will conduct the first visit to the newly admitted patients within 3 days
      of patients' admission to screen patients' eligibility for the study.

      For the intervention group, the WBCs will conduct approximately daily visits to the
      participants for:

        1. collecting demographics and baseline data as described in F10;

        2. co-developing the personalised social prescription plan with the participant based on
           Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) using SBAR4;

        3. referring and accompanying the participant to attend inpatient activities that suit the
           participant's interests and preferences; and

        4. informing and seeking the participant's agreement with community assets identified for
           the participant together with CNS. The duration of each visit will vary ranging from 15
           minutes to 1 hour, depending on the comfort level of the participant.

      For the control group, the interviewer will conduct approximately 2 visits to collect
      demographics and baseline data. The duration of each visit will range from 15 to 30 minutes.

      Community phase For the intervention group, approximately at 1-week post-discharge, the WBCs
      will telephone the participant to check his/her transition back to community and readiness to
      start attending community activities or receiving services, as per the social prescription
      plan developed during the participant's inpatient stay. For community activities, upon
      receiving positive responses from the participant, the WBCs and CNS will visit the
      participant, accompanying him/her to the activity premise on the first day of the activity
      session and send the participant home after the session. The activity session will normally
      take about 1 hour.

      For the control group, no intervention will be administered.

      Approximately 2 months after the discharge, the interviewers will telephone the participants
      to schedule a telephone or face-to-face session for the post-discharge data collection,
      depending on the participants' preference. At the agreed timing, the interviewers will
      telephone or meet the participant and proceed with the quantitative survey, similar to the
      baseline data collection. The duration will be approximately 30 mins.

      For the participants selected for the qualitative interview, the interviewers will also
      arrange a telephone or face-to-face interview session, depending on the participants'
      preference. At the agreed timing, the interviewers will telephone or meet the participant and
      conduct the semi-structured interview. The duration will be approximately 30 minutes.

      Data Collection The participants' general well-being will be measured by the Brief Inventory
      of Thriving (BIT), a 10-item self-administered instrument consisting of 5 psychological
      well-being constructs in positive psychology: Positive emotions, Engagement, Relationship,
      Meaning and Accomplishment (PERMA), which establishes the theoretical basis of Social
      Prescribing under study. Though this tool has not been validated in a Singapore context, it
      is the only tool that the study team has found in literature that centres around PERMA and
      feasible to administer in a practical clinical setting. The participants' social support will
      be measured by the modified Medical Outcomes Study- Social Support Survey (mMOS-SS), an
      8-item self-administered instrument covering 2 domains: emotional/informational support and
      tangible/instrumental support. The modified version is chosen over the full 19-item version
      because of its relevance and easiness of administration. Baseline data of the intervention
      group at enrollment of the study will be collected by the WBCs, as the information likely
      help the WBCs to formulate the social prescription plan. Baseline data of the control group
      and the 2-month (approximately) post-discharge data of the intervention and control groups
      will be collected by interviewers. 2 months have been set based on a previous prototype of
      Social Prescribing implemented in Bright Vision Hospital. It was found that patients
      generally took about 1 month to transit back home after discharge from the hospital and start
      attending community activities or receiving intervention sessions from the second month. Both
      instruments have been tested in wards to ensure that the WBCs and interviewers understand the
      questions correctly and explain to patients in a similar manner. The participants' health
      utilisation will include the polyclinic visit, emergency department visit,Specialist
      Outpatient Clinic (SOC) visit, unplanned admission and average length of stay. The 12-month
      pre-enrollment and 12-month post-enrollment utilisation data will be extracted from the
      national public healthcare administrative database (i.e. Omnibus). In addition, participants'
      functional status (measured by the Modified Barthel Index) and cognitive status (measured by
      the Abbreviated Mental Test) will be extracted from the SCH Management System. The period for
      extraction will be from the participants' admission to discharge.

      2) Qualitative semi-structured interviews to understand the experience of participants (in
      the intervention group) with the WBCs and Social Prescribing. Following the quantitative
      survey, purposive sampling will be used, targeting 30 participants including 15 active
      service users (i.e. patients who have been attending the activities/intervention sessions as
      per the social prescription plan) and 15 inactive service users, based on the manpower
      resources available. Semi-structured interviews will be completed through telephone or
      face-to-face modes after the participants have attended the first activity session in
      community or received the first service session from community partners.

      Both the quantitative and qualitative data will also be used to assess the feasibility,
      acceptability and adoption of the WBC-driven model. No other retrospective data will be used
      for this proposed research except the 12-month pre-enrollment healthcare utilisation.
    
  