
    
      Electro anatomical remodelling of the atria due to ageing or structural heart disease leads
      to AF which in turn leads to cardiac electrical and structural remodelling. In case of
      advanced remodelling restoration of sinus rhythm (SR) becomes more difficult and the results
      of catheter ablation are disappointing. Furthermore, there is no valid parameter to predict
      or diagnose recurrence of AF during SR after successful ablation, so repeated long-term
      electrocardiogram (ECG) recordings have to be performed to detect asymptomatic AF episodes in
      particular.

      Thus, the rationale to establish a systematic review of patient data in a registry are:

        -  Self-termination AF leads to slight, persistent AF leads to more advanced cardiac
           remodelling, shown in altered atrial conduction properties

        -  Early recognition and therapy of AF improves the outcome, thus clinical parameter to
           predict or diagnose recurrence of AF during SR are desirable Ablation of AF is
           predominantely performed using standard endocardial transvenous technique of pulmonary
           veins isolation (PVI) by radiofrequency or cryoballoon ablation. For medical reasons
           specific ablation techniques like additional ablation lines or an epicardial approach is
           in discretion of the treating cardiologist. The esECG is measured by signal averaged
           routine 12-lead ECG with 3-5 supplementary leads before ablation, before discharge and 3
           months after ablation. 2 tubes of EDTA plasma will be taken supplementary during routine
           venous puncture on admission and analysed for biomarkers and common gene variants.

      During 5 years every participant receives an esECG before ablation, before discharge and
      three months after ablation. Routine follow-up data of each participant is included until 12
      months of follow-up.

      Patients who are included would also undergo a procedure without participation in this study.
      Risks (complications of procedures) are associated with the procedure and not with
      participation in the registry. The supplementary diagnostics performed for the registry are
      comprehensible to clinical routine ECG diagnostics. Extra (study-related) investigations
      consist of esECG (a signal averaged surface ECG with 3-5 supplementary leads at baseline
      before ablation), before discharge, and 3 months after ablation, and possibly also a body
      surface potential map (BSPM). These are always planned together with routine follow-up, no
      extra visits are necessary. The esECG and BSPM can be compared to regular ECGs, the only
      additional discomfort might be the number of leads. Furthermore 2 tubes of EDTA plasma blood
      will be taken supplementary at the routine admission venous puncture for further biomarker
      and common gene variants analysis.

      Quality assurance plan: All data will be stored in 2 independent database. In the first
      database personal and contact informations are stored with a decent patient ID number in
      ascending order. In the other database all medical informations will be stored without
      personal data of the patient. The database has algorithm to prevent mesenteries and
      rudimentary checks for data integrity and consistency. List are provided for repeated
      parameters and all variables are explained if relevant. Standard operating procedures are
      provided for relevant steps in patient inclusion, measurements and data entry.

      Because of the registry character no sample size calculation is provided yet. But after the
      first year of inclusion a data analysis will provide informations about an expected sample
      size. To date we calculate for an period of patient inclusion of 5 years.

      Data inconsistency could not be avoided due to the registry character of this study and will
      marked in a respective way.

      Statistical analysis will be performed after the first year of patients including logistic
      regression analysis to determine the discriminative power of the recorded ECG for the
      clinical outcome and recurrence of AF.
    
  