
    
      Intracranial atherosclerosis (ICAS) is the most common cause of stroke worldwide. It accounts
      for at least 10% of all strokes in the United States and as much as 67% in countries with
      predominantly Asian, Hispanic, and Black populations. ICAS carries a worse prognosis than
      other stroke etiologies, with an annual rate of recurrent stroke and death of 15% despite
      intensive medical management, and as high as 35% in certain populations. Recent randomized
      controlled clinical trials have shown that angioplasty with stenting and bypass surgery fail
      to improve outcomes in patients with ICAS.

      Overall treatment and prevention of stroke due to ICAS has been unsuccessful. The results of
      two recent clinical trials exploring interventions for the management of cerebrovascular
      occlusive disease-bypass surgery (Carotid Occlusion Surgery Study [COSS]) and angioplasty and
      stenting (SAMMPRIS)-have shown modest improvement in the efficacy of intensive medical
      treatment. However, both trials were terminated early given the elevated rate of
      complications, stroke, and death in the interventional arms. In the medical arms of COSS and
      SAMMPRIS, the rates of stroke and death at two years were 21% and 15%, respectively.
      Intensive medical management appears to reduce the risk of embolism; however, medical
      management alone does not address the progression of intracranial arterial stenosis or the
      pathophysiologic components of hypoperfusion and poor collateral circulation. Patients with
      prior stroke had an even higher rate of stroke, 35%.

      Levels and types of various angiogenic factors in the blood and tissues have been proposed to
      be predictive of patient outcome after ischemic stroke and treatment for stroke. This study
      therefore pursues a new paradigm to investigate responses to ICAS treatment from the
      perspective of cerebral collateral vessel generation and the role of angiogenic factors.
      Specifically, pro- and anti-angiogenic factors in patients with ICAS are evaluated at
      baseline and longitudinally in response to both medical and surgical treatment. For this we
      have developed methodologies for the isolation and measurement of these growth factors in
      plasma of patients with ICAS. These methodologies will enable us to obtain a detailed
      understanding of the variation and dynamic properties of local and circulating angiogenic
      factors over time in response to medical and surgical treatment, and their association to
      outcome phenotypes. This analysis is complemented by studies of angiographic development of
      neovascularization. If successful, this study will help to better understand the role of
      angiogenesis in ICAS and create a foundation from which to explore therapeutic treatments for
      ICAS which harness the natural processes of angiogenesis.
    
  