
    
      Rotator cuff tears are a common disorder in chronic shoulder pain. Common Complaints are
      pain, loss of range of motion and loss of strength. 20% of all tears are massive, in
      re-ruptures even 80%, with at least two tendons involved and this could lead to
      pseudoparalysis. The recommendation for the initial treatment is non-operative with physical
      therapy although people often receive a shoulder endoprosthesis. Robotic mediated therapy in
      patients with neurological disorders is already common, in rotator cuff tears it is less
      frequent and evidence is rare though. Therefore, the primary objective of this study is to
      evaluate the feasibility of a robotic mediated therapy in a clinical setting, in terms of
      satisfaction, compliance and tolerance, and its potential benefit for patients with rotator
      cuff tear associated with pseudoparalysis.

      Ten patients with clinical signs of pseudoparalysis will be recruited in the Schulthess
      clinic in Zurich through doctors and physical therapists of the shoulder and elbow surgery
      department based on eligibility criteria. Eligible patient will be enclosed after signing the
      informed consent. The patients will conduct a specific trainings program with the MJS
      Tecnobody (Multi Joint System 614P Tecnobody Srl, IT) three times a week over a period of six
      weeks. The training is guided by a specialised physical therapist and the trainings program
      is developed by physical therapists and doctors of the Schulthess clinic based on current
      literature. Feasibility assessment will be performed six and twelve weeks after baseline and
      secondary outcomes (Oxford shoulder score, subjective shoulder value, pain level during
      activity of daily living, active shoulder flexion and abduction and quality of life EQ-5D-5L)
      will be assessed at baseline, six and twelve weeks after the beginning. Primary analysis will
      be descriptive and secondary analysis will be analysed with a univariate paired
      non-parametric analysis. All statistical tests will be two-sided and the level of
      significance will be set at p < 0.05. All analyses will be exploratory. The author expects,
      based on recent literature, that patients will accept well the MJS treatment and show high
      compliance and satisfaction, in particular if it is associated with improved active range of
      motion, shoulder function and quality of life at final follow-up.
    
  