
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the response rate of pembrolizumab in participants with evidence of genomic
      instability who have solid tumors with POLE and POLD1 mutations.

      II. To evaluate the response rate of pembrolizumab in participants with evidence of genomic
      instability who have solid tumors with BRCA1/2 mutations.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the complete and partial response rate, and response durability (immune related
      progression free survival), to historical cohort information of unselected patients treated
      with pembrolizumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the CD4+ and CD8+ T cell response in the tumor microenvironment and peripheral
      blood of patients treated on this study as well as the frequencies,
      activation/differentiation, functionality, and co-inhibitory molecule expression of immune
      cell populations in peripheral blood and tumor, before and after treatment with systemic
      pembrolizumab.

      II. To measure PD-L1 expression in pretreatment tumor biopsies and in post treatment tumor
      tissue, as well as on biopsies taken at progression, to capture data on the relationship
      between PD-L1 expression and patient outcome.

      III. To perform deep sequencing for detection of PD-1 and PD-L1 polymorphisms that may
      correlate with clinical outcomes as well as identification of mutations in immunoregulatory
      genes that are potential predictors of response to these therapies.

      IV. To perform exome sequencing of pre-treatment tumor specimens to determine if the presence
      of immunogenic neoantigens is associated with response.

      V. To perform ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing to determine if expression of checkpoint
      genes, immune-regulatory modules, or non-coding RNAs including repetitive RNAs and
      retroelements are associated with response.

      OUTLINE:

      Participants receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Participants with disease progression may continue pembrolizumab for up to 1 year.

      After completion of study treatment, participants are followed up at 30 days then every 12
      weeks.
    
  