
    
      A high protein diet has been shown in preclinical rodent models and clinical trials to be an
      effective obesity treatment that is associated with greater loss of body weight and fat mass
      and increased satiety compared to isocaloric standard protein diets. However, the mechanisms
      of this response have not been fully elucidated. The investigators recently demonstrated in a
      rodent model that a high protein diet induces shifts in the intestinal microbiome including a
      bloom of Akkermansia muciniphila, a microbe reported to have an anti-obesity effect. Based on
      these preliminary studies, the investigators hypothesize that a high protein diet induces
      alterations in the intestinal microbiome that mediate its clinical efficacy for obesity.

      More than three quarters of Veterans are overweight or obese, making obesity a public health
      problem of tremendous importance to the VA medical system. The results of the proposed study
      will provide insight into the specific microbes that drive the clinical response to a high
      protein diet and may identify candidate anti-obesity microbes that could be further developed
      into novel microbial therapeutics. More broadly, establishing a microbiome-dependent
      mechanism for the efficacy of a dietary intervention would be a breakthrough in the
      investigators' understanding of obesity treatment. It would pave the way for larger scale
      clinical and translational studies investigating the role of the microbiota in other diets
      and for the development of microbial therapeutics used alone or in combination with dietary
      intervention to treat obese Veterans.

      To investigate the role of the intestinal microbiome in mediating the effect of a high
      protein diet, the investigators will study 216 overweight and obese Veterans (BMI 27) who
      will be randomized 1:1 to isocaloric high protein (30%) or normal protein (15%) 1500 calorie
      diets for 16 weeks utilizing existing clinical infrastructure at the West Los Angeles VA
      Medical Center established for a recently completed clinical trial of a high protein diet. In
      Aim 1, the effect of a high protein diet on the composition and function of the intestinal
      microbiome will be assessed by 16S rRNA sequencing, shotgun metagenomics, and metabolomics.
      In Aim 2, bioinformatics analysis will be performed to identify fecal microbes, bacterial
      genes, and metabolites that are associated with weight loss, reduced body fat, decreased
      hepatic steatosis, altered lipid profiles, reduced hemoglobin A1c, decreased high sensitivity
      C-reactive protein, increased satiety, and circulating levels of hormones affecting satiety
      (leptin, ghrelin glucagon, glucagon-like peptide-1, peptide YY).
    
  