
    
      The human metapneumovirus (hMPV) was first described in 2001. It belongs to the paramyxovirus
      family (paramyxoviridae subfamily). hMPV is genetically close to the Respiratory Syncytial
      Virus (RSV). hMPV has a seasonal epidemic pattern, between January to April. Incubation
      period varies between 4 and 6 days. Clinical symptoms of hMPV infection are close to that of
      RSV, with influenza-like illness (fever, asthenia and curvatures) associated with signs of
      upper and/or lower respiratory tracts infection. The incidence of hMPV infection is higher in
      children than in adults. In a large cohort of children with respiratory illness or fever,
      hMPV was detected in 7 % of outpatients and 6 % of hospitalized children. The annual rate of
      hospitalization associated with hMPV infection has been estimated about 1 per 1000 children
      less than 5 years of age. In child pneumonia, hMPV is the third most frequent isolated
      pathogen (14 % of the subjects), after rhinovirus and RSV. In hospitalized adults, hMPV was
      detect in 6 to 8% of the subjects with a lower respiratory tract and in 4 % of subjects with
      a pneumonia.

      Clinical, radiological and biological features, as well as evolution course of
      hMPV-associated infections have been mainly described in children. Clinical presentation of
      hMPV-associated infection in adult seems polymorph, ranging from acute bronchitis or
      exacerbation of chronic pulmonary diseases (COPD and asthma) to pneumonia. Viral-viral
      coinfections are not exceptional whereas the frequency of viral-bacterial coinfection is
      unknown. Intensive care unit (ICU) admission involved almost 1 for 10 patients. Elderly and
      immunocompromised subjects are probably high-risk subjects. Only one cohort of hMPV-infected
      patients admitted to ICU has been reported. Among the 40 patients, 6 were
      non-immunocompromised and without comorbidity. Factors associated with a poor prognosis were
      not studied.

      Currently, treatment of hMPV-associated lower respiratory tract infections is mainly
      symptomatic. However, several anti-RSV drugs that are currently in clinical development in
      humans, have demonstrated an activity against other paramyxoviridae (hMPV and parainfluenza
      virus) in pre-clinical studies. These anti-RSV drugs should be available for clinicians in
      the next few years. Considering their activity against other paramyxoviridae, clinicians will
      probably attempt to use these anti-RSV drugs in non-RSV paramyxoviridae-associated lower
      respiratory tracts infections in adult inpatients. Consequently, it seems necessary to better
      characterize hMPV-associated lower respiratory tracts infections in adult inpatients:
      clinical, radiological and biological presentation, course profile and risk factors for
      morbidity and mortality. These data would help clinicians to identify high risk patients, and
      consequently to choose those who could benefit from coming treatments.

      The French hMPV Study is observational prospective multicenter clinical study. The study
      population includes all consecutive adult inpatients with a community-acquired acute lower
      respiratory tract infection and a mPCR positive for hMPV on any respiratory sample. The
      primary objective is to describe the prognosis. The secondary objectives are i) to
      characterize the clinical (time from onset to hospital admission, general symptoms,
      respiratory symptoms and signs), radiological and biological features, ii) to describe the
      hospital course and the rate of ICU transfer; in ICU patients, to describe organ failures and
      supports, and iii) to describe the viral and/or bacterial coinfections.
    
  