
    
      Objectives: The primary objectives of the proposed pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      will be to examine: (1) the feasibility of a full RCT to evaluate the effectiveness of two
      popular types of physical activity (PA), a yoga training program and an aerobic dance
      training program, in female adolescents (13 to 18 years old) with juvenile idiopathic
      arthritis (JIA) compared to a wait list control group; and (2) the acceptability of these
      interventions.

      Methods: A three-arm prospective randomized open-label study with a parallel group design
      will be used. A total of 25 female adolescents with JIA who have pain will be randomized in a
      ratio of 2:2:1 to one of the three groups: 1) online yoga training program (Group A) (n=10),
      2) online aerobic dance training program (Group B) (n=10) and 3) wait list control group
      (Group C) (n=5). Participants in groups A and B will complete three individual 1-hour
      sessions per week using online exercise videos, as well as one 1-hour virtual group session
      per week using a video-conferencing platform (GoToMeeting) for 12 weeks. These participants
      will also take part in weekly e-consultations with a research coordinator and discussions on
      Facebook with other participants. Participants from all groups will be given access to an
      electronic educational pamphlet on PA for arthritis developed by The Arthritis Society to
      review via an online platform. Feasibility (recruitment rates, self-reported adherence to the
      interventions, dropout rates, and percentage of missing data), acceptability and usability of
      Facebook and GoToMeeting will be assessed at the end of the program. Pain intensity (Primary
      outcome), participation in general physical activity, morning stiffness, functional status,
      fatigue, self-efficacy and patient global assessment will be assessed using self-administered
      electronic surveys at baseline, weekly until the end of the 12 weeks program.

      Conclusion: To our knowledge this is the first study in paediatric patients to evaluate the
      effectiveness of yoga and aerobic dance as pain management interventions for female
      adolescents with JIA. The use of online tools such as Facebook and GoToMeeting to disseminate
      these two PA interventions may facilitate access to alternative methods of pain management in
      this population. The study design incorporates randomization and allocation concealment to
      ensure internal validity. To avoid intergroup contamination, the Facebook group page security
      settings will be set to "closed", thus only allowing invited participants to access it. Study
      limitations include the lack of participant blinding due to the characteristics of this
      physical intervention pilot randomized controlled trial and a potential bias of recruiting
      more severe hospital-based participants. Reporting of the study follows the Standard Protocol
      Items: Recommendations for interventional trials (SPIRIT) statement. This study can lead to a
      full-scale RCT.
    
  