
    
      Over 1 million Veterans are prescribed a thiazide-type diuretic each year; over 95% receive
      hydrochlorothiazide, and fewer than 2.5% receive chlorthalidone. Both medications are
      thiazide-type diuretics that have been used for more than 50 years and are considered
      first-line treatment for hypertension. Indirect evidence has been accumulating, however, that
      chlorthalidone may be more effective than hydrochlorothiazide at preventing cardiovascular
      events. This will be the first randomized head-to-head comparison of the effectiveness of
      these two drugs. The study plans to enroll 13,500 Veterans over 3 years and follow them on
      average for 3 years, resulting in a total study duration of 4.5 years. Patients currently
      prescribed hydrochlorothiazide will be randomized to either continue taking
      hydrochlorothiazide or to receive an equivalent dose of chlorthalidone. The unique 'point of
      care' or 'clinically integrated' study design will identify, enroll and follow subjects using
      the electronic medical record system and national VA and non-VA databases. The primary
      outcome is an event composite consisting of: stroke, myocardial infarction, non-cancer death,
      urgent revascularization, and hospitalization for acute congestive heart failure. All patient
      care, including the study drug, will continue to be managed by the primary care provider.

      Primary Care Providers will also be included as participants in this research study. Adding
      providers as subjects will allow us to study the implementation of the point of care protocol
      design in addition to the original research question. The study team will collect data on
      diuretic management within the study and may contact providers by phone or email to learn
      reasons for declining a particular patient or discontinuing a new chlorthalidone order or an
      ongoing diuretic prescription.

      If cardiovascular events are reduced by even a small amount by chlorthalidone, the public
      health effect will be considerable because of the large number of patients who take
      diuretics. A randomized trial, now feasible due to the investigators' efficient and
      inexpensive design, will provide evidence needed to better inform practice throughout the VA.
    
  