
    
      Liposomal cytarabine is a slow-release formulation of cytarabine or Ara-C. It is designed to
      slowly release cytarabine to increase exposure of cancer cells to the drug in the treatment
      of leptomeningeal disease. Temozolomide is a chemotherapy drug that is designed to attach to
      the DNA of rapidly dividing cells (cancer cells). The cells recognize this and self-destruct.

      Tests called an Indium-111 or Technetium 99m-DPTA CSF flow study, where radioactive dye is
      injected into the CSF, will be done to make sure the CSF flows freely throughout the spinal
      canal. These are done as part of the screening evaluation. If the flow study is okay, you
      will be eligible to take part in this study. But if there is a block of the CSF pathway, the
      area may be treated (usually with radiation) and then you can be re-evaluated and may still
      be enrolled in the study if a repeat flow study shows that the block has been cleared.

      If you have a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) or ventriculoatrial (VA) shunt in place, you will
      have a shunt closure test in which your shunt system will be closed and you will be monitored
      for 4 hours for the development of clinical signs of increased intracranial pressure. The
      shunt closure test is performed to allow for a long enough time for the shunt to be closed
      after liposomal cytarabine is injected. Researchers want to make sure that the drug will stay
      in the CSF system long enough to perform its function, without being siphoned off through the
      shunt.

      An Ommaya Reservoir (a small round plastic pouch with a tube that goes into the brain and
      CSF) will be placed under the scalp by a neurosurgeon before starting therapy if you do not
      already have one in place. The reservoir will be used to deliver the liposomal cytarabine and
      to collect samples of CSF when they are needed.

      Liposomal cytarabine will be given through the Ommaya Reservoir once every 14 days on Day 1
      for a total of 12 weeks (6 treatments). This is called Induction Treatment. After the first
      12 weeks, liposomal cytarabine will be given on Day 1 every 28 days for 40 weeks (10
      treatments). This is called Maintenance Treatment. If you are not already taking daily
      dexamethasone, you will begin to take dexamethasone by mouth twice a day on the day before
      the depocyt starts each course and continuing 5 days after the administration of liposomal
      cytarabine.

      Temozolomide will be taken by mouth once a day for 7 days (Days 1 - 7) every 14 days starting
      from the second treatment of liposomal cytarabine Day 14. You will take it continuously
      throughout Induction and Maintenance treatment with liposomal cytarabine. Your doctor may
      prescribe an anti-nausea medication to be taken 1 hour before taking temozolomide. Your
      doctor will choose the most appropriate anti-nausea medication for you at that time. You
      should swallow the temozolomide capsules (usually between 1 and 5) whole and quickly one
      after the other. You should not chew the temozolomide capsules. If vomiting occurs during the
      course of treatment, no re-dosing will be done before the next scheduled dose. You should
      take temozolomide at bedtime and fast (not eat or drink anything except water) for at least 1
      hour before each dose and for 1 hour after each dose.

      Three (3) participants at a time will be enrolled in the Phase I portion of this study. The
      first group of participants will receive a certain dose of temozolomide. If this dose is
      tolerated, then an additional 3 will be treated at this dose. If no more than 1 participant
      has a severe side effect, then that will be the dose for the Phase II portion of this study.

      During the Phase II portion, if a participant has shown the ability to tolerate the first
      dose level, the next dose may be increased, which will be decided by the treating physician
      at the next treatment timepoint.

      During the study, blood samples (about 1 tablespoon each) for routine tests will be repeated
      every week during Induction and then every 2 weeks during the Maintenance period. The Gd-MRI
      of the brain and spine will be repeated at Week 6 and 12 and then every 8 weeks. Within 72
      hours of each liposomal cytarabine dosing, vital signs and a physical and neurological exam
      will be done. CSF will be removed from the Ommaya Reservoir every 2 weeks and through lumbar
      puncture every 6 weeks during Induction and from the Ommaya Reservoir every 4 weeks and
      through lumbar puncture every 8 weeks during the Maintenance period to look for cancer cells
      in the fluid.

      Treatment will continue unless the disease gets worse or unacceptable side effects occur.
      Treatment will be given on an outpatient basis. At the end of the study, vital signs, a
      complete physical and neurological exam, and routine blood tests (about 1 tablespoon) will be
      performed. CSF samples for cytology, protein, glucose, and cell count will be taken. The
      Gd-MRI scan will be repeated. You will be asked to complete a questionnaire about how you are
      feeling.

      After completion of the study, you will have a physical and neurological exam and vital signs
      and CSF samples collected every 28 days for 3 months and then every 3 months for up to 1
      year. If there are any signs of your tumor getting worse or returning, you will have a
      Gd-MRI.

      This is an investigational study. Temozolomide is approved by the FDA for the treatment of
      some brain tumors and is commercially available. Liposomal cytarabine is authorized for
      research use only in the treatment of brain tumors. The use of these two drugs together is
      experimental. About 180 patients will take part in this study. About 18 will be enrolled at
      UT MD Anderson Cancer Center.
    
  