
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the duration of progression free survival 1 (PFS1) in patients with RAS wild
      type who have received induction leucovorin calcium, fluorouracil, and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) +
      panitumumab and not progressed at 6 cycles and randomized to maintenance therapy with
      fluorouracil (5FU) based therapy with or without panitumumab.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the response rate (RR) in patients with RAS wild type who are randomized to
      maintenance therapy with 5FU based therapy to those randomized to 5FU based therapy with
      panitumumab.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Progress free survival 2 (PFS2). II. To assess the adverse event (AE) profile and safety
      of the proposed treatment in this population.

      III. To assess and compare the overall survival (OS) between the two treatment groups.

      IV. To compare the quality of life (QOL) as measured by health state index (HIS) between
      patients who achieve partial response (PR) versus (vs.) those who progress and those who have
      stable disease during the induction phase.

      V. To compare the QOL as measured by HSI between the two groups randomized to maintenance
      therapy.

      VI. To assess the evolution of RAS mutation under treatment during induction phase as well as
      maintenance.

      VII. To explore relationship between genomic and proteomic alterations of the tumor with
      response and PFS to panitumumab.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION:

      Patients receive panitumumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes, oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours, leucovorin calcium IV, and fluorouracil over 46-48 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE: Patients who are not candidates for surgery, have no disease progression, or do
      not have complete response after Induction are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive panitumumab IV over 30 minutes, leucovorin calcium IV, and
      fluorouracil over 46-48 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every 14 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Courses
      repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  