
    
      While some progress has been made towards reducing global under-5 mortality, in 2019, an
      estimated 2.4 million newborn deaths still occurred worldwide, accounting for 47% of all
      under-five deaths. Most neonatal deaths are caused by prematurity, sepsis, and
      intrapartum-related complications.

      Pakistan has the highest neonatal mortality rate (NMR) in the world, at 42 deaths per 1,000
      live births. Gilgit-Baltistan (GB), Pakistan's remote, northern-most administrative
      territory, is afflicted with some of the country's worst NMRs. High rates of home deliveries,
      low adoption of safe birth practices, inadequate cord care, and high maternal mortality
      contribute to this health disparity. GB's geography, climate, and underdeveloped
      infrastructure also largely restrict access to health care facilities. Health care at the
      community level in Pakistan is primarily supported by the Lady Health Worker (LHW) Programme.
      LHWs form a cadre of government-supported community health workers who provide newborn and
      maternal health services in GB. However, each of these health care workers is responsible for
      approximately 1,000 people, which restricts both availability and comprehensiveness of care,
      particularly for families that live in hard to reach areas.

      Many proven, cost-effective ways to save newborn lives and improve wellbeing exist; however,
      they are not always available to those who need them most, nor are they packaged into a
      single portable kit that can be used in the home. An easy-to-use kit consisting of low cost,
      evidence-based interventions has potential to improve health status, reduce NMR, and provide
      more timely access to health services in remote areas such as GB. Between April 2014 and
      August 2015, the investigators conducted a community-based, cluster randomized intervention
      trial examining the effectiveness of delivering an integrated newborn care kit (iNCK) to
      pregnant women in Rahim Yar Khan (RYK), Punjab, Pakistan. The iNCKs were delivered by LHWs,
      who also educated participants how to use the different kit components. Neonatal mortality
      and morbidity outcomes were compared between iNCK recipients and a local control group who
      received the same standard of care, but no iNCK. The investigators found that while
      distribution of the iNCK did not significantly reduce neonatal mortality, utilization of the
      iNCK significantly reduced the risk of omphalitis and fever. Moreover, using the LHW network
      to distribute the intervention proved a feasible delivery mechanism.

      The findings from the RYK trial suggest that while a network of community health workers can
      reliably deliver integrated interventions to pregnant women, further investigation is needed
      to improve the integration of educational content and maximize the iNCK's potential health
      benefits. Moreover, effective delivery of maternal health interventions through the iNCK
      warrants examination, as Pakistan experiences some of the world's highest rates of maternal
      mortality, of which post-partum hemorrhage (PPH) is a leading cause.
    
  