
    
      Living with chronic health conditions affects all areas of life. Fatigue, sleeping problems,
      pain and loneliness are common. In addition to troublesome symptoms that vary in intensity,
      many experience worry and uncertainty. There is a need to improve the quality of follow-up of
      patients with chronic health conditions. A digital patient-provider communication tool, which
      supports shared decision making, can be one way to improve quality.

      The digital tool (InvolveMe) will provide patients with the opportunity to complete and
      submit a symptom and need assessment prior to out-patient visits at the hospital. Also,
      patients will have the opportunity to use secure e-mail for follow-up from health care
      providers in between hospital visits. The assessment will allow patient to prioritize what is
      important to talk with their health care providers about.

      Such a tool can help to make changes in symptoms more visible to both patients and health
      care providers, as well as make it easier to ask for information and guidance to deal with
      the individual difficulties patients' experience. The goal is to better address symptoms and
      concerns and to enhance follow up and coordination between consultations as well as increase
      the quality of life and reduce illness related stress.

      The digital communication tool will first be tested in a feasibility pilot study. The tool
      will be offered to 50 patients (kidney transplant recipients and patients with
      non-functioning pituitary adenomas). Participants will be given the opportunity to use the
      digital communication tool with baseline measures and following measures after 3 and 6
      months.

      After pilot testing of the tool, a larger longitudinal clinical study among 160 patients with
      non-functioning pituitary adenomas (n=60) and kidney transplant recipients (n=100) will be
      conducted to assess the clinical utility. The participants will be assigned to use the
      digital communication tool, and will be followed with repeated measures over 12 months.
    
  