
    
      Patients with CKD and kidney failure have poor outcomes and consume a disproportionate share
      of health care resources. Therefore, early identification of incident cases by primary care
      physicians can delay progression and prevent adverse outcomes. However, the correct
      identification and intervention for patients having reduced kidney function is not
      necessarily done appropriately in all settings, often resulting in individuals at very low
      risk of progression being referred to a nephrologist, and in other cases, delayed referral of
      patients who are at the highest risk of kidney failure.

      The investigators propose an integration of the Kidney Failure Risk Equation - a tool that
      accurately predicts the risk of kidney failure requiring dialysis in patients with CKD - in
      primary care practices by integrating the tool into existing reporting mechanisms. This will
      allow the delivery of kidney disease risk information to clinicians as part of a clinical
      decision aid to guide all aspects of CKD care, including management of vascular risk factors,
      intensity of follow up, and potential referral for specialist care. Patients and providers
      will benefit from the ability to share information about CKD, and their individual risk of
      kidney failure using interactive infographics, thereby improving CKD-specific health
      literacy.

      The investigators will work with the Canadian Primary Care Sentinel Surveillance Network
      (CPCSSN) to recruit and subsequently randomize 32 clinics to either the intervention or the
      control group. The clinics randomized to receive the intervention will see patients and
      providers receiving individualized information explaining kidney failure risk, as well as
      risk-based criteria for referral, alongside usual care. This will be executed through the
      integration of the KFRE in the CPCSSN Data Presentation Tool (DPT), audit and feedback, and
      in-person medical detailing. Clinical decision aids for both patients and physicians to guide
      CKD care and provide information about prognosis will be provided in the format of a static
      infographic, video, and interactive website. Those clinics randomized to the control group
      will receive the current standard of care - information on personalized risk and risk-based
      referral will not be provided.

      Appropriate management of patients at high risk of kidney failure will be determined using
      information from electronic medical records (EMRs), for all patients with CKD G3-G5 attending
      each clinic (approximately 13,470 patients from all 32 clinics). Appropriate referral for
      patients at high risk of kidney failure will be determined through comparison with provincial
      guidelines. Direct costs of care will be estimated using linkages with provincial
      administrative data. For those clinics in the intervention group, satisfaction with the risk
      prediction tools (provider) will be measured using a Likert scale. Additionally,10 patients
      from each of the 32 clinics will be surveyed about their CKD-specific health literacy and
      trust in physician care (320 patients in total).

      The investigators' hypothesis and specific aims are as follows:

      Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesizes that integration of this approach to CKD care can
      improve the patient-provider dialogue by:

        1. Increasing health literacy and trust, and therefore reduce anxiety for those at low
           risk.

        2. Providing early and appropriate referral to nephrology for those at higher risks of
           kidney failure.

      Aim 1 - Determine whether providing patients and primary care providers with a patients'
      predicted risk for kidney failure and risk-based criteria for referral increases appropriate
      management of and referral for patients at low and high risk for kidney failure, compared to
      usual care without personalized risk information.

      Aim 2 - Determine whether providing patients with individualized information on their risk of
      progression increases CKD-specific health literacy and improves trust in the patient-provider
      relationship.

      Aim 3 - Determine the cost-effectiveness of the risk-based care paradigm

      Study Design: A matched cluster randomized design of 32 primary care clinics in Manitoba and
      Alberta, evaluating the feasibility and effectiveness of the integration of the KFRE in the
      CPCSSN DPT, as well as the efficacy of a KT intervention targeting patients with advanced
      CKD. The unit of observation will be both at the patient and provider level, and the unit of
      randomization will be at the level of the clinic.

      Team: The investigators' study team includes experts in the clinical epidemiology of CKD and
      kidney failure, local opinion leaders, as well experts in knowledge translation and cluster
      randomized design. In addition to the investigators' collaboration with CPCSSN, the
      investigators are part of and working with the Canadians Seeking Solutions and Innovations to
      Overcome Chronic Kidney Disease (Can-SOLVE CKD) Network. This network includes individuals
      with CKD and those affected by CKD (i.e., caregivers, family members, etc.); they are the
      investigators' patient partners, and will make up the patient engagement panel. They will
      help guide the study to ensure that its findings are relevant to direct patient care.

      Research Significance: Since most patients with CKD are managed in primary care, the next
      step to reduce the burden of this disease on the population is to implement a strategy for
      the Kidney Failure Risk Equation to be used in this setting. The investigators believe that
      the integration of a KFRE based care paradigm can improve management of CKD risk factors and
      health literacy, and ultimately, downstream patient and health system outcomes.
    
  