
    
      Endurance exercise training is a well-established therapeutic strategy for improving
      cardiovascular capacity. However, in the clinical, some populations are intolerance to
      perform exercise regimen at a usual therapeutic exercise intensity, such as chronic heart
      failure (1), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (2) or the elderly (3). Hence, eccentric
      exercise is an appealing non-conventional training strategy for those individuals with low
      exercise tolerance because of its unique advatange to have much lower cardiovascular demand
      compared to concentric exercise at a given workload (4).

      With exercise, an enhanced metabolic demand of working muscle requires cardiovascular
      adaptations both peripherally and centrally in a coordinative manner (5). Firstly, aerobic
      adaptations following an endurance training are supposed to be mediated by increased local
      blood supply. However, the further increased maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) with
      training results primarily from an increase in maximal cardiac output (CO), instead of an
      increase in the arteriovenous oxygen difference (Da-vO2) (6). In previously, we have
      demonstrated that the depressed CO and abnormal hemodynamic responses to exercise in patients
      with heart failure reduced cerebral perfusion/oxygenation and considerably limited exercise
      performance (7). Thus, the oxygen delivery, not skeletal muscle oxygen extraction, is viewed
      as the primary limiting factor for VO2max in exercising humans. Notably, an increased local
      blood flow is proportional to the metabolic demands of the muscle tissue being exercised (8);
      however, in eccentric contraction, the breakdown of adenosine triphosphate is slowed, thus
      the oxygen consumption is rarely elevated from rest to exercise (9). As our acknowledge, it
      is scarce on the detailed relationship between eccentric exercise and local blood supply
      adaptations.

      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) measures oxygen consumption and supply in active muscle by
      detecting local dynamics of oxygenation (O2Hb) and deoxygenation (HHb) of hemoglobin is
      widely used in the field of sports medicine. It is also commonly used to monitor the total
      hemoglobin concentration (THb) for the relative changes in local blood-volume changes (10).
      Eccentric cycling training may result in different blood distribution strategy to the local
      region; therefore, we record the redistribution of blood supply in the vastus lateralis at
      rest and during the whole GXT to clarify whether the lower cardiovascular stress at a given
      workload in ECT will be sufficient to improve cardiovascular capacity.

      The blood redistribution induced by exercise training has been attributed, in part, to
      improved erythrocyte rheological characteristics (11). Erythrocytes are highly deformable,
      and this property significantly contributes to blood flow both under bulk flow conditions and
      in microcirculation. And a raised strength of erythrocyte aggregation may further elevate
      resistance to flow due to redistribution of erythrocytes. The erythrocyte-related
      hemorheological dysfunctions has been demonstrated to further lead to reduced aerobic
      capacity by our research team (12). Therefore, the lower oxygen and energy consumed in
      eccentric cycling training (ECT) may avoid the repeated, excessive exposure to oxidative
      stress which progressively impair the rheological characteristics of erythrocyte (13). In
      contrast, whether the lower metabolic stress in comparable ECT might be sufficient to induce
      physiological adaptations as the concentric cycling training (CCT) or not (14). Till now, few
      studies have investigated whether ECT influences peripheral (such as cerebral and skeletal
      muscular tissues) hemodynamics by modulating erythrocyte rheology and the distribution of
      blood flow from the heart.

      We aimed to clarify the different effects of CCT and ECT on VO2 response explained by changes
      in local oxygen transport/utilization, erythrocyte rheology, or changes in central function
      to attempt developing its application in rehabilitation (15). To answer the above questions,
      this investigation evaluated the effects of ECT and CCT on 1) erythrocyte rheological
      aggregability and deformability, 2) central and peripheral hemodynamic responses to exercise,
      3) systemic cardiovascular capacity, and 4) local muscle blood flow delivery and oxygen
      extraction levels. Hence, we hypothesized that the peripheral adaptation may exist in both
      exercise regimens, but the central adaptation may only induce by the CCT instead of the ECT.
    
  