
    
      Respiratory muscles are as vital as the heart and can be susceptible to fatigue under certain
      conditions. Therefore, evaluation of the performance of respiratory muscles is critical in
      the event of impaired respiratory function. Respiratory muscle strength and respiratory
      muscle endurance tests are used for the evaluation of respiratory muscle functions. While
      measuring respiratory muscle strength provides information about the individual's pulmonary
      status, it cannot measure respiratory muscle strength. Respiratory muscle strength is the
      capacity of respiratory muscles to maintain a specific workload over time and is directly
      related to respiratory muscle fatigue.

      Endurance of respiratory muscles can be evaluated by different methods such as sustained
      maximal ventilation, increased threshold load test, and fixed threshold load test, and there
      is no consensus on the best test.

      Respiratory muscle fatigue in healthy individuals is known to complicate exercise
      performance. Fatigue of the respiratory muscles causes the accumulation of metabolites such
      as lactic acid in the muscles. In this case, the inspiratory respiratory muscle is activated
      in metaboreflexia; The firing frequency of afferent nerve fibers (type III and IV) increases.
      An increase in sympathetic stimulation causes general vasoconstriction. Exercise performance
      is adversely affected. This results in earlier termination of the exercise compared to the
      conditions where respiratory muscle fatigue is prevented. Therefore, it is stated that
      reducing or delaying metaboreflex may be an essential mechanism to improve exercise
      performance.

      During general endurance exercise tests, it may be possible to change the environmental
      aspects (auditory stimuli, listen to motivational music, adjust the tempo with the metronome,
      give visual feedback, etc.) to suppress metaboreflexia and delay fatigue. It has been shown
      that listening to music during exercise reduces fatigue and reduces the perception of
      exercise in healthy individuals.

      A possible explanation underlying the beneficial effects of sensory stimuli during exercise
      involves the integration of multiple physiological systems. In such cases, the attention and
      emotional effects of sensory stimuli can spread throughout the body by modulating pulmonary,
      cardiac, hormonal, and muscle systems. Although there are studies about the effects of music
      on healthy people during whole-body endurance exercises, the effect of music on respiratory
      muscle endurance was not investigated.

      Therefore, this study aims to investigate the effect of music on respiratory muscle endurance
      test results.
    
  