
    
      As many as 40% of cancer survivors report experiencing chronic pain, and recent research
      indicates that pain is not well managed. Opioids are often prescribed during active cancer
      treatment for pain management, and many cancer survivors continue the same pain management
      regimen long after completing their cancer treatment. Reports indicate that prescription
      rates are up to 1.22 times higher for cancer cancer survivors than people without a cancer
      diagnosis, and the American Society of Clinical Oncology recommends that opioid tapering
      should be a priority once someone moves into survivorship status. Music interventions have
      been used for pain management in people with cancer, yet few studies have examined music
      therapy for chronic pain in cancer survivors. Moreover, none of these studies have not
      examined opioid use as a measure. Therefore, the overarching goals of this pilot study are to
      investigate the impact of an interactive music therapy (IMT) intervention on pain management
      and opioid use in cancer survivors with chronic pain versus a verbal-based support program
      (social attention control). This pilot study uses a mixed methods intervention design in
      which qualitative data (i.e. semi-structured follow-up interviews) are embedded within a
      randomized controlled trial. We will randomize 40 cancer survivors to one of two 10-session
      treatments: 1) Interactive Music Therapy or 2) Social Attention Control. Primary (mean daily
      opioid use) and secondary outcomes (pain intensity, pain interference, pain-related
      self-efficacy, patient perception of change, and physician perception of change in pain
      management) will be measured at baseline, post-intervention and 3-month follow-up. Follow-up
      interviews with a subsample of 12 participants and 4 physicians will enable us to gain a
      better understanding of potential treatment benefits, learn about challenges encountered, and
      obtain suggestions for treatment optimization. This is the first music therapy study to
      examine the benefits of music therapy for opioid tapering in cancer survivors with chronic
      pain and the results will be used to establish estimates of variance for sample size
      calculations for a larger-scale randomized control trial.
    
  