
    
      Individuals with chronic heart failure (CHF) have been found to have poor respiratory muscle
      strength and endurance. The reduction of respiratory muscle strength may be a sign of
      increased work of breathing in CHF. Exercise intolerance and dyspnea are common symptoms of
      patients with CHF and are relevant with a poor functional capacity and quality of life. The
      primary aim of cardiac rehabilitation programs for CHF patients is to increase their exercise
      tolerance and quality of life. Patients with CHF have decreased lung volume, increased work
      of breathing, and greater oxygen consumption. Pulmonary rehabilitation may improve quality of
      life and exercise capacity in patients with CHF. It has been shown that inspiratory muscle
      training is beneficial for improving respiratory muscle strength, functional capacity, and
      dyspnea in patients with stable heart failure and respiratory muscle weakness.

      It has been found that inspiratory muscle training (IMT) results in improvement in
      inspiratory muscle strength, functional capacity and quality of life of patients with CHF and
      inspiratory muscle weakness. Previous studies have shown that the diaphragm has circulatory
      functions in addition to its better known respiratory functions, that diaphragm strength and
      endurance diminish in CHF.

      Kinesio taping is a relatively new bandaging technique usually applied to normalize muscle
      function, increase lymph and blood circulation, decrease pain and/or aid the correction of
      joint misalignment. In literature there are several studies demonstrating results of
      inspiratory muscle training on pulmonary function in patients with CHF. But we haven't found
      any studies demonstrating effects of kinesio taping on respiratory mechanics and exercise
      capacity in patients with CHF. The study we designed therefore may contribute to the
      literature and may inform future studies.We hypothesized that KT methods used for respiratory
      muscles would be effective on improving pulmonary function, respiratory muscle strength,
      quality of life, functional capacity of CHF patients.

      Clinically stable 57 CHF patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class
      II-III, between the ages 43 and 89 participated in the study. All participants were recruited
      between September 2016 and February 2017. All the assessments and treatments were performed
      in the same hospital, Istanbul University Institution of Cardiology, by the same person. The
      experimental group received Kinesio Taping; the breathing exercise group received IMT; and
      the control group received no interventions. The Kinesio Taping group received KT
      facilitation technique for musculus diaphragmaticus (ventral and dorsal parts) and for
      musculus obliquus internus-externus abdominis (bilateral) to improve inspiratory and forced
      expiratory muscle activity, respectively. KT was applied twice a week during a 4-week period.
      By combination of these muscle techniques we investigated the changes in pulmonary functions,
      respiratory muscle strength, functional exercise capacity, functional mobility, hand grip
      strength, quality of life and level of depression. All the assessments were performed at
      baseline and four weeks after treatment.
    
  