
    
      22 (People with Haemophilia) PWH will be included in each group (Hypnosis, CBT and control-no
      intervention) (total=66). Sample size was calculated using G*Power 3.1.4 and considering the
      following assumptions: to perform a one-way ANOVA with fixed effects, a large effect size (f
      =0.4), a significance level (α - type I error) of 0.05 and a statistical power (1-β - type II
      error) of 0.80.

      The patients will be approached by clinicians of the Immunohaemotherapy Department and the
      psychologists for the explanation of the study, confidentiality and voluntary nature of
      participation. Patients who agree to participate will be asked to read and sign the Informed
      Consent document. Afterwards, the first assessment moment will take place in order to get a
      baseline assessment of each patient (T0: pre-test). Subsequently, the blind randomization to
      one of the 3 conditions will occur and the 4 individual intervention sessions will be
      scheduled, occurring in a weekly basis (90 minutes per session).

      The post-test assessment (T1) takes place one week after the last intervention session (in
      the 5th week), and the follow-up assessments (T2, T3 and T4) will occur subsequently at 3
      months, 6 months and one year post-intervention.

      A physiological assessment will be performed at T1, T2 and T4. This will be performed through
      the collection of blood samples in order to achieve a systemic evaluation of pro-inflammatory
      and anti-inflammatory cytokines. A CBC (Complete Blood Count) with White Blood Count and C
      Reactive Protein (CRP) analysis will also be performed. Upon arrival at the
      Immunohaemotherapy Department (between 9:30 am and 1:30 pm), patients will undergo sample
      blood collection and EDTA-samples will be transported immediately to the lab.

      In the lab, blood samples are centrifuged 15 minutes at 3.000 rpm, and plasma aliquoted and
      stored in a freezer at -80 ºC, until further analysis. Plasma levels of cytokines (IL-6,
      IL-1β, TNF-α, IL-10) are assayed in duplicate using ultra-sensitive multiplex human ELISA
      kits (Life Technologies®).

      Functional Assessment of the joints will be performed through the Gilbert (based on clinical
      evaluation) and Pettersson Scores (based on X-ray and ultrasonography).

      All study procedures will comply with the applicable ethical guidelines.
    
  