
    
      The study is a population-based, observational cross-section examination carried out on one
      day, and an outcome evaluation six months later. The examination should be repeated annually.
      Data is collected with the help of questionnaires. Anonymised data entry into the audit
      database is done with individual and anonymous center and unit-codes.

      There are 2 questionnaires to complete on nutritionDay. The unit staff completes 1
      questionnaire about structure of the unit and 1 questionnaire about resident characteristics.

        1. unit sheet: asks for nutrition related organisational and structural information on the
           unit.

        2. resident description: asks for general characteristics, diseases, care level, mobility
           and restrictions on food intake.

      Outcome Evaluation: re-assesses the resident's outcome 6 months after nutritionDay (residence
      after 6 months, actual weight, and hospitalization). This questionnaire has to be completed 6
      months after nutritionDay by the unit staff.

      Participation rules:

        1. A user needs to register to nutritionDay as a member to the nutritionDay network. Each
           may choose a personal user name. Each user needs to provide a valid email address. After
           responding to a validation email the user is registered with the chosen user name. User
           details are stored on a system that is not connected to the nutritionDay registry at any
           time. One user may serve as contact for several units and centers.

        2. A user may order codes for participation for one or several centers and units. Access to
           the registry is only possible with a center code and unit code. These codes are selected
           from a list of random numbers.

      Audit/registry recruitment plan:

      Participation to the registry is voluntary. There is actually no participation fee. All
      necessary information can be obtained from a dedicated website (www.nutritionday.org).
      Participation can be promoted via international and national scientific societies,
      universities, health care organisations or governmental agencies as well as via advertisement
      at international and national congresses. T

      Risk and benefit assessment:

      The study implies no risk whatsoever for the residents. On some levels participation can even
      be expected to be beneficial:

        -  Direct benefit for residents through increased attention to nutritional problems.

        -  Raising awareness of decision-makers brought about by the decision-making process taking
           place prior to participating in the study and receiving the quality report of the
           nursing unit or facility.

        -  Increase awareness of the staff of nursing homes by participating in the study and the
           quality report. Pilot results suggest that in terms of the Hawthorne effect, just
           participation alone has a positive influence on nutrition management on nursing units.

        -  Since the project is planned for at least two years, it is possible to repeat the study
           after one year, to be able to monitor changes which were introduced as a result of the
           first report.

        -  Due to prior announcement on the nursing units, residents and their trustees are made
           aware of the issue of malnutrition and proper diet management. The nutritionDay in
           hospitals has shown that in many cases for the first time discussions between staff,
           patients and relatives on this subject were set in motion.

      Documentation of the results of the study, data management and data security

      All the necessary data for documentation of the study are entered on the questionnaires. On
      the study forms the nursing unit is identified by a numerical code, which is allocated after
      application from the audit facility. The questionnaires only include information on year of
      birth of the residents and their initials. If requested by the nursing units, to facilitate
      the evaluation of outcomes. the evaluation can be completed without the initials.

      The data are entered online into the database from the facility. The coordination center does
      not have access at any time to documents that would influence the anonymity of the residents.

      The data in the coordination center is checked for credibility prior to further evaluation.
      In the case of unclear or incomplete data, feedback to the responsible person on the nursing
      unit takes place and a possible correction of data is made. All data are analyzed
      anonymously, and the results are made available to each nursing unit so that the identity of
      the nursing unit, as well as the anonymity of the individual residents is assured.

      Communication of Results Following data input of the resident's outcome, each nursing unit
      (the nutritionDay Project Leader person on the ward nursing unit responsible for organizing
      the nutritionDay and should be who is clearly identifiable by an e-mail address) receives the
      results compared to the whole project in the form of a quality report on nutritional intake
      and influencing factors.

      The results of the study are published by the head of the study in a scientific journal and
      presented at scientific conferences.

      Statistical Methods An analysis on survival with the target variable "death in nursing homes
      within six months" will be carried out. Existing risk factors are to be taken into account as
      covariant causes. Information on the time of admission to the nursing home and the time of
      death of the residents will be available.

      In addition, the trend of weight development of the surviving residents between the
      nutritionDay and a half year thereafter will be recorded. The connection between nutritional
      status and weight on the nutritionDay and the course of weight thereafter of the surviving
      residents will be analyzed
    
  