
    
      Primary Objectives:

        1. Evaluate the short- and long-term end-organ complications post-COVID-19 in relation to
           the severity of the acute COVID-19 infection.

        2. Establish a post-COVID-19 biobank.

      Secondary Objectives:

      1) Develop a model based that may predict the development of end-organ complications.

      Primary Endpoint:

      The development of any end-organ complication that can plausibly be related to COVID-19.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Any change in cardiac ejection fraction (EF) post-COVID-19.

        2. Detection of any new abnormality on pulmonary function testing (PFT) or any change in
           PFT compared to a pre- or post-COVID-19 baseline PFT.

        3. Any increase (beyond the upper limit of normal) in serum creatinine that is not
           secondary to a urinary tract infection, or a pre- or post-renal process.

        4. An increase in liver enzymes > 3X upper limit of normal that occurs post-COVID-19 and is
           not associated to any other process (e.g. cholestasis, drug toxicity, alcohol abuse,
           hepatitis A, B, C, D, E).

        5. Any change in pre-COVID-19 weight, waist circumference or % fat mass that is not due to
           a change in diet or activity level.

        6. Any change in blood glucose, glucose tolerance testing, continuous glucose monitoring
           (CGM), HgA1C, lipid profile, thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), T3/T4, cortisol from
           pre-COVID that persists during the mid- and/or late recovery phase or that occurs post
           COVID-19.

        7. A positive fecal calprotectin or lactoferrin measurement during any of the COVID-19
           recovery phases.

        8. Any significant change in renal parameters (micro-albuminuria, creatinine, glomerular
           filtration rate [GFR]) in any of the COVID-19 recovery phases compared to pre-COVID-19
           or between 2 different recovery phase evaluations.

        9. Any change in food habits (nutritional quantity and quality) as measured by the Food
           Frequency Questionnaire, in physical activity as measured by pedometer reading, and/or
           well-being as measured by our Well-Being Questionnaire.

      Methodology:

      Patients diagnosed with COVID-19 (for more than 28 days) will have 3 to 4 medical visits
      depending on the time since diagnosis (1 year post-diagnosis). Control patients will have 3
      medical visits. The data will be collected for clinical monitoring and banking purposes
      (biobank). Medical visits include:

        -  Stool collection (optional)

        -  Nasopharyngeal swab and nasal curettage (optional)

        -  Medical questionnaire

        -  Epidemiological questionnaire

        -  Well-being questionnaire

        -  Food frequency questionnaire

        -  Interval clinical assessment

        -  Physical exam (if indicated)

        -  Vital signs

        -  Measurement of waist circumference

        -  Weight and height measurement

        -  Impedance / evaluation of body mass composition

        -  Pedometer reading (worn for 7 days continuously)

        -  Continuous glucose monitoring (monitor worn for 14 days continuously; FreeStyle Libre
           Pro, Abbott)

        -  Urine collection

        -  Blood draw

        -  Saliva collection

        -  Pulmonary function test

        -  Echocardiography and electrocardiogram
    
  