
    
      This non-interventional, minimal risk cohort study will enroll and follow patients with
      hemophilia A or B as they receive hemophilia treatment for 4 years. This is a pragmatic study
      of real-world practices across a wide range of patients which will be ongoing as new
      treatment products receive FDA approval and will be advantageous to the entire hemophilia
      community. The total study duration is planned for 6 years.

      The patients are seen at baseline, annually, and at study exit. Patients will also receive
      routine quarterly follow-up phone calls from HTC staff to review medical history, bleed
      events, and product treatment history. Other visits for unplanned events or for the change of
      treatment product will be scheduled as necessary. All required study visits will be planned
      to coincide with routine clinical care whenever possible. Co-enrollment in the ATHNdataset by
      patients is required to participate in the study.

      Please note - the treatment regimen will be at the discretion of the patients' hemophilia
      caregivers. No treatment products are being provided by the study nor will the participants
      be paid. However, inhibitor titer testing will be provided at no cost to patients by the
      Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC).

      The primary objective is to determine the safety of non-factor products, bypassing agents or
      clotting factor replacement products when used for people with hemophilia with or without
      inhibitors. Safety will be measured by those events listed in the European Haemophilia Safety
      Surveillance (EUHASS).

      Data collected will include eligibility, demographics, medical history, hemophilia history
      (genotype and family history), inhibitor history and immune tolerance induction (ITI)
      treatment regimen (if applicable), co-morbidities at baseline (i.e., HIV, Hepatitis C),
      detailed treatment product(s) usage, bleeding events, surgical procedures, and EUHASS adverse
      events and other adverse events of special interest. Data collection will also include
      patient-reported outcome questionnaires regarding health-related quality of life, treatment
      use and patient perceptions of treatment products.

      Sub-studies

      A number of sub-studies are planned with pharmaceutical sponsors to collect information from
      patients about their specific product use. Participation in these sub-studies (Product
      Specific Modules) is optional and sub-study visits will be planned to coincide with HTC
      visits. The modules will collect information from patients about their perception and use of
      treatment products, physical activity levels and other general health questions. This data
      will be collected via questionnaire.

      Data Collection System

      All data collected will be entered into electronic case report forms (eCRFs) within the
      secure ATHN System by HTC site personnel. All participating study sites will have in place a
      current, executed Data Use and Business Associate Agreement (DUBAA) with ATHN.
    
  