
    
      Background: During the last seven years, our research group has collected considerable
      experience with conducting and contributing studies aiming to prevent relapse of depression
      and readmissions using a complex intervention with electronic self-monitoring in combination
      with feedback from health investigators. In our first study ("SAFE-I: Electronic
      self-monitoring with clinical feedback in depression, a feasibility study"), we used a
      self-monitoring system to investigate the connection between sleep and depression after
      discharge from a psychiatric inpatient ward to the Intensive Affective Outpatient Clinic
      (IAOC) in combination with weekly feedback from investigators by telephone. Patients
      evaluated the electronic system with a high usability score, and there was a high data entry
      rate. Patients gradually delayed their sleep after discharge from the psychiatric inpatient
      ward, and this delay of sleep was found to be related to a worsening of depression.
      Subsequently, we designed a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) ("SAFE II: Can electronic
      self-monitoring with closed loop feedback focusing on regulation of the sleep-wake cycle
      reduce relapse of depression after discharge from a psychiatric ward") that included patients
      before discharge from a psychiatric inpatient ward and in the early faces of their stay at
      IAOC, and followed them for four weeks. Patients were randomized to one group using
      electronic self-monitoring with feedback from health investigators focusing on self-reported
      data, and another group that in addition to the electronic self-monitoring was guided to
      attain signals to the circadian clock to stabilize the, sleep-wake cycle (diet, daylight
      exposure, sleep, and behavioral motivation towards social function and physical activity). In
      all, 103 patients were included in the trial (last patient visit 22-12-2020). From the
      qualitative data in this study, we found that patients expressed a feeling of support and
      safety by participating in the study. They especially felt that the electronic
      self-monitoring with continuous feedback from investigators provided them with an important
      reflection on their activity and mental health. The depression severity decreased
      significantly in both groups, comparable to what was found in the SAFE-I study. Readmission
      rates were low in both groups (7.8 %). However, the study lacked an independent evaluation of
      the implementation of the health interventions, i.e. process evaluation. Users were not
      involved in the study's design. The SAFE-studies found that feedback from investigators is
      deemed critical for a positive outcome, a finding supported by reviews of studies using
      electronic self-monitoring in combination with feedback from investigators for patients with
      depression. This proposed trial comprise further development based on experiences from these
      studies.

      Objective: Recovery-by-eHealth investigates whether a complex intervention can aid recovery
      and prevent relapse in depression and readmissions in patients who have previously been
      treated for depression at a psychiatric outpatient clinic.

      Design: A randomized controlled trial. Participants will be 1:1 randomized into either an
      recovery-group or a control-group.

      Intervention: Participants allocated to the recovery-group will make daily self-monitoring
      about their physical, mental and social health in an app for one week in total each month. At
      the end of these weekly periods a health investigator will phone the patients to provide
      feedback. Additional calls are allowed when needed. Patients allocated to the control-group
      will follow their usual treatment at their general practitioner and/or private practice
      psychiatrist.

      The project will be an intersectoral collaboration between 1) Mental Health Centre Copenhagen
      Rigshospitalet, Intensive Affective Outpatient Clinic 2) Centre for Research and Education in
      General Practice, University of Copenhagen 2) Centre for Social Medicine at Frederiksberg
      Hospital, 3) Competence Centre for Rehabilitation and Recovery, Mental Health Centre
      Ballerup, and 5) Private Practicing Psychiatrists.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Age > 18 years

        -  Treated for depression at the IAOC for minimum 6 months and with a planned continued
           treatment in primary health care

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Psychotic depression at inclusion

        -  Dementia or other organic brain disorders

        -  Alcohol substance abuse that is expected to interfere with the study procedures

        -  INSPIRE-O score > 65 at inclusion

      Primary outcome:

      • Personal recovery self-assessed by the Brief INSPIRE-O scale

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  Number of relapses of depression blindly assessed by the Diagnostic and Statistical
           Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM-IV)

        -  Depressive symptoms self-assessed by the Hamilton Depression Rating 6-item Scale
           (Ham-D6)

        -  Well-being self-assessed by the WHO-5 scale

        -  Recovery support self-assessed by the INSPIRE scale

      Explorative outcomes:

        -  Adherence to medication according to Medicine Adherence Rating Scale (MARS)

        -  Rate of hospital re-admissions

        -  Perceived stress according to Cohen's Perceived Stress Scale (PSS)

        -  The Perseverative Thinking Questionnaire (PTQ) to assess repetitive negative thinking
           and anxiety

        -  Rate of biochemistry: C-Reactive Protein (CRP; mg/dL), total-cholesterol (mg/dL),
           Low-Density Lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL; mg/dL), Low-Density Lipoprotein cholesterol
           (HDL; mg/dL), triglyceride (mg/dL), thyrotropin (TSH; mIU/L), vitamin-D (nmol/L) and
           HbA1c, oxidative stress, and hair cortisol

        -  Rate of Body Mass Index (BMI)

        -  Rate of blood pressure

        -  Rate of psychiatric readmissions in a five-year follow-up period after ending the study

        -  Rate of connection to the labor market in a five-year follow-up period after ending the
           study

      Qualitative data will be used to support the quantitative outcomes.

      Trial size: 130 participants.

      Time schedule: The trial has been submitted for regulatory approvals November 2020, the first
      participant will be included August 2021, the expected last follow-up of the last participant
      will be August 2024. Data will be analyzed and published from August 2023 till August 2024,
      and we expect to submit the first manuscript December 2023.
    
  