
    
      Following approval by the National Cancer Institute Review Board, eligible subjects will be
      recruited prospectively from the Breast Cancer Department at National Cancer Institute,
      México from November 2016 to November 2017. Individuals with confirmed cancer undergoing
      total mastectomy (TM), modified radical mastectomy (MRM) and/or axillary lymph node
      dissection (ALND) in which surgical drains are going to be used will be identified through
      the surgical scheduling sheet. If the subjects are eligible according to the inclusion
      criteria, the will be interviewed by one of the main researchers. In the initial interview
      the informed consent will be read and signed. Also the study coordinator will collect the
      data of interest from the medical records and will register it in a data collection sheet
      specially created for this project.

      Following informed consent, participants will be randomize to either the standard drain care
      regimen or the drain antisepsis regimen by a computerized randomization program, using
      dynamic allocation and stratifying by surgical procedure (radical surgery or conservative
      surgery). Subjects who had bilateral cancer underwent to the same regimen for both sides. The
      operating surgeon will know the assigned treatment arm at the end of the surgery.

      The surgery will consist on placing a chlorhexidine gluconate occlusive adhesive dressing to
      the drains side at the end of the surgery. The dressing will be changed each 7 (+-1) days
      until the drain is removed.

      All the participants and the principal take-carers, despite of the group of participation,
      will be personal instructed by a member of the research team in the first hours of the
      postoperative, before the departure. In addition, they will be given paper based instructions
      for the general care of the drain and the surgery wound.

      For the experimental group, the dressing will be changed each 7(+-1) days; The site of the
      insertion must be cleaned with 70% concentration isopropyl alcohol towels. The evaluation and
      quantification of the drained fluid will be done every 12 hours as it is done usually in
      these patients.

      The patients will be followed for 30 days from the surgery until the resolution of the
      infectious complication, if it occurs. The patients will go at the end of the first
      postoperative week (POP 7+-1). In each visit, the coordinator of the study will register the
      information of the patient in the register sheet. In each visit the patient will be
      evaluated, the characteristics of the surgical wound and the characteristics of drain fluid
      will be consigned in the protocol register sheet. The investigator will verify that the
      participants have correctly done the clean-up the drain.

      All patients will undergo semiquantitative cultures of the drain bulb at the first and second
      week postoperative. Also the investigators will take the distal part of the internal segment
      of each removed drainage tube for semiquantitative culture. All participants will be
      evaluated for clinical signs of infection and for any adverse reactions to the drain
      antisepsis at the follow-up visits. In case of a surgical site infection, the patient will
      receive the right treatment and will remain in surveillance until the resolution.
    
  