
    
      This was a Phase I, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, single ascending dose study
      to assess the safety, tolerability, and PK of CD24Fc in healthy male and female adult
      subjects.

      The population for this study was healthy males and females between the ages of 18 and 55
      years, inclusive, with a body mass index between 18 kg/m2 and 30 kg/m2, inclusive.

      A total of 40 subjects were enrolled in this study, in 5 cohorts of 8 subjects each. Six of
      the 8 subjects in each cohort received study drug and 2 subjects received placebo (0.9%
      sodium chloride, saline). The first cohort was dosed with 10 mg. Succeeding cohorts received
      30 mg, 60 mg, 120 mg, and 240 mg of CD24Fc or matching placebo and were dosed at least 3
      weeks apart to allow for review of safety and tolerability data for each prior cohort.
      Administration of the next higher dose to a new cohort of subjects was permitted only if
      adequate safety and tolerability had been demonstrated.

      In each cohort, the initial 2 subjects were 1 study drug recipient and 1 placebo recipient on
      Day 1 (sentinel subjects). Subjects 3 to 5 and 6 to 8 were dosed after Day 7 (a minimum of 24
      hours apart between the subgroups). Each subject was dosed at least 1 hour apart in the same
      subgroup. If necessary, dosing of the rest of the subjects was delayed pending review of any
      significant safety issues that may have arisen during the post-dose period involving the
      first or second subgroups in that cohort. The subsequent cohort was dosed at least 3 weeks
      after the prior cohort.

      The total study duration for each subject was up to 63 days. Single dose administration
      occurred on Day 1.

      The Screening Visit (Visit 1) occurred up to 21 days prior to the beginning of the active
      treatment period. After providing informed consent, subjects underwent screening procedures
      for eligibility.

      Subjects were admitted to the Clinical Pharmacology Unit (CPU) on Day -1 (Visit 2), and the
      randomized treatment period began on Day 1 following a 10-hour minimum overnight fast.
      Subjects were randomly assigned to treatment with CD24Fc or placebo as a single dose.
      Subjects remained confined until the morning of Day 4.

      All subjects returned to the CPU on Day 7, Day 14, Day 21, Day 28, and Day 42 (±1 day) for
      follow-up visits (Visit 3, Visit 4, Visit 5, Visit 6, and Visit 7). Visit 7 was the final
      visit for all subjects.

      The assessment of safety was based primarily on the frequency of adverse events, clinical
      laboratory assessments (chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis), physical examinations, vital
      signs, 12-lead electrocardiograms (ECGs), and continuous telemetry monitoring. The
      Intent-to-Treat (ITT) Population was used for all summaries.

      PK parameters were calculated using actual collection times. The following PK parameters for
      CD24Fc were calculated from the individual plasma concentrations profile by non compartmental
      approaches.

      The PK Evaluable Population was defined as all subjects in the ITT Population who had
      evaluable concentration-time profiles for CD24Fc. The PK Evaluable Population was the
      population used for all PK analyses.

      The PK listing, summary, and analysis were performed based on the plasma concentration of
      CD24Fc by treatment. Pharmacokinetic parameters were calculated using actual collection
      times. The PK parameters for CD24Fc (Cmax, Tmax, kel, t½, AUC0-42d, AUC0-inf, AUCextr, CL,
      and Vd) were calculated from the individual plasma concentrations profile by
      non-compartmental approaches.

      The concentration of CD24Fc was summarized descriptively at each nominal time point by
      treatment (e.g., n, mean, standard deviation [SD], coefficient of variation [CV%], standard
      error, median, minimum, and maximum). Mean concentration (±SD) was plotted on a linear scale
      against nominal time points by treatment. Geometric mean concentration was plotted on a
      semi-logarithmic scale against nominal time points. The PK Evaluable Population was used for
      the summary and individual concentrations.

      Individual concentration-time curves for CD24Fc were plotted on both a linear and
      semi-logarithmic scale against actual sampling times by subject.

      Pharmacokinetic parameters were summarized for the PK Evaluable Population. All parameters
      were summarized by treatment with the number of observations, mean, SD, CV%, standard error,
      median, maximum, and minimum. Geometric mean and geometric CV% were also provided for the
      summary of AUCs and Cmax.

      Dose proportionality of CD24Fc plasma PK parameters (AUCs and Cmax) was assessed using the
      power model: y = a DoseB, where y denotes the PK parameter being analyzed and a depends on
      subject. Dose proportionality implies that B = 1 and was assessed by estimated β along with
      its 90% confidence interval (CI). The exponent, B, in the power model was estimated by
      regressing the log-transformed PK parameter on log-transformed dose.

      The power model was fitted by restricted maximum likelihood using SAS Proc Mixed. Both the
      intercept and slope were fitted as fixed effects. The mean slope was estimated from the power
      model and the corresponding 90% CI calculated.

      The ITT Population consisted of all subjects who received at least 1 dose of the study drug.
      The ITT Population was the primary analysis population for subject information and safety
      evaluation.

      The assessment of safety was based primarily on the frequency and nature of adverse events,
      clinical laboratory assessments (chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis), physical
      examinations, vital signs, 12-lead ECGs, and telemetry monitoring. The ITT Population was
      used for all summaries.

      All adverse events were summarized by system organ class, preferred term, and treatment. A
      list of subjects who had serious adverse events (SAEs) and who discontinued from the study
      due to an adverse event was provided. The number and percentage of subjects who experienced
      at least 1 treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) were presented for each system organ class
      and for each preferred term by treatment. Treatment-emergent adverse events that were
      considered by the Investigator to be related to study drug were summarized in the same
      manner. Serious adverse events and adverse events leading to discontinuation from the study
      were listed separately.

      Clinical laboratory evaluations (chemistry, hematology, and urinalysis) were summarized by
      treatment and visit. Change from baseline was also summarized. Vital signs (blood pressure,
      heart rate, respiratory rate, and temperature) were summarized by treatment and time point.
      Change from baseline was also summarized. All physical examination data were listed.
      Electrocardiogram parameters and the change from baseline were summarized. Overall
      interpretations were listed.
    
  