
    
      Protocol: TRANSREG is a multicentric, uncontrolled, open-label study, comparing biological
      and clinical responses to the administration of low doses IL2 across 14 selected pathologies:
      rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, systemic lupus erythematosus, psoriasis,
      Behcet's disease, Wegener's granulomatosis, Takayasu's disease, Crohn's disease, ulcerative
      colitis, autoimmune hepatitis, sclerosing cholangitis, Gougerot-sjögren, Systemic Sclerosis
      and Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura. Methods: Each patient will receive 1MUI /day of IL2
      from Day-1 to Day-5 (the induction period), and then every 2 weeks (except systemic lupus
      erythematosus's patients will received every week) from Day-15 to Day-180 (the maintenance
      period). Patients will thereafter be followed up for 12 months (Day-181-Day-540). For each
      pathology, 6 patients will be included at Pitié-Salpêtrière, Cochin, Saint Antoine, Paul
      Brousse and Henri Mondor hospitals in Paris and Créteil, France. An interim analysis will be
      performed in each pathology group when the first six patients have received at least 3 months
      of treatment. In those pathology groups in which a Treg response will be documented, six
      additional patients will be included. In total, a minimum of 84 patients and up to 132
      patients will be enrolled in this study. Primary efficacy endpoint is the Treg response at
      Day-8 compared to baseline. Secondary efficacy endpoints are:- evolution of the Treg response
      during the maintenance period,- the changes in markers of inflammation - the clinical
      response, evaluated by means of global generic scales [Clinical Global Impression severity
      scale (CGI-sev) and Clinical Global Impression efficacy index (CGI-eff)] as well as specific
      clinical and biological evaluations for each disease, - the frequency of relapses, - the
      assessment of quality of life (scale EuroQL-5). Expected Results: TRANSREG will define which
      patients respond to IL2, whether per pathology or according to pre-treatment phenomics,
      allowing to guide further clinical development of low dose IL2 in autoimmune and
      auto-inflammatory diseases.
    
  