
    
      The specific aims of this study are to determine the following:

        1. The role of exenatide as compared to insulin monotherapy in reducing postprandial
           hyperglycemia.

        2. The role of exenatide on postprandial glucagon and gastric emptying.

        3. The effect of long acting insulin on postprandial glucose excursions, glucagon
           concentrations and gastric emptying.

        4. Postprandial glucose excursions, glucagon concentrations and gastric emptying in normal
           healthy controls.

      Study Design:

      A randomized, non-blinded trial with a crossover design will be used. Following informed
      consent and with appropriate subject assent, all subjects will have a screening visit.
      Following the screening visit, subjects with T1DM will undergo 3 studies: Part A (exenatide
      and long acting insulin), Part B (rapid and long acting insulin) and Part C (long acting
      insulin only). The subjects will be admitted to the CRC on three separate occasions, at least
      3-4 weeks apart. The three studies will be performed in a random order and the randomization
      will be done using a computerized system. The healthy controls will undergo a single study
      visit. Except for the absence of diabetes, the healthy controls will be identical to the
      study subjects. Subjects with new onset diabetes will be compared to healthy controls.

      During the study, if blood glucose values in a subject are less than 55 mg/dl, IV glucose of
      5-15 grams will be administered to achieve euglycemia (90-130 mg/dl). 1-2 doses of IV glucose
      should correct hypoglycemia. If more than 3 doses are required to achieve euglycemia, the
      study will be terminated, the subject will be offered a meal tray and blood sugar rechecked
      to ensure euglycemia. If blood sugar at any time is more than 350 with moderate ketones, the
      study will be terminated.

      At around 1 PM (270 min), lunch will be provided (consistent carbohydrate meal) and insulin
      will be given as per the subject's prescribed regimen. The subject will be discharged home
      with a designated driver due to the risk of hypoglycemia.

      A subject will be withdrawn from participating in the study if he/she meets any of the
      following conditions: 1)develops a chronic disease 2)develops anemia 3)becomes pregnant
      4)develops a weight loss of greater than 10 pounds for unspecified reasons 5)loss of contact-
      if the investigators are unable to reach a study subject (within 2 months of screening or
      completion of the first study) by phone or mail to schedule the next appointment. All study
      subjects (that are withdrawn from the study) will receive a phone call and a letter notifying
      them that they have been withdrawn.
    
  