
    
      Participants Sample of 32 patients with stroke, randomly allocated in the experimental group
      (EG) or in the control group (CG).

      Each participant underwent clinical assessments at Day 0 (the first day of treatment) and at
      the T1 time (last day of treatment after four weeks).

      All assessment tools were performed by trained researchers not involved in the treatment
      administration.

      All subjects underwent rehabilitative treatment for 4 consecutive weeks, 5 days per week.
      Each session consisted of 60 minutes of conventional treatment per day and, in addition,
      thirty minutes of Action Observation Training for the experimental group, or thirty minutes
      of Task Oriented Training for the control group.

      Clinical scales

        -  Canadian Neurological Scale

        -  Bamford Classification

        -  Fugl-Meyer Assessment Upper Extremity

        -  Box and Block Test

        -  Functional Independence Measure

        -  Modified Ashworth Scale

      Treatments adopted in the study:

        -  Action Observation Training

        -  Task Oriented Training

        -  Conventional Treatment

      Statistical Analysis Preliminary descriptive analysis to check the normal distribution of
      data using the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test.

      Parametric or non-parametric statistics depending on variables distribution. Student's T-test
      and Chi-square analyses to assess the homogeneity of the sample according to demographic and
      clinical data as appropriate.

      Determination of statistical significance of intra-group improvement from admission to
      discharge, pre-treatment and post-treatment scores using Wilcoxon signed-rank test for MAS,
      FMA-UE motor function, and BBT of the paretic arm, using t-test for FIM scores.

      Calculation of rehabilitative gain, as the difference between the post-treatment score and
      the baseline, divided by the difference between the maximum scoring of the test and the score
      obtained by the patient at the baseline. This index indicates the percentage of the
      improvement compared to the maximum obtainable improvement.

      The alpha level for significance was set at p < 0.05 for first level of analysis.

      Software for statistical analysis: Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS)
      software, version 20.0.
    
  