
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and asthma are both inflammatory airway diseases. A systematic
      review regarding sleep-disordered breathing (SDB) in asthmatic children analyzed 17 studies
      but only two of them had objective OSA measurement. In total, 45,115 children were included,
      53% boys, mean age 8.6 ± 2.5 years. SDB was present in 23.8% of asthmatic children and in
      16.7% of non-asthmatic (p < 0.001, OR 1.9, 95%CI 1.7-2.2).

      An American study found that OSA in asthmatic children increases hospital length of stay (OR
      2.3; 95% CI = 1.8 - 2.9). Brazilian database of the year 2015 showed that, among children
      5-19 years, asthma was the 5th cause of hospitalization: a total of 2.4% of the
      hospitalization in this age group, after birth and its complication (31%), limb fractures
      (5.7%), pneumonia (3.8%), and appendicitis (3.2%).

      The relationship among asthma severity (mild, moderate, and severe) and OSA has been
      described previously, but not in every study. Poor asthma control has also been linked to a
      higher OSA risk in adults and children.

      OSA and asthma share many risk factors: rhinitis, increased collapsibility of the upper
      airway, local and systemic inflammation, gastroesophageal reflux, and obesity.

      A higher risk of SDB in asthmatic girls has recently been described (OR 2.55 for girls and
      0.70 for boys). Among non-asthmatic children OSA is usually equal among boys and girls until
      adolescence. A possible explanation is asthma severity in children: younger boys are more
      severe but after puberty, girls are.

      Since OSA and asthma are linked diseases and that little is known about them in the pediatric
      field, specially differences related to sex, the investigators hypothesize that: 1) asthmatic
      girls have a higher OSA risk; 2) OSA will be higher in asthmatic children compared to the
      pediatric literature; 3) asthma severity, asthma control, and rhinitis will be related to a
      higher OSA risk. The investigators also aim to analyze factors associated with a higher risk
      of hospitalizations and asthma attacks.
    
  