
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Environmental and psychosocial factors relating to hypertension and cardiovascular disease
      are incompletely understood, particularly for women and African Americans. Recent research
      has suggested that job strain is more strongly linked to elevated work blood pressure in men
      than women. In contrast, the combination of having a high status job plus the trait of high
      effort coping style (John Henryism) was related to higher work blood pressure in women and
      African American men, but not Caucasian men.

      The grant has been ongoing since September 1983. The original study had as its purpose to
      ascertain similarities and differences in the etiology of hypertension for Blacks and whites
      and to identify those biobehavioral factors contributing to the excess risk for hypertension
      among Blacks. Myocardial, blood pressure, and renal responses (sodium and potassium handling)
      to laboratory and naturalistic stressors were evaluated in young adult normotensive or
      marginally hypertensive Black and white men. Behavioral stressors included competitive,
      reaction time tasks (active coping) as well as more passive coping conditions. Data were
      collected on family history of hypertension, family social class background, Type A behavior,
      propensity for anger and hostility, and coping style. The role of the sympathetic nervous
      system in mediating these effects was assessed by the use of beta-adrenergic antagonists.

      When the grant was renewed in 1991, the goal of the research was to evaluate the interactive
      effects of environmental stressors and sodium chloride (NACl) and potassium (K) intake as
      they related to hypertension development in a biracial population.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      There were two studies in the current grant. Study 1 reexamined hypothesized relationships of
      high effort coping and job strain to elevated ambulatory blood pressure (BP) at work and at
      home in a sample of 288 Black and white men and women stratified by job status. Also,
      assessments were made of the relationships of these traits to increased epinephrine and
      norepinephrine responses, other measures of sympathetic activation, adverse lipid profiles,
      and cardiac and vascular structural changes. Job strain and high effort coping were also
      related to hypertension prevalence in 576 black and white men and women stratified by job
      status. The influence of additional psychosocial variables (social support, hostility,
      anger-in, depressed mood, anxiety) was also examined.

      Study 2 built on prior research on gender differences in total peripheral resistance during
      stressors which enhance alpha-adrenergic activity, and on a recent observation that among
      young adults, slow sodium excretion during stress is seen in five times as many men as women.
      It also built on recent work suggesting that estrogen may attenuate total peripheral
      resistance responses to stress by reducing vasoconstrictive effects of alpha-adrenergic
      activity. The study was designed to examine cardiovascular, lipid, epinephrine,
      norepinephrine, and sodium excretion responses to stressors in 120 subjects maintained for a
      week on a controlled high salt diet. Thirty subjects were tested in each of these groups: 1)
      premenopausal women, 2) postmenopausal women not using hormone replacement therapy, 3)
      postmenopausal women using hormone replacement, 4) men. Each group included 15 Black and 15
      white subjects, and each subject was tested twice, once after receiving placebo and once
      after receiving either an alpha- or a beta-receptor antagonist.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  