
    
      The study will include 20 ASA II to IV patients with end-stage liver disease, scheduled for
      orthotropic liver transplantation between. Induction of anaesthesia will be by using propofol
      (2mg.kg) IV, fentanyl (1-2μg. kg) IV and atracurium (0.5 mg.kg) IV. Anaesthesia will be
      maintained with Sevoflurane adjusted between 1-2% in an air ⁄ oxygen mix (FiO2 0.6), fentanyl
      infusion at 1-2 μg.kg/h and atracurium infusion at 0.5 mg.kg/ h. Mechanical ventilation will
      be provided by using a Dräger anaesthesia machine (Dräger Primus®, Germany) using a tidal
      volume of 6-8 ml.kg with the respiratory rate adjusted to maintain the PaCO2 between 4-4.6
      kPa and PEEP of 5 cmH2O. All patients will be monitored for five lead ECG, peripheral oxygen
      saturation, noninvasive and invasive arterial blood pressure, temperature, end-tidal carbon
      dioxide tension, hourly urinary output, and central venous pressure (CVP). A 7-Fr triple
      lumen CVP catheter (Arrow International Inc, Reading, PA, USA) will be inserted into the
      right internal jugular vein. A pulmonary artery catheter (OPTIQ SVO2 ⁄CCO; Abbott
      Laboratories, North Chicago, IL, USA) will also be inserted into the right internal jugular
      vein. The pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) will be positioned using wedge pressure and
      confirmed with fluoroscopy.

      All patients will receive 6ml /kg/h Ringer acetate solution as a maintenance intraoperative
      fluid. If PPV is more than 15%, the patient will be considered as fluid responder and will
      receive a 250-ml bolus of or albumin 5% to maintain PPV ≤15%. Blood transfusion will be given
      based on a hemoglobin level (< 7 g/dl). Norepinephrine will be administered if the mean
      arterial pressure was less than 70 mmHg if systemic vascular resistance was less than 600
      dyne/sec/cm5 Epinephrine will be administered if mean arterial blood pressure was less than
      70 mm Hg and the cardiac index was less than 2.5 L/min/m2 despite sufficient volume infusion,
      to maintain a target cardiac index of 2.5-3.0 L/min/m2 Blood samples will be obtained
      simultaneously from arterial line, pulmonary artery catheter and central venous catheter at 4
      specific time points baseline, immediately after insertion of PAC; at the end of the
      dissection phase; 30 minutes after anhepatic phase; 30 minutes after unclamping. Blood
      samples will be also obtained whenever PPV is more than 15% and patient will need fluid
      therapy. Central venous oxygen saturation (ScVO2) will be recorded. Pcv-a CO2 gap will be
      calculated from a sample taken from the central venous catheter, the tip of which was
      conﬁrmed to be in the superior vena cava near or at the right atrium by radiography. Mixed
      venous-arterial carbon dioxide (Pmv-a CO2 gap) will be obtained from tip of pulmonary artery
      catheter All blood gases measurements will be made using a Cooximeter (ABL 700, Radiometer,
      Copenhagen, Denmark). Immediately after blood samples withdrawal, mean arterial blood
      pressure (MAP), heart rate, and cardiac output (CO) and arterial lactate will be recorded.
      Cardiac output will be determined by thermodilution technique using the PA catheter (Abbott
      Critical Care Systems, North Chicago).
    
  