
    
      1. Background

           Developmental dyslexia is the most prevalent learning disorder impairing reading skill
           even in individuals having normal intelligence and full availability of education (Lyon
           et al., 2003). It is highly heritable, and several candidate genes contributing to
           dyslexia have been identified (Scerri & Schulte-Körne, 2010). A wide range of deficits
           have been associated with dyslexia, but according to the most prevalent theory its major
           cause is impaired phonological processing (Ramus, 2001). The MMN, the generators of
           which overlap with brain areas reported to have anatomical abnormalities in dyslexia,
           has supported this notion. Diminished MMN amplitudes have systematically been reported
           in dyslexics for certain speech and non-speech sound features (for a review Kujala &
           Näätänen, 2001). These effects were even found in children and infants having an
           inherited risk for dyslexia (Leppänen et al., 2002; Lovio et al., 2010). Furthermore, a
           recent study in our group has shown that dyslexic children have problems in forming
           memory traces for words (Kimppa et al., in prep.), whereas both the auditory system of
           normal-reading adults (Shtyrov et al., 2010) and children (Kimppa et al., in prep.) was
           shown to rapidly form representations for novel words.

           It was recently suggested that phonological deficits in dyslexia can occur due to
           impairments in different steps of sound processing. According to this theory, dyslexic
           individuals can be divided into different subgroups. Ramus and colleagues (2013)
           suggested that dyslexic individuals show an impairment in phonological representations
           or at later processing stages as an impairment in phonological skills.

           The current project will utilize combined electroencephalographic (EEG) and
           magnetoencephalographic (MEG) recordings and neuropsychological and perceptual testing
           in order to determine how impaired phonological neural representations vs. phonological
           skills contribute to dyslexia. Defined as time-locked changes to external stimuli in EEG
           and magnetoencephalogram MEG, event-related potentials (ERPs) and event-related fields
           (ERFs), respectively, could provide an objective index of information processing in the
           human brain. Both EEG and MEG methods offer a high temporal resolution. The benefit of
           MEG is offered by a more exact localization of the activated neural sources due to a
           diminished effect of distortions caused by the skull and tissue than in the process of
           EEG source localization. It will complement and add more specific information to
           dyslexia ERP research additional to the previous studies that were mostly conducted with
           EEG. For a summary of dyslexia studies conducted with MEG, see the review from Salmelin
           (2007).

           Neural responses recorded with EEG and MEG have widely been used both in the service of
           basic research and clinically-oriented research. During the recent years, a cortical
           response called the mismatch negativity (MMN) has been in intensive use in investigating
           auditory perception and its deficits. MMN is an ERP component elicited by any change in
           some repetitive aspect of auditory stimulation, peaking at 100-200 ms from change onset
           and detectable both electrically (MMN) and magnetically (MMNm). It was suggested that
           MMN provides an index of the auditory sensory ("echoic") memory and automatic
           (involuntary) change-detection. It also reflects native-language specific speech-sound
           memory traces (Näätänen et al., 1997). MMN is elicited even when the subject is not
           attending the auditory stimuli. Therefore, it has been popular in investigating a
           variety of patient groups during the recent years (for reviews, see Näätänen et al.,
           2007; Kujala et al., 2007).

           In addition to the processing of syllables or (pseudo-)words, the neural activity during
           comprehension of complex real-life speech by recording single-trial MEG will be
           characterized. A model-free analysis method investigates inter-subject correlations
           (ISC) between individuals with and without dyslexia. This approach will give insight
           about auditory processing characteristics in a more natural condition. The method of ISC
           has been proven viable in research during natural conditions, e.g. movie watching or
           listening to music, mainly using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). It has
           been introduced by Hasson and colleagues in 2004, who found that brain regions
           synchronize between subjects during movie viewing. In MEG, this approach has only been
           used scarcely (e.g. Lankinen et al., 2014; Suppanen, 2014; Thiede, 2014). However, it
           confirms and complements the results from fMRI research. In language research, temporal
           correlations that were investigated with the ISC method, have only been reported in
           resting state networks in children with reading difficulties (Dimitriadis et al., 2013).
           The results confirm findings from fMRI studies. Thus, the method offers new, promising
           insights into the neural underpinnings of dyslexia.

           Developmental dyslexia is a heritable disorder with polygenic origin. Several candidate
           genes have been detected in the recent years (Kere, 2014 for a review), associated with
           functions of neuronal migration and auditory processing. However, the connection between
           the auditory responses of the brain and the genetic cause of the disorder has not been
           confirmed yet. More research on the connections between the genetic and neural markers
           of dyslexia is needed in order to verify different existing hypotheses.

           Previous activity

           Research in the experimenters group has shown that at group level, cortical low-level
           discrimination of sounds and speech sounds is impaired in dyslexia (Kujala, 2007 for a
           review). This was reflected in diminished MMN responses (e.g., Kujala et al., 2006;
           Schulte-Körne et al., 1998; Neuhoff et al., 2012) and in enhancements of MMNs as a
           result of dyslexia intervention (Kujala et al., 2001; Lovio et al., 2012). These results
           suggest a strong connection between this neural response and dyslexia. Furthermore, the
           investigators' results suggest weak associations between the neural representations of
           speech sounds and written letters in the brains of dyslexics (Mittag et al., 2013),
           which could reflect deficits in phonological skills in dyslexia. Furthermore, studies
           carried out in the current research group have lead to the identification of candidate
           genes of dyslexia (e.g. Hannula-Jouppi et al., 2005; Schumacher et al., 2006). In a
           recent review, nine genes and four gene loci have been listed in a summary of genetic
           loci associated with developmental dyslexia (Kere, 2014). Some candidate genes were
           shown to be linked with axonal connections and others with neuronal migration functions.

        2. Objectives and methods

      This study aims at determining neurocognitive underpinnings of dyslexia and their connection
      with genes. The target neural processes impaired in different subgroups of dyslexic
      individuals involve phonological representations vs. phonological skills. Phonological
      representations are reflected in the low-level discrimination of speech sounds, whereas
      phonological skills can be mirrored in audiovisual integration of written and spoken letters.
      With neuropsychological tests, it will be determined which participants have primarily weak
      speech representations or poor phonological skills. It is hypothesized that participants with
      weak phonological representations have diminished MMN/MMNm responses. However, participants
      who do not have these problems, but instead have poor phonological skills, are expected to
      have normal-like MMN/MMNm responses but deficient responses reflecting audiovisual
      integration, such as no difference in effects of printed text versus nonsense visual material
      on early auditory speech discrimination. These two types of dyslexic groups are hypothesized
      to have alterations in partly different dyslexia candidate genes.

      Auditory processing in the brain under more complex, real-world conditions will be
      investigated using single-trial MEG during presentation of natural speech sounds. It is
      expected that the synchronized brain activity differs between the dyslexic and control group.
      Specifically, it is expected that dyslexic subjects show decreased synchrony in the left
      temporoparietal cortex (Temple, 2002). Single-trial data could furthermore show a connection
      to genes, as suggested by Giraud and Ramus (2013), who hypothesized that a disruption of
      auditory cortical oscillations modifies the access to phonological representations.

      Dyslexia is known to be associated with several candidate genes (for a review, see Kere,
      2014). The candidate genes are associated with language skills and with the brain's ERPs. The
      gene research in cooperation with Prof. Juha Kere's laboratory in Folkhälsan research centre
      in Biomedicum, Helsinki or Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, will aim at proofing the
      connection between dyslexia candidate genes and neural event-related activity of the brain to
      pseudoword stimuli.

      Stimuli and procedure

      MMN and MMNm responses to sound changes in pseudoword /tata/ (vowel, vowel duration, and
      syllable frequency changes) will be recorded while participants attend a movie or see
      concurrent visually-presented pseudoword stimuli. During the auditory condition, subjects
      will watch a silenced movie while being presented frequent "standard" stimuli, namely a
      pseudoword (/tata/) and infrequent "deviant" (see below) auditory stimuli. The task is to
      attend the movie and to ignore the background sounds. The audiovisual condition includes the
      same pseudoword stimuli, but instead of watching a movie, subjects will see the written
      letters of the presented pseudoword or a scrambled picture of the pseudoword letters.
      Distractors, such as counting deviant stimuli or different shapes and colours of the visual
      stimulus, will be given as the main task to the participants. They will be instructed to
      ignore the sounds.

      The pseudoword stimuli are as follows:

        -  standard: /tata/

        -  vowel deviant: /tato/

        -  frequency deviant - higher frequency in the 2nd syllable

        -  duration deviant: /tataa/ - 2nd syllable twice as long as in the standard

      The stimuli will be presented in a combined multi-feature and oddball design (Näätänen et
      al., 2004). All deviant types will be presented in the same sequence with 1-4 standards
      between each successive 2 deviants.

      In addition to recording MMNm responses, a single-trial, continuous recording of brain
      activity for a real-world stimulus will be recorded. Approximately 8 min of natural speech
      (Finnish speaker) will be presented to both groups with the task of mere listening and
      keeping the eyes open. A recording of 8 min during rest with eyes open will complete the
      addition.

      In order to examine differences in general cognitive abilities and performance profile
      between groups, the participants will undergo behavioural tests. Dyslexia characteristics
      will be assessed with parts of the Nevala dyslexia test (Nevala et al., 2006). General and
      performance Intelligence Quotient (IQ) as well as phonological and working memory will be
      tested using the Wechsler Intelligence Scale (WAIS-III; Wechsler, 1997a) and subtests of
      Wechsler Memory Scale (WMS-III; Wechsler, 1997b). Phonological naming will be assessed with
      the rapid alternate stimulus naming (RAS) test for speed and accuracy (Wolf, 1986). These or
      corresponding neuropsychological tests will be executed in max. 2 hours in an independent
      test session from the MEG session.

      Additionally, saliva or blood samples (2x9 ml blood) will be collected by a trained nurse
      after subject's approval. DNA will be extracted from these samples and stored in Folkhälsan
      research centre in Juha Kere's laboratory. The DNA analysis focuses on any related candidate
      genes in their different variants using DNA sequencing techniques to determine the genotypes
      (Taqman, Sequenom). Possible links between the electric and magnetic activity of the brain
      and candidate genes for dyslexia are searched for.
    
  