
    
      Aim: A non-invasive, effective, compatible, Integrative treatment option to address the
      growing burden of Vascular disease; Importance: Ayurvedic SUVED (cardio tonic, continuous
      clotlysis, endothelial repair, powerful rejuvenator, antioxidant) and Reimmugen (Cow
      Colostrum - IgG, GF) provides sustained Functional, symptomatic relief with clinical reports
      of regression of disease. No adverse interactions reported.

      Application: Addition of SUVED & REIMMUGEN helps in:

        -  Acute MI, Thrombotic stroke, DVT, hastens symptomatic recovery, reduces hospitalization
           time, mortality, helps dissolve clots / soft thrombus; reversal of atherosclerotic
           plaques; improves functional life

        -  Improvements in Cardiac Function : LVEF; Global perfusion

        -  Rejuvenation of endothelium, vascular function.

        -  Improved physical strength: digestion; GI function; immunity; accelerated internal
           healing

        -  Secondary prevention to avoid incidences in post event treatment.

      Health condition/problem studied Vascular disease, esp CVA, IHD, CAD, DVT, PAD Volunteers
      taken from OPD and IPD of SKNMC & GH with prior consent for participation.

      Intervention is Medicament based given in addition to conventional ongoing therapy under the
      guidance of SKNMC doctors.

      Study type Clinical trial: Double Blind placebo controlled trial. Interventional Trial:
      regular treatment. Evaluation of additional Integrative esp Ayurvedic medicaments on clinical
      and functional outcome.

      Intervention and comparator agent

        1. Ayurvedic ghana formulation named SUVED.

        2. Whole Cow Colostrum called Reimmugen These will be given for a period of three months in
           addition to ongoing medication to study the additional benefit to patient in their
           functional and clinical investigations.

      The control intervention/s is/are the interventions against which the study intervention is
      evaluated as double blind placebo.

      Suved 1 BD for 3 months Reimmugen 1 TDS for 3 months In acute cases Suved 1 TDS Reimmugen 2
      TDS for 3 months. Inclusion/ Exclusion criteria Inclusion criteria

      Adult males or females with a diagnosis of Vascular disease leading to IHD, CAD, CVA, DVT,
      PAD at any stage.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Pregnant and lactating women, Patients below age of 18 Acute IPD operative condition Patients
      undergoing interventional procedures / surgical treatments other than for Vascular disease;
      until they are discharged from intensive care; Haemorrhagic cerebro vascular stroke.
    
  