
    
      This study was developed in the spirit of the K01 mechanism, thoughtfully linking training to
      research. The research study proposed in this K01-application includes the conduct of three
      specific aims that are aligned with four training objectives.

      Objective 1 outlines an intensive training and mentoring plan on social theory including
      theories of intersectionality and emerging masculinities.

      Objective 2 provides in-depth training on qualitative research methods including how to
      conduct focus groups, in-depth interviews, and qualitative data analysis. Aim 1, which will
      be conducted after Objective 2, is to elucidate experiences, beliefs, and predictors related
      to delivery and utilization of HIV testing and prevention services for black YMSM using
      qualitative research methods, namely in-depth interviews with HIV prevention and outreach
      staff, focus groups with black YMSM, and in-depth interviews with other members of key
      population sub-groups such as transgender women and black YMSM who are no longer on PrEP, to
      inform the adaptation of BSB. Aim 1 will include 6 focus groups with black YMSM to explore
      perceptions and experiences with testing, prevention services, and PrEP as these relate to
      the adaptation of the intervention (estimated N=36-48). Aim 1 will include in-depth
      interviews with transgender women, black YMSM who have not taken an HIV-test in the past
      6-months, black YMSM who are on PrEP, and black YMSM who were on PrEP but are no longer on
      PrEP (estimated N=16-24). This first aim will also include in-depth interviews with HIV
      prevention and outreach staff to document inner and outer contexts of community-based testing
      and clinical settings (estimated N=10). Thematic coding and analysis methods will be used to
      elucidate ways in which the intervention will need to be modernized and revised to be
      culturally acceptable to the target population and to address locally relevant structural
      barriers.

      Objective 3 provides robust training on how to scientifically and iteratively adapt HIV
      behavioral interventions using validated frameworks, such as intervention mapping. Aim 2 is
      to adapt the Brothers Saving Brothers (BSB) intervention to include two HIV prevention tools
      (rapid testing and PrEP), to address structural barriers, and to be acceptable to black YMSM
      in Alabama. In Aim 2, I will use intervention mapping, informed by Aim 1 data, to iteratively
      adapt BSB to include the aforementioned updates. Since BSB will require extensive revisions,
      I have selected an intervention development framework (rather than an adaptation model) to
      guide the scientific adaptation process. After each cycle, the adapted intervention will be
      shared with CBO outreach staff and black YMSM to solicit their feedback. I anticipate 2-4
      iterations (adaptations).

      Objective 4 offers methodical training and mentoring in the field of implementation science.
      Aim 3, which concludes the proposed research study and K01 project, is to conduct a hybrid
      type 1 effectiveness-implementation pilot study of the adapted intervention in which the
      investigators will a) assess acceptability and feasibility of the adapted BSB (aBSB); b)
      preliminarily estimate effects on HIV prevention outcomes; and c) collect data on real-world
      implementation. I will pilot-test aBSB with black YMSM in Alabama (N=60); half will be
      randomized to the control condition; half will receive aBSB. I will collect effectiveness
      data (including acceptability and feasibility) pre-intervention/control, immediately
      post-intervention/control, 3-months after initial contact, and 6-months after initial
      contact. Toward the end of the study-period, I will collect implementation data from staff
      interviewed in Aim 1 (N=10) and from study participants to assess how aBSB was experienced
      and internalized (N=12).

      This rigorous project includes intensive training at UAB and from other prominent
      institutions that offer very specific training not found at UAB; comprehensive mentoring from
      senior HIV researchers with expertise in minority, youth, and MSM health; and a thoughtful
      research strategy that addresses a significant threat -- high rates of undiagnosed HIV and
      the lack of HIV prevention, including PrEP uptake -- in black YMSM in Alabama. The
      combination of the proposed mentoring and training with study findings will culminate in the
      candidates attainment of independence and the development of a full-scale R01 implementation
      science proposal to test the adapted intervention.
    
  