
    
      Background : In paraplegic and tetraplegic patients with suprasacral lesion, bladder
      overactivity leads to incontinence and is frequently associated with detrusor-sphincter
      dyssynergia which is responsible for residual postvoiding (high infectious risk) and
      intravesical high pressure (risk for kidney). The Brindley technique allows to restore a
      voluntary voiding of the bladder and an effective continence. Electrodes are fixed to
      anterior sacral roots in order to obtain micturition. Posterior sacral root rhizotomy
      suppress detrusor and sphincter overactivity, improves continence and thus protects bladder
      and kidney (low pressure bladder filling). Currently in France, 100 new patients could
      benefit from this innovative technique among the 1000 patients with spinal cord injury

      Objective :To compare the cost/effectiveness ratio of the Brindley technique approach to that
      of the reference group (muscarinic receptor antagonists + catheterization or reflex
      micturition)at one year, in patient with neurogenic bladder.

      In this prospective, comparative, non-randomized, multicenter study, the eligible patients
      are included according to the following ratio : 2:1 (Brindley : Reference ). The complete
      suprasacral spinal cord injured patients with an overactive neurogenic bladder, incontinence
      and/or risk of kidney/bladder injury) are the population studied. The spinal cord injury must
      be clinically stable for at least 3 months.

      primary outcome :Proportion of patients showing a complete voluntary (including
      electrostimulation) micturition after one year.

      Secondary outcome : Bladder capacity (cystometry), costs, incidence of urinary infections,
      incontinence, autonomic hyperreflexia (AHR), defecation, quality of life, lower limbs
      spasticity.

      Patient follow-up :Visits must be planned at 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months: A classical clinical
      exam and a specific exam (evaluation of AHR, Ashworth and Penn Score) at 6 and 12 months and
      the following complementary exams at 3, 6 and 12 months: urodynamic testing and intravenous
      urography, retrograde ureterocystography and bladder echography at 12 months.

      Population size : A total number of 99 patients must be enrolled to achieve the fixed goals
      (66 patients in the Brindley group and 33 patients in the Reference group).
    
  