
    
      This research was approved by the human participants ethics board of Selcuk University
      Faculty of Dentistry (project number=301) and was conducted in accordance with the Helsinki
      Declaration of 1975, as revised in 2013. Informed consent was obtained from patients prior to
      oral diagnostic examination.

      Inclusion criteria for ACS group :

      • Patients diagnosed with both ACS and localized or generalized periodontitis of stage II or
      III with grade B or C.

      The diagnosis of ACS was performed by a consultant cardiologist based on clinical signs and
      symptoms of cardiac ischemia, cardiac enzyme levels, changes in electrocardiography, and
      results of echocardiography and coronary angiography, according to the guidelines of American
      College of Cardiology/American Heart Association . The test group of ACS patients myocardial
      infarction (NSTEMI), and ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) were hospitalized
      in Selcuk University Meram Medical Faculty Department of Cardiology (Konya/Turkey).Unstable
      angina (UA) was defined as the new onset or a changed pattern of angina over the past 2
      months and Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) class IV angina at the time of presentation
      coinciding with appropriate objective evidence of myocardial ischemia on an electrocardiogram
      (ECG) or myocardial perfusion imaging. ACS with ST-segment elevation was defined as AMI
      characterized by: chest pain, radiating or not to the upper extremities, lower jaw, upper
      back or epigastrium lasting 30 minutes or more, associated or not with sweating, nausea or
      pallor; presence of ST-segment elevation of 1 mm in two or more contiguous peripheral leads
      or 2 mm in two or more contiguous precordial leads on electrocardiogram (ECG); and elevation
      in serum markers of myocardial injury and necrosis (CK, CK-MB) three times their reference
      value28. Non-ST-segment elevation ACS on ECG was defined as a clinical condition similar to
      that mentioned above but with chest pain lasting less than 30 minutes, with or without
      elevation of serum enzyme markers of myocardial injury and necrosis (CK, CK-MB, cardiac
      troponins I and T). ACS patients were referred to the Department of Periodontology, Faculty
      of Dentistry, Selcuk University (Konya/Turkey) for periodontal examination in a one- year
      period.

      Inclusion criteria for control group :

      • Patients diagnosed with localized or generalized periodontitis of stage II or III with
      grade B or C.

      Exclusions for both groups included

        -  metabolic disorders,

        -  high blood pressure,

        -  treated with antihypertensive medications,

        -  periodontal therapy antibiotic treatment until 3 months prior the study. Smoking habits
           and education status were also recorded. ACS patients take aspirin (1 × 100 mg per day)
           during 1 month.This study was supported by grants from the Selcuk University Scientific
           Research Projects (05401018).

      Clinical Periodontal Examination All surviving individuals with ACS underwent a thorough
      periodontal examination approximately 1 month after treatment and hospital release. All
      participants were evaluated for oral health clinically and radiographically. The periodontal
      condition was graded based on the current classification method for periodontal diseases and
      subjects with localized or generalized periodontitis of stage II or III with grade B or C
      were selected. Periodontal health status of patients was evaluated by plaque index (PI),
      papilla bleeding index , probing depth (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL). All probing
      scores were measured with Williams periodontal probe calibrated in millimeters. Clinical
      attachment loss was determined relative to the cementoenamel junction. Periodontal index was
      evaluated for risk of infectiousness (PIRI) scores.

      Gingival Crevicular Fluid Samples:

      At baseline, GCF samples were collected for each subject from 4 distinct inter-proximal sites
      (one site for each quadrant). Sampling sites were chosen only at the buccal directions of the
      inter-proximal regions of molar teeth with PD more than 5 mm. The four GCF samples for each
      subject in the two research groups were pooled to ensure sufficient sensitivity for each
      subject. Consequently, site-specific differences were not evaluated. The same sites were
      sampled at 1 and 3 months following treatment. Sites were isolated with cotton rolls, gently
      dried with air syringe and the obvious supra-gingival plaque was carefully removed with a
      curette. GCF was collected with prefabricated paper strips . The strip was inserted into the
      pocket until mild resistance was felt and kept there for 30 seconds. Contaminated samples
      with blood or saliva were discharged. The volume of GCF was determined with Periotron 8000
      previously calibrated with serum . Four strips were pooled in a single tube containing
      500microliter phosphate buffered saline (PBS), pH 7.4 and, repeated, for each patient. The
      tubes were vortexed for 10 min and stored at -80 C until assayed.
    
  