
    
      55 eligible neonates whom have been deemed as candidates for a cardiac surgery will be enroll
      to the study.

      At the first phase, 10 neonates will be monitored. After the investigator has assessed the
      patient as eligible for the study and consent will be received by the parents, the subject
      will be provided with a study enrollment number.

      All clinical assessments routinely preformed as per standard of care during all
      hospitalization, such as hemodynamic continues parameters, discreet samples will be
      documented in the medical records, and later on the requested assessments will be recorded in
      the designated Case Report Form.

      Monitoring will be performed a day prior to the repair surgery, following the surgery at the
      same day and one and two days after, for 3 hours per day.

      Additional standard of care parameters will be collected :Heart rate, Mean Arterial Blood
      Pressure, Saturation, Ventilator rate, Medications, Blood gases ( blood tests),
      Echocardiogram, pre-surgery Head US,. additional examination will be performed intended for
      the study: two post surgery Head US, S100B biomarker for brain injury and Neurological
      examinations prior and 7 days post- surgery( By standardized questionnaires).

      Sample size: 55:

      A sample size of 55 will enable to detect an increase of 20% in flow with a standard
      deviation of 50 assuming normal distribution a type 1 error of 5% and power of 80%.

      In order to evaluate the study design and data quality the sponsor will perform an interim
      analysis for the 10 first neonates.

      Quality assurance: Following the study initiation monitoring visit will be performed for the
      first patient. Additional visits will be performed according to recruitment rate. Source data
      verification and safety events follow up will be performed during those visits.

      Plan for missing data: Every effort will be made to complete follow-up for all subjects and
      avoid missing data, in particular regarding essential items.

      Statistical analysis: Descriptive statistics will be used to summarize results. Categorical
      measurements will be presented in contingency tables with counts & percent.

      Continuous measurements will be presented with N, means ±Standard Deviation, or median with
      25th & 75th percentiles Minimum & Maximum.

      The percent of change in flow pre & post maneuver will be calculated using one sample t-test.

      Spearman correlation will be used to correlate the autoregulation index and neurological
      outcomes.

      Significance level will be defined as a=0.05. Statistical analyses will be carried out using
      SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences) 24.01 software.
    
  