
    
      The investigators propose to assess food insecurity and inappropriate feeding practices
      within a public health clinic patient population that has at least one child less than 2
      years of age at home. A targeted intervention will determine whether focused family
      interactions with referral and follow-up to community agencies can mitigate the frequency and
      effects of food insecurity on children over a six-month period. Specifically, the
      investigators will identify 50 Hispanic families with food insecurity based on a full screen
      (the investigators expect to screen 150 families).

      There are 2 in-person visits for this study, both of which are routine clinic visits where
      the child would be seen regardless of participation in this research study. The first visit
      at baseline will be when the subject is approached about the study and enrolled. The second
      visit will also be at a routine pediatric visit for medical care follow-up approximately 6
      months later. Between in-person visits, phone calls for follow-up will take place.

      The investigators will use a highly validated U.S. Department of Agriculture six-question,
      five-minute screening tool at each pediatric visit, via telehealth or in person. Those who
      screen as positive for food insecurity and consent to participate will be enrolled. Subjects
      will be enrolled as a parent/child dyad. The validated food-insecurity questionnaire will be
      completed at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months. The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends
      to screen for food insecurity as a standard of care.

      Resources When appropriate, specific referrals will be made by the study personnel (PIs who
      are pediatricians) to food assistance programs including Good Apple, a local fresh produce
      delivery program, United Way of Central Texas, and local food banks. The participants will
      receive a call from the study coordinator who will review the family circumstances and plan
      for intervention with these partner programs and follow-up. A research team member will
      contact our food assistance partners to confirm each family's participation. The
      investigators will also confirm participation when available in WIC and SNAP programs.
      Partner organizations will provide financial data regarding the interventions they provide,
      which will be analyzed and interpreted within the context of families' participation in
      public programs such as WIC and SNAP. The study coordinator or designee who are part of the
      research study team will call the families frequently (weekly for first month, then every 2
      weeks until 3 months, then monthly from 3-6 months; about 12-15 calls total) to check on
      their progress with the food assistance programs.

      The participants will receive assistance with finding useful community resources websites
      and/or applications, grocery shopping lists, tips for shopping on a budget, and more topics
      related to nutrition, wellness, food assistance programs, food banks, bus routes,
      mindfulness, meal planning, and parenting strategies. Along with the referral resources,
      these documents and apps (i.e., My Fitness Pal food tracker, Pacer fitness tracker) will help
      the participants improve food literacy. Providing resources when a family is identified as
      food insecure is standard of care. However, the electronic resources and ongoing follow up
      are only related to this study. The investigators will track if the participants access the
      electronic resources that the investigators provide.

      Education and Food Literacy Families will receive education about appropriate feeding
      practices with emphasis on not over-diluting infant formula and appropriate introduction of
      cow's milk, juice and solid foods.

      Education for improving food literacy will focus on the following four dimensions from
      budgeting and planning, to food selection, to preparation and cooking, to eating.

      Dietary Assessment Due to the relationship between dietary intake and overall health, dietary
      assessment tools are helpful to evaluate what a person is eating and how it may have an
      impact, either positive or negative, on their health. The participant will be asked to
      provide a 24-hour nutrition intake recall (describing types and amounts of foods and drinks
      they consumed the previous day) for themselves and their child. The study dietitian or
      designee will analyze the food records with nutrition software (i.e., NDSR) for macronutrient
      and macronutrient breakdown. Dietary intake will be assessed at baseline and after six months
      using a validated questionnaire. This information will be helpful to see how dietary intakes
      potentially change after enrollment and participation in community resources, and to see how
      dietary intakes affect growth in children.

      Growth and Labs The investigators will compare growth measurements (weight, height or length,
      and head circumference) and dietary intakes of participating children at the start and after
      six months. In addition, the investigators will abstract data from the child's medical record
      for nutrition-related and routinely ordered labs (i.e., hemoglobin, lead level). These
      anthropometrics and laboratories are obtained as standard of care. Hemoglobin and lead levels
      usually are obtained at 1 and 2 years of age. Children screening out as iron deficient or
      with elevated lead levels will be managed by their pediatrician according to current American
      Academy of Pediatrics and Texas Department of Public Health guidelines.

      Qualitative Interviews Qualitative interviews will be conducted in person or by phone at
      baseline and after three and six months to evaluate issues of concern such as child care,
      transportation and loss of employment. Qualitative interviews, pertaining to this study, will
      include asking participants which resources they found to be most useful, ease of navigating
      the resources, and their overall interactions with the partner organizations. All subjects
      will participate in the main (shorter) qualitative interview. Fifteen (15) subjects will be
      asked to participate in a longer qualitative interview, that the investigators expect to take
      an additional 30-60 minutes. These subjects will receive additional compensation for their
      time.

      Standard of Care • Food insecurity screening, provision of referrals and resources to family,
      anthropometrics, labs, education

      Research Activities

      • Qualitative interviews, depression screen PHQ), anxiety screen (GAD), dietary assessment,
      follow-up with family to discuss their participation with referrals and resources

      Our objectives are:

        1. To identify and characterize Hispanic families who face food insecurity that occurred or
           worsened as a result of the current pandemic

        2. To identify and characterize effective approaches to assisting families with
           inappropriate feeding practices, especially those related to infant formula preparation

        3. To gain information regarding the types of resources that are most useful for planning
           purposes related to future pandemics or related public health crises

        4. To define gaps in the process of obtaining and using available community resources

        5. To provide baseline data regarding families and interventions so as to plan a
           larger-scale community-based assessment and intervention program
    
  