
    
      CSP2014 is the first direct long-term comparison of monthly injectable versus daily SL
      buprenorphine. In addition to its impact on the care of Veterans, the results of VA-BRAVE
      will provide critical data to guide effective treatment of opioid use disorder throughout the
      United States.

      The CSP2014 study population is Veterans aged 18 years diagnosed with moderate to severe
      opioid use disorder (OUD)by Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM)-5th edition criteria.
      Veterans must be entering a new episode of opioid use disorder care prior to study start.

      There are two primary outcomes that address key Veterans Health Administration (VHA) clinical
      issues related to opioid use disorder treatment. The first is retention on protocol-directed
      medication treatment (sublingual or injectable sub-cutaneous buprenorphine). The second
      primary outcome is opioid abstinence using the systematic Timeline Followback method of
      self-report and corresponding urine toxicology screens.

      VA-BRAVE includes a 52-week intervention and 52-week active assessment period, and up to a
      10-year passive follow-up for the duration of the study. Participants are inducted on daily
      SL buprenorphine using SAMHSA guidelines and dosed upward for a target dose of 16-24 mg for 3
      days (more than 3 days may be required if deemed clinically necessary; should not exceed 30
      days). Once reaching the target dose, participants are randomized 1:1 and assigned to receive
      at each 28-day research visit either: 1) a 28-day take-home supply of SL buprenorphine,
      prescribed at the clinically determined dose, or 2) injectable sub-cutaneous buprenorphine
      administered in the clinic (target dose = 300mg; 100mg dose may be used for those who cannot
      tolerate 300mg). Participants also receive Medication Management intervention at these
      visits.

      Study visits for all participants occur at Weeks 1, 2, 3 and 4 post-randomization, and
      biweekly thereafter through Week 52. Self-reported abstinence and urine toxicology screens
      are obtained at biweekly visits. Following one year of active follow-up, administrative data
      will be used to follow participants for up to 10 years for early enrollees and up to 7 years
      for late enrollees. The recruitment expectation is 15 new participants per study year per
      study site. There will be 20 participating VA Medical Center sites.
    
  