
    
      Background: Post-traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD), a debilitating condition that develops
      following exposure to trauma, is highly prevalent in military personnel and veterans due to
      high risk of trauma exposure in combat. Trauma exposure, as an environmental insult, is
      necessary, but itself is not sufficient to cause PTSD, since not everyone exposure to trauma
      develops PTSD. Brain dopamine (DAT) and serotonin (5-HTT) transporter play a critical role in
      the regulation of stress related psychological and behavioral functions. Genetic
      polymorphisms that affect 5-HTT and DAT function, such as the 5' promote polymorphism in the
      5-HTT gene (SLC6A4)(5-HTTlpr) and 3' -untranslated region (UTR)-40 bp-variable number tandem
      repeat (VNTR)of DAT gene (SLC6A3), could influence individual susceptibility to
      trauma-related psychopathology.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The objective of this application is to investigated the relationship
      between SLC6A3/SLC6A4 and the mental health of veterans exposed to high levels of combat
      stress, specifically focusing on PTSD symptoms, related comorbidities, and treatment outcome.
      The central hypothesis is that specific genetic variants that adversely affect serotonin and
      dopamine neurotransmission constitute a risk for the emergence of PTSD and related comorbid
      symptoms after trauma exposure; and, some of these variants may further influence PTSD and
      related response.

      Specific Objectives: (1) To determine specific 5-HTTLPR genotype involvement in PTSD
      symptomatology, (2) to determine influence of combined SLC6A3/SLC6A4 genotypes on PTSD with
      substance dependence, (3)to identify 5 HTTLPR alleles that affect PTSD symptomatology and
      treatment outcome, and (4)to identify additional SLC6A3/SLC6A4 alleles associated with PTSD
      and related comorbidities.

      Study Design: We have generated some preliminary data supporting our hypothesis by examining
      5-HTTLPR and the 3'-UTR-VNTR of SLC6A3 genotypes in 109 combat veterans with and without
      PTSD. In this proposal, we will expand on these findings by recruiting 300 veterans exposed
      to sufficient combat stress defined by Combat Exposure Scale(CES) score of >10 and who
      qualify for DSM-IV category A PTSD diagnostic criteria, including approximately 150 veterans
      with PTSD veterans with PTSD defined using DSM-IV diagnostic criteria, Clinician Administered
      PTSD Scale (CAPS) score >45 and 150 healthy combat-exposed veterans as defined by a CAPS
      score <15. We will first apply a newly developed extreme discordant phenotype (EDP) method to
      examine how 5-HTTLPR and 3'-UTR-VNTR genotypes affect trauma related psychopathology in
      combat veterans only with the highest (>45)and lowest (<15) CAPS scores. Secondly, single
      nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs)will be examined across both genes and assessed for
      relatedness to PTSD susceptibility or resistance. Further analyses of relationship of these
      polymorphisms with comorbidities will also be performed. Thirdly, a pharmacogenetic trail
      (using sertraline as a therapeutic agent) will be applied to assess how gene variants
      influence PTSD treatment outcome. To Safeguard against population stratification, a genome
      control method will be applied in all the genetic analyses.
    
  