
    
      The uterine leiomyoma is the most common benign tumor of the female genital tract. The myomas
      are usually clinically apparent in 25% of patients. Submucosal fibroid are about 10% of all
      uterine myoma; they distort the endometrial cavity causing heavy and/or irregular bleeding
      (AUB) and infertility. According to the degree of myometrial penetration, the European
      Society for Gynaecological Endoscopy (ESGE) classified submucosal myomas in Type 0 (totally
      intracavitary fibroids), Type I (<50% myometral penetration), or Type II (>50% myometral
      penetration).

      Hysteroscopic removal of submucosal myomas improves menorrhagia and AUB. GnRH analogues are
      commonly used before hysteroscopic myomectomy to make surgery easier and safer, but they are
      expensive, have potential side effects and lack a robust evidence base to support this
      practice. A recent meta-analysis of data demonstrated that symptomatic relief in patients
      undergoing surgery was similar either following pre-operative GnRH-a administration or
      without GnRH-a administration, mainly due to the persistence of abnormal bleeding due to the
      protrusion of the myoma into the uterine cavity.

      In recent studies, Ulipristal acetate treatment was able to control uterine bleeding
      associated with fibroids in more than 90% of cases. Moreover, it controlled bleeding faster
      than GnRH agonists, with median times to amenorrhea of 5-7 days in patients receiving UPA
      compared to 21 days in patients receiving a GnRH agonist. It was demonstrated that UPA
      significantly improved also quality of life. Pain, as measured by the visual analogue scale,
      showed a degree of relief similar to that achieved for postoperative pain with narcotic and
      non-narcotic analgesics. This pain reduction is related to the high amenorrhea rate during
      treatment (severe bleeding being responsible for uterine contractions and prostaglandin
      secretion). No sub-analysis have been conducted on submucosal fibroids but, according to our
      experience, this subgroup of myomas may be the one who most benefits from the administration
      of UPA.
    
  