
    
      Study Design

      The study will be a clinical randomized double-blind trial monocentric.

      The sample will be divided into three groups with 35 patients each one.

      TREATMENTS NOT ALLOWED

      Patients enrolled in the study should not be submitted, for the whole duration of the trial,
      to local and systemic treatments for dentine hypersensitivity.

      Randomization

      The randomization process shall be made using a table randomly generated by a computer. The
      researchers will not be involved in the randomization process.

      Data Recording

      The study involves the assessment of the following parameters:

      During the first visit, data on the overall health and patient's mouth will be collected. All
      subjects, once included in the study, will receive scaling and polishing treatments.

      All these patients will be visited the initial day, once again after 15 days, then after four
      weeks and eight weeks (end of follow-up). Each subject will be evaluated by the same dentist
      throughout the course of the trial. During each visit, only the hypersensitive teeth
      (selected in the beginning of the trial) will be evaluated, so that a minimum of two to a
      maximum of four sensitive teeth are stimulated by the means of tactile tests and with air
      spray test.

      Tactile test: a sharp dental explorer (EXD 11-12, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA) will be
      dragged on the vestibular side of each tooth, perpendicular to the long axis with a constant
      force. The test will be repeated three times before recording a score.

      Tests air spray: a jet of air will be directed towards the affected tooth area for 1 second
      from a distance of 10 mm, using a standard air-water syringe, while the adjacent teeth will
      be isolated with cotton.

      The tests with stimuli will be applied in the order previously indicated, with a break of 5
      minutes between applications of different stimuli. For tests with stimuli, subjects'
      responses will be recorded using the following scale:

        -  0 - No significant discomfort or awareness of the stimulus;

        -  1 - Nuisance, but not acute pain;

        -  2 - Acute pain during the application of the stimulus;

        -  3 - Acute pain during and after the application of the stimulus.

      At each time, a score will be given according to the sensation of pain felt by the patient
      using a numeric categorical scale with 0-10 parameters (VAS).

      Withdrawal of Consent: The patient may at any time withdraw his consent to continue the
      study. Exit criteria are at the discretion of the researcher: patients who do not show the
      controls will be excluded from evaluation.

      The following dental materials were used following the manufacturers' instructions:

        1. Cavex Bite&White ExSense (Cavex Holland BV, RW Haarlem, The Netherlands), a water-based
           mint aroma gel containing hydroxyapatite and potassium nitrate.

        2. Colgate Protection Caries (Palmolive SPA), a fluoride-based gel toothpaste.

        3. Placebo gel toothpaste (Baroniestraat, Amsterdam, The Netherlands), a glycerin and water
           gel.
    
  