
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is one of the leading causes of death in the United States. CVD
      is attributed to a combination of major risk factors including hypertension, dyslipidemia,
      obesity, poor diet, low physical activity levels, and vascular endothelial cell dysfunction.

      The vascular endothelial cells (VECs) have significant control over vascular homeostatic
      regulation. In the case of mechanical and chemical stimuli, VECs can release vasoactive
      substances to regulate vascular tone, cell adhesion, and vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC)
      proliferation. When the endothelium is damaged and becomes dysfunctional, atherosclerotic
      changes take place that can contribute to the development of CVD and atherosclerosis.

      Endothelial dysfunction has been partially attributed to high levels of reactive oxygen
      species (ROS) causing significant oxidative stress (OS). OS is defined as an imbalance
      between the rate of ROS production and the rate of ROS clearance by the antioxidant defense
      system, with insufficient clearance leading to oxidative damage of the vasculature. High
      levels of OS have been shown to negatively affect the vascular endothelium by increasing VSMC
      proliferation and inflammation, which may result in vascular remodeling. Increased OS also
      attenuates the bioavailability of nitric oxide, a potent vasodilator, and can further
      exacerbate the structural and functional changes of the vascular endothelium that are
      associated with the development of CVD.

      When the vascular endothelium becomes dysfunctional (partially due to OS), blood flow and
      vascular tone regulation become impaired, which then negatively affects O2 transport. Without
      proper blood flow and O2 transport, exercise capacity becomes attenuated. This is a major
      concern for CVD patients, because exercise is an effective non-pharmacological therapeutic
      treatment for many of the CVD risk factors including obesity, dyslipidemia, hypertension, and
      metabolic syndrome. Therefore, improvement of the antioxidant defense system could alleviate
      high OS, and improve vasodilatory capacity of blood vessels, blood flow and O2 transport, and
      by extension, can increase exercise capacity. This would make exercise a more viable
      treatment option for CVD patients.

      The antioxidant defense system contains numerous enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants,
      including catalase, superoxide dismutase, glutathione peroxidase, vitamins A, E, and C, along
      with glutathione, ubiquinone, and flavanoids. The antioxidant defense system has been found
      to be attenuated in CVD patients, particularly in those with peripheral arterial disease.
      However, as ROS production increases, this antioxidant defense system can be overwhelmed,
      leading to OS and damage to the tissues. Antioxidant capacity may be improved through
      supplementation in order to provide better OS clearance in the body, which could then result
      in better blood flow and O2 delivery to the muscles and other organs in the body.

      Previous research has shown that blood flow increases after antioxidant intake. Leg blood
      flow increased significantly in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients during
      knee extension exercise in watts (W) in comparison to healthy age-matched controls (3W:
      1,798±128 vs. 1,604±100 mL/min, 6W: 1,992±120 vs. 1,832±109 mL/min, 9W: 2,187±136 vs.
      2,035±114 mL/min, P < 0.05, antioxidant supplement vs. control, respectively) following acute
      antioxidant supplementation (~2 hours prior). In patients with open-angle glaucoma,
      antioxidant supplementation for one month significantly increased biomarkers of ocular blood
      flow within the retina and retrobulbar vascular beds, where peak systolic velocity increased
      by 7.3% (P=0.013) and end diastolic velocity increased by 11% (P=0.014). Cerebral blood flow
      has also been shown to increase following 12 weeks of antioxidant supplementation. Overall,
      the use of antioxidant intake, acute and chronic, has shown to improve blood flow to various
      areas within the vasculature.

      Previous research also indicates that the increase in blood flow is indicative of greater O2
      supply to the measured area. During knee extension exercise in COPD patients, leg O2
      consumption increased significantly in comparison to age-matched controls following acute
      antioxidant intake (3W: 210±15 vs. 173 ± 12 mL O2/min, 6W: 237±15 vs. 217±14 mL O2/min, 9W:
      260±18 mL vs. 244±16 mL O2/min, P< 0.05, antioxidant supplement vs. control, respectively).
      Following 12 weeks of antioxidant use, oxygen utilization in the right prefrontal cortex
      increased and was strongly associated with the increase in cerebral blood flow (SO2, from
      68.21±1.65% to 66.58±1.58%, P=0.001, pre vs. post, respectively).

      Pharmacological interventions are often aimed toward controlling cholesterol and blood
      pressure; however, OS reduction and vascular endothelial function are not common therapeutic
      targets. Previous research has addressed the use of antioxidants in CVD patients, but it has
      focused on the intake of a single antioxidant (e.g. vitamin E, beta-carotene, ascorbic acid)
      and not a combination of antioxidants. The utilization of a combination of antioxidants and
      their effects on blood flow and oxygen transport in CVD are as of yet unclear. The purpose of
      this proposed study is to examine the effects of acute administration of an oral antioxidant
      cocktail (containing vitamin C, E, and a-lipoic acid E) on oxidative stress, vascular
      endothelial function, autonomic function, blood flow, and oxygen delivery during a walking
      test. It is hypothesized that oral antioxidant cocktail administration will reduce oxidative
      stress markers, and will increase both vascular endothelial function and blood flow, thus
      increasing oxygen delivery to the muscles and improving walking capacity. This pending data
      from acute antioxidant administration will give insight to long-term antioxidant use in CVD
      patients and its effects on oxidative stress, blood flow, and the integration of O2 transport
      and utilization in the body.
    
  