
    
      This pilot study will recruit 15 black U.S. adults ages 25-45 years of age with 25(OH)D
      levels < 20 ng/ml and no use of anti-hypertensive medications and a resting seated systolic
      blood pressure ≥ 120 mmHg and will measure baseline levels of total 25(OH)D, 25(OH)D2,
      25(OH)D3, free vitamin 25(OH)D, active vitamin D [1,25(OH)D], parathyroid hormone level,
      serum calcium, and 24-hour calcium excretion.

      Participants will then take the supplements vitamin D3 5000 IU and elemental calcium 1000 mg
      daily for three months. Investigators will measure changes in blood pressure, total 25(OH)D,
      25(OH)D2 and 25(OH)D3, 1,25(OH)D and free 25(OH)D, parathyroid hormone levels, serum calcium
      and 24-hour urine calcium excretion over the three month period.

      The overall goal is to collect pilot data to determine the feasibility of a larger trial to
      determine whether vitamin D combined with calcium lowers blood pressure in young black adults
      with low 25(OH)D levels.

      This will be a single arm non-blinded feasibility study of 15 participants. The study
      population will consist of 15 adults ages 25-45 years with self-reported African American
      race/ethnicity. All participants will provide written informed consent.

      Intervention:

      This study has only one arm and all participants will receive Cholecalciferol (vitamin D3)
      5,000 IU daily for 3 months and 1000 mg of calcium citrate daily for 3 months. There will be
      no placebo and no blinding of the agent. Participants will receive a 3 month supply of drugs
      which will be administered by the Loyola pharmacy. Serum vitamin D and calcium levels will be
      measured at study initiation and at 6 and 12 weeks (study end). Participants will stop taking
      stop both vitamin D and calcium administration with serum calcium levels are greater than or
      equal to 10.6 meq/L and/or a 25(OH)D levels are greater than or equal to 80 ng/dl at the 6
      week visit.

      Safety Monitoring:

      The investigators will query any hospitalizations or emergency room visits over the past
      month and reasons for those visits at the baseline, 6 and 12 week follow-up visits. Serum
      calcium and vitamin D levels will be measured at 6 and 12 weeks and anyone with serum calcium
      levels ≥ 10.6 meq/L and/or a 25(OH)D level ≥ 80 ng/ml will stop treatment. All adverse events
      will be reported to the Loyola University Chicago Health Sciences Institutional Review Board.
      A data safety and monitoring board will review all data collected after completion of the 6
      week visit to ensure safety of the study.

      Stopping plans:

      Any participant who develops a serum calcium levels ≥ 10.6 meq/L and/or a 25(OH)D level ≥ 80
      ng/ml will stop treatment but they will continue to be monitored in the study through week 12
      when serum calcium and 25(OH)D levels will be measured at the end of the study. The study
      will continue until participants have been followed for 12 weeks.

      Analysis Plan:

      This feasibility study will examine multiple aspects of the pilot data including the total
      number of persons enrolled vs. number of total persons identified as eligible. Pill counts
      will be done at the 6 and 12 week visit to assess compliance with vitamin D and calcium
      supplementation. The percentage of participants taking 80% or more of the vitamin D3
      supplement and the calcium supplement will be determined. The number of participants
      reporting symptoms and all adverse events will be quantified. Repeated measures analysis of
      variance models will be used to assess change in the outcome measures including systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure, vitamin D measures, parathyroid hormone levels and 24-hour urine
      calcium excretion values.
    
  