
    
      A transverse abdominal plane (TAP_ block will be performed by one of the investigators who is
      adept in using ultrasound guidance after induction of general anesthesia. The dose of
      bupivacaine administered will be based on the weight of the patient. This dose is consistent
      with routine levels of local anesthetic used for peripheral nerve blocks and is lower than
      toxic levels so there will be no additional change in renal or liver function. Whole blood
      samples will be collected on a piece of filter paper from either an arterial, central,
      peripheral line or heel stick. The extracts from dried blood samples (DBS; calculated volume
      20 µL) collected on filter paper will be analyzed using an LC-MS/MS system in combination
      with online extraction (LC/LC-MS/MS). Blood samples will be obtained at 0, 5, 15, 30, 60, 120
      minutes, 4, 24, 48 hours. If obtained from a heel stick, these samples will be obtained at
      time of glucose sampling or a clinical indication. Subjects will be considered evaluable if
      they have 5 samples. All sampling for the study will be based on concurrent sampling so there
      will be no additional blood draws.

      Pain will be assessed by the bedside nurse or study research assistant using the Neonatal
      Infant Pain Scale (NIPS). As part of the standard of care in this institution, nurses will
      have the opportunity to administer additional pain medications including but not limited to
      intravenous fentanyl or morphine. This will be done as per standing orders if the neonate
      meets criteria for additional analgesia, in other words, if there is an increase in pain as
      indicated by the NIPS pain scores. NIPS score will be recorded prior to each blood draw and
      every 8 hours while the subject is enrolled in the study. The NIPS will be the primary
      clinical outcome measure for this study. Blood pressure and heart rate will also be recorded
      as a physiologic correlate for drug level at these times.
    
  