
    
      Previous studies have suggested that taking thyroid replacement therapy with coffee
      potentially hinders its absorption. We already know that food especially a fiber-rich diet,
      cholestyramine resin, aluminum containing antacids, activated charcoal, and certain herbal
      remedies among others interfere with the ability to absorb thyroid medicine. These findings
      have prompted providers to advise patients to take their levothyroxine on an empty stomach in
      the morning. However, many patients take their thyroid medicine with their morning cup of
      coffee prior to eating breakfast. A small study has shown that Italian espresso coffee can
      decrease the absorption of levothyroxine, but the effect of American style coffee is not
      known. Given that the intestinal absorption of levothyroxine can be hindered by multiple
      substances and coffee is the most commonly consumed beverage worldwide, it is important to
      investigate what effect coffee may have on thyroid hormone absorption and thyroid function
      tests.

      Using methods similar to those used in previous studies, this study will measure thyroid
      function tests in approximately 10-20 subjects (18-60 years of age) over a 6 hour period of
      time after taking their thyroid medication with the specified study beverage for a 6 week
      period. Subjects will be randomized to water, black coffee, coffee with milk, and black tea
      as four specified study beverages, with water serving as the control beverage. Each subject
      will be recruited to participate with each study beverage for a 6 week period of time in a
      total of four consecutive 6 week periods. Blood draws will occur at the end of each 6 week
      period on test days 1, 2, 3, and 4. The coffee will represent the most common household
      coffee brand, Folgers. Thyroid function tests with each beverage will be compared to thyroid
      function tests with water to determine if thyroid medication absorption is impaired by
      coffee, coffee with milk, or tea.

      This study will help determine the safest and most efficacious way for adults to take their
      thyroid medication and will guide medical practitioners in how to counsel their patients when
      they prescribe thyroid replacement therapy.
    
  