
    
      High Speed Rotational atherectomy (HSRA) is a technique used during angioplasty in the
      treatment of calcified coronary arteries. Rotablation debulks resistant calcium in the
      coronary artery plaque thus facilitating stent deployment and expansion. The atherectomy
      technique involves a rotating diamond-tipped burr which breaks down the calcium into small
      particles which are washed forward by the blood flow into the smaller coronary branches
      supplying the heart muscle. The dispersed calcium particles may block these smaller blood
      vessels, interrupting blood flow to an extent that may result in heart muscle damage. When
      this injury becomes detectable clinically, with symptoms, ECG changes and increased troponin,
      an iatrogenic type IV myocardial infarction (MI) is diagnosed.

      Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) is the gold standard method for imaging the heart
      providing detailed information on cardiac function and muscle injury.

      This is a prospective cohort observational study of 60 patients undergoing coronary
      angioplasty with rotational atherectomy.

      The aim of the study is to investigate myocardial injury revealed by paired CMR scans before
      and after rotational atherectomy.

      The hypothesis is that following rotational atherectomy, displacement of calcified particles
      cause microvascular obstruction leading to reduced perfusion. Since myocardial perfusion and
      pump function are linked, as myocardial perfusion is reduced after atherectomy, so myocardial
      contractility (i.e. strain) will reduce. In a second analysis, computer modelling will be
      used to integrate the different types of CMR information to better understand the spatial,
      temporal and pathological evolution of myocardial infarction (www.softmech.org). The further
      hypothesis is that despite CMR detectable infarction the incidence of clinical type IV MI
      will be low.

      CMR scans will be performed 1 week before, 1 week and 6 months post rotablation. Cardiac
      troponin and ECGs will be performed post rotablation to determine the incidence of type IV
      MI.
    
  