
    
      The primary aim of the proposed study is to demonstrate the effect of IA injection of
      Zilretta on physical performance measures in adults with bilateral knee OA. The primary study
      endpoint will be the change in OARSI recommended physical performance tests (30-second chair
      standing test, 40m fast-paced walking test, stair ascent) 12 weeks after treatment.

      The secondary outcome will be the change in Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score
      (KOOS-PS) patient-reported physical function short form.

      The tertiary outcomes will be the change in KOOS-Quality of life subscale (QoL) and Numerical
      Rating Scale (NRS) for pain. All outcomes will be assessed at 6- and 24-week follow-up as
      well to define the course and trajectory of effects.

      Specific Aim 1: To determine the extent to which intra-articular (IA) injection of Zilretta
      in patients with bilateral knee OA improves physical performance (OARSI recommended physical
      performance measures).

      Primary Hypothesis 1: Bilateral knee intra-articular injection of Zilretta results in
      improved physical performance detectable at 6 weeks, 12 weeks (primary), and 24 weeks.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine the extent to which IA injection of Zilretta in patients with
      bilateral knee OA improves physical function (KOOS-PF).

      Hypothesis 2: Bilateral knee IA injection of Zilretta results in improved patient-reported
      physical function (KOOS-PS) at 6 weeks,12 weeks (primary), and 24 weeks.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine the extent to which bilateral knee IA injection of Zilretta in
      patients with bilateral knee OA improves quality of life (KOOS-QoL).

      Hypothesis 3: Intra-articular (IA) bilateral knee injection of Zilretta in patients with
      bilateral knee osteoarthritis results in improved quality of life (KOOS-QoL) detectable at 6
      weeks, 12 weeks (primary), and 24 weeks.
    
  