
    
      Gluten is a protein network that results from both, the hydration and the kneading of storage
      proteins contained in the endosperm of certain cereals. Gluten is particularly found in bread
      products but it is also found in many processed products because of its physicochemical
      properties (binding, swelling properties ...). This omnipresence is now blamed, and a growing
      percentage of the population reports "intolerance" to gluten. This gluten sensitivity
      hypothesis is frequently associated with intestinal disorders (irritable bowel syndrome,
      bloating, abdominal pain, chronic diarrhea, constipation) but also with headache, fatigue,
      muscle and joint aches, bone fragility, migraine, eczema, depression, anxiety .... This
      assumption has led to the adoption of increasingly frequent gluten-free diets among the
      general population, without medical justification.

      Among the population, athletes are particularly concerned due to a higher prevalence of
      anaphylaxis dependent on the combination of physical exercise and food intake (Maulitz and
      Kidd syndrome). This syndrome is notably reported with consumption of cereals in particular
      wheat (bread, pasta). However, these conditions are poorly described with regards to gluten
      and scientific investigations are required to rationally characterize the benefits of
      gluten-free diets for elite athletes.

      Therefore, this clinical project aims to study the relationship between gluten consumption
      and its impact on digestive comfort, quality of life and performance of non-celiac athletes
      practicing an intensive physical activity.

      All the participants will give freely their written informed consent before their selection
      in the study.

      Information on physical activities, demographics, anthropometrics, vital signs, relevant
      medical history and concomitant medication, dietary habits, usual dietary intake and
      nutritional supplements will be collected. All inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      checked by the investigator or co-investigator.

      Selected participants will be randomly allocated to treatment group (gluten or gluten free).
      Couple from the same family will be randomised in the same group.

      After 2 months, all subjects will have the diet without gluten.

      All recruited volunteers will be asked to replace their bread and pasta intake by study
      products (pasta and white bread with or without gluten), maintain their usual dietary habits
      and continue their normal physical habits.

      Each 2 months, volunteers will have a physical performance assessment and will provide a
      blood and faeces samples. All volunteers will complete a follow-up questionnaire to obtain
      information about any changes in medication use, disease etc. Each week, all subjects will
      complete a questionnaire related to digestive function :Food Benefits Assessment (FBA)).

      At the beginning and 2 months, usual dietary intakes will be estimated by means of a 3- days
      food records.
    
  