
    
      Protein losing enteropathy (PLE) has emerged as an increasingly common complication of single
      ventricle palliation in children born with cyanotic congenital heart disease. This entity
      becomes manifest months or years after the modified Fontan operation and is thought to affect
      5-15% of all patients with Fontan physiology. Patients with PLE often suffer from symptoms
      related to severe hypoproteinemia and intestinal malabsorption, including edema, ascites,
      pleural and pericardial effusions, chronic diarrhea and poor growth. Mortality is strikingly
      high, with only 50% of patients surviving for more than 5 years following diagnosis. The
      pathophysiology is poorly understood and several theories are presented as possible
      mechanisms which includes: 1) chronic low cardiac output and intestinal injury leading to
      loss of intestinal integrity, 2) chronic intestinal inflammation leading to loss of
      intestinal integrity, 3) chronic elevated portal venous pressure with intestinal injury
      leading to loss of intestinal integrity. Treatment is sporadically successful and has
      included 1) creating a fenestration between the Fontan pathway and pulmonary venous atrium
      which decreases Fontan pressure and increases cardiac output, 2) chronic use of
      unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin to reconstitute the intestinal basement
      membrane, 3) Use of oral steroids to reduce intestinal inflammation, 4) Use of pulmonary
      vasodilators to reduce Fontan pressure and increase cardiac output 5) implantation of
      pacemakers to treat sinus node dysfunction and improve cardiac output, 6) heart
      transplantation. Short of cardiac transplantation, no treatment of PLE, including efforts to
      change systemic and/or gastrointestinal hemodynamics, is routinely successful. Thus, it
      appears that the etiology of PLE is more complex than simply "high venous pressure in the
      gut" as has been previously believed.

      A second entity seen in patients after modified Fontan procedure is "plastic bronchitis"
      (PB). This is a highly morbid clinical picture of persistent production of high
      mucoprotein-containing airway secretions that causes severe airway obstruction leading to
      increased work of breathing, V/Q mismatch and progressive respiratory failure leading to
      death. The etiology of plastic bronchitis is not understood at all and beyond supportive,
      palliative measures such as lung lavage, there is no current treatment for plastic
      bronchitis.

      VIP and Substance P are both small peptides with significant autocrine and paracrine
      signaling ability. The role of VIP in controlling gut protein and solute secretion has been
      understood for approximately 20 years. The clinical entity where this has been best described
      are in rare "VIP-omas" and some other chromophore secreting gut tumors where massive amounts
      of VIP are secreted by the tumor and overwhelm the body's normal ability to clear VIP through
      cleavage by neutral endopeptidases in the pulmonary endothelium.

      Until very recently, Substance P was known primarily for its role in peptidogenic signaling
      in sensory pathways. As described below, an important and previously not understood role for
      Substance P in the control of human airway mucus secretion has recently been described.

      Scientific Basis for Proposed Research:

      The basis for this proposal arises from three, independent streams of research.

        1. First, extensive investigations in patients with increased portal venous pressures,
           usually from cirrhosis, has shown that increased portal venous pressures lead to
           significant increases in the excretion of a wide variety of small peptide signaling
           molecules. Included in these molecules are VIP, 5-HT and Substance P.As patients with
           Fontan physiology always have increased portal and gut venous pressures as a direct
           consequence of their anatomic palliation, it stands to reason that they should likewise
           have increased GI production of these signaling peptides.

        2. Second, clearance of gut-derived signaling peptides such as VIP, Substance P,
           angiotensin, brandykinin and others occurs primarily in the lungs via peptide cleavage
           catalyzed by the neutral endopeptidases, a class of enzymes heavily resident in the
           pulmonary circulation. The role of the neutral endopeptidases is to cleave and thus
           inactivate small peptides and 'protect" the systemic circulation from the plethora of
           vasoactive peptides that come from the systemic circulation. With respect to the
           potential role of VIP and/or Substance P in the etiology of PLE or PB, it is important
           to note that in patients with Fontan physiology current practice is to fenestrate the
           Fontan shunt to allow some portion of the systemic venous blood flow to bypass the
           lungs. Thus, any vasoactive / signaling peptides returning in the lower body systemic
           venous circulation will bypass the pulmonary clearance mechanisms in proportion to the
           degree of fenestration shunt at the moment. This pulmonary clearance bypass physiology
           is relative unique in medicine to older patients with Fontan-palliated congenital heart
           disease and thus may be, in part, the basis that PLE and PB are seen almost uniquely in
           Fontan patient.

           Further implicating derangements in active peptide clearance physiology in the etiology
           of PLE and PB is the fact that the classic member of the neutral endopeptidase class is
           (the misnamed) Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) , which actually cleaves a number of
           these small peptide signaling molecules including VIP and Substance P. Virtually all
           patients with Fontan physiology are on large doses of ACE-inhibitors to lower systemic
           afterload. Captopril-induced inhibition of VIP and Substance P inactivation would
           significantly increase already elevated systemic levels of these signaling peptides and
           further potentiate the etiology of PLE and PB in Fontan-palliated patients. Variations
           of neutral endopeptidase inhibitor ("ACE inhibitor" ) drug dosage and/or genotype
           variation of ACE which causes dramatically altered activity can in part explain the
           variable incidence of PLE and PB in Fontan physiology patients. In this study, the use
           and dose of ACE inhibitor that each patient is on will be recorded to see if there is a
           correlation between ACE inhibitor dose and measured VIP and Substance P levels. There
           are wide variation of ACE gene genomics that have been described for decades.
           Intriguingly, approximately 10-15% of all persons have a newly described genomic
           variation of the ACE gene which leads to profoundly reduced circulating levels of ACE
           and increased susceptibility to ACE inhibition and 10-15% of patients with Fontans
           develop PB or PLE.

        3. Lastly, very recent work has completely changed our understanding of the control of
           normal, basal mucus and solute secretion in the human airways and gut. Here-to-fore it
           was believed that cholinergic mechanisms controlled airway mucus secretion. This recent
           and still emerging work shows that in fact it is VIP and Substance P which act
           individually and synergistically in the control of both normal basal human airway mucus
           production and in regulating gut secretion. This very new work gives a unifying
           hypothesis to the seemingly disparate entities of PLE and PB: since Substance P and VIP
           control normal basal human airway secretion and stimulated human gut protein secretion,
           increases in pulmonary venous and/or gut arterial levels of these peptides can be the
           basis for PLE and PB. The GI, cardiac and pulmonary physiology and pharmacologic
           treatment of patients with fenestrated Fontans is a perfect setting for this interaction
           to occur.

      Taken in totality, these three streams of independent research give a strong basis for the
      hypothesis that the palliative physiology and pharmacologic treatment of Fontan patients
      leads to increased levels of VIP, Substance P or both, and they may be causal in the
      pathophysiology of PB and PLE.

      Rationale for Current Study Design and Subject Recruitment:

      Consistent with our Aims and Hypotheses, four patient groups will be studied: i)Fontan
      Physiology Patients with PLE and PB Patients ii) Fontan Physiology Patients without PLE and
      PB iii) Patients with Glenn Physiology Congenital Heart Disease and iv) Patients with 2
      ventricle physiology and an atrial septal defect who will serve as a Control group.
      Measurement of mixed venous and arterial levels of substance P and VIP in these 4 groups of
      subjects will allow us to determine the effects of elevated portal venous pressure on the
      production and clearance of substance P and VIP and well as the effects of altered
      hepatic-pulmonary blood flow on the clearance of substance P and VIP. This should allow us to
      determine if 1) systemic arterial levels of substance P and VIP levels are elevated in Fontan
      patients when compared to controls, and if elevated, 2) whether this is due to increased
      hepatic production, reduced pulmonary clearance or both. The rationale for the inclusion of
      each patient group is summarized below.

      Subjects with Fontan physiology (Group I and II) have a unique physiology where both the
      superior vena cava (SVC) and inferior vena cava (IVC) are connected directly to the pulmonary
      arteries thereby bypassing the heart. This palliation scheme allows for separation of the
      pulmonary and systemic circulations in patients with univentricular hearts and essentially
      eliminates cyanosis. These patients have non-pulsitile pulmonary artery flow with elevated
      central venous and portal venous pressures. Therefore, it is suspected that these patients
      will have increased production of substance P and VIP. In addition, a fenestration (or hole),
      is created between the Fontan conduit and the atrium at the time of Fontan surgery in order
      to lower central venous pressure and increase cardiac output by creating a right to left
      intracardiac shunt. It is suspected that these patients will have elevated systemic venous
      and arterial levels of vasoactive peptides as a result of 1) increased hepatic/gut
      production, 2) decreased pulmonary vascular clearance, and/or 3) intracardiac right to left
      shunting. Studying these subjects will allow us to determine how systemic venous and systemic
      arterial levels of Substance P and VIP are altered by the Fontan circulation. By comparing
      systemic arterial and venous levels of vasoactive peptides among control, Glenn physiology
      and Fontan physiology groups we hope to measure differences in vasoactive peptide levels that
      could be responsible for the development of PLE and PB in Fontan physiology patients.

      Subjects with Glenn physiology (Group III) have a unique physiology where hepatic venous and
      lower body venous blood returns to the heart and enters the systemic ventricle and is
      recirculated to the body after combining with the pulmonary venous blood. There is no direct
      connection thru the heart for hepatic venous blood to enter the pulmonary arteries.
      Therefore, it is suspected that these patients will likely have elevated systemic arterial
      circulating levels of Substance P and VIP due to intracardiac right to left shunting and
      reduced pulmonary clearance. However, since these patients typically have normal portal
      venous pressures, they are not thought to have increased production of these vasoactive
      peptides. In addition, these patients historically are not at risk for developing PLE and PB.
      Studying these subjects will allow us to determine how systemic venous and systemic arterial
      levels of Substance P and VIP are altered by the Glenn circulation. By comparing systemic
      arterial and venous levels of vasoactive peptides among control, Glenn physiology and Fontan
      physiology groups we hope to measure differences in vasoactive peptide levels that could be
      responsible for the development of PLE and PB in Fontan physiology patients.

      Control group subjects (Group IV) will have normal hepatic-pulmonary blood flow and normal
      portal venous pressures. An atrial septal defect allows for left to right shunting of blood
      thru the heart but does not typically result in elevated pulmonary artery or right
      ventricular pressures. These subjects will have normal flow of hepatic venous blood into the
      pulmonary capillary bed. Therefore they should have normal hepatic production and pulmonary
      clearance of substance P and VIP.
    
  