
    
      This is a pilot Stage IIS study to evaluate the feasibility of performing a larger
      multicentre trial.The HAPpy study is a prospective development study offering hemi ablative
      LDR brachytherapy to 34 men with histologically proven low or intermediate risk localised
      prostate adenocarcinoma which affects a single lobe of the prostate.The data obtained from
      these 34 patients will be compared to matched patients from a retrospective cohort of whole
      gland brachytherapy patients treated in the same institution.Precise mapping and
      characterisation of the disease will be established using mp-MRI (T2-weighted and
      DCE(gadolinium)) imaging and transperineal template biopsy (TTB). Only the lobes with disease
      (left or right half of the gland) will be treated provided that the contralateral side is
      free of disease. Patients will be followed for two years post treatment at which time a
      further mp-MRI and TTB will confirm disease control outcomes.

      Focal therapy for prostate cancer is a new idea and is considered an experimental treatment
      which needs to be evaluated within carefully conducted clinical trials . Rather than
      investigating focal therapy in a strict sense where only known areas of disease are treated,
      a more conservative approach needs to be taken until more information can be obtained
      regarding the outcomes of changing treatment techniques. Hemi-ablative focal therapy is
      considered to be a low-risk treatment and investigations into the performance of the
      technique should provide a pathway for future investigations of less conservative
      methodologies. Hemi-ablative focal therapy treats half of the prostate gland with a treatment
      margin, effectively treating at least 50% of the whole gland with a prescription dose. In
      theory, this should lessen the side effects associated with radical treatment while still
      maintaining disease control.This type of treatment is only suitable for patients with
      unilateral disease.

      An international group of experts was established to form a consensus on how to design and
      conduct an LDR focal brachytherapy program for clinical trials. The group's findings were
      published by Langley et al and a dosimetric modelling study by Al Qaisieh et al.

      Focal hemi gland brachytherapy will be delivered by means of an adaptation of same real-time
      planning technique (denominated 4D Brachytherapy) used to deliver whole gland LDR prostate
      brachytherapy. Stranded iodine 125 sources are implanted on the periphery of the prostate
      gland and loose iodine 125 sources are implanted within the central volume of the gland.
      Because all planning and dosimetry are done in real-time, radiotherapy physics will be able
      to adhere to the strict planning protocols required for this study.

      Treatment planning: For standard whole-gland treatment, the whole prostate gland is
      delineated to form the Planning Target Volume (PTV) and the V100 is planned such that it
      covers the entire PTV plus a 0.5cm margin. For hemi-ablative focal treatments, the prostate
      will be divided into half and a new HTV (called the HemiTreatment Volume) is outlined on the
      side of the prostate determined to have clinically significant disease. A treatment margin of
      0.5cm is considered around the HTV, which is similar when planning whole-gland treatment. In
      this way, >95% of the HTV is aimed to receive 100% of the prescription dose (V100). The V150
      is situated in a semi-horseshoe shape in order to spare the urethra from high doses of
      radiation.

      Dose parameters to critical organs are as follows:-

      HEMI PROSTATE:

      Prescription Dose 145Gy V100 = >95% V150 = 50-60% D90 = 140 - 160 Gy

      URETHRA:

      V150 <15%

      RECTUM:

      D0.1cc <200 Gy

      The trial design follows recommendations published by the Balliol Collaboration under the
      Idea, Development, Exploration, Assessment, Long-term follow-up (IDEAL) model for a surgical
      study.

      Data Collection and Statistics

        1. Sample Size- Pilot Study There are no published results available and this technique has
           not been trialed to determine its effectiveness in disease control and quality of life
           outcomes. As such, a preliminary study is necessary to determine efficacy and
           feasibility before a large, multi-centre trial can be performed where a significant
           number of patients can be recruited for appropriate statistical analysis.

           The trial site currently treats ~300 patients per year for whole-gland brachytherapy. Of
           these 300 patients, ~25% present with unilateral disease that is low and intermediate
           risk. Recruitment will be over 18 months, in which time 100 patients should be eligible
           for the HAPpy trial. We anticipate a 25% drop-out rate after mp- MRI and template
           prostate mapping (TPM) biopsy results and a further 25% drop-out due to refusal to
           participate. This means that ~50 patients should be available for recruitment into the
           study over an 18 month period. In order to assess a decrease in side-effects (based on
           quality of life (QoL)) data of at least 10%, 34 patients will be required for the study.
           This is comparing two independent groups (prospective hemi group versus retrospective
           whole-gland group) when using α = 5%, β = 10%, and σ = 20%.

        2. Data collection The main research co-ordinator is a qualified and experienced data
           manager. Data will be collected in both paper and electronic form and the data will be
           stored in one place and backed up twice on two different servers. Data will be held
           according to the Data Protection Act 1998 and pseudo anonymised as necessary. Each
           participant will be given a study number and this will be used on all of their study
           records. The patient number will be known to the chief investigator, the research
           co-ordinator, and the research radiographer or nurse assigned to the study. Data will be
           kept in a secure manner in the research offices with access to named individuals from
           the study group only. The paper records will be kept for a minimum of 10 years after the
           end of the study. A research radiographer or nurse will be appointed at the time of
           trial commencement to ensure that the Quality of Life (QOL) questionnaires are completed
           at each follow-up visit as required by the trial protocol. The research radiographer or
           nurse is also responsible for ensuring that each patient in the trial has appropriate
           appointments set up for each treatment, scanning (mp-MRI, biopsy), and follow-up visit
           and the necessary information is collected at each visit under the protocol. All clinic
           visit information including questionnaires, scans, biopsy results, and blood results
           will be kept in study records.

        3. Analysis Thirty-four patients will be examined in the HAPpy trial and with this small
           sample number, non-parametric analysis of the data will be the most suitable. Patients
           will be paired or matched according to their tumour staging and pathology, age, and
           baseline scores. The Mann-Whitney U test, the Wilcoxon test, as well as tests for
           normality (if appropriate) of the data will be performed to determine if there are
           differences in the trial groups. Analysis of variance will be performed if the data is
           appropriate to use in this manner.

           Data to be collected:- IPSS + QoL questionnaire = Numerical scores, time-points IIEF-5
           QoL questionnaire = Numerical scores, time-points EORTC-QLQ-PR25 bowel symptoms
           questionnaire = Numerical scores, time-points Dosimetry Values for PTV and HTV =
           Numerical V100, V150, D90 = Numerical Dose to the Urethra (V150) = Numerical Dose to the
           Rectum (D0.1cc) = Numerical Pathology review of biopsies (all) Standard reporting,
           qualitative, ranked mm of core invaded = Numerical Biopsy % core invaded = Numerical
           Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) = Numerical, time-points EN2 = Numerical, time-points
           Gleason Score= Numerical Staging = Standard reporting, qualitative, ranked

           Outcomes will be reported as estimates with 95% confidence intervals using appropriate
           methods based on the type of data. For patient reported outcomes with available baseline
           measurements, a comparison will be made with baseline values using paired analyses.
           Logistic regression will be used to investigate associations with potential risk factors
           for histological failure, considering PSA and EN2, Gleason score, cancer core length
           involvement (mm and %), number and % of positive biopsies for any cancer on TTB, stage
           and risk group. Sensitivity and specificity (with 95% confidence intervals) will be
           estimated in considering the use of standard PSA kinetics and thresholds for identifying
           clinically significant cancer. Scores from the quality of life questionnaires will be
           used in multivariable cross-sectional and longitudinal regression analysis comparing the
           treatment groups.

           Dosimetric evaluation to the PTV, HTV, and structures (urethra, rectum,bladder) will be
           performed (ultrasound real-time planning and post-operative CT). The dosimetry will be
           correlated with QoL information and disease control outcomes.

           Results from the TTB will be compared with the mp-MRI scans to evaluate the efficacy of
           using mp-MRI for diagnosis of disease. Disease modelling in three dimensions may be
           performed if a suitable physicist can be found to perform such an analysis.

           EN2 and PSA evaluation over time will be examined using regression analysis and compared
           between the two trial arms.

           Biopsy and mp-MRI results at 2-years (disease control outcomes) will be compared with
           pre-treatment biopsy and mp-MRI data and correlated with QoL information and dosimetry.

           Thirty-four patients will be examined in the HAPpy trial and with this small sample
           number, non-parametric analysis of the data will be the most suitable. Patients will be
           paired or matched according to their tumour staging and pathology, age, and baseline
           scores. The Mann-Whitney U test, the Wilcoxon test, as well as tests for normality (if
           appropriate) of the data will be performed on the data to determine if there are
           differences in the trial groups. Analysis of variance will be performed if the data is
           appropriate to use in this manner.

        4. Reporting of Results The data will be analysed and submitted for peer reviewed journals
           for publication as full manuscripts. Abstracts to conferences will also be submitted for
           poster or oral presentation. An interim analysis at 12 months using histological and
           imaging data will be performed once sufficient data are available.

      Data collection and reporting of results will follow the guidelines outlined in CONSORT and
      STROBE for clinical trials.
    
  