
    
      A diagnosis of cancer can be a major stress-inducing event. The prevalence of depression in
      patients diagnosed with cancer is estimated up to 16%. Practicing mindfulness is a
      cost-effective treatment which can also help manage treatment adverse effects and
      cancer-related symptoms.

      Even short exposure and practice of mindfulness exercises have demonstrated improved
      subjective and objective measurements of stress and anxiety with breast biopsies. Patients
      with breast cancer also have improved quality of life with mindfulness training. Self-guided
      mindfulness with smartphone applications, specifically the app Headspace, has been associated
      with positive benefits and ease of use in the general population and among cancer patients.

      A patient's inherent level of baseline mindfulness has been associated with lower pain scores
      following minimally invasive hysterectomy. This study did not specifically encourage practice
      of mindfulness exercises. Our own study of post-operative opiate usage in women following
      minimally invasive hysterectomy contains self-reported data of women using opiates to relax
      or help sleep. This suggests that mindfulness exercises may improve quality of life in these
      areas and thus reduce opiate usage. Patients undergoing minimally invasive hysterectomy for
      treatment of endometrial cancer were specifically chosen as a study cohort to build on our
      own data and that currently reported in the literature as well as the highest incidence of
      this cancer as a gynecologic malignancy. The second study cohort chosen was women with
      cervical cancer undergoing definitive treatment with chemo-sensitizing radiation given the
      significant endeavor required for complete treatment. Additionally, these women are often
      younger with the diagnosis of cervical cancer often being their first major medical
      diagnosis.
    
  