
    
      This study uses a mixed-methods design. A randomized intervention (RCT) will be a mailed
      letter sent to approximately 1310 patients, disclosing their physicians' financial
      relationships with industry before patients meet with their physicians. There are 4
      experimental conditions, systematically varying the wording of the COI disclosures, and one
      control condition. These patients will be briefly surveyed after they see their physicians,
      using standardized measures of trust and other questions. The goal is to achieve a 65%
      response rate (final n=850).

      The sample size was determined based on a 0.3 unit change in Mayer Trust Scale adapted to
      refer to "physician" rather than "management" between the subgroups using the POWER procedure
      in SAS software version 9.3. In its original presentation, the Mayer Trust Scale lists a
      standard deviation for the 4-item trust score as 0.66 - 0.68. A sample size of 850 patients
      (170 in each of the 5 groups) would provide 82% power to detect a 0.3 unit difference in
      Mayer Trust Scale after Bonferroni correction for the 10 possible comparisons, assuming a
      standard deviation of 0.7 and that the significance level of 0.005 (0.05 / 10 comparisons)
      would be used in these analyses. In addition, this sample size would allow for multivariable
      regression models sufficient parameters to be fit following the suggested ratio of 10
      patients for each predictor in the model.

      Additionally, to supplement patient-derived RCT survey results, approximately 25 Cleveland
      Clinic physicians with industry relationships over $20,000 will be interviewed to gather
      their perspectives on COI disclosure. These interviews will occur before and after the RCT,
      and will collect qualitative and quantitative data. Qualitative data will be analyzed using
      content analysis, an iterative process of data immersion and data coding, whereby narrative
      data is categorized into discrete codes based on thematic content and then used to compute
      descriptive statistics.
    
  