
    
      Symptomatic arthritic conditions of the foot and ankle including osteoarthritis,
      post-traumatic arthritis, inflammatory arthropathies and others can be painful and disabling
      conditions that lead to a reduced quality of life. Major symptoms include pain, stiffness,
      swelling, and difficulty walking. Many patients may be initially treatable with non-invasive
      measures such as analgesics, ankle-foot orthosis, physical therapy and medications such as
      steroids; however, over time, surgery becomes necessary to improve quality of life and
      maintain function. Arthrodesis is a well-known procedure that can reduce pain and result in a
      foot/ankle that can withstand an active lifestyle.

      Bone graft is used to stimulate new bone formation at the operative site by providing
      osteogenic cells with osteoinductive factors with an osteoconductive matrix. Although
      autologous bone is often used as the structural graft material for fusion procedures, donor
      site morbidity (e.g., pain, infection, and fracture), limited supply, and inconsistent
      osteogenic activity continue to be associated problems. The quality of an autograft is
      dependent upon the age and medical condition of the patient, as well as the number of viable
      mesenchymal and osteoprogenitor stem cells that are present in the specimen. This tissue is
      harvested during the surgical procedure; the process can prolong morbidity at the harvest
      site. The ideal bone graft would offer osteogenic cells, osteoinductive factors, and an
      osteoconductive matrix with a consistent supply of viable mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and
      osteoprogenitor cells (OPCs)-but without the morbidity of autograft.

      Due to the limitations associated with autograft, researchers are pursuing the use of
      bone-graft substitutes to promote arthrodesis. Bone-graft substitutes now being used by
      surgeons include ceramic synthetics, bone morphogenic proteins (BMPs), demineralized bone
      matrices (DBMs) and other allografts; these may be used alone or in combination. Allografts
      available as substitutes for autograft offer some of the benefits of autograft without its
      limitations-but do not contain viable MSCs and OPCs.

      Trinity Evolution is an allogeneic cancellous bone matrix containing demineralized cortical
      bone (DCB) as well as viable osteoprogenitor and mesenchymal stem cells. Adult mesenchymal
      stem cells and osteoprogenitor cells, such as those in Trinity Evolution, are the precursor
      cells that differentiate into osteoblasts-the cells responsible for bone growth and repair.

      Trinity Evolution provides the required osteoconduction, osteogenesis, and osteoinductivity
      necessary for successful bone grafting. It offers viable osteoprogenitor and mesenchymal stem
      cells and demineralized cortical bone-all in a single product. Data from preclinical studies
      with Trinity Evolution have demonstrated in-vitro and in-vivo safety and effectiveness.
      Trinity Evolution is a "minimally manipulated" tissue that is considered an allograft, and as
      such, is labeled for bone repair for all orthopedic and podiatric indications where autograft
      is used. In this study, Trinity Evolution will be used as a substitute for autograft and/or
      standard allograft in the following arthrodesis procedures: tibiotalar, subtalar,
      calcaneocuboid, talonavicular, double fusions (i.e. calcaneocuboid and talonavicular), and
      triple fusions (i.e. subtalar, calcaneocuboid, and talonavicular).
    
  