
    
      This was a prospective, randomized open-label study of 36 patients with POAG scheduled to
      undergo phacoemulsification with intraocular lens implantation ("cataract surgery"). Patients
      were randomized 2:1 to receive either cataract surgery alone (control group) or cataract
      surgery and iStent implantation (combined surgery group).

      Implantation of the study stent occurred after cataract extraction and IOL insertion using
      the same small, temporal, clear-corneal incision (approximately 3 mm) used to perform
      phacoemulsification and IOL placement. The study stent was guided into Schlemm's canal using
      ab-interno gonioscopy (using a Swan-Jacobs gonioscope). (Figure 1) If no complications
      occurred during phacoemulsification, acetylcholine was injected in the anterior chamber after
      the IOL implantation to constrict the pupil. The anterior chamber was then filled with a
      viscoelastic agent to reform the anterior chamber and provide more clearance in the angle.

      The anterior chamber was traversed with the applicator (the implant was on the tip of
      applicator) and the trabecular meshwork located. The leading edge of the device was gently
      slid through the trabecular meshwork and into Schlemm's canal at the nasal position (3 to 4
      o'clock for the right eye; 9 to 8 o'clock for the left eye) with the tip of the implant
      directed inferiorly. If difficulty was encountered with the insertion at the primary
      location, we tried inserting about 0.5 clock hour inferiorly; and continued to move
      inferiorly as needed for subsequent attempts. Next, the device was released by pushing the
      button on the applicator, position of the stent was verified and the applicator was
      withdrawn.

      The patients were instructed to discontinue all glaucoma medications after surgery. Standard
      post cataract extraction antibiotic and anti-inflammatory drug regimen was prescribed. Target
      pressure for each patient was determined prior to study entry. Following the assigned
      procedure, any patient with an IOP (as measured between 8 and 10 AM) that was greater than 2
      mm Hg over their target was instructed to return twice in the following three days for
      re-measurement of their IOP. If the patient's IOP was > 2 mm Hg over their target pressure,
      ocular hypotensive agents were added. The medications were added in a pre-set schedule, with
      beta-blockers first, angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors second, and
      prostaglandins third. If, however, on the third consecutive visit the patient's IOP was
      within 2 mm Hg of target, patient re-entered the normal visit schedule. Investigators were
      masked to treatment assignment both when measuring IOP and when determining when or if to add
      medications.
    
  