
    
      Chronic hepatitis B infection (CHB) affected 292 million individuals in the world in 2016
      according to the Polaris Observatory estimation, translating to about 3.9% global prevalence.
      Up to 40% of patients with CHB will develop liver-related complications and there were
      890,000 deaths from these complications in 2015. Current antiviral therapy is aimed to
      achieve effective viral suppression, biochemical remission, histological improvement, and
      risk reductions in liver-related complications including cirrhosis and liver cancer. Many
      patients require long-term oral nucleos(t)ide analogues (NA) since off-treatment sustained
      virological control can only be achieved in a minority of patients. For HBeAg-negative CHB
      patients, variable rates of durable virological response were observed after cessation of NA.
      Only a small proportion of HBeAg-negative Asian patients (<10%) can successfully stop NA
      without virological breakthrough, compared to more than 60% of Caucasian patients maintaining
      a durable virologic response and even HBsAg seroclearance in up to 30%. Therefore, current
      guidelines in general recommend indefinite duration of NA therapy in HBeAg-negative patients,
      unless guaranteed close monitoring could be provided after cessation of NA in suitable
      subjects. Favourable factors predictive of partial cure include lower baseline HBV DNA, lower
      HBsAg titre or hepatitis B core-related antigen at NA cessation and longer duration of
      consolidation therapy in HBeAg-negative patients. There is lack of data in the immunological
      and virological profile in patients who stop their long-term NA, and in those who developed
      post-NA cessation flare.

      The investigators aim to study the virological and immunological profile in patients who
      stopped long-term NA therapy, with or without post-NA cessation flare. In addition, the
      investigators would like to investigate the effect of mild flare after monitored NA-cessation
      on subsequent virological activity and HBsAg seroclearance.
    
  