
    
      Acronym :

      Holmium Embolization Particles for Arterial Radiotherapy Plus 177Lu-dotatate in Salvage NET
      patients- HEPAR PLUS-trial.

      Rationale:

      Patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (NET) often die from intrahepatic
      disease or are excluded from liver-directed treatment because of extrahepatic disease.
      Adjuvant liver-directed treatment is warranted to control both intra- and extrahepatic
      disease.

      Objective:

      Primary objectives:

        -  To evaluate efficacy of adjuvant 166Ho-radioembolization (166Ho-RE) after systemic
           177Lu-dotatate in a non-comparative phase II study.

        -  To establish the safety and toxicity profile of adjuvant 166Ho-RE after systemic
           treatment with 177Lu-dotatate.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate Quality of Life (QoL).

        -  To evaluate biodistribution / dosimetry.

      Study design:

      Interventional, treatment, non-randomized, open label, non-comparative, phase II study.

      Study population:

      Patients with liver metastases of NET will be included in this study (n = 30-48). These male
      and female patients must be aged ≥18 years. All NET histologies are acceptable, provided no
      standard therapeutic options are available, such as chemotherapy and surgery.

      Intervention:

      166Ho-RE will be performed via a catheter during angiography.

      Study endpoints:

      Primary endpoints:

        -  Tumour response at 3 months.

        -  Safety and toxicity profile of 166Ho-RE as adjuvant treatment after 177Lu-dotatate.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  Changes in tumour markers.

        -  Quality of Life (QoL).

        -  Biodistribution / Dosimetry.

      Duration of treatment:

      The study consists of a screening phase of approximately 2 weeks followed by a treatment
      phase of approximately 2-3 weeks. Patients will be followed until liver specific tumour
      progression or death has occurred, to a maximum of 12 months.

      Methodology:

      A first cohort of 30 patients will be treated with 166Ho-RE. After the first cohort, up to 3
      additional cohorts of 6 patients will be treated with 166Ho-RE. The total number of patients
      treated in the HEPAR PLUS trial will therefore be at least 30 and at most 48 patients,
      depending on the observed number of responses. Early termination at a response interim
      analysis (after 30, 36 or 42 patients) is determined by pre-defined boundaries on the number
      of observed responses. The boundary in favour of treatment effect may be crossed before 30
      patients are reached, but then the study will continue to at least 30 patients to allow
      estimation of the key secondary endpoints.

      Number of study centers:

      Single center (UMC Utrecht).

      Adverse events:

      All adverse events will be recorded throughout the study.

      Inclusion period:

      January 2014 - January 2017
    
  