
    
      Eligible: Female adult women (18 to 70 years old) patients, with epithelial ovarian/tubal
      (FIGO stage IIIC) with a Fagotti modified Laparoscopic Scoring System ≥ 4 who will show a
      complete or partial clinical response(RECIST 1.1) after 3 cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      (Carboplatin+Paclitaxel).

      Duration of recruitment: 2 years. Sample size has been calculated to reach a confidence level
      of 95% with a power of 80%, considering a 45% and 75% disease-free survival at 2 years in CRS
      and CRS+HIPEC group respectively.

      Sample size will be 47 patients for each group. After CRS, only patients with adequate
      cytoreduction (CC 0-1, residual tumor ≤ 2.5mm) will be randomized. Patients with suboptimal
      cytoreduction (CC 2-3, residual tumor > 2.5mm) are not suitable for randomization.

      The drug schedule elected in the current study is Cisplatin (CDDP) (100 mg/m2 of body surface
      area) + Paclitaxel (175mg/m2 of body surface area).

      Closed/open technique, as preferred. Duration: 90 minutes. Mean Intra-abdominal Temperature:
      42°C. Primary Endpoint: 2-years disease-free survival.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      1-year, 3- and 5-years disease-free survival;

      1 month, 1-year, 3- and 5-years overall survival; toxicity induced by HIPEC using the NCI CTC
      criteria; one month and six months morbidity; duration of operation; return of bowel
      function; length of hospital stay; return to normal activity; six months and one year QOL,
      using the SF-36 v1.0; percentage of patients in both arms completing the scheduled
      postoperative chemotherapy; Subgroup analysis: PCI ≤ 15; pts. ≤ 40yrs.

      Main topics of this Study:

      Focused only on upfront treatment of primary disease. Select platinum-sensible patients
      (responders to platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy).

      Take advantage of NACT to maximize chances for cytoreduction. Standardized strategy for CRS:
      radical surgery, associated to any surgical procedure needed to obtain a zero or ≤ 0.25cm
      residual tumor (peritonectomy, bowel resection, diaphragmatic stripping, gastric resection,
      etc.). Pelvic and peri-aortic lymphadenectomy is not chosen as standard procedure, but should
      warrant adequate staging.

      Compare only the effect of HIPEC.
    
  