
    
      The difficulty in providing timely access to sleep specialists is widespread. These delays
      are particularly important for patients with severe SDB due to the increased risk of adverse
      clinical outcomes and potential associated healthcare costs. The lack of timely access has
      sparked an interest in the use of alternate care providers (ACPs) to manage patients with
      SDB. Our group and others have demonstrated that ACPs are an effective and efficient
      substitute for physicians for patients with uncomplicated SDB. However, the role of ACPs in
      the management of patients with severe SDB remains unclear.

      Prompted by wait times that far exceed current Canadian guidelines, we have recently
      implemented an ACP-led "Fast Track" clinic for patients who are referred to the Foothills
      Medical Centre (FMC) Sleep Centre with suspected severe SDB. In this clinic, patients with
      suspected severe SDB are assessed by a sleep-trained registered respiratory therapist
      functioning as an ACP. Decisions regarding further sleep testing and treatment are made by
      the patient and ACP, under the guidance of a sleep physician. This model of care differs from
      a physician-led model that is used at the FMC Sleep Centre.

      To evaluate this novel care delivery model, we have designed a randomized trial comparing
      outcomes for patients in the "Fast Track" clinic to those who undergo conventional,
      physician-led care. The specific goals of this study are:

        1. to compare the clinical effectiveness of an ACP-led clinic for patients with suspected
           severe SDB to physician-led management;

        2. to determine whether cycle times from referral to diagnosis and treatment for patients
           referred with suspected severe SDB can be reduced by an ACP-led clinic;

        3. to determine the impact of an ACP-led clinic on the demand for sleep physicians, ACPs
           and diagnostic testing;

        4. to compare the cost-effectiveness of these models of care using data on healthcare
           utilization, costs, and patient reported health-related quality of life (HRQOL).

      Patients in the "Standard Management" arm will be assessed by a sleep respirologist and
      follow a management plan that is determined by the sleep physician and patient. This plan may
      involve polysomnography or the initiation of PAP therapy. If further testing is ordered,
      follow-up may occur with the physician or with an ACP, at the physician's discretion. For
      patients initiating PAP therapy, the decision to delegate follow-up to an ACP will be left up
      to the physician, as the intent of this study is to observe real-world practice and not to
      change the management of individual patients.

      In the "Fast Track" arm, an ACP will perform the initial assessment and will determine the
      management plan with the patient. To ensure patient safety, the management plan will be
      discussed with a sleep respirologist, who will be designated as the patient's primary sleep
      physician. This sleep physician will be available at the FMC Sleep Centre during the "Fast
      Track" clinic to assist with the assessment of patients who appear unwell (e.g. severe
      hypoxemia, decompensated cardiorespiratory failure, etc.). As in the "Standard Management"
      arm, follow-up visits to review test results, discuss and initiate treatment, or to assess
      treatment response may occur with the ACP who performed the initial assessment or may be
      delegated to any other ACP.

      As is usual procedure at the FMC Sleep Centre, ambulatory sleep test requisitions will be
      completed by ACPs or physicians, whereas all polysomnogram requisitions will be completed by
      the primary sleep physician to ensure adequate blinding of patient assignment. The research
      associate will ensure that all tests are interpreted in advance of clinic visits. Patients
      who are followed by ACPs in either arm can be referred to the primary sleep physician for
      assessment of non-respiratory sleep disorders, or for persistent symptoms such as daytime
      sleepiness.
    
  