
    
      Sepsis is number one cause of death within the critically ill patients ,with mortality that
      reaches a rate of 70%,while in case of the establishment of septic shock and multi organ
      failure it can rise up to 80%.Septic shock is the most common cause of death in the ICUs. It
      has been estimated that 25% of the total of septic patients will develop severe sepsis
      (sepsis and organ failure), while septic shock (sepsis and cardiovascular failure).

      In order to call a biological rhythm circadian, the following 3 criteria must be satisfied:

        1. Insistence on stable conditions, with endogenous period of about 24 hours.

        2. Independence of ambient temperature, so that almost always progresses at the same rate
           (same frequency), independent of temperature.

        3. This endogenous rhythm, of approximately 24 hours, can be synchronized in exactly 24
           hours, influenced by environmental factors, such as light/dark cycles, social
           interactions, etc.

      Many organic systems follow a circadian pattern, among others the immune system,on the
      grounds that peripheral blood lymphocytes own all the forementioned genes, whose coordinated
      expression with that particular periodicity results in the generation of maximum (peak) and
      minimum (nadir) of the number of circulating cells, their activity, the production and
      secretion of cytokines etc.This endogenous attitude is lost in case of sepsis, due to few or
      absent stimuli deriving from the central clock. As a result, an additional compounding factor
      comes up in the immune system ,which fails to fight the infectious agent and that inefficient
      immune response aggravates the circadian desynchronization , creating a vicious circle.

      The direct evaluation of circadian rhythms' entails the examination of suprachiasmatic
      neurons' functionality, through biopsies from the examined patients ,which constitutes an
      ethically questionable ,practically expensive, time-consuming and quite demanding procedure.
      Thus, the estimation of actual circadian profile will take place indirectly, driven by a
      series of biomarkers, indicative of the functional status of the ''central biological clock''
      found at the suprachiasmatic nucleus of CNS (melatonin, cortisol, core body temperature),as
      well as the ''peripheral clock'' placed at the immune system cells (Clock/ Bmal1 , Per/Cry
      genes' expression).

      The purpose of this prospective, observational, case-control study is to investigate the
      discrepancy in levels of circadian biomarkers in patients suffering from sepsis in comparison
      with those coming from other ,non-septic patients in the same environment as well as
      deviation from healthy controls' values, and secondarily to assess the effect of septic
      syndrome in later development of endogenous clock that regulates daily life with regard to
      the quality of life that follows recovery.
    
  