
    
      OBJECTIVE(S): The primary objective of the study was to determine the impact of a
      low-intensity, care management intervention on depression treatment outcomes of patients in a
      VA primary care setting. Secondary objectives were to determine the extent to which primary
      care clinicians adhere to major depression treatment guidelines, the extent to which the
      intervention impacts healthcare utilization, and to examine the impact of provider and
      patient covariates (including pain and adherence) on depression treatment response PLAN:
      Randomized controlled trial. METHODS: All clinicians first participated in the MacArthur
      Depression Education Program (DEP). After stratification by discipline and site, clinicians
      were randomized to receive the Depression Decision Support (DDS) intervention versus usual
      care (which included an on-site mental health team). Patients were nested within clinician
      intervention status. DDS intervention clinicians received serial reports of depression
      severity scores and other clinical data for their enrolled patients. The DDS care manager
      made one telephone contact with each intervention patient, and invited patients to attend a
      depression group education session. The DDS team monitored patient depression severity over
      time, and targeted additional time and effort towards patients not showing improvement.
      Additional DDS intervention included making further recommendations to primary care
      clinicians, and in some cases, a one-time consultation with the DDS psychiatrist.

      Potential subjects were identified from lists of patients due for appointments with primary
      care clinicians, and were contacted for telephone screening. Patients were enrolled if they
      had Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) scores >10 or a Hopkins Symptom Checklist (SCL-20)
      score of > 1.0 at a subsequent in-person interview. There were no restrictions by age or sex.
      Patients were excluded if they had psychotic symptoms, dementia, serious suicidal ideation,
      very severe depression (PHQ-9 >25), or had been treated by mental health clinicians within
      the previous six months. The intervention lasted 12 months. Depression symptom severity
      (SCL-20) and health related quality of life (SF-36V) at 6 and 12-months were primary
      outcomes. Primary analyses employed mixed-model repeated measure analyses of covariance,
      which include a random effect for clinician and fixed effects for time and intervention
      status.

      FINDINGS TO DATE: Five Portland VA clinic sites and 41 clinicians participated. 3,103
      patients were screened, and 402 patients were enrolled. Three hundred seventy-five met final
      eligibility criteria. There were no adverse events. SCL-20 scores improved in both groups
      over 12 months (slope: -.382; 95% CI -.488, -.276), but there was no effect of the
      intervention on SCL-20 or Short Form-36V compared to usual care. There was greater initial
      improvement in PHQ-9 for intervention patients (p=.030); however, this effect diminished over
      time. At 12 months, intervention patients reported greater satisfaction (p=.002), and were
      more likely to have received antidepressants. To date, 10 manuscripts supported by the
      project have been published. One manuscript examining associations between stressful live
      events and depression outcomes has been submitted for publication.
    
  