
    
      All intubated patients cared for by the Medical Intensive Care Unit (MICU)team during the
      study period will be evaluated. After 24 hours of mechanical ventilation, patients not
      meeting any exclusionary criteria will be considered for entrance into our trial. We will
      attempt to obtain consent as soon as the 24 hour period is fulfilled, even if the patient is
      not ready for extubation at that point. This is to maximize the success rate for obtaining
      consent without delaying the SBT when the patient is clinically ready. Given the nature of
      this protocol, we expect that the informed consent will primarily be obtained from the
      patient's family member or POA. For all patients who regain competency, they will be
      re-consented for permission to use their data that has been collected.

      Once patients are consented, they will be followed daily by the study investigators. When the
      order is written by the MICU team for the patient to undergo a SBT, the patient's level of
      consciousness will be evaluated by the nursing staff using the RASS. If the patient's score
      is <(-2), they will notify the study investigators. The patient will then be randomized by
      sealed envelope to one of two study groups. Group 1 will immediately undergo their SBT while
      still sedated. Group 2 will have their sedation held. Once their RASS score is 0 or higher
      and they can follow simple commands (holding up two fingers to command), they will be
      initiated on their SBT.

      The standard duration of an SBT by protocol is 2 hours. The duration of SBT may be shorter at
      the discretion of the ICU attending physician. Additionally, the standard ventilators
      settings for an SBT is 10 cm of Pressure Support and 5 cm of PEEP (positive and expiratory
      pressure). This may vary some by the attending's preference though we encourage the use of
      the standard setting during the study unless there is a clear need to deviate from the
      protocol. This is to limit the confounding impact that differing levels of Pressure Support
      may have on the parameters tracked. Patients who are felt to be failing the SBt will be
      placed back on fill ventilator support at any point directed by the MICU team. Given the lack
      of objective criteria to define failure of SBT, there are no clear criteria defined and the
      decision that a patient is failing their SBT will be determined by the attending physician.

      Nursing staff will be provided with a documentation form (Data sheet 1) and asked to annotate
      heart rate, blood pressure, respiratory rate, tidal volume, oxygen saturation, and RASS score
      at 0, 15, 30, 60 minutes and at the conclusion of the SBT.They will be inserviced on the
      protocol prior to the start of the study. The study investigators will collect demographic
      information and record it on Data sheet 2. In addition to the primary endpoint(changes in
      cardiopulmonary parameters and RASS collected by the nursing staff), secondary endpoints will
      include outcome of first SBT(pass or fail), time from randomization to extubation, outcome of
      the first extubation (Data sheet 1). As stated earlier, there are no clearly defined cut-off
      values for any of the monitored variables that define failure of an SBT.
    
  