
    
      As the nation continues its efforts to contain healthcare costs and improve quality,
      healthcare information technology provides some of our most potent yet underutilized tools.
      Clinical prediction rules are frontline decision aids that combine state-of-the-art evidence
      with real-time patient history, physical examination, and laboratory data. While often
      well-validated, clinical prediction rules have been underutilized in practice. Recently, our
      team developed the integrated clinical prediction rule (iCPR) system, embedding CPRs within
      the nation's largest commercial electronic health record (EHR) system. Using this novel
      system, we demonstrated high rates of provider utilization and a significant reduction in
      antibiotic prescribing and diagnostic test ordering among suspected cases of strep throat and
      pneumonia at a single healthcare facility. The objective of the proposed project is to
      generalize this platform across diverse settings and create a toolkit for further
      dissemination. Building on the success of the original iCPR project, the specific aims of
      this proposal are to (1) integrate our previously tested and refined iCPR tool into the same
      commercial EHR in three different clinical settings, adapting the innovation to provider
      preference, culture, and local workflow rather than imposing a rigidly standardized tool, (2)
      identify and measure rate and variability of iCPR uptake across different settings, (3)
      determine iCPR impact on antibiotic prescribing and diagnostic test-ordering patterns across
      diverse clinical settings with a randomized controlled trial, and (4) use a well-established
      theory-driven implementation framework to identify facilitators and barriers to integration
      in each setting, and develop a toolkit for adapting and implementing the tool in diverse
      settings. To achieve these aims, we propose a five-year study in which we first adapt,
      integrate and usability-test the original iCPR at three new diverse sites. We will then
      conduct a two-year randomized controlled trial with a one-year post-trial open-access
      observation period to determine the persistence of: 1) the tool's utilization and 2) its
      impact on antibiotic- and test-ordering in patients with suspected strep throat or pneumonia.
      In the final year, study findings will be compiled into a toolkit so that any healthcare
      facility using the Epic EHR can integrate iCPR into its ambulatory workflow. The study uses
      several innovative and significant approaches, including: 1) adapting the nation's most
      widespread commercial EHR system; 2) building the new tool with "off-the-shelf" technology
      included in every Epic EHR package, so the innovation can be easily ported to all Epic EHR
      users; 3) using highly specific, well-validated clinical prediction rules as its core
      content; 4) guiding the integration process with highly generalizable usability testing
      techniques; and 5) using a hybrid RE-AIM and normalization process theory implementation
      evaluation framework. Together, these innovative approaches make iCPR uniquely suited to
      overcome longstanding barriers and integrate and disseminate evidence-based tools into the
      primary care workflow at the point of care in real time.
    
  