
    
      Despite improvements over the past decade, routine mammography screening rates among African
      American women remain suboptimal. This is especially troubling in light of the fact that
      African American women have higher breast cancer mortality rates than White and Hispanic
      women. Multiple studies have revealed that women experience varying levels of pain during
      mammography, however, African American women report higher levels of mammography-related pain
      than their White counterparts. In fact, the fear of pain associated with mammography is so
      prominent that it prevents some women from undergoing routine screenings or follow-ups. Since
      pain is a major barrier for many African American women in the screening process, studies to
      assess methods to reduce mammography-related pain are imperative. An FDA-approved radiolucent
      breast plate cushion has been developed for use during mammography to increase comfort during
      the exam. The purpose of this study is to evaluate whether use of this radiolucent cushion
      will decrease the level of pain experienced by African American women undergoing routine
      screening mammography, positively impact routine mammography screening intentions, and result
      in greater mammography satisfaction among African American women. 304 women scheduled for
      mammograms at three community metropolitan mammography facilities participated in this study.
      One-half of the women were randomized to an Enhanced Mammography (EM) condition in which a
      radiolucent cushion was used during mammograms. The other half were randomized to a Routine
      Mammography (RM) condition during which typical exam protocol is followed and no radiolucent
      cushion was used. Pre- and post-exam surveys assessed anticipated and experienced
      exam-related pain and discomfort, intentions to return for a future routine mammogram, and
      general visit satisfaction. A follow-up telephone interview will be conducted with study
      participants to determine whether they received a follow-up routine screening mammogram 12 to
      18 months after they were enrolled in the study (at the time of their last routine screening
      mammogram) and where they received their mammogram (e.g. did they return to the same
      facility). If they did not obtain an on-time routine screening mammogram barriers were
      assessed. The RM and EM groups will be compared for differences.
    
  