
    
      Crestal bone deficiency in the posterior maxilla may present a therapeutic challenge when
      dental implants are required. Sufficient bone volume is necessary for the long term survival
      of the implant .

      The two most used surgical techniques are the crestal and the lateral window. The latter was
      first described by Tatum and subsequently, Boyene and James in 1980 . In the original
      technique, after fracturing the sinus floor, an implant was placed and submerged during the
      healing phase. The crestal osteotome technique is less invasive and was first described by
      Summers in 1994 . In this technique, a set of osteotomes is used to prepare the implant site,
      thereby allowing bone preservation.

      Since the sinus augmentation was describes, bone grafts have been the mainstay of treatment.
      Variable bone grafts, such as autografts, allografts, xenografts, alloplasts, or combinations
      of different graft materials, have been used widely with similar results . Nonetheless,
      successful bone augmentation in the maxillary sinus, without bone grafting, have been
      reported in human and animal studies.

      In 2011, Dong-Seok et al described sinus augmentation through a lateral window approach,
      using a fibrin rich block with concentrated growth factor (CGF). The researchers showed
      successful new bone formation in the sinus, with a success rate of 98% and no major
      complications .

      Graftless Sinus augmentation relies on bioactive mediators that stimulate cell proliferation,
      matrix remodeling, and angiogenesis. CGF is one of the latest developments in this field, and
      is produced by processing blood samples with a special centrifuge device. It contains several
      mediators - platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), transforming growth factor-b1 (TGF-b1) and
      b2 (TGF-b2), fibroblast growth factor (FGF), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and
      insulin-like growth factor (IGF). Because CGF is a dense fibrin matrix, richer in growth
      factors than other preparations, it has proved to have a better regenerative capacity and
      versatility .

      As for the application of CGF, the introduction of the "dynamic implant valve approach"
      (DIVA), a minimally invasive approach procedure, enables the use of a closed bone
      augmentation technique. The implant was designed with an internal sealing screw that might
      serve as drug delivery system via its channel.

      In this study, a graftless maxillary sinus augmentation with CGF will be performed utilizing
      DIVA system, and the bone formation will be periodically measured using panoramic X-ray and
      cone beam computerized tomography (CBCT).

      In addition, in vitro cumulative release of selected growth factors of the CGF will be
      analyzed. The total quantity of growth factors will be checked using ELISA kits.
    
  