
    
      Eligible participants will be identified from an existing, secure database. Participants will
      be contacted and traced. They will then be invited to participate in the study. If a
      participant agrees to participate in the study, they will undergo informed consent by trained
      study staff, using IRB-approved informed consent forms. They will then undergo a 1-hour pad
      weight, complete demographic data, complete an incontinence-related quality of life metric,
      and complete a depression metric.

      1-hour pad weight: Use of the 1-hour pad weights have been recommended as an objective
      measure of treatment outcome for anti-incontinence procedures. After a woman has agreed to
      enroll in the study and has given written consent, she will be asked to complete a 1-hour pad
      weight. Pad weights will be measured through having participants sit on a pre-weighed pad for
      exactly one hour and re-weighing the same pad. The weight of the pad before and after will be
      recorded and the difference between the two will be used as the pad weight. The pad weight
      represents the degree of urinary leakage a woman is experiencing. In continent populations,
      this weight is <1.5 grams. The research assistant will use a calibrated portable scale and
      stopwatch to ensure accurate recording of these weights. During this time, the remainder of
      the survey will be conducted.

      Demographic Data: Demographic data for each participant will be collected at the time of
      enrollment and after a written consent has been obtained. This includes information about the
      patient's age, place of residence, HIV status, education attainment, living arrangement,
      number of pregnancies and living children, and symptoms of urinary or fecal leakage.

      Incontinence-related Quality of Life Metric: To assess OF repair success and continence,
      participants will be asked about any leakage symptoms with the Kings' Health Questionnaire.

      Depression Metric:The 9-question Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9) will be used to assess
      repaired OF participants for depression.
    
  