
    
      Introduction World Health Organization estimates that nearly 10% of births are preterm
      worldwide. In the city of Pelotas, based on previous population studies, the preterm birth
      rate is increasing (6.3% to 14.7% from 1982 to 2004). Preterm birth (PB) is a major public
      health issue as it is associated to most cases of neonatal deaths and its consequences are
      linked to later health outcomes.

      One of the strongest predictors of PB is gestational hypertension (or eclampsia). PB risk and
      gestational hypertension may be altered by maternal behavior, such as leisure-time physical
      activity (LTPA), and overall maternal health influences the likelihood of both outcomes
      occurring. Biological plausibility lies on the fact that hypertension conditions are
      potentially influenced by LTPA directly or indirectly (as in the relation between excessive
      gestational weight gain and physical activity). Also, there is evidence that mental health
      plays a role in the determination of PB and, although biased by cross-sectional nature of
      studies, literature shows that physical activity may influence positively psychological
      aspects during pregnancy.

      In Brazil less than 20% of pregnant women are physically active during leisure. Physical
      activity during pregnancy is associated to several characteristics resulting in improved
      health profiles that could potentially decrease hypertension occurrence and consequently
      preterm birth rates. However, few clinical trials have been carried out to study such
      relationship in representative population samples and many of the available evidence are
      based solely on observational studies.

      Although early studies on the effects of leisure-time physical activity during pregnancy were
      concerned about potential harmful effects to the health of the mother and the fetus, these
      have not been proven over time. Currently, there is growing evidence supporting the safe
      promotion of physical activity during pregnancy targeting benefits to maternal and child
      health. However, most of the scientific evidence derives from observational studies. There is
      an urgent need for results from well-designed experimental studies that enable a better
      understanding of the impact of exercise during pregnancy on various health outcomes maternal
      and child.

      Methodology The intervention will start after the 12th and before the 20th week of gestation
      and will last until the end of pregnancy or when women feel uncomfortable with the exercise
      routine. The intervention will consist of three weekly exercise sessions. Each session will
      last around 60 minutes and will include aerobic exercises (treadmill or stationary cycling)
      and strength training (with focus on major muscle groups and pregnancy-specific exercises to
      help alleviate low back pain and work abdominal and pelvic floor muscles to prevent urinary
      incontinence). Workouts will be guided and supervised by physical education professionals
      previously trained. The intensity of the exercises will be set according to woman's fitness
      level and will be altered according to the progress of pregnancy based on the perceived
      effort. All exercise sessions will take place at the School of Physical Education from the
      Federal University of Pelotas.
    
  