
    
      This study is a single group pre-test post-test design.There are 4 optional measures that
      will be presented to participants from which they can choose to participate or not. These are
      presented with check boxes in the consent form. After completion of the University of
      Waterloo (UW) WELL-FIT program, participants will be given an option to continue with an
      exercise program; they will be offered the Graduate Program. Following consent of Graduate
      Program, repeated measures would be taken annually. At the time of consent, they will have
      the option to have their data used in research. At any point in their involvement of the
      exercise based programs, they can indicate "they no longer want to participate in the program
      or the data collection". Their medical care or participation in the UW WELL-FIT program will
      not be affected.

      Procedures

        1. UW WELL-FIT advertisement for Grand River Regional Cancer Centre

        2. UW WELL-FIT brochure

        3. Referral Form

        4. Participants initial consultation and assessment

        5. Obtain consent for UW WELL-FIT

        6. Obtain Participant Information

        7. Completion of FACIT-F survey

        8. Metabolism & Body Composition - Information sheet for optional measures

        9. Physical Activity Survey- Godin Questionnaire

       10. Provide 3-Day food diary and Nutritional Assessment

       11. Fitness assessment, exercise programming and data entry:

             1. Submaximal cardiovascular cycle ergometer or treadmill graded exercise test

             2. Muscular strength using force transducer

             3. Body composition:

                  -  Height, weight and waist girth

                  -  Bioelectrical Impedance Analysis (BIA)

                  -  Dual Energy X-ray Absorption (Optional)

             4. Range of motion using a goniometer

             5. Blood sampling (Optional)

             6. Design Individualized exercise program

       12. UW WELL-FIT - Commencement of participant in 12 week exercise program (2 x 60 minute
           classes)

       13. Post assessment (repeated pre-test assessments)

       14. Pre and post data are entered into database

       15. Summary and Feedback Report

       16. Graduate Program: participant selects to attend UW WELL-FIT Graduate Program

       17. Participants have annual reassessments in the Graduate Program
    
  