
    
      Cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic cancer are by far the two most common causes of malignant
      bile duct obstruction. Cholangiocarcinoma is an adenocarcinoma originating in the bile duct
      whereas pancreatic cancer is an adenocarcinoma derived from pancreatic ductal cells. The
      incidence rates of both diseases have been rising over the past decades. Both diseases still
      have a very unfavorable prognosis with 5 year survival rates as low as 5-10%. Surgery
      represents the only therapeutic modality with a curative potential, however most patients are
      non-eligible for surgical treatment at the time of diagnosis. Patients present with either
      distant metastases, have a locally advanced disease or are unfit for surgery because of
      advanced age and/or co-morbidities. The prognosis of patients with unresectable bile duct or
      pancreatic cancer is poor with a median survival time of about 6 months. Chemotherapy and
      radiotherapy provide only a slight survival benefit and thus have only palliative intent.

      Most patients with cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic cancer present with bile duct
      obstruction in the course of their disease. Bile duct obstruction relief is an important part
      of palliation therapy. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiography with bile duct stenting is the
      method of choice with a high rate of technical success and a lower complication rate compared
      to surgery. Biliary stents are either plastic or metal (self-expandable metal stents, SEMS).
      SEMS can be covered, uncovered or partially covered. Plastic stents are cheaper and easier to
      exchange but have a shorter patency compared to metal stents. Metal stents have been shown to
      improve survival of patients with proximal malignant biliary obstruction. Both plastic and
      metal become occluded in a significant proportion of patients, especially in those with a
      longer life expectancy. Stent occlusion is often an acute event leading to sepsis and a
      prompt intervention is required. Failure of achieving adequate drainage may result in severe
      cholangitis and death.

      Photodynamic therapy has been used for bile duct tumor ablation for more than a decade. It is
      a two stage process in which a photosensitizing agent is taken by the tumor tissue and is
      than activated by light of a specific wave length. Two randomized trials showed improved
      survival of patients treated with PDT plus stenting compared to stenting alone. However, side
      effects of photodynamic therapy such as phototoxicity, high costs and limited availability
      restrict the use of PDT.

      Radiofrequency ablation (RFA), by means of alternating high-frequency current, generates heat
      that results in coagulation necrosis of tissue. It is widely used to treat liver tumors or
      dysplastic Barrett's esophagus. Endoluminal biliary RFA has become possible upon availability
      of narrow ERCP RFA catheters and represents a new modality of intraductal tumor ablation. The
      probe can be introduced over a 0.035-inch wire through a standard endoscope, thus allowing
      endoscopic ablation of malignant bile duct obstruction. The bipolar catheter has multiple
      circumferential electrodes at the distal tip. The coagulative effect is delivered in the area
      between the two electrodes.

      A few human non-randomized case series investigating the safety and efficiency of RFA were
      reported. Steel at al reported their results in 22 patients with malignant bile duct
      obstruction (16 patients with pancreatic cancer and 6 patients with cholangiocarcinoma).
      Immediate, 30 day complication rates and 90 day stent patency were evaluated as primary
      parameters. Intraductal RFA was followed by a SEMS placement. One patient developed
      asymptomatic elevation of amylase, one patients developed rigors and two patients developed
      cholecystitis requiring cholecystectomy. All except 3 patients achieved 90 day stent patency.

      In a recent study of Sharaiha et al, 26 patients with pancreatic or bile duct cancer
      underwent RFA followed by plastic or metal stent placement. They were compared to 40 matched
      controls who underwent only stenting. Technical success rate was 100%. Multivariable Cox
      proportional regression analysis showed RFA to be an independent predictor of survival [HR
      0.29 (0.11-0.76), p = 0.012] together with age and receipt of chemotherapy [HR 1.04
      (1.01-1.07), p = 0.011; HR 0.26 (0.10-0.70), p = 0.007]. Surprisingly, SEMS patency rates
      were the same across all groups.

      In an Austrian national retrospective study, 84 ablations were performed in 58 patients in 11
      centers. Cholangiocarcinoma was present in 45 patients. Technical feasibility was 100%,
      however multiple complications occurred (1 liver infarct, 5 cholangitis, 3 hemobilia, 2
      sepsis, 1 gall-bladder empyema, 1 liver coma).

      RFA was also investigated in pancreatic cancers only. In a retrospective comparison of 23
      patients and 46 controls, the median survival was better in the RFA group (226 vs. 123 days,
      p=0,01). The median stent patency was not different.

      The safety profile of RFA seems to be acceptable, however severe complications have occured.
      In the study of Tal et al, 3 cases of bleeding were reported, two of them resulted in death.
      In all of these patients, plastic stents were used.

      Increasing evidence indicates that RFA might stimulate anti-tumor immunity. Active
      anti-cancer immune responses depend on efficient presentation of tumor antigens and
      cytokine-mediated stimulatory signaling. Tumor cells are generally regarded as poor
      stimulators of T-cells. In contrast, antigen-presenting cells (APCs) are highly specialized
      in this function and are therefore important in the process of stimulation of T-cell
      responses to tumors. RFA has been shown to stimulate anti-tumor immunity through the
      induction of heat shock proteins, especially HSP 70. HSPs have the capacity to affect the
      immunogenicity of tumor cells, to chaperone antigenic peptides and deliver them into APCs,
      thus activate and regulate innate and adaptive immunity.

      Based on the available evidence, RFA seems to be a technically feasible technique of
      malignant bile duct stricture ablation with a favorable safety profile. Retrospective case
      series have reported improved stent patency and survival in cholangiocarcinoma and pancreatic
      cancer patients following RFA. Thus, endoluminal RFA may represent a novel treatment modality
      in patients with malignant biliary obstruction. For this to happen, however, prospectively
      obtained comparative data with established treatment, i.e. biliary stenting, regarding safety
      and efficiency are necessary.

      The investigators aim to compare endoscopic radiofrequency ablation plus stenting vs.
      stenting alone for malignant bile duct obstruction not eligible for surgical resection in a
      randomized controlled trial.
    
  