
    
      Heart failure (HF) with preserved left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction (EF) (HFpEF) is a
      public health problem and a major topic in clinical cardiology. Its prevalence, in fact, is
      increasing and the outcome seems to be similar to that of HF with LV systolic dysfunction
      (LVSD). Pulmonary hypertension (PH) in HFpEF is highly prevalent and often severe and, like
      in LVSD (3), is a predictor of morbidity and mortality (4). Because of the thin wall and the
      distensibility, the right ventricle (RV) is much more vulnerable by an excessive afterload
      than by preload. The pulmonary circulation is a central determinant of RV afterload, and an
      increase in impendance to RV ejection, like occurring in LV dysfunction, can easily result in
      RV failure, tricuspid regurgitation, central venous pressure (CVP) rise. Development of RV
      failure is unanimously viewed as a predictor of poor prognosis but the underlying mechanisms
      have not been extensively investigated.

      Because of the prevalence and clinical significance of PH secondary to HF, attenuation of the
      pulmonary vascular tone and of the RV hemodynamic burden has been suggested as a goal to be
      achieved with HF therapy. Attempts with endothelin receptor antagonists, or prostacyclin
      analogues, were basically unsuccessful. Experimental models and human studies, showing that
      in HF nitric oxide (NO) - dependent pulmonary vasodilatation is impaired and pulmonary
      vascular resistance elevation is at least in part due to pulmonary endothelial dysfunction,
      have suggested therapeutic strategies with agents that increase NO activity, like nitrates or
      phosphodiesterase - 5 (PDE5) inhibitors (12-14). The latter agents offer the double advantage
      of selectively dilating the pulmonary vessels and not producing tachyphylaxis.

      In this 1-year duration study, the primary end-point was to probe whether pulmonary
      hemodynamics and RV performance in HFpEF with PH may be targets of PDE5 inhibition with
      sildenafil.
    
  