
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial to investigate conservative treatments for
      individuals with painful knee osteoarthritis (OA). The study will recruit participants who
      have isolated, medial compartment knee OA. Subjects will be assigned to one of two gait
      training groups. Both groups will undergo gait analysis to determine their foot progression
      angle at their comfortable walking speed. Both groups will receive personalized gait
      retraining to either alter their foot progression angle or to achieve consistency of their
      natural foot progression angle.

      Gait retraining will consist of once a week sessions for six weeks. The gait training will
      use a fading feedback approach, where the percentage of each weekly session during which
      feedback is used is decreased from week to week until no feedback is used by the last
      training session. Throughout the six-week training period subjects will be encouraged to
      practice their gait for at least ten minutes per day. Subjects will continue to practice
      their gait throughout the remainder of the 52-week intervention. Subjects will have their
      walking activity recorded using a 3-axis pedometer, and smart shoes that will log their foot
      progression angle under free-living conditions. Compared to their baseline walking activity,
      participants will be instructed to increase their daily walking by ten minutes per day
      throughout the 52-week intervention.

      All subjects will receive monthly phone calls to encourage maintaining a regular walking
      regimen. Walking activity will be monitored periodically using a pedometer. Subjects will
      receive knee MRIs and weight-bearing knee radiographs at the start and end of the study. All
      participants will complete pain evaluations and clinical knee score questionnaires during the
      study. The investigators expect that subjects in both groups will have a reduction in knee
      pain over the course of the 52-week intervention. The primary objective of the study it to
      determine if there is change in pain between baseline and week 52 is different between the
      two groups.
    
  