
    
      This study is one of three projects participating in the Brain Vascular Malformation
      Consortium (BVMC) funded by the Office of Rare Diseases Research, which is part of the
      National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences (NCATS), and the National Institute of
      Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS).

      The CCM project is a cross-sectional and longitudinal study of familial CCM patients. The
      study is currently in the third 5-year cycle. During the first 5 year cycle (BVMC1), the CCM
      project was focused on recruiting CCM1 cases with the common Hispanic mutation (CHM). In the
      second 5-year cycle (BVMC2), we expanded recruitment to include not only CCM1-CHM cases, but
      also other CCM familial patients and mutation carriers. In the third 5-year cycle (BVMC3), we
      will continue to recruit familial CCM cases and expand to additional recruitment sites.

      We collect clinical, genetic, imaging, treatment, and outcome data in participants, and
      follow enrolled participants over time to understand the natural history of this disease.

      For new study participants, you will be asked to:

      Give permission for study staff to access your medical records to collect clinical
      information and to obtain copies of MRI scans and reports.

      Fill out a questionnaire about your quality of life, family history, and medical/surgical
      history.

      Give a blood and/or saliva sample, and stool sample.

      Give permission to store and use your CCM resected tissue for research (if undergoing
      surgery).

      Participate in annual follow-ups to update medical, surgical, and neurological information.

      Eligible cases include those with a known genetic mutation in one of the three CCM genes or
      those that meet 2 of 3 following clinical criteria:

        1. Clinical diagnosis of CCM,

        2. Multi-focal lesions on MRI, and/or

        3. Family history of CCMs.

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients who cannot or are unwilling to sign informed consent and for whom no
           appropriate surrogate is available.

        2. Prisoners and homeless individuals because of the inability to contact the subject and
           collect follow-up data using standard procedures.
    
  