
    
      The effect of the InsuPad device was studied using the Meal Tolerance Test protocol or the
      daily life setting protocol. In the Meal Tolerance Test protocol subjects consumed a
      standardized liquid meal taken immediately after injection of insulin bolus (0.2 units/kg
      body weight). Each subject went through the same Meal Tolerance Test protocol twice, once
      with the InsuPad device (test conditions) and again without the InsuPad device (control
      conditions) in randomized order. The study started after an overnight fast and stabilization
      period in which the subject glucose level was stabilized between 100-150 mg/dl, using I.V
      glucose solution/oral glucose or intravenous insulin administration if needed. The patient
      remained stable (change of glucose level <20mg/dl) without any intervention or infusion 30
      min prior to the study. Blood glucose measurements were taken from a peripheral venous at
      pre-specified time points. Total follow up time was 5 hours post meal. Safety limits of the
      study were 75 mg/dl as the low limit and 300 mg/dl as the high limit. If the subject's blood
      glucose level was below 75 mg/dl glucose solution was given orally to increase his blood
      glucose level. If subjects blood glucose was above 300 mg/dl iv insulin was given to reduce
      blood glucose level.

      In the daily life setting protocol subjects meeting the inclusion exclusion criteria enrolled
      to the study. Study length was up to 25 months. Up to one month run in period, up to 12
      months with the device (test) and up to 12 months without the device (control). Subjects were
      asked to perform at least 3 blood glucose measurements a day. Subjects were asked to fill
      logbooks with measured blood glucose levels and insulin doses given during the whole study.
      Subjects were asked to report any adverse event during the study. The subjects received a
      tutorial about the device usage and the study procedures. The order of the test and control
      phases was randomly selected.
    
  