
    
      The aim of this study is to assess the analgesic efficacy of self-applied Medical Taping
      Concept in the treatment of primary dysmenorrhea .

      To evaluate this effect, a total of 128 students from the University Miguel Hernández , with
      the following inclusion criteria, participated in this study: history of menstrual pain, aged
      between 18 and 39 years who have performed a gynecological check in the last 18 months and
      who have been diagnosed with any kind of primary dysmenorrhea.

      A preliminary survey to identify valid students was made. Thereafter the participants were
      separated into two different groups (intervention group and placebo group) in order to
      request the completion of three questionnaires about the characteristics of menstrual pain
      and other demographic data for the next two menstrual cycles before the intervention. One
      survey included a graphic scale so the students could mark the start and the end of the
      symptoms associated with the menstrual cycle.

      After that the principal researcher will interviewed with the participants to show them the
      correct auto-application of the menstrual bandage and placebo. Each students group will
      receive a triptych with information and pictures to the correct application of the adhesive
      strips.

      Finally, during two new menstrual cycles, the participants will answer the same
      questionnaires to assess symptoms and menstrual pain while being worn adhesive strips (3
      pieces of Kinesio tape - 20 cm x 5 cm Tape Cure ®-, applied to the abdominal and lower back,
      in the intervention group; 2 pieces of Cross Tape ® 2.5 cm x 2 cm -, in the hip joint, in the
      placebo group. Participants may do personal hygiene during the days of the menstrual cycle
      with their adhesives strips placed on oneself.

      The size sample will be 128 girls. Differences will be contrasted in comparison of means
      (quantitative improvement, with an ANOVA) to evaluate the intervention. 18 girls were
      randomly chosen to obtain an estimation of the contrast parameters considered (means and
      standard variations). With this size sample and a significance of 5%, the investigators will
      have a power for the total sample for the contrasts of 80%.

      To describe the variables, the investigators will use frequencies (absolute and relative) for
      the qualitative variables. For the quantitative variables, the investigators will use means
      plus standard variations.

      To verify the homogeneity of the randomization the investigators will use tests based on the
      X2 (Pearson or Fisher) and t-test. The same procedure will be used to verify that the
      participants who quit the study have similar characteristics as those who remain.

      The improvement will be analyzed quantitatively using ANOVA test. Dependent variable: pain
      after the intervention. Independent variables: pain before the intervention, changes in
      pharmacological therapy and intervention group. In the event of significant differences in
      the ANOVA models the investigators will use the Tukey post-hoc test, in order to determine
      where the differences exist between the two groups.

      Qualitatively, the investigators will assess the improvement by calculating indicators of
      clinical relevance: relative risk (RR), absolute risk reduction (ARR), relative risk
      reduction (RRR), and number needed to treat (NNT).

      All the analyses will be made at a significance of 5%. The confidence intervals (CI) will be
      calculated for the most relevant parameters. The analyses will be done using IBM SPSS
      Statistics 19.0.
    
  