
    
      Emotion regulation in adolescence is associated with health risk behaviors, including sex and
      substance use, and early onset of these behaviors represents a risk factor for negative
      health outcomes throughout life. Thus, interventions appropriate for early adolescence, when
      these behaviors commonly begin, are critical for prevention efforts. The research team has
      developed and tested a novel, engaging, and efficacious intervention that addresses emotion
      regulation, a theoretically important and under-researched factor associated with risk. The
      efficacy trial of this intervention, Project TRAC, showed that an intervention strategy using
      emotion regulation was significantly more successful than an active comparison condition on
      the primary target, delaying onset of sexual activity over a two and a half year follow-up,
      as well as on other risk behaviors, such as condom use, fighting, and partner violence. While
      efficacious, the current face-to-face, small group format of the program is a difficult model
      to sustain and implement on a larger scale. With a long-term goal toward dissemination, this
      two-year project will translate the emotion regulation components of this successful program
      for tablet-based delivery to enable it to reach a large audience in a format that can be
      related to a variety of health behavior education topics (e.g., sexual health, violence,
      substance use). For the proposed project, the Rhode Island Hospital/ Brown University
      research team will collaborate with Klein Buendel, a health communications technology
      company, to translate the emotion regulation content of Project TRAC for tablet computers.
      This translation, using well-established theoretical frameworks, will be approached in
      consultation with members of the target population (early adolescents) and experts in the
      field. After the intervention has been translated to a tablet form, ten adolescents will test
      the program to assess acceptability and usability. Finally, a small pilot study (n=100) will
      assess feasibility of the translated intervention and compare it to a waitlist control group.
    
  