
    
      During Phase 1, the investigators will identify and test evidence-based websites and text
      messages with our target population.

      First the investigators will conduct interviews with pregnant women who meet physical
      activity recommendations (n=15-20) (30 minutes of moderate intensity activity at least five
      days per week) to ask them about what helps them to be active during their pregnancy. Using
      the information gathered from these interviews and the literature the investigators will
      develop text messages and 200-300 word mobile (i.e., cell phone, tablet computer) websites.
      The mobile websites will include content from evidence-based websites, but will be adapted
      for the mobile platform to enhance the user interface and readability of the websites. The
      goal of the mobile websites is to allow women to access the websites by clicking on the link
      in each text message. Once developed, the first draft of evidence-based websites and text
      messages will be tested with interviews (pregnant women n=12, physician n=12, nurses/staff
      n=12) prior to their use. All phase one participants will be recruited through word of mouth,
      community nurse clinics and physician offices. Consultant Link will direct efforts to recruit
      participants from community nurse clinics. Dr. Coonrod, Dr. Huls and Ms. Braescu will direct
      efforts to recruit participants from physician offices. The purpose of the interviews are to
      determine the feasibility (perceived acceptability and demand) and the appropriateness
      (culturally and linguistically) of the material. A moderator and note-taker (student
      researchers) trained by the PI (Huberty) and Co-I (Hekler) will conduct interviews. All
      participants will receive $25 for their participation. The interviews will inform the second
      draft of evidence-based websites and text messages, which will be used to implement the
      intervention. An amendment that requests the approval of the text messages and websites will
      be submitted after the completion of Phase 1 and prior to the commencement of Phase 2.

      Addition to Phase 2 - The investigators will conduct a survey to determine the appropriate
      dose (frequency and intensity) of physical activity text messages for Phase 2. The
      investigators will use this information to determine how often during the pregnancy (e.g.,
      daily, weekly) and when during the pregnancy (e.g., first, second, third trimester, or
      throughout) that text messages with physical activity information are necessary to help women
      participate in physical activity during their pregnancy. The survey is approximately 45
      questions in length and takes about 5 minutes to complete. Pregnant women will be recruited
      using word of mouth, fliers in places where pregnant women may be present (e.g., baby stores,
      maternity stores, community nurse clinics and physician offices,), email list servs (e.g.
      partnerships with Text 4 Baby and foundations related to pregnancy), and social media (e.g.,
      Facebook, twitter). The investigators will recruit 200 women to complete the survey.

      During Phase 2, the investigators will recruit women (n=75-100) to receive text messages
      referring them to evidence-based websites for PA information. Flyers will be available in
      physicians' clinics for posting and/or handout to women attending their first visit (8-16
      weeks gestation). The PI will present the study information to physicians, nurses, and staff
      at all physicians' sites; however, physicians, nurses, and staff will only participate in
      passive recruitment methods via the study flyer. Participants will also be recruited
      nationally using social media (i.e., Facebook, Twitter) and word of mouth (i.e., emails).
      Interested participants will contact the research team (contact information on the flyer) to
      learn more about the study and complete the eligibility questionnaire. After completing the
      eligibility questionnaire (see attached), participants will be contacted via email to set up
      a time to complete an intake appointment. Intake appointments (to review and sign the
      informed consent form, discuss the study in more detail) with participants will take place
      over the phone. The participants' informed consent and baseline questionnaires must be
      received before they will be eligible to begin the intervention.

      Participants will be assigned to a control group (n=25) or one of two intervention groups
      (n=50). The control group will receive three standard Text4Baby messages per week.
      Intervention group 1 will receive two physical activity messages and one standard Text4Baby
      message each week. Intervention group 2 will receive six physical activity messages and one
      standard Text4Baby message per week. The physical activity text message will refer the
      participant to an evidence-based (HON Code certified) website that includes PA information
      relative to the time in their pregnancy. Text messages will be pulled from a list of 150
      possible text messages. The text messages and websites will provide educational information
      about PA and its health benefits, but women will not be given a prescribed PA program to
      follow as a part of this study. Therefore, a doctor's note approving women's participation in
      this study is not necessary.

      All Phase 2 participants will be objectively measured for physical activity using the Fitbit
      activity monitor. The device will be mailed to women after completing the intake appointment
      and returning the informed consent and baseline questionnaires. The women will wear the
      device for 24 hours daily and will be asked to sync their device to their computer in order
      to send researchers their physical activity feedback. All Fitbit monitors will be identified
      only by a participant code to maintain the confidentiality of data when participants send
      their data via wireless internet and when researchers receive the data. Women will also be
      asked to complete short satisfaction surveys about some of the text messages. Fifteen women
      will receive the satisfaction surveys once per week, and 60 women will receive the surveys
      twice per month. The satisfaction survey is included with this application.

      After the intervention, Phase 2 participants will be invited to participate in a voluntary
      interview to further examine the feasibility of the intervention. Areas of focus will
      include: acceptability (satisfaction, intention to use, perceived appropriateness), demand
      (actual use, intention to use), and implementation (factors affecting ease or difficulty) of
      using text messaging for referral to evidence-based websites for PA information. The
      interview can be conducted in person or over the phone. Participants who complete the
      intervention will be able to retain the FitBit device for their personal use.

      Following the interview, participants will be invited to participate in Phase 3 of the study
      (Part 2) (new consent form).

      During Phase 3 (Part 2), the information collected on the Fitbit physical activity monitor
      and synced with the user ID will be recorded during the mother's first year post-partum (from
      time of birth until the child's first birthday) just as it was during the pregnancy. The
      investigators will also send a survey, via a Qualtrics link, to complete every three months
      (4 times total) during this first year post-partum. The survey will ask questions related to
      mental health (i.e., stress, anxiety), physical health (i.e., weight, physical activity
      participation), and psychosocial characteristics (i.e., mood, support).

      All Phase 3 (Part 2) participants will complete a new informed consent document in which they
      are aware that the investigators will continue to monitor their physical activity (without
      text messages) and will complete 4 surveys.
    
  