
    
      Acute pancreatitis is a prevalent disease, responsible for 220.000 hospital admissions per
      year in the United States of America. In Chile, during year 2012 there were 76.463 hospital
      admissions for this diagnosis, with a mean hospital stay of 11,8 days and 25 deaths per year
      associated with this disease (250 deaths from 2002 to 2012). The most frequent etiology of
      pancreatitis in Chile is gallstones, which can be present in 80% of the patients admitted for
      acute pancreatitis. This can be explained by the high prevalence of gallstones among these
      patients.

      Since Acosta and Ledesma demonstrated the association between gallstones and acute
      pancreatitis in 1974, cholecystectomy has been the most efficient treatment option to prevent
      recurrence that can reach even 30-40% in the first two weeks after the first episode. There
      is consensus in delaying the time of the cholecystectomy in patients with acute gallstone
      pancreatitis where mortality can be as high as 80% in patients presenting with severe cases.
      However, the vast majority of the patients will present with a mild pancreatitis requiring no
      more than basic medical support. In these patients, the role of surgery during the same
      hospital admission has been clearly demonstrated.

      There is no current consensus with respect to the safety of performing cholecystectomy in
      patients with mild pancreatitis within 48 to 72 hours after the hospital admission. There are
      few well-designed observational studies and only one randomized clinical trial, which has
      demonstrated a significant decrease in hospital stay (7 to 4 days), without increasing the
      rate of complications or mortality. According to some models of analysis and decision, this
      strategy could reduce costs associated with prolonged hospital stays and improve the quality
      of life of these patients without jeopardizing patient safety.
    
  