
    
      Interventions that temper declining functional status due to aging are critical to the
      vitality and longevity of the elderly. Conservative, non-drug treatments that address
      disability and pain may significantly reduce the societal burden associated with spinal
      dysfunction in this population. Chiropractic and exercise are two such promising therapies,
      and have yet to be compared in the context of short- versus long-term management.

      Unanticipated recruitment challenges and repeated reductions to the award negatively impacted
      our ability to implement the study as proposed. After careful deliberation among the study's
      Steering Committee, and approval by the IRB and funding agency, the study has been modified
      to a 2-treatment comparison (formerly 3 treatments).

      As such, the primary aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of 3 versus 9 months
      of chiropractic care and exercise in 200 seniors with chronic spinal dysfunction. The primary
      outcomes are patient-rated neck and back disability.

      Additionally, initial inclusion criteria regarding disability ratings have been relaxed to
      allow more individuals with global spine-related disability to qualify. Specifically,
      participants now must have:

        1. a minimum of 10% disability in both neck and back regions (at least 5/50 on Neck
           Disability Index (NDI) and Oswestry Disability Index(ODI)) at baseline 1 evaluation, and

        2. a combined disability (NDI+ODI) score of at least 25/100 at baseline 1 evaluation.

      Secondary aims are to assess between-group differences in patient self-reported pain, general
      health, improvement, self-efficacy, kinesiophobia, satisfaction, medication use, and
      objective biomechanical outcomes. Seniors' perceptions and experience with treatment will be
      assessed through qualitative interviews. Finally, the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of
      these interventions will be measured.

      Additional secondary aims include assessing within group differences in an additional 18
      patients randomized to receive 9 months of exercise only in the earlier phase of this study.
      Outcomes of these aims include the self-report, biomechanical, and qualitative outcomes
      listed above (with the exception of cost-effectiveness and cost-utility data).

      This project will significantly contribute to the evidence base of conservative, non-drug
      treatments that address disability and pain in seniors with spinal dysfunction.
      Identification of effective therapies has tremendous potential to substantially improve the
      functional status, quality of life, and overall health in the aging population.
    
  