
    
      Curative treatment options for patients with early-stage hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)
      include surgical resection, liver transplantation and local ablation. While only 20-25% of
      patients with HCC qualify for surgical resection or liver transplantation, local thermal
      ablation using radiofrequency or microwave energy represents a more tissue-sparing therapy
      with promising results. Thermal ablation has been accepted as valid alternative to resection
      in patients with very small solitary tumors (BCLC stage 0) with equally good survival rates
      up to 75 % at 5 years. It further represents a valid treatment modality for patients with
      limited tumor burden (BCLC stage A) who are not surgical candidates due to associated
      comorbidities. More recently, indications for thermal ablation have also been widened for
      patients with more advanced disease but still limited tumor burden (BCLC stage B1), as well
      as for use within combined treatment strategies and as bridging therapy in patients awaiting
      liver transplantation.

      The major advantage of thermal ablation lies in its tissue-sparing yet locally destructive
      therapeutic character, which when combined with a minimally invasive access leads to low
      treatment-associated tissue trauma and morbidity. Regarding treatment efficiency, initial
      complete response is an independent predictive factor for survival for HCC patients treated
      with ablation. Hence, the precision of ablative therapy is crucial for treatment success, and
      relies directly on the accuracy of ablation probes positioning within the tumor target. To
      address this issue, advanced image-guided navigation technology has been introduced for use
      in liver-directed therapies. While first works reporting on the safety and accuracy of
      stereotactic percutaneous image-guided ablation of liver tumors are available, only few
      studies reporting on the oncological outcomes in liver tumors exist. No data on the
      oncological follow-up after stereotactic image-guided ablation of HCC is available to date,
      leaving the understanding of the clinical impact when using such novel navigation technology
      for ablative treatment in these patients scarce.

      Overall, the investigators hypothesize that stereotactic image-guided microwave ablation
      allows a more precise and thus effective ablative treatment of HCC when compared to using
      conventional image-guidance techniques. This is due to the possibility of i) planning of
      targeting trajectories even for difficult-to-target lesions, ii) placement of ablation probes
      in multiple parallel needle configurations for larger lesions, iii) immediate intraoperative
      knowledge of treatment success through overlapping of pre- and post-ablation images with the
      possibility of re-ablation, and iv) reproducibility and standardization of the treatment
      technique. In this first retrospective analysis, the investigators aim to report therapeutic
      efficacy in terms local tumor control and short-term survival when using stereotactic
      image-guided microwave ablation for treatment of HCC, and further report procedural
      efficiency in terms of targeting accuracy and required time consumption.
    
  