
    
      Prospective randomized outcome study. Patients will be randomized either into the control
      group (Group A) or the study group (Group B) based on a computer generated randomization
      table. Both groups will undergo an identical surgical protocol, as outlined below. The only
      difference is that patients in Group A will have a range of motion external brace placed
      following surgery, while patients in Group B will have a CKH placed. The rehabilitation
      protocol for the two groups will be identical, as outlined below. Both groups will undergo an
      Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) reconstruction on a delayed basis two months following
      surgery, if the ACL was torn during the knee dislocation. The ACL reconstruction will be
      delayed in both groups if a minimum range of motion of 10-90 degrees has not been attained.

      Surgical Protocol : Approximately 10 - 21 days following the injury, patients will undergo
      the first surgical procedure on their knee dislocation. During the first procedure, they will
      have a Posterior Cruciate Ligament (PCL) reconstruction using an achilles tendon allograft,
      with the direct onlay, two bundle technique. Additionally, any damage to either the posterior
      medial or posterior lateral corner will be repaired (not reconstructed), and any meniscus
      pathology will be addressed. The final step of this first procedure will be applying the CKH
      to patients randomized to the compass group (the alignment pins will be placed prior to
      repair of the corner). Patients will undergo an ACL reconstruction (if necessary)
      approximately 8 weeks following the initial surgery, when the CKH will be removed. Additional
      surgeries will be performed on patients to treat motion problems/arthrofibrosis as well as
      recurrent instability on an "as-needed basis."

      Rehabilitation Protocol - aggressive rehabilitation will be started on the day following
      surgery. Patients will be placed in Continuous Passive Motion (CPM) machines with an initial
      range of motion of 0 - 30 degrees. The hinge will be locked into full extension for at least
      4 hours per day. We will continue CPM for two weeks, with a goal of increasing by at least 10
      degrees per day to 90 degrees of flexion. Weightbearing will be allowed as tolerated with the
      hinge locked in extension.
    
  