
    
      Experimental Design. Participants (N = 200) will be randomly assigned to a Usual Care Control
      group or the Incentive group. A computerized urn randomization procedure (Wei & Lachin, 1988)
      will be used to balance groups on five baseline characteristics that may influence outcome:
      (1) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) V dependence on cocaine or opiates assessed on
      the Composite International Diagnostic Interview (CIDI) (Y/N); (2) DSM V alcohol dependence
      assessed on the CIDI (Y/N); (3) health literacy as assessed on the Test of Functional Health
      Literacy in Adults (TOFHLA) (score ≤ the rolling median, Y/N); (4) impulsivity as assessed by
      delay discounting (k value from the raw discounting data for each participant, which is an
      index of impulsivity (≤ the rolling median of k, Y/N); and (5) depression as assessed by the
      Beck Depression Inventory (score ≤ the rolling median, Y/N). Participants will be stratified
      by DSM V cocaine, opiate and alcohol dependence, health literacy, and depression at intake
      because drug use, health literacy, and depression has each been associated with poor
      Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) adherence. Participants will be stratified based on measures of
      impulsivity because high levels of impulsivity have been associated with poor health decision
      making and adverse health behaviors.

      Standard HIV Medical Care.

      Upon enrollment, participants will be taught about the benefits of ART adherence and the need
      to maintain nearly perfect adherence. All participants will receive their HIV medical care in
      their clinic.

      Incentive Group.

      The Incentive group will receive the novel empirically-based incentive intervention to
      promote long term suppression of HIV-1 RNA (viral load) being evaluated in this study. The
      incentive intervention will employ features and parameters that have been shown critically
      important to promote therapeutic behavior change in drug users and other populations.
      participants will be taught the details of the incentive program with written instructions
      and quizzes.

      Usual Care Control Group.

      Usual Care Control Only participants will receive the standard HIV medical care described
      above offered in their medical clinic. Participants in this group will not receive added
      viral load testing, feedback or incentives, beyond the viral load testing conducted as a
      routine part of their medical care.
    
  