
    
      About two-thirds of adults in the United States are overweight or obese. Obesity is
      associated with an increased risk of chronic disease and metabolic syndrome and a reduced
      physical functioning capacity, all of which contribute to disproportionately high healthcare
      expenditures and premature mortality. A moderate dietary energy restriction with a higher
      protein diet has been recommended for weight loss to prevent or improve medical complications
      associated with obesity as well as improve body composition, including preserving lean body
      mass. Emerging research indicates that the consumption of multiple high protein meals daily
      may be superior than only consuming one high-protein meal (typically dinner) to stimulate
      muscle protein synthesis throughout the day. This concept is based on research showing that
      the patterning of energy and protein intake influences muscle protein synthesis and whole
      body composition and protein retention. Very limited research exists regarding the effects of
      protein intake on skeletal muscle size after weight loss, and currently, no longitudinal
      studies have evaluated the effectiveness of consuming an even vs. skewed distribution of
      protein intake across meals on phenotypic changes in skeletal muscle size over the
      longer-term. Recent studies have also suggested that evenly distributed protein patterning
      may promote satiety and improve blood glucose response in healthy adult men and women.
      However, there is a need for controlled, longer-duration trials to investigate the effects of
      daily protein distribution on appetite, glucose response and metabolic syndrome after weight
      loss in overweight or obese adults. The goal of the proposed research is to evaluate the
      effects of within-day patterning of dietary protein intake (even vs. skewed) on
      energy-restriction and resistance training-induced changes in body composition, skeletal
      muscle size, appetite, glucose response, and metabolic syndrome parameters.
    
  