
    
      Background It is well known that low levels of cardiorespiratory fitness are associated with
      a high risk of noncommunicable diseases and all cause mortality, and that improvements in
      cardiorespiratory fitness decreases this risk especially among the least fit (1-5). Although
      cardiorespiratory fitness has a genetic contribution, physical activity habits are the
      primary determinant of cardiorespiratory fitness in adults, and changes in physical activity
      levels result in changes in cardiorespiratory fitness (2,6). Thus the World Health
      Organization recommends adults aged between 18-64 to do at least 150 minutes of
      moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity or at least 75 minutes of vigorous-intensity
      aerobic physical activity weekly or an equivalent combination of moderate- and
      vigorous-intensity activity. In Denmark only an estimated 32 % fullfill these recommendations
      (7) and improving physical activity among this group of people is of great importance to
      public health.

      In primary care several simple- and multicomponent physical activity interventions have been
      conducted in order to increase physical activity. However, the results of these interventions
      remain inconsistent. In addition, the content of the interventions is often unclearly
      described, particularly in relation to intensity and fidelity of the intervention delivery
      and reviews reveal how most of the studies use self-reported measures of physical activity
      (8,9). These issues warrant well-described intervention studies using objectively measures of
      physical activity and specifically designed for, and evaluated in primary care settings.

      In Denmark, the "Check your health" programme is aimed at screening all individuals
      (n≈26,500) in the municipality of Randers aged between 30-49 years for cardiovascular disease
      during a 5-year period. Identifying people that are insufficiently active and people with a
      low cardiorespiratory fitness is one of the central objectives of the programme and this is
      done by self-reported and objective measures of physical activity and cardiorespiratory
      fitness.

      To perform a successful intervention, strategies and techniques to motivate and guide people
      to adopt healthy choices need to be identified. Some of this may be accomplished by close
      supervision and personal instruction with healthcare professionals applying communication
      skills such as motivational interviewing (10,11), which has been found to be an effective
      approach to changing behaviour. This method specifically offers promise in improvement of
      cardiovascular health status (12).

      Furthermore, a key issue will be to adopt modern technology and social media into the
      interventions (13). A Danish report supports this idea and concludes that particularly the
      30-50 year olds, an age-group that does not always give high priority to regular physical
      activity due to lack of time and commitments such as job/further education and establishment
      of a family, are motivated by the social media and technology (14-16).

      Finally, it is also suggested that physical activity interventions should be integrated into
      the structure of a broader range of community-based organisations e.g. sport clubs in order
      to offer a wide range of activities, and thereby individualise and anchor the physical
      activity locally (17).

      Using the combination of motivational interviewning, social media, technology and the
      community organisations may build individual capability and organisational capacity for
      behaviour change, create new social norms, and promote policy and environmental changes that
      support higher levels of physical activity across the population in the long-term.

      We therefore hypothesise that a locally anchored "primary care package" containing social
      media and technology, ongoing personal support and individually tailored flexible physical
      activity will improve cardiorespiratory fitness among 30-49 year-olds with a low
      cardiorespiratory fitness.

        1. The design of a study evaluating the efficacy of a motivational, individual and locally
           anchored exercise intervention in primary care aiming to improve cardiorespiratory
           fitness among 30 to 49 year olds with low levels of cardiorespiratory fitness.

        2. The actual intervention to a level of detail that allows its replication.

      METHODS Study design The study is conducted as a single (researcher) blinded randomised
      controlled trial higly explanatory in attitude delivered under as optimal conditions as
      possible (18).

      Sample size This study was calculated to detect a 3 ml/kg/minute (sd 6) difference between
      the intervention- and comparison group at the end of 6 months. The sample size calculation
      was based on unpuplished data from another randomised controlled health screening programme
      in Denmark showing a difference in cardiorespiratory fitness of 2,1 (sd 6) over a five year
      period and previous studies comparing 6 and 24 month intervention effects of a lifestyle
      physical activity program reporting differences between 3.64 (sd 3,5) and 1.34 (sd 3.37)
      ml/kg/minute respectively (19). With a power of 90 % using a two-sided p=0.05 test, a sample
      size of at least 85 in each group will be necessary. To accommodate non-independence within
      couples, we used robust variance estimation to obtain valid uncertainty estimates and an
      extra 6 participants in each group will be added to the sample size. Anticipating a drop-out
      of 30 %, a total of 118 participants will be included in each group.

      Participants A volunteer sample of 236 participants with low or very low cardiorespiratory
      fitness will be recruited from the "Check your health" programme to the MILE-study.

      Intervention group

      The intervention will be a six month "primary care package" based on motivational, individual
      and locally anchored physical activity. The content is elaborated in the following:

      Physical activity The participants will receive a six-month free membership for Randers
      Gymnastic Club, which is a nonprofit local sports club geographically situated in the middle
      of Randers municipality.The activities will take place in open classes with other members of
      the Randers Gymnastic Club and will be delivered by experienced trained instructors. The
      participants will decide themselves whether they will attend activities in Randers Gymnastic
      Club, or do moderate/vigorous/high intensity physical activity on their own or in other sport
      clubs.

      Virtual software platform The participants will be required to upload training activities and
      pulse data at least once a week to the virtual software platform Endomondo.com via a global
      positioning system (GPS)-watch (Garmin Forerunner 210).

      Motivational interviewing The intervention group will receive four motivational interviews -
      at baseline, after three weeks and after three and six months. The purpose of the interviews
      will be to support and guide the participants to the kind of physical activity that suits
      them and their everyday life.

      The first interview will be a 90-minute long "face to face" interview in Randers Gymnastic
      Club including introduction to Randers Gymnastic Club, the GPS-watch and uploading of
      training data Endomondo.com.

      The two ensuing interviews will be 15-minute telephone interviews including a status on the
      uploaded activities which the instructors will have access to, and finally a 30-minute face
      to face interview will be conducted. The motivational interviews will be delivered by trained
      fitness instructors from Randers Gymnastic Club, who have had a total of 8 hours training on
      the guiding principles underlying the motivational interview.

      Comparison group Each participant in the comparison group will be invited to a one-hour
      motivational interview (11) about their current activity level, motivation and different
      options for increasing their physical activity level. The interview will be conducted by an
      experienced internationally certified coach at Randers Health Care Centre, and followed by a
      second meeting, if requested. This is the current standard care in the municipality.

      Data analysis The primary analyses will be based on the intention-to-treat principle; however
      a per-protocol analysis will also be performed. Effect of the intervention on VO2max will be
      estimated by the difference of the mean changes after 6 and 12 months between the
      intervention group and the comparison group. Furthermore a subgroup analysis regarding gender
      will be performed. A Student t-test or nonparametric test will be used for normally and
      unevenly distributed data, respectively. Loss to follow-up analyses will be conducted via
      baseline characteristics from Check your health and Danish Registers. Results will be
      presented with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and p values. P values of <0.05 will be
      considered as statistically significant.
    
  