
    
      Topotecan is a semisynthetic analogue of camptothecin. Like its parent compound camptothecin,
      topotecan is a specific inhibitor of topoisomerase-I. Topoisomerase-I facilitates DNA
      replication by inducing reversible single strand breaks thereby relieving the torsional
      strain which occurs ahead of the moving replication fork during DNA replication. Topotecan
      binds to the topoisomerase-I DNA complex and prevents relegation of the single strand breaks
      resulting in double strand DNA breaks. The cytotoxic action of topotecan is proportional to
      the cellular level of topoisomerase-I.

      Doxorubicin is an anthracycline antibiotic which has a wide range of clinical activities. The
      mechanism of cytotoxicity and the exact intracellular target remains controversial. The bulk
      of intracellular drug is intranuclear much of which is intercalated in the DNA. Although DNA
      intercalation has been felt to be the principle cytotoxic mechanism, more recent evidence
      suggests inhibition of topoisomerase-II may play a more important role. Additionally, other
      cytotoxic actions including helicase inhibition have recently been noted. Pegylated liposomal
      doxorubicin (Doxil) is a polyethylene glycol pegylated liposomal encapsulation of
      doxorubicin. This results in an alteration of the pharmacokinetics in comparison to the
      parent compound. Specifically there is a prolonged circulation time, reduced clearance, a
      smaller volume of distribution, and limited uptake by the reticuloendothelial system. In
      animals using ovarian xenografts in nude mice, pegylated liposomal doxorubicin has resulted
      in a greater tumor to normal tissue drug uptake and an improved therapeutic index. Following
      phase I studies, Doxil has recently been studied in a phase II study of heavily pre-treated
      ovarian carcinoma patients with a response rate of 25.7%. This level of activity meets or
      exceeds other second-line agents currently available. In the recent phase II study, a dose of
      50 mg/m2 every 3 weeks was utilized.

      Topotecan given as 5 daily infusions is associated with significant myelosuppression and poor
      patient acceptance. Non hematologic toxicities are usually mild and not dose-limiting.
      Although the 5 day schedule can be inconvenient, the relative lack of acute toxicity still
      makes topotecan a good candidate for out-patient chemotherapy in selected patients. Although
      the impact of bone marrow suppression can be minimized by the use of cytokines, these 5 day
      regimens have required substantial dose reduction.

      In view of the bone marrow toxicity seen with topotecan and the poor patient acceptance of a
      five day schedule, there has been interest in the development of an effective alternate
      treatment regimen using topotecan. Results from preclinical studies suggest that repeated
      administration of topotecan is necessary for its activity. A phase I study evaluating the
      safety and efficacy of weekly bolus topotecan as a second line agent in relapsed ovarian
      cancer resulted in a maximum tolerated dose of 5 mg/m2.

      A phase II study in relapsed ovarian cancer supports the use of weekly topotecan at a dose of
      3 - 4.0 mg/m2/week. Toxicities on this weekly regime have included, grade 3 or 4 neutropenia,
      anemia, thrombocytopenia, fatigue and GI toxicity, each occurred following less than 1% of
      treatments.

      The combination of topoisomerase-I and topoisomerase-II inhibitors is an attractive strategy
      for cancer chemotherapy. A phase II study evaluated the combination of pegylated liposomal
      doxorubicin 30mg/m2/week with topotecan 1 mg/m2 IV for 5 consecutive days given every 28
      days. Twelve patients with platinum resistant ovarian cancer were treated. Partial response
      was observed in three patients and four patients had stable disease of the ten patients
      evaluated for response. Toxicities included a higher percentage of bone marrow toxicity
      (grade III/IV neutropenia, grade III/IV thrombocytopenia) other toxicities included alopecia
      and diarrhea grade II/III. The authors concluded that the combination of topotecan and
      pegylated liposomal doxorubicin is active in the treatment of platinum resistant ovarian
      cancer. However, myelosuppression required dose reductions in nearly half the patients.

      As mentioned earlier, a weekly regimen of topotecan has allowed for more convenient
      administration over more prolonged and more complex administration schedules. The current
      study will evaluate the tolerability of a weekly intravenous schedule of topotecan in
      combination with a standard dose of pegylated liposomal doxorubicin in advanced solid tumors.
      Due to the addition of the pegylated liposomal doxorubicin to a weekly schedule of topotecan,
      Pharmacokinetics data will also be obtained.
    
  