
    
      Buscopan can more effectively relieve gastrointestinal spasm, and its side effects is fewer.
      It has been reported that Buscopan can more effectively relieve gastrointestinal spasm,
      facilitate scope insertion and improve patients' comfort during endoscopy.Buscopan may make
      the endoscopic physicians to observe easily and effectively improve the diagnostic rate.
      Buscopan may effectively inhibit duodenum motility and facilitate the ERCP operation.It has
      not been reported in the literature whether Buscopan can be used on pCLE examination to
      improve imaging quality and the detection accuracy of the lesion.

      Hence, the investigators plan to develop a prospective, double-blind, randomized, controlled
      study, the effect of Buscopan on gastrointestinal imaging quality and diagnosis accuracy with
      probe-based confocal laser endomicroscopy, in order to confirm the practical application
      value of Buscopan in pCLE examination.

      Patient selection, grouping, and operating process:

      Subjects were selected based on the inclusion and exclusion criterion from the volunteers
      eligible for this trial who are inpatient or outpatient applying for pCLE examination in the
      endoscopy center of Xijing Digestive Disease Hospital. Patients were divided into three
      groups: Buscopan (BSP), Scopolamine (654-2) and physiological saline (NS) control group,
      according to the ratio of 1:1:1. Operators were blind to random grouping,and patients were
      unclear to accept Buscopan, 654-2 or NS drugs before operation. All endoscopy operation
      should be completed by clinical experienced endoscopists (WKC or LSH) by using gastroscopy、
      colonoscopy and enteroscopy, respectively GIF-H260、CF-H260、SIF-260 (Olympus Medical Systems,
      Tokyo, Japan).

      Operating process: Preoperative preparation are basically the same to conventional
      endoscopy.Patients ingested mucosal surface anesthesia and defoaming agent 30 minutes before
      endoscopy,and accepted the fluorescein sodium allergy test intravenously (2%, 1 ml) 20
      minutes before endoscopy, established venous pathway. Negative patients could accept pCLE
      examination. First to use standard white light to observe, to record spasm score,to observe
      the lesion. It is administered by endoscopic nurse which is respectively Buscopan (BSP,
      20mg), Scopolamine (654-2,10mg), physiological saline (NS), recorded blindly. Then to inject
      10% fluorescein sodium 5ml (Guangzhou Baiyun Shan Ming Xing Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.)
      intravenously,to start button to scan by pCLE. To scan in the order of the back of
      endoscopy,to indicate each observation position by pCLE, to do targeted biopsy by pCLE if met
      lesion. During the examination,spasm scores (2 minutes,20 minutes after administering drug)
      and operation time were recorded. Visual analogue scale (visual field stability and patient
      comfort) level was given after the examination. To record whether related complications
      happen and positively process. To evaluate the quality of each imaging according to Kiesslich
      pCLE image quality analysis method and diagnostic accuracy combining with the pathologic
      diagnosis(through the target biopsy, pathological examination, comparative calculation).
    
  