
    
      INVESTIGATIONAL PLAN Study design This is a single center, prospective, randomized,
      comparative study to evaluate the effectiveness of saline solution, cryotherapy and Caphosol
      mouth rinse for the prevention of oral mucositis. Multiple myeloma (MM) patients who are
      eligible for an autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) and are at least 18
      years of age will be screened to enroll approximately 165 patients. During the study patients
      will receive prophylactic fluconazole, acyclovir and antibiotics as appropriate (standard of
      care). Systemic analgesia will be given for the control of oral pain resulting from mucositis
      to any of the groups as required. All treatment groups will receive identical oral hygiene
      care instructions. Treatments not permitted in the study include GM-CSF, palifermin
      (Kepivance) or other mouthwash and oral coating agents such as Gelclair during the study
      period to reduce confounding factors.

      All patients will receive high-dose melphalan 100 mg /m2/day for 2 days (day -2 and -1) as
      conditioning regimen followed by autologous HSCT (day 0). After informed consent and
      completion of screening period, patients will be randomized to any of the three arms.
      Randomization will be stratified by patient age, sex, and performance status. Patients will
      be monitored daily post-conditioning until the patients are discharge from the hospital or
      admitted into an intensive care unit. The oral mucosa will be examined by trained study
      staff. Oral mucositis will be assessed daily until hospital discharge, after the first day of
      melphalan, for patients who do not develop oral mucositis or until the oral mucositis
      resolves for patients who develop any mucositis to a maximum of 30 days. The oral mucositis
      will be assessed using the World Health Organization (WHO) Mucositis Scale, the Oral
      Mucositis Assessment Scale (OMAS) and the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Toxicity
      Criteria. At the same time the mucositis-related pain (mouth pain) will be evaluated based on
      the Wong-Baker Faces Pain Rating Scale and the Numeric Rating Scale (Appendix B).
      Questionnaire for Patient-reported Oral Mucositis Symptoms (PROMS) Scale will be obtained at
      screening and every day after first day of melphalan until end of study. All patients will
      receive the Program's standard oral hygiene instructions prior to initiation of study.

      ARM #1:

      Standard of care for prevention and management of oral mucositis (0.9% Sodium Chloride
      irrigation solution): Patients randomized to this group will be instructed to rinse their
      mouths twice, with 1 ounce (30 ml) of room temperature 0.9% NaCl (normal saline), 4 times
      daily after admission and until end of study.

      ARM #2:

      Cryotherapy (ice chips): Patients randomized to this group, on day -2 and -1, will be
      instructed to place approximately 1 ounce of crushed ice in their mouths 15 minutes prior to
      the initiation of melphalan infusion. The ice will be allowed to melt and should be replenish
      as soon as it had completely melted. Patients will be instructed to continue this procedure
      during the melphalan infusion and for 90 minutes after the end of the infusion. After
      patients are done with the cryotherapy they will follow the standard of care for prevention
      and management of oral mucositis until the end of the study.

      ARM #3:

      Calcium phosphate (Caphosol) Ca2+/PO43- mouth rinse: Patients randomized to this group will
      be instructed to rinse their mouths with Caphosol 4 times daily after admission and until end
      of study.

      All patients, who develop oral mucositis pain, will follow the Bone Marrow Transplant Program
      standard of care to control the pain in patients undergoing HDC and autologous HSCT. The
      Program standard care for oral mucositis pain consists in the use of triple mix solution
      (lidocaine, Maalox, and diphenhydramine) and analgesics. Patients in the Caphosol rinse arm
      who develop severe mucositis will be instructed to rinse up to 10 times a day.
    
  