
    
      Protein-lipid complexes represent a new type of tumouricidal biologicals, with broad effects
      against cancers of different origins. The investigational product alpha1H is a synthetic
      peptide, corresponding to the alpha1 domain of α-lactalbumin, in complex with oleic acid.
      Alpha1H is a further development product of HAMLET, a complex between human alpha-lactalbumin
      and oleic acid, which has shown broad anti-tumor activity with a high degree of selectivity.

      This study is a combined phase 1/2, placebo controlled, double blind study in subjects with
      non-muscle invasive bladder cancer awaiting transurethral resection of bladder (TURB). The
      first, main part of the study is randomized 1/1 and the subjects will receive intravesical
      instillation of either alpha1H or placebo on 6 occasions during a period of 22 days (on days
      1, 3, 5, 8, 15 and 22). In a second, open, dose-escalation (DE) part of the study, two
      additional groups will receive increased doses of alpha1H in a standard 3+3 design in order
      to determine a Maximum Tolerated Dose (MTD) or alternatively, a Maximum Administered Dose
      (MAD). The same treatment schedule as in part 1 will be followed. One group will receive a
      dose of 5 times the original dose and, if tolerated, the last group will receive a dose of 10
      times the original dose.

      Cell shedding is quantified and characterized at each treatment occasion. The bladder tumors
      are characterized prior treatment and prior to the scheduled surgery. Remaining tumors will
      be removed by TURB (according to European Association of Urology (EAU) Guidelines
      recommendations) and tissues will be obtained for analyses.

      A follow-up Visit will take place 30 days after the last administration of study treatment.

      The total study duration of the main study is 8 - 12 weeks. After the main study, the
      subjects may continue in an optional extended 24-months follow-up period.
    
  