
    
      The HIV epidemic in China has reached a phase of exponential growth. Among the infected are
      FBDs in rural communities, who became infected through contaminated blood collection
      equipment. In Fuyang, Anhui Province, China, unregulated commercial blood collection occurred
      from 1992 to 1995; during the last decade or so, some HIV infected FBDs have progressed to
      AIDS, while others are long-term nonprogressors, not requiring antiretroviral therapy (ART).
      Since the HIV infected participants in this study are predicted to have been infected by the
      same or related HIV strain because of their location and how they were infected, this is a
      unique population to study. It is hypothesized that host factors, such as host immunity and
      genetic background, are better predictors of disease progression than viral factors in this
      population. This study will enroll HIV-1 infected FBDs and age-matched HIV uninfected adults
      in Fuyang, Anhui Province, China.

      There are two stages in this study. Stage I is a cross-sectional study and will last 3
      months. Participants will be HIV-1 infected FBDs and age-matched HIV uninfected controls.
      There are two study visits in Stage I; there will be a 2-day screening/enrollment visit and a
      follow-up visit. On the first day of screening/enrollment, participants will be briefed about
      the study and will be asked to complete demographic and risk factor questionnaires; medical
      and medication history will be reviewed and a physical examination will also occur. All
      participants will receive HIV prevention education and risk reduction counseling;
      additionally, HIV uninfected participants will receive HIV pretest counseling. On the second
      day of screening, participants will return to the clinic for blood collection, and females
      will undergo a pregnancy test. All participants will return to the clinic to receive their
      laboratory results and post-test counseling at a follow-up visit occurring approximately 2
      weeks after their screening/enrollment visit. Any participant with a CD4 count less than 200
      cells/mm3 or meeting other China Comprehensive AIDS Response (CARES) treatment criteria will
      be referred for further evaluation and care. HIV infected FBD participants with a CD4 count
      of 200 cells/mm3 or more will be invited to enroll in Stage II.

      Stage II is a longitudinal, prospective study and will last 19.5 months. Stage II will enroll
      eligible HIV infected participants from Stage I and if necessary, other eligible patients
      referred from China CARES. There will be at least five study visits; they will occur at a
      2-day study screening/enrollment visit, a follow-up visit 2 weeks after screening/enrollment,
      and Months 6, 12, and 18. Screening/enrollment and follow-up visit procedures will be
      identical to those conducted in Stage I. Visits at Months 6, 12, and 18 will occur over 2-day
      periods. Medical and medication history will be reviewed and a physical examination will
      occur on the first day; participants will need to return to the clinic for blood collection
      on the second day. Participants will receive laboratory results and post-test counseling at
      the next scheduled study visit. Additional study visits may be required if a participant
      experiences any clinically significant condition during the study.
    
  