
    
      The first Intestinal Vascular Emergency Unit (SURVI), with the institutional support of
      AP-HP, opened on 4 January 2016, within the Paris-Nord Val de Seine University Hospital
      Group. This intensive care is dedicated to the management of mesenteric ischemias (acute
      mesenteric ischemias, chronic mesenteric ischemias) and Intestinal Vascular Diseases Without
      Ischemia. The organisation of this type of dedicated centre, combining advances in
      resuscitation, interventional radiology and knowledge of intestinal vascular diseases, has
      led to a radical change in the prognosis for acute mesenteric ischaemia with a survival rate
      of over 80% and an intestinal resection rate of less than 40%.

      Acute mesenteric ischaemia (AMI) is characterised by the combination of digestive distress
      and vascular insufficiency: occlusive (thrombosis, embolism, arterial, venous) or
      non-occlusive (low flow or vasospasm). The vital prognosis is catastrophic in the absence of
      treatment (the mortality rate of an intestinal infarction is almost 100% without treatment),
      and the functional and anatomical after-effects are major for the survivors.

      Many intestinal vascular diseases have been identified as providing acute and chronic
      mesenteric ischaemia. The nosological framework of these diseases is broad, ranging from
      constitutional diseases of the vessels (collagenosis, arcuate ligament syndrome) to acquired
      diseases of a thrombophilic, cardiac, degenerative, autoimmune, iatrogenic, traumatic
      nature... The rarity of these diseases (with the exception of atherosclerotic disease, the
      incidence of which is increasing with the ageing of the population) makes their level of
      knowledge insufficient.

      The natural history of vascular diseases without ischaemia (rate of acute and chronic
      mesenteric ischaemia, mortality rate, resection rate...) is currently not described.

      The construction of a longitudinal observational cohort is necessary for the prevalence of
      ischaemic complications and predictive factors.
    
  