
    
      About 250 individuals present to an emergency department in King County, primarily Harborview
      Medical Center (HMC), for firearm-related injuries each year. Almost two-third of these
      patients require admission for their injuries. While the number of patients with firearm
      injuries who present to HMC is relatively small, these individuals are at substantially
      increased risk of subsequent re-hospitalization for another firearm or assault-related
      injury, arrest for firearm-related or violent crime, non-firearm-related nonviolent crime or
      firearm-related death in the five years after discharge from the hospital. Thus,
      interventions among this high risk population have the potential to reduce recidivism,
      morbidity, and mortality as well as decrease firearm violence and its consequences in the
      community.

      Patients with gunshot wounds (GSWs) seen at HMC receive many services; however, currently
      there is no standardized intervention offered to GSW patients. A number of hospitals across
      the country have created violence prevention and intervention programs to help patients who
      sustain violent injuries. These programs engage patients in the hospital during their
      recovery period, which is seen as an opportunity ("teachable moment") to change their life
      and reduce retaliation and recidivism. As a result of the growing number of violence
      prevention and intervention program, the National Network of Hospital-based Violence
      Intervention Programs, has been established. Through working groups, meetings, e-newsletter,
      and conferences, Network members collaborate in research and evaluation, explore
      opportunities for funding sustainability, develop and share best practices, and identify ways
      to collectively have an impact on policy. While the creation of this infrastructure is a step
      in the right direction, researchers have not rigorously tested the effectiveness of these
      intervention programs. Specifically, no trials have evaluated the effectiveness of
      hospital-based violence intervention programs offered to GSW victims.

      The investigators aim to conduct a cluster randomized trial of an violence intervention
      program that combines a brief, hospital-based intervention, a structured outreach program,
      and multi-agency attention. Study staff will provide a brief intervention derived from
      motivational interviewing (MI). MI is is a patient-centered behavioral technique based on the
      stages of change model and attempts to engage patients in order to find reason to change
      behavior. By empathetically exploring ambivalent feelings about health-related behavior, MI
      encourages reduction in risky behavior. Research has demonstrated the effectiveness of
      providing MI-based brief interventions in the Emergency Department (ED) or inpatient wards,
      primarily for alcohol use disorders but also for violent behaviors. Specifically, brief, MI
      interventions have been successful at reducing youth violence in large urban populations,
      with effects sustained through one year. Additionally, a behavioral-based intervention
      including MI targeting adolescents admitted to HMC with trauma showed a reduction in weapon
      carriage during the year post-hospitalization.

      A longitudinal outreach intervention program provides the added benefit of continued
      engagement. GSW patients must transition back to the community after their hospitalization,
      and the transitional period, when patients must navigate a complex and fragmented system of
      care, is especially challenging. Providing GSW patients with outreach and follow-up after the
      healthcare encounter holds promise for reducing their future violence and criminal activity.
      The Critical Time Intervention (CTI) approach may provide a strong framework for providing
      these patients with appropriate outreach and follow-up. Strong evidence supports CTI's
      effectiveness. The CTI model meets the Coalition for Evidence-based Policy's rigorous "Top
      Tier" standard for interventions: well-designed and implemented randomized controlled trials,
      preferably conducted in typical community settings, [that] produced sizable, sustained
      benefits to participants and/or society. CTI is a time-limited, evidence-based case
      management model that mobilizes support for society's most vulnerable individuals during
      periods of transition such as discharge from inpatient services to the community. It
      facilitates community integration and continuity of care by ensuring that a person has
      enduring ties to their community and support systems during these critical periods. CTI has
      been used worldwide among veterans, people with mental illness, homeless or incarcerated
      individuals, and many other groups. From the beginning, CTI was thought of as an intervention
      that could be applied in myriad contexts. This approach has the potential to provide an
      intervention framework for a second tier outreach to GSW victims in King and neighboring
      counties.
    
  