
    
      Maintenance of tight glycemic control in critically ill patients has been demonstrated to
      significantly reduce morbidity and mortality in critical care patients in the OR and ICU
      settings. Numerous (>20) peer-reviewed publications have demonstrated the benefits of tight
      glycemic control. For example, tight glycemic control has been shown to reduce surgical site
      infections by 60% in cardiothoracic surgery patients (Furnary et al., 1999), and has been
      shown to reduce overall ICU mortality by 40% with significant reductions in ICU morbidity and
      length of stay (Van den Berghe, 2001).

      Historically, caregivers treated hyperglycemia (high blood glucose) only when glucose levels
      exceeded 220 mg/dL. However, based upon these recent clinical findings, experts now recommend
      controlling blood glucose to within the normoglycemic range (80-110 mg/dL). Adherence to such
      strict glucose control regimens requires near-continuous monitoring of blood glucose and
      frequent adjustment of insulin infusion to achieve normoglycemia while avoiding risk of
      hypoglycemia (low blood glucose). Surveys indicate that, in response to this demonstrated
      clinical need, more than 50% of US hospitals have now adopted tight glycemic control
      protocols for some critical care patients, with an additional 23% expected to adopt such
      protocols within the next 12 months.

      Currently, these TGC protocols require intravenous administration of insulin to achieve and
      manage glucose control to within the normoglycemic range. The protocols also mandate frequent
      monitoring of patient blood glucose levels by nursing staff. With existing technology, each
      test involves removal of a blood sample and testing on handheld meters or blood gas
      analyzers. This process is cumbersome, labor intensive, and often disruptive to the patient.
      Although hospitals are responding to the identified clinical need, current technology has
      limited adoption due to two principal reasons:

        1. Fear of hypoglycemia: administering insulin to maintain the patient in the target
           glucose range of 80-110 mg/dL exposes the patient to increased risk clinical
           hypoglycemia (blood glucose less than 50 mg/dL). Critical care patients are often
           sedated and do not exhibit typical signs of hypoglycemia, exacerbating the risk of
           hypoglycemia. The need for frequent monitoring and concern about risk of hypoglycemia
           increase caregiver stress and can limit adherence to tight glycemic control protocols.

        2. Glucose monitoring by conventional methods represents a burdensome procedure: most tight
           glycemic control protocols require frequent glucose monitoring and insulin adjustment at
           30 minute to 2 hour intervals (typically hourly) to avoid hypoglycemia while maintaining
           normoglycemia. Glucose determination with current technology (including instrument
           preparation, blood sample acquisition and instrument analysis) typically takes 5 minutes
           per measurement.

      The Sponsor is developing an automated patient-attached blood glucose monitor that will
      automatically make frequent blood glucose measurements. Frequent measurements will allow
      better tracking of patient glucose status and will provide blood glucose trend information.
      The system will alert caregivers to impending or actual hypoglycemia conditions. Automation
      will reduce the labor burden associated with existing technology. The device is intended to
      help caregivers to better manage tight glycemic control in their patients.

      The device measures glucose in whole blood by flowing a patient blood sample through an
      optical flow cell while transmitting near infrared light through the sample. The blood
      constituents, including glucose, absorb a portion of the near-infrared energy in
      characteristic fashion. The instrument measures the resulting transmission spectrum and
      analyzes the spectrum to determine the concentration of glucose in the blood sample.

      Though the proposed study will represent the initial measurements made by the device in ICU
      patients, the Sponsor has collected data in volunteer studies conducted at InLight's
      facility. In one study, we collected blood from volunteer donors and created individual blood
      samples with variable glucose (glucose range 50-550 mg/dL) by spiking the samples with
      concentrated glucose solution. We also induced hematocrit variation between 30-50% in these
      samples by controlling the red cell to plasma ratio. Spectral measurements collected with the
      prototype device were mathematically correlated with simultaneous blood glucose measurements
      of the same samples obtained with a Yellow Springs Instruments YSI 2700 Select glucose
      analyzer (an industry-standard laboratory glucose analyzer) to generate a spectral glucose
      model and to provide baseline near-infrared glucose measurement results. This evaluation
      demonstrated that the device's glucose measurements tracked the YSI 2700 glucose measurements
      with an accuracy of 8.9 mg/dL (1 s.d.). See Figure 1.

      In another study, we collected serial blood samples from 5 volunteer subjects with diabetes
      undergoing dynamic glucose changes induced by carbohydrate ingestion and insulin
      administration. We obtained spectral glucose measurements of the blood samples using the
      prototype near-infrared device and compared them with simultaneous blood glucose measurements
      of the same samples obtained with the YSI 2700 Select glucose analyzer. The Sponsor's results
      compared favorably with the YSI 2700 results, demonstrating a root-mean-squared error (1
      standard deviation) of 5.9 mg/dL (Figure 2). This accuracy level is comparable to current
      handheld meter technology.

      We anticipate that the OR and ICU environments will present new physiological and
      pharmacological challenges for our instrument. The proposed study is essentially a screening
      study that will give the Sponsor insight into these challenges. Access to the de-identified
      ICU charts will allow the Sponsor to correlate the glucose measurements and measurement
      errors with specific pharmacologic therapies and physiological events. In this manner, the
      proposed study is in effect a screening study.
    
  