
    
      Dilatation of the ascending aorta often progresses silently in an asymptomatic patient, until
      an acute complication occurs (such as a dissection or rupture), which is directly related to
      the diameter of the aortic. To prevent these extremely harmful situations, aortic replacement
      surgery, as indicated by significant dilatation of the ascending aorta, could be the option
      of choice (1). The decision to perform elective surgery depends on the measurement of the
      thoracic aorta diameter, which would rely on the largest aortic dimension. Trans-thoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) is widely used to assess the aortic root (2), and results from
      computed tomography (CT) scans are used to evaluate the ascending aorta beyond the
      sinotubular junction (3, 4). Both these tests facilitate follow-up evaluation of patients
      with thoracic aortic aneurysm. Usually, patients are referred for surgery based on the
      findings of one or both of these examinations. Furthermore, when a patient is referred for
      surgery, intra-operative trans-esophageal echocardiography (TEE) is often performed after
      induction of the anesthesia in order to evaluate the aortic dimension and valve function.

      In some cases, the diameter of the aorta is considered borderline for replacement, in which
      case the TEE measurement could reverse the decision-making, especially when the indication
      for surgery is due to valve pathology, with the aorta being a secondary consideration.

      From the investigators experience, intra-operative TEE aortic measurements after the
      anesthesia are not entirely accurate, and could under-estimate the diameter of the aorta.
      Relying on intra-operative TEE measurements could result in under-treatment of the dilated
      aorta, especially when its replacement is secondary to other cardiac pathologies (e.g. AVR,
      CABG) that require surgery.

      Influence of intra-operative anesthesia on TEE measurements of the aorta are not described in
      the current literature. If the investigators hypothesis is correct, adjustments will need to
      be made regarding the surgical management of patients with borderline aortic dimensions.
    
  