
    
      Functional Compressive Bandage (ECF) is a widely used therapeutic resource in the control of
      lymphedema resulting from the treatment of breast cancer, however, the effects inherent to
      the technique depend on the quality of the application. The aim of the study is to evaluate
      the reliability, reproducibility, and efficiency of treatment with different techniques in
      two studies. To this end, 50 volunteers will be evaluated, aged between 40 and 70 years,
      submitted to breast cancer treatment. The analyzes will be performed in two subprojects,
      conducted with randomized cross over design and seven days wash out period, so far 19
      volunteers were collected. The first step aims to evaluate the reliability and
      reproducibility of the technique. The analysis of the pressure exerted by the four-layer
      bandage, applied by two evaluators previously trained and familiar with the ECF technique
      will perform the evaluations on the same volunteers in two moments, with an interval of one
      week between them. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC2,1) will be used to determine
      intra- and inter-examiner reliability, with its respective 95% confidence interval, standard
      measurement error and minimum detectable change. The second stage aims to verify the
      efficiency of different ECF techniques in the functionality and circulation of the upper limb
      affected by lymphedema. This step is being performed by a single evaluator, and the ECF
      efficiency tested by the random application of two different techniques (spiral and eight),
      with a seven-day interval, and pressure assessment in mmHg. Upper limb functionality analysis
      is being performed using the Jebsen Taylor test performed before and with ECF on both limbs.
      The evaluation of the influence of the bandage in the circulation evaluated by Doppler
      ultrasound, before and after the test application. Member dominance assessed using the
      Edinburgh inventory. Partial data was verified by descriptive analysis with mean and standard
      deviation. Data processing was performed using SPSS® software, version 13.0 (Chicago, IL,
      USA). A significance level of 5% was considered. The information obtained in the study aims
      to show the partial results of the preliminary and descriptive evaluation of the physical
      therapy intervention in women affected by lymphedema resulting from breast cancer treatment.
    
  