
    
      INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE

      Since its introduction, central venous catheter (CVC) use has been increasing and is now
      indispensable in modern-day medical practice. Besides its imperative use in critically ill
      patients, there are multiple complications associated with central venous catheterization.
      Complications are mechanical, infectious or thrombotic in origin. There is a growing body of
      literature that recognises the potential deleterious consequences of catheter-related
      bloodstream infections and this complication has been the main focus of research. In
      contrast, despite catheter-related thrombosis being a well-known complication and accounting
      for approximately 15 percent of all venous thromboses in ICU patients, its exact incidence
      and potential consequences in ICU patients remain unclear.

      Histologically, due to intravascular movement of the CVC focal areas of endothelial injury in
      the vein wall adjacent to the catheter occur. Simultaneously, a fibrin sheath grows along the
      catheter surface from the venotomy site. The fibrin sheath, in combination with endothelial
      injury and a decreased blood flow around the catheter triggers the development of
      catheter-related thrombosis. The formed thrombus can gradually increase in size until there
      is occlusion of the vein and, subsequently, symptoms of localized swelling, pain, tenderness
      and erythema along the course of the vein may occur.

      Up to now CVCs are removed without routinely investigating the presence of catheter-related
      thrombosis. Therefore, its exact incidence is ambiguous and among asymptomatic patients the
      natural course of catheter-related thrombosis remains uncertain. Potential consequences of
      catheter-related thrombosis are not insubstantial; they include pulmonary embolism,
      post-thrombotic syndrome, thrombophlebitis, treatment delay, and loss of venous access.
      However, a study by Jones et al., conducted in children who received a CVC in the internal
      jugular or femoral vein, showed low risk for developing short and long-term sequalae after
      catheter-related thrombosis. Moreover, another study by White et al. showed no increased risk
      of developing pulmonary embolism after central venous catheter placement.

      To date, there is no consensus regarding treatment of catheter-related thrombosis in ICU
      patients. In case it becomes symptomatic, guidelines for lower extremity deep vein thrombosis
      are followed and patients are treated accordingly. However, in case catheter-related
      thrombosis is an accidental find and remains asymptomatic, treatment is more controversial.
      Some physicians decide to treat it with anticoagulants, whereas others do not treat it at
      all.

      If we take into account that the natural history of catheter-related thrombosis remains
      unclear in adult ICU patients and its treatment is even more controversial, a study is
      warranted that investigates the incidence and potential sequelae of catheter-related
      thrombosis. The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the incidence of catheter-related
      thrombosis in adult ICU patients and to investigate its relationship with potentially
      hazardous sequelae.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective:

      - To evaluate the incidence of catheter-related thrombosis in adult ICU patients

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To investigate the correlation between catheter-related thrombosis and catheter-related
           infections

        -  To identify potential risk factors associated with catheter-related thrombosis

        -  To investigate the association of catheter-related thrombosis with potential sequalae
    
  