
    
      Study design and Patient recruitment

      The design is a randomized comparative controlled study. Candidates for the study will be
      recruited from the antenatal booking clinic of our institution after being duly informed that
      participation is voluntary. Informed consent will be obtained after the purpose, procedure,
      benefits, discomfort, risks and precautions associated with the study have been dully
      explained to them. Due diligence will be taken in adequately responding to any question or
      concern raised about the study. It will fully be explained to them that their participation
      is entirely voluntary. Also, if they are unwilling at any point to participate, they will be
      completely at liberty to discontinue their participation in the study which will not in any
      away affect their further and adequate management in the hospital. It will be explained that
      their participation in the study will not have any negative impact on them and their unborn
      babies and it has no financial benefits but the outcomes of the study may contribute to
      improved antenatal care. However, if there is additional financial cost (though not
      immediately foreseen) to any patient outside the cost of routine ANC visit, the investigator
      shall arrange for modest compensation. Consented eligible pregnant woman will be recruited
      and those enrolled will be alloted into the two groups A and B of SP and Azithromycin
      respectively using a computer program (SPSS software version 21, Armonk, NY:IBM) generated
      sequence of numbers. Sequentially numbered sealed envelope containing either SP or AZ
      labelled will be allotted one after the other to participants. The personnel involved in the
      data collection and laboratory staff analyzing the samples will all not be aware of which
      group of patient is taking SP or Azithromycin while the doctors involved in administering the
      medication and the patients will be aware of which is being administered.
    
  