
    
      Willing and eligible patients will be enrolled into the trial and randomized to surgical vs
      non-surgical treatment following informed consent. The following information will be
      collected over the next 18 months: age,race, sex, baseline and follow-up quality of life
      quationnaire scores, a complete medical history, including co-morbid illnesses, medications
      and surgical history, and a complete assessment of symptoms, including disease specific
      symptoms against the Rome III criteria for functional gallbladder disorder. Patients
      randomized to surgery will be referred for immediate laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Patients
      in the non-surgical management group will be counseled on maintenance of a low-fat diet, and
      provided with a prescription for amitriptyline 25mg once daily.

      Patients with persistent, non responsive symptoms that fail to respond to at least one week
      of administration of amitriptyline will be allowed to voluntarily, cross over into the
      surgically treated group.

      After randomization, certain data collection points will be unique to the two groups. These
      are as follows and are in addition to the general data which will be collected from both
      groups:

      Surgery group: operative/pathology findings & operative complications

      Non-surgical group:

      Patients will be asked to maintain a food diary and a symptom diary. Patients will be asked
      to report any medication related side effects.

      Both groups will receive a phone call for assessment of conditions. Non-surgical groups will
      be asked to report any medication related side effects.

      Follow-up for both groups will continue throughout the 18 month period. In addition to the
      monthly calls, Patients will be contacted every three months after their initial treatment to
      take the SF-8 questionnaire and obtain an assessment of symptoms using the Rome III criteria.
    
  