
    
      Homelessness is strongly associated with an increased prevalence of chronic physical and
      mental health morbidity, leading to lower health-related quality of life and increased
      hospital readmissions compared to the general population. People experiencing homelessness
      have reported experience of discrimination and unwelcome treatment, neglect and rejection,
      lack of compassion from their health care providers and feeling as though their perceptions
      are disregarded. Alongside many daily barriers such as substance use, lack of housing, and
      food insecurity, these issues also negatively influence the desire to seek health care among
      people experiencing homelessness.

      A national strategy to determine the extent and nature of homelessness, 'Point-in-Time
      Counts' were conducted in over 60 communities across Canada in 2018 to provide a snapshot of
      the experiences and needs of people experiencing homelessness. The Niagara 'Point-in-Time'
      Count collected 408 surveys from people experiencing homelessness, with 57 percent of
      participants reporting a mental health issue, 36.2 percent reporting an addiction, and 33.9
      percent reporting a medical condition. Respondents also reported an ongoing need for mental
      health services (54.3 percent), addiction services (29.2 percent), and medical services (26.9
      percent). Of note, 219 participants reporting a collective 663 visits to the emergency
      department in the preceding 12 months. People experiencing homelessness are much more likely
      than housed people to access emergency departments for concerns with mental health, although
      this may not be an ideal environment to provide recovery-based mental health care.

      The placement of peer support workers in the emergency department may help overcome barriers
      to health care for people experiencing homelessness. Peer support is defined as a supportive
      relationship between a worker and a peer who share the commonality of a lived experience,
      with the peer support worker able to model recovery and use a recovery-oriented,
      person-centered approach with their peer. Increasing positive interactions in a clinical care
      setting could address the lack of trust perceived by people experiencing homelessness towards
      health care providers, helping to counteract negative perceptions of health care and
      increasing the likelihood that people experiencing homelessness will seek care in the future.

      The benefits of a peer support worker include feelings of empowerment and hope, increased
      sense of acceptance and empathy, improved satisfaction, and reduced feelings of stigma. Peer
      support workers in mental health services lead to reduced admissions, as well as earlier
      discharge when utilized following admission to hospital. Two recent reviews investigated the
      effectiveness of peer support services in individuals with severe mental illness.
      Consistently, they found that peers are at least as effective in providing services as
      non-peers in the same roles. Additionally, there are certain unique elements that can only be
      provided by peer support workers. Three randomized controlled trials reported better
      treatment engagement, fewer hospitalizations and hospital days, and lower rates of
      non-attendance compared to treatment as usual when peer support workers were added to a care
      team. When peer support workers served as patient advocates and community connectors for
      people with multiple psychiatric hospitalizations, the number of hospitalizations and days
      spent in hospital decreased. Furthermore, participants reported a decrease in depressive
      symptoms and increase in hope, self-care, and sense of well-being. The researchers noted that
      the active ingredient in these interventions seemed to be the instillation of hope through
      self-disclosure, role modeling, and empathy paired with conditional regard. Upon comparing
      and contrasting the core competencies of case managers and peer support workers, it was noted
      that the unique duties of peer support workers seemed to center around empowering clients via
      normalization, participating in personal development as a role model, and encouraging
      clients' educational growth.

      However, despite promising findings in a diversity of clinical care settings, there has been
      relatively limited research and few high quality studies of the effectiveness of peer support
      workers and their outcomes with people experiencing homelessness. People experiencing
      homelessness typically have complex comorbid mental illnesses, and they should theoretically
      benefit from peer support services via the sharing of lived experiences. An exploratory
      review of the literature on peer support and homelessness found 10 studies totaling 1341
      participants that collectively reported improved overall quality of life, significant
      increases in social support, reduced rates of substance use, decreased homelessness, and
      better physical and mental health for the recipients of peer support. Although promising, six
      of the included studies were longitudinal, two were cross-sectional, and two were
      quasi-experimental. There was also significant heterogeneity in the delivery of peer services
      across studies, including peer support from mentors, peer support as part of a larger
      intervention, and peer support groups.

      Within the emergency department, there has been minimal research on peer support or similar
      interventions. Of 11 studies examined in a meta-analysis of the effectiveness of emergency
      department interventions for frequent users, case management was found to be the most
      frequently used. For people experiencing homelessness, case management demonstrated increased
      contact with health services, reduced lengths of admission, decreased emergency department
      visits for mental health problems, and reduced substance use, but only equivocal findings for
      physical and mental health. An example of an emergency department program that is similar to
      peer support can be found in a randomized trial of compassionate care for people experiencing
      homelessness. This study from 1995 found that compassionate contact from trained volunteers
      led to a 33% relative reduction in the overall frequency of visits per month and a
      significant reduction in the time until a first repeat visit; however, health outcomes were
      not evaluated.

      Although there are several types of emergency department interventions, there is overall a
      lack of evidence about program effectiveness. Very few studies are randomized controlled
      trials, most studies with high-risk individuals are of low quality, and stronger evidence on
      cost-effectiveness is necessary for all program types. Furthermore, the quality of care and
      health outcomes for people experiencing homelessness may be improved through peer support,
      but evidence in this area is underdeveloped and in need of studies with robust experimental
      measures. To fill this gap in knowledge, this study will evaluate a program of peer support
      for people experiencing homelessness who seek care in the emergency departments of a
      mid-sized Canadian regional municipality. The research questions for the study are as
      follows:

        1. What, if any, are the changes in health service use (e.g., emergency department visits,
           hospitalizations) following receipt of peer support in the emergency department?

        2. What, if any, are the changes to health status, health-related quality of life,
           substance use, or behaviours, following engagement with a peer support worker?

        3. Is peer support in the emergency department a cost-effective intervention?

        4. Does receiving peer support in the emergency department lengthen the interval of time
           before a clinically significant outcome such as a repeat visit to the emergency
           department or increased morbidity?

        5. What are the mechanisms of peer support in the emergency department that may contribute
           to differences observed in the outcomes between the intervention and usual care groups?
    
  