
    
      Background:

        -  Ataxia-telangiectasia-related (ATR) protein kinase is central to the DNA damage response
           and homologous recombination, activating a series of phosphorylation cascades,
           culminating in cell cycle arrest to allow time for DNA repair. ATR additionally
           facilitates homologous recombination repair through modulation of the p53-replication
           protein A (p53-RPA) complex bound to ssDNA during the DNA repair process.

        -  Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1) plays a pivotal role in base-excision repair of
           single strand breaks formed either due to direct genotoxic stress or during the
           processing of double strand breaks. PARP also plays a role in alternative end joining,
           which may contribute to combination activity. PARP-1 binding to sites of DNA damage
           results in activation of its catalytic activity and generation of chains of poly
           (ADP-ribosyl)ated polymers, which serve as docking sites for recruitment of DNA repair
           proteins.

        -  Veliparib (ABT-888) is a potent PARP 1/2 inhibitor with clinical evidence of
           potentiation of antitumor activity in combination with cisplatin in BRCA mutation
           carriers and patients with sporadic triple-negative breast cancer.

        -  M6620 (VX-970) is a potent ATR inhibitor, with IC(50) of 20 nM and antitumor activity
           across a broad range of cell lines in combination with DNA damaging agents. Preclinical
           studies show M6620 (VX-970) synergizes with cisplatin to induce DNA damage and antitumor
           activity. The addition of PARP inhibitor veliparib with ATR inhibitor M6620 (VX-970)
           allows for impairment of DNA repair, the induction of a BRCA null phenotype, and
           potentiation of the antitumor activity of cisplatin.

      Primary Objective:

      -To establish the safety, tolerability, and the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of the
      combination of M6620 (VX-970) and veliparib in combination with cisplatin in patients with
      advanced refractory solid tumors

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To assess the effect of the combination of M6620 (VX-970), veliparib, and cisplatin on
           markers of DNA damage and apoptosis

        -  To assess antitumor activity of the combination

      Exploratory Objective:

      -To investigate tumor genomic alterations potentially associated with acquired resistance to
      the combination of M6620 (VX-970), veliparib, and cisplatin

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients must have histologically confirmed solid tumors for which all standard therapy
           known to prolong survival has failed in the metastatic setting, or for which standard
           therapies do not exist

        -  Patients must have had no major surgery, radiation, or chemotherapy within 3 weeks prior
           to entering the study

        -  Patients must have adequate organ function

      Study Design:

        -  Initially, M6620 (VX-970) will be administered intravenously on Days 2 and 9 of each
           21-day cycle. Veliparib will be administered orally twice a day (q12 hours +/- 1 hour)
           for Days 1-3 and 8-10 of each 21-day cycle. Cisplatin will be administered at 40 mg/m2
           intravenously on Day 1 (and Day 8 from DL3 onwards) of each 21-day cycle.

        -  As of Amendment I (12/7/2017), patients who have been on study for at least 6 cycles may
           have cisplatin administration held or discontinued at the discretion of the PI, Dr.
           Chen, in recognition of the cumulative neurotoxicity seen with cisplatin treatment. If
           cisplatin is not administered during a cycle M6620 (VX-970) will be administered on Days
           1 and 8 of that cycle.

        -  The escalation portion of the trial will follow a standard 3+3 design, whereby patients
           will be dose escalated in cohorts of 3 until dose-limiting toxicity is observed

        -  Once the MTD is established, up to 15 additional patients will be enrolled to an
           expansion phase at the MTD. Mandatory tumor biopsies will be obtained in the expansion
           phase to assess PD endpoints
    
  