
    
      Eligible participants will be assigned based upon their participating site. Treatment
      assignments are unmasked. Intervention group will utilize a web enabled glucometer
      manufactured by Entra Health System (San Diego, California). The glucometer acts by
      automatically uploading any glucose readings to an online portal currently managed by Entra
      Health System. The web portal would host the patient's raw blood glucose in a logbook form
      and laboratory data. A summary of the patient's gylcaemic and metabolic control (lipid, blood
      pressure, weight) control, self-management skills as well as compliance to other key measures
      such as eye examination, screening for microvascular complications would also be provided if
      available. All patients in this intervention arm would be given a system-driven guidance on
      when to test their blood glucose based on their disease status, medication regimen, and time
      of poorest control so that the most useful, patient specific blood profile can be created and
      used for future self-management coaching for patient.

      In the event that there is 3 continuous readings of hypoglycaemia (3.9mmol/L and below) or
      hyperglycaemia (11.1mmol/L and above), the system will automatically generate a message to
      inform the attending physician. The physician then has an option to use this information, but
      will remain responsible for all treatment decisions. For quality assurance, the physicians
      will be required to periodically review the participant's electronic logbook data and summary
      analysis reports, generated for patients and physicians. These feedbacks will be entered into
      an electronic logbook and captured real-time. A report will be generated summarizing the
      self-management actions for improving their diabetes control will be sent to the patients,
      physicians as well as family member every month. Each patient will also be informed that
      action plan serves as a pre-visit summary for the patient's next visit to their physician. In
      addition, the participant's family member(s) will also be invited to participate and if
      consented updated on the status of the participants blood glucose status periodically and be
      prompted whenever their glycaemic levels are beyond the target.

      Participants assigned to the control group will continue to receive their usual medical care
      as they would from their physician or general practitioner including checking patient
      self-management blood glucose and log books. In addition, participants will receive standard
      lifestyle advice and will be given basic information on diabetes prevention, weight loss,
      diet, and exercise consistent with expert recommendation for a healthy lifestyle.
      Participants will also receive a glucose meter and supplies for 3 months. Participants will
      be told to use the glucose meter as recommended by their physicians. Control participants
      will also receive publically available literatures such as flyers and brochures.
    
  