
    
      This will be a prospective, placebo-controlled, double blind crossover study. One hundred
      males between 35-70 years of age in good general health will be included. Recruitment of
      patients will be done through patient referral to the "male sexual dysfunction clinic" at
      Rambam Medical Center, as well as by other necessary ways for optimal and rapid recruitment
      (media advertisement, direct contact with primary clinics etc.).

      For each patient, the study will terminate after a maximal period of 4 months from initiation
      and will include 4 visits:

      On inclusion (Visit I), a thorough explanation will be given to each patient on the aims and
      course of the study, as well as a full explanation on dosage, mode of administration, safety
      and efficacy of Viagra. After reading and signing an informed consent, each patient will be
      asked to fill a questionnaire regarding his sexual function (IIEF-ED Domain). If the patient
      fits inclusion criteria, he will be referred to the urologist to initiate the study. On the
      second encounter (Visit II), medical history and physical exam will be performed. The subject
      will then fill out 3 questionnaires: IIEF (full version), QVS (quality of sexual life
      questionnaire) and the SEARS questionnaire. Administration of medication will be performed in
      a double-blinded crossover fashion. Each patient will be provided, at random either 6 tablets
      of placebo or Viagra 50mg. The patient will be advised to use them on demand. After
      consuming all 6 tablets, a third visit will be scheduled. On the third visit (Visit III) each
      patient will be provided with new IIEF (full version), QVS (quality of sexual life
      questionnaire), the SEARS questionnaire and an EDITS questionnaire. A few other questions on
      satisfaction will be asked and recorded (questions on the quality of the erection, duration
      of intercourse, number of sexual acts per night, frequency of intercourse/week, satisfaction
      from intercourse etc). Each subject will receive another 6 tablets (Viagra/ placebo).
      Finally, at the last visit (Visit IV) subjects will again fill out the same questionnaires as
      on visit III. At the end of the study, double-blind codes will be opened and multi-variant
      analysis of the data will be performed using chi square and annova.
    
  