
    
      One hundred patients who undergo subcutaneous ICD or pacemaker implant and consent to
      inclusion in the trial will be randomized to one of two groups. One group will receive
      standard of care instructions after implant. These standard instructions include: no pushing
      or pulling movements with arm on side of implant, no lifting over 5 lbs., and no movements
      above the level of the shoulder for six weeks post implant. This will be the control group.
      The second group, the exercise group, will be instructed verbally on a series of specific
      exercises (appendix A) to be completed at least three days per week for 6 weeks.

      After the patient signs informed consent, a demographic form will be completed. At this
      enrollment visit, both groups will be asked to use a visual analog scale to report level of
      shoulder and/or extremity discomfort. Physical exam will include the impingement test,
      assessment of shoulder elevation, and measurement of the angle of abduction at which
      discomfort occurs. Subjects will be given the QuickDASH questionnaire (Appendix B) to
      complete. This questionnaire is an 11 item self-report questionnaire designed to assess the
      physical function and symptoms during certain activities.

      At the 1 week follow-up visit, the patient will be informed of their randomization group. The
      patients in the control group will receive standard of care instructions. The patients in the
      exercise group will have specific exercises demonstrated to them and written instructions
      with pictures will be provided for home reference. Follow-up for both groups will occur at 1,
      3 and 6 months post implant and it will include a physical exam, the QuickDASH questionnaire,
      and the visual analog scale. Patients in the exercise group will be asked to complete an
      exercise log and return it to the study staff after the 6 week of exercise is complete. In
      addition, telephone follow-ups will be completed for the exercise group at 2, 3, 5, and 6
      weeks post implant. Patients will be asked how often they complete the exercises.
    
  