
    
      Study Description:

      This protocol will collect information on frequency and severity of COVID infection for
      patients with rare diseases and community controls.

      Study Objectives:

      Primary Objective: To quantify the frequency and severity of COVID infection in patients with
      rare and common diseases, looking for conditions that increase risk of severe outcomes.

      Secondary Objective: To identify gene-, tissue- or sociodemographic level features that
      increase risk of severe COVID outcomes that may inform future genetic modifier studies.

      Tertiary Objective (exploratory): To investigate the role of preexisting disease- or
      socioeconomic- factors that contribute to COVIDrelated stress.

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint: Frequency of severe infection (hospitalization +/- ICU stay and/or
      COVID-related death) secondary to COVID in patients with a shared disease designation.

      Secondary Endpoint: Frequency of severe infection (hospitalization +/- ICU stay and/or
      COVID-related death) secondary to COVID in patients with shared organ system involvement,
      secondary comorbidities, or sociodemographic differences.

      AND Frequency of any infection secondary to COVID in study patients as grouped by genetic
      diagnosis, organ system involvement, secondary comorbidities, or sociodemographic features.

      Study Population:

      The study will include people greater than 1 month old, with and without rare disease. Some
      members of the study population have cognitive impairment on the basis of their rare disease.

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants:

      All consent and study procedures/questionnaire will be performed online.

      Study Duration:

      The study will enroll for up to 13 months.

      Participant Duration:

      After consent, participants (or their legal authorized representative) will be asked to fill
      out an online questionnaire that should take <30 minutes. We may re-send the survey to the
      participants in 6 - 12 months. Filling out the second round questionnaire is preferred but
      not required. New enrollees at the time the 2nd questionnaire is sent will fill out the
      questionnaire once at Time 2. Participants will be consented for re-contact.
    
  