
    
      Cancer is well documented to cause weight loss and cachexia (1). An inflammatory process
      driven by the presence of a tumour, can result in reduced food intake (2), increased
      metabolic output (3) and loss of skeletal muscle (1). They have reduced fitness and feeling
      of lethargy that affects activities of daily living and quality of life. The process
      explaining this is not well understood but thought to be due to diminished skeletal muscle
      mass and performance. When cancer patients undergo surgery, the trauma of surgery, entails an
      inflammatory process that furthermore leads to more of the above (4). Reducing this
      inflammatory insult would positively impact fitness, ability to respond to infections, affect
      length of stay in hospital, recovery from surgery and quality of life following surgery.

      Eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) is an omega-3-fatty acid, derived from fish oil and a commonly
      available nutritional supplement. It is believed to reduce the inflammatory effect of cancer
      and the trauma of surgery, in turn dampening the catabolic effect causing skeletal muscle
      loss. Studies on oesophageal cancer patients have previously suggested that EPA can preserve
      lean muscle mass (5). The investigators expect EPA to cause less lean muscle loss and
      improved aerobic performance. High dietary intake is not thought to have health risks (6) and
      EPA has recently been trialed in infant milk formulas with no adverse effects (7).

      The investigators plan to recruit patients from colorectal clinic, who are due to have
      surgery for colorectal cancer, and give them EPA or placebo, from 5 days prior to surgery to
      up to 21 days following surgery. The investigators would like to measure markers of muscle
      function and inflammation, muscle mass, exercise performance on by cardiopulmonary exercise
      testing, muscle biopsy and muscle grip strength on a dynamometer.
    
  