
    
      Hypothesis True:Electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve (TENS) decreases the activity of
      the parasympathetic nervous system and increases the activity of the sympathetic nervous
      system in women with overactive bladder.

      Null Hypothesis: The electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve (TENS) does not decrease the
      activity of the parasympathetic nervous system and does not increase the activity of the
      sympathetic nervous system in women with overactive bladder.

      Alternative Hypothesis: The electrical stimulation of the tibial nerve (TENS) increases the
      activity of the parasympathetic nervous system and decreases the activity of the sympathetic
      nervous system in women with overactive bladder.

      Intervention Programmes

      The randomization technique is carried out through sequential numbers kept in opaque
      envelopes, not translucent and closed. This takes into account that a major goal of
      randomization is to prevent the researcher to identify which intervention will be performed
      in each patient. The generation of sequence numbers will be made by researcher "blind" the
      study after patient selection criteria for inclusion and exclusion. The sequence of numbers
      to be used for randomization will be kept confidential until the exact moment of the
      beginning of the intervention.

      In this study, two self-adhesive electrodes, one immediately behind the medial malleolus and
      the other 10 cm above will be used. Through a chain of 1Hz, the aim is to correctly identify
      the tibial nerve. This position is confirmed with the rhythmic movement of the finger
      flexion. The frequency is then changed to 10Hz, the pulse width set at 200 "microseconds" and
      adjusted according to the intensity threshold for each patient, below motor threshold. This
      current generator also has a device, the VIF (variation in intensity and frequency) that aims
      to ease the accommodation of sensory receptors and enhance its effects. The application time
      is 30 minutes.

      The placebo group will receive active current for 30 seconds and then will gradually decrease
      by 15 seconds to not pass any current.

      It is noteworthy that all study participants will be instructed not to eat, not drink, not
      smoke and do not exercise two hours prior to data collection.

      Evaluation of the sympathetic and parasympathetic system For the analysis of Heart Rate
      Variability (HRV) time series of RR intervals obtained from continuous ECG signal recorded
      (sampling frequency = 1 kHz) for the MP150 system (Biopac, California, USA) will be
      interpolated and decimated to obtain equally spaced in time series and then subjected to a
      Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) algorithm developed using a Matlab (Matlab 6.0, Mathworks Inc.,
      USA) language. The spectral power is calculated by integrating each frequency band of
      interest. The time series of RR will be analyzed in the time domain and the frequency and
      variability parameters and autonomic balance will be obtained. In the time domain we
      calculate the mean values of RR intervals, standard deviation and the square root of the sum
      of the square of successive differences (rMSSD). The evaluation of the sympathetic and
      parasympathetic nervous system will be held at the Federal University of Health Sciences of
      Porto Alegre (UFCSPA), the Laboratory of Physiology before, during and after application of
      TENS.

      Calculation Sample

      Due to lack of studies relating to study the effects of the sympathetic and parasympathetic
      TENS in women with overactive bladder nervous system, a pilot study will be conducted which
      will consist of:

      Group A: TENS Group, composed of 15 women with overactive bladder and Group B: placebo group,
      consisting of 15 women with overactive bladder.

      Based on the obtained values the actual sample size calculation for the study will be
      conducted.
    
  