
    
      This project is to create and test a "clinical process support system" that will improve the
      ability of primary child health care providers (PCPs) to screen for and address family
      stressors during routine child health visits that are associated with negative child outcomes
      in a manner that is feasible and acceptable to both clinicians and parents. The family
      stressors assessed include: intimate partner violence (IPV), parental depression, parental
      stress, food insecurity, parental substance use and harsh punishment of the child. The system
      is designed to overcome known obstacles to addressing these issues during routine well child
      visits. These obstacles include: lack of PCP training in an evidence-based approach to the
      interview (e.g., motivational interviewing); lack of time; low parental expectations for
      addressing sensitive family issues during routine child "physicals"; and the usual absence of
      co-located mental health providers. The new Family Stress module will build on two
      foundations: 1) previous studies of screening using the Safe Environment for Every Kid (SEEK)
      tool, which showed reduced child maltreatment outcomes in two Randomized Control Trials; and
      2) an existing online screening and decision support system (CHADIS). The goals are to
      support parents in reducing family risk and the exposure of the young child to their own
      Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE), including child maltreatment.

      The innovations in this method of addressing family stressors and overcoming the above
      obstacles include:

        1. Time efficiencies. Time is saved through pre-visit online data collection, saving both
           interview and clinical documentation time and staff time saved for patient education and
           needed referrals.

        2. Creating the environment for psychosocial care. This is done through a combination of
           pre-visit questionnaires with agenda broadening questions (best and hardest parts of
           parenting), inclusion of parental background from Adverse Childhood Experiences (ACE)
           and Positive Childhood Experiences inquiries in clinical discussions; individualized
           text and resources for the family in the Care Portal; milestones to "celebrate" in each
           child's "MemoryBook"; and empathetic and reflective responses from the PCP.

        3. Efficient training. Training is done using innovative "moment of care" teleprompters
           created instantly in response to the individual parent issues from the pre-visit tools
           to support the difficult conversations and a motivational interview begun by the
           computer needed to move families towards services.

        4. Care communication. Practices will be able to share data with their own colocated
           services or be linked electronically with outside local resources using a unique online
           "consent to share information" functionality that also facilitates determining if the
           referral appointment was completed. Visit notes and documentation of attendance at a
           consultation will be shared with consent between the PCP and referral agency or
           professional to facilitate two-way communication for coordinated care.

      Design: A cluster randomized quality improvement intervention using the clinical process
      support family stress module in routine care for children 0-3 years will be conducted in 30
      primary care practices. The project will enroll as many 0-4 month olds as possible and follow
      them to age 24 months and a cohort of 18-24 month olds as controls using online consent (not
      requiring staff time). For this 2.5 year project the study staff will ask physicians and
      office staff to complete a one hour online training, offices to notify parents to complete
      CHADIS when scheduling well-child visits for children 0-3 years old with the questionnaire
      assignments for the project including Family Assessment of Safety and Stress (FASS), and
      primary care clinicians to use the CHADIS Family Stress module including the care
      coordination functionality during the visits when that site is randomized to the intervention
      period. At the end of the project the study requires clinicians to complete a survey and
      provide information from the medical records for participating children about immunization
      completion and missed visits. This information can be collected in a variety of ways
      depending on each electronic record.

      Outcomes: The outcomes anticipated for the proposed study include improved parent connection
      to services and parent-child relationships, and reduced family stressors, child behavior
      problems, harsh punishment, and Child Protection referrals for abuse and neglect. Expected
      outcomes include that higher parent satisfaction with the enhanced clinical process will
      result in lower rates of missed visits and delayed immunizations. These results should
      provide evidence of the effectiveness of PCP screening and referral to reduce family
      stressors and the evidence needed for full United States Preventive Services Task Force
      endorsement of this clinical process support tool for reducing child maltreatment.
    
  