
    
      Methodology Randomised controlled cross-over open label study

      Sub study 1 (n=10)

      In sub-study 1 which includes the first bio-inspired artificial pancreas study using
      bi-hormonal (insulin and glucagon) control a fasting 6-hour bi-hormonal closed-loop study
      will be conducted to assess proof of concept and safety prior to the 25-hour randomised
      controlled crossover study

      Each subject will then be randomised to attend either a closed-loop visit or an open-loop
      visit first. Once either visit is completed each subject will crossover and attend the
      remaining visit.

      Sub-study 2 (n=20) The aim of sub-study 2 is to challenge the bi-hormonal pump during a
      moderate exercise. Subjects will be initially randomised to either the bi-hormonal or the
      standard opened loop and then cross over. Each study will last for 25 hours

      • Exercise protocol: Subjects will be connected to the gas analyser and heart rate/ECG
      monitor as per COSMED manufacturer instructions.

      The oxygen consumption (VO2)/Carbon dioxide production (VCO2) and heart rate/ECG trace will
      be displayed continuously in real time while the subject is exercising.

      Warm-up: 3 minutes of cycling at low resistance (20-30 watts) while maintaining a speed of
      60-80 revolutions per minute After the warm-up the subjects will undergo a 30 minutes
      moderate intensity exercise session on the bike aiming to maintain their VO2 between 10-20%
      above their 1st ventilatory anaerobic threshold. If their VO2 falls below or goes above this
      level then the resistance will be increased or decreased accordingly. The target VO2 and the
      starting resistance (watts) will be individually set based on their baseline exercise test
      outcome.

      The estimated time needed to complete the exercise test is 35-40 minutes.

      Real-time continuous glucose monitoring alarms will be set at 4mmol/L and 15mmol/L and will
      be audible by the subject and the research team.

      The glucagon solution will be replaced with a freshly reconstituted glucagon solution every 8
      hours throughout the closed-loop study If the venous blood glucose concentrations fall below
      3.5mmol/L or if the subject experiences hypoglycaemia symptoms then hypoglycaemia will be
      confirmed by an additional venous blood plasma glucose sample and will be treated according
      to Imperial College Hospitals National Health Service Trust Guidelines.

      After 25 hours of closed-loop, at 12:00 the next day, the subject's own insulin pump will be
      primed, reconnected and started as per the subject's usual insulin regime. Once running, the
      closed loop system will be disconnected. The subject can then eat and drink freely and may be
      discharged after 2 hours, or when glucose concentrations are stable.

      The same protocol will be used when subjects cross over for the standard opened loop 25 hour
      study for the remaining visit.

      Sub-study 3: Bi-hormonal closed-loop control during- and after mixed meals (n=20) A high
      fat/high carbohydrate content dinner (45g fat, 80g CHO) will be given at 19:00, a high
      glycaemic index breakfast (40g CHO) at 07:00 and a high protein/low carbohydrate lunch ( 30g
      protein,10g CHO) at 12:00.

      Subjects will be free to gently mobilise around the clinical research unit, smoking will not
      be permitted. Subjects may drink unlimited water throughout the visit.

      Real-time continuous glucose monitoring alarms will be set at 4mmol/L and 15mmol/L and will
      be audible by the subject and the research team.

      The glucagon solution will be replaced with a freshly reconstituted glucagon solution every 8
      hours throughout the closed-loop studies.

      If the venous blood glucose concentrations fall below 3.5mmol/L or if the subject experiences
      hypoglycaemia symptoms then hypoglycaemia will be confirmed by an additional venous blood
      plasma glucose sample and will be treated according to Imperial College Hospitals National
      Health Service Trust Guidelines.

      After 25 hours of closed-loop, at 18:00 the next day, the subject's own insulin pump will be
      primed, reconnected and started as per the subject's usual insulin regime. Once running, the
      closed-loop system will be disconnected. The subject can then eat and drink freely and may be
      discharged after 2 hours, or when glucose concentrations are stable.

      The same protocol will be applied after cross over but with a standard opened loop insulin
      pump for the remaining visit.
    
  