
    
      Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is the most common procedure performed for
      obstructive coronary artery disease with more than one million procedures performed annually
      in United States alone1. Despite major advances in technology and operative expertise, the
      optimum management of arterial access site after PCI procedures remains unclear.

      The conventional practice of arterial access site management involves delaying of sheath
      removal for several hours to allow normalization of heparin induced anticoagulation. This
      delayed sheath removal poses a risk of recurrent bleeding and hematoma formation.
      Furthermore, delayed sheath removal results in decreased patient mobility, increased patient
      discomfort and requires frequent monitoring with an impact on nursing resources. The risks
      associated with delayed sheath removal may be further increased by concomitant administration
      of potent anti platelet therapy now routinely used in patients undergoing PCI2.

      Arterial puncture closure devices (APCD) were developed to obtain immediate arterial access
      site hemostasis after closed vascular procedures with an aim towards early patient
      mobilization. Although the efficacy of APCD have been documented in several small studies but
      limited information is available regarding their safety in diverse patient populations. A
      recent meta analysis has shown increased vascular complication rate associated with the use
      of these devices bringing the safety of their routine use into question3.

      Due to lack of definitive data, the arterial access site management varies considerably
      between physicians and among institutions. APCD are routinely used by some centers4 while
      others continue to delay arterial sheath removal for several hours after the procedure5.

      Immediate sheath removal followed by direct compression though routinely practiced after
      coronary angiographic procedures is not used after PCI procedures due to the intra procedural
      administration of heparin resulting in prolonged anticoagulation. Reversal of heparin with
      protamine may allow immediate sheath removal resulting in early patient ambulation and
      decreased access site vascular complications. The safety and efficacy of intravenous
      protamine administration for reversal of heparin is well established by its routine use in
      cardiovascular surgery for several decades6 and recent reports showing safety and efficacy of
      this method for early sheath removal after PCI procedures7-9.

      The proposed study is designed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of immediate sheath
      removal followed by direct compression as compared to the use of APCD to achieve hemostasis
      after PCI.
    
  