
    
      COVID-19 Infection was characterized as a Pandemic by WHO on the 11th of March 2020. After
      this there were all possible worldwide efforts to increase awareness in the general
      population about the COVID-19 Infection signs, symptoms, mode of transmission and prevention.
      The information was spread across all possible mass media communication channels.

      There were constant updates regarding the data of newly infected cases, deaths, and
      recoveries. COVID-19 Pandemic has created fears, anxiety, and worries among the general
      population. COVID-19 spreads from person to person through Droplet transmission within
      1-meter distance. COVID-19 airborne transmission is possible under specific circumstances and
      settings in which procedures or support treatments that generate aerosols. Various dental
      treatment procedures involve the use of equipment that can generate aerosols. Aerosols
      contain microorganisms and remain suspended in air in the work environment. This can
      potentially transfer the infectious microorganisms to the working staff and/or subsequent
      patients attending the Dental clinics. After the advent of COVID-19 Pandemic, there is a
      clear paradigm shift in Healthcare services. As the Pandemic transmission is easily
      transmitted through droplets and aerosols, concern regarding Dental treatment has remained as
      an issue.

      Several past cross-sectional studies have established that Dental seeking behaviour of
      patients is influenced by Fear and Anxiety to Dental treatment procedures.

      As the world faces COVID-19 Pandemic, the Fear of COVID-19 infection and awareness regarding
      COVID-19 infection can majorly influence the Dental treatment seeking behavior. General
      population awareness regarding droplet transmission of COVID-19 can potentially influence the
      fear, worry, and anxiety in Dental treatment seeking patients. The research regarding the
      correlation of Fear of COVID-19 to Dental treatment Anxiety is very sparse.

      The psychological aspects of COVID-19 Fear and Dental anxiety have to be considered and
      researched.

      This online Observational Cross-sectional survey study was conducted among netizens in Al
      Qassim province of Saudi Arabia with the following objectives:

        1. To assess Fear of COVID-19 among netizins in Al Qassim province using FEAR OF COVID-19,
           a 5 item Likert Scale.

        2. To assess Dental Anxiety among netizins in Al Qassim province using (MDA) Modified
           Dental Anxiety 5 item Likert Scale.

        3. Correlation of Fear of COVID-19 with Dental Anxiety among Netizens in Al Qassim
           province.

        4. Association of nearest Dental treatment seeking time and Fear of COVID.

        5. Association of nearest Dental treatment seeking time and MDA.
    
  