
    
      Time 0 (first session of the physical therapy treatment program)

      The physical therapist will explain to each patient the purpose of the study and request
      informed consent and data processing consent. In the informed consent form will be specified
      that the study will concern some diagnostic tests and the study protocol will not influence
      the physical therapy treatment strategy in any way. Only those who give their consent will be
      included in the study and will fill in a booklet containing:

        -  socio-demographical, anthropometric and pain data;

        -  the Italian version of the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI-I);

        -  the Italian version of the 0-100 Numerical Rating Scale (NRS). Once completed, the
           questionnaires will be placed in a sealed envelope and delivered to the examiner.

      The physical therapist will perform the following tests, without being aware of the results
      collected during the initial clinical evaluation and will record the tests results on a
      pre-printed sheet, which will then be inserted in the same envelope as well.

      The tests performed are (in order of execution):

        -  Aberrant Movements (AM) Test,

        -  Active Straight Leg Raise (ASLR) Test,

        -  Supine Bridge Test (SuBT),

        -  Right Side Bridge Test (RBT),

        -  Left Side Bridge Test (LBT),

        -  Prone Bridge Test (PrBT),

        -  Passive Lumbar Extension (PLE) Test,

        -  Prone Instability Test (PIT).

      The envelope containing the patient's data and the results of the tests will be sent to an
      independent subject, who will take care of the data collection and their insertion into the
      electronic database, assigning to each patient a numerical code as the only identification
      element.

      The patients will be submitted to a physical therapy treatment for eight 30-minutes sessions,
      once a week.

      Time 1 (at the end of the last session of the physical therapy treatment)

      Those who have completed the physical therapy treatment will receive a final booklet
      containing the Italian version of the Oswestry Disability Index (ODI-I), the Numerical Rating
      Scale (NRS) and the Global Perceived Effect (GPE) Questionnaire. Once completed, these
      questionnaires will be placed in a sealed envelope and delivered to the examiner.

      Without being aware of the outcome of the questionnaires contained in the final booklet, the
      same tests will be repeated:

        -  Aberrant Movements (AM) Test,

        -  Active Straight Leg Raise (ASLR) Test,

        -  Supine Bridge Test (SuBT),

        -  Right Side Bridge Test (RBT),

        -  Left Side Bridge Test (LBT),

        -  Prone Bridge Test (PrBT),

        -  Passive Lumbar Extension (PLE) Test,

        -  Prone Instability Test (PIT).

      Test results will be recorded on a pre-printed sheet, which will then be inserted in the same
      envelope and send to the independent subject who is responsible for data collection.
    
  