
    
      Background / Rationale: Osteoarthritis (OA) is the one of the most common chronic conditions
      among veterans, and over half of VA health care users with OA report being limited in their
      daily activities because of joint symptoms. Physical therapy and ongoing exercise help to
      reduce pain and improve physical function. However, the majority of veterans with OA are
      physically inactive. Furthermore, physical therapy appointments in the VA health care system
      are a limited resource, with demand often exceeding supply, resulting in long wait periods
      and a limited number of visits (1 or 2) per patient. Extending physical therapy services to a
      larger number of veterans with OA, in a cost effective manner, may play a key role in
      improving outcomes in this large patient group. Objective: The objective of this pilot study
      is to perform preliminary evaluation of group-based physical therapy program for veterans
      with knee OA, in preparation for a larger grant submission. This pilot work will allow us to
      assess the feasibility of group-based sessions, refine the intervention session components as
      needed, assess the planned recruitment and enrollment methods, estimate the number of
      potentially eligible veterans at the Durham VAMC, and conduct sample size and power analyses
      for a larger clinical trial. Methods: All participants will be involved in a 12-week
      group-based physical therapy program, with study measures being obtained at baseline and
      immediately following program completion. Participants will be Durham VAMC patients with
      symptomatic knee OA. Our goal is to enroll 20 participants who complete the program and
      follow-up measures, but we may recruit up to 25 participants total, if some participants drop
      out of the program before completion. Participants will attend group physical therapy
      sessions bi-weekly for twelve weeks (total of six visits), with each session lasting
      approximately one hour. Two study team members, a licensed physical therapist and research
      assistant with training in exercise for knee OA, will lead each session. The research
      assistant will lead group exercises, and the physical therapist will assess the progress and
      monitor for any potential problems or special needs of individual patients. During the first
      10-15 minutes of each group session, one study team member will talk with participants about
      a topic related to OA care, such as joint protection, weight management, joint injections and
      surgery, and stress management. The remainder of the session will involve group warm-up /
      stretching exercises, then a series of strengthening exercises tailored for patients with
      knee OA. Participants will also be instructed to perform stretching exercises daily and
      strengthening exercises three times total each week. Primary outcome measures will be
      self-reported pain and function. Statistical analyses will compare pre- and post-intervention
      pain and function, including effect size calculations to assist with sample size estimates
      for a larger study. Impact: This study is significant because it examines a novel health
      services delivery method for improving outcomes among patients with OA - a highly prevalent
      condition that is also one of the main causes of pain among veterans. Specifically, this
      pilot study is a key first step toward examining the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a
      method for delivering physical therapy services to a larger number of veterans with OA. This
      delivery method could also be applied to other common orthopedic and neurologic conditions
      that require physical therapy service.
    
  