
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the safety and optimal dose of hyperthermic intraperitoneal oxaliplatin
           when administered during cytoreductive surgery and followed by intraperitoneal
           leucovorin calcium and fluorouracil in patients with peritoneal malignancies.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the outcome of cytoreductive surgery in these patients.

        -  To determine the time to disease progression and pattern of failure in patients treated
           with this regimen.

        -  To determine the 1 and 5 year survival in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  To compare quality-of-life pre- and post-surgery in these patients.

        -  To characterize total- and free-platinum pharmacokinetics in the plasma and total
           platinum in the intraperitoneal space at baseline, during, and after hyperthermic
           intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPC).

        -  To assess for the presence of genetic polymorphisms in the XDP and XRCC1 DNA repair
           genes.

        -  To assess tumor and normal tissue concentrations for total platinum obtained at baseline
           and immediately after HIPC.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Cytoreductive Surgery: Patients undergo an exploratory laparotomy to remove all tumor
           nodules from all peritoneal surfaces prior to gastrointestinal anastomoses. An
           intraperitoneal drain is placed for postoperative intraperitoneal chemotherapy.

        -  Hyperthermic peritoneal chemotherapy (HIPC): After cytoreductive surgery, but before
           intestinal anastomosis, patients receive oxaliplatin into the abdomen cavity at
           approximately 1 liter/min at 41-42ยบ C and held for 30 minutes at the maximum tolerated
           dose. A heat exchanger maintains the fluid temperature at 44-46ยบ C to maintain the
           intraperitoneal temperature at 41-42ยบ C. Patients may receive fluid challenges,
           furosemide, mannitol, or renal dose dopamine to maintain a brisk diuresis at the
           discretion of the anesthesiologist.

        -  Intraperitoneal chemotherapy: After HIPC, patients receive leucovorin calcium
           intraperitoneally through an intraperitoneal drain where it will remain for 2 hours and
           then drained. Patients then receive fluorouracil intraperitoneally through the
           intraperitoneal drain on day 1 and remain in the peritoneal fluid for 23 hours and then
           drained. The infusion will be repeated on day 2.

      Blood samples are collected prior to surgery for pharmacogenetic studies and analyzed for the
      presence of genetic polymorphisms in the XPD and XRCC1 DNA repair genes and the GSTP1 and
      GSTM1 glutathione-S-transferase enzymes (i.e., XPD, Asp312Asn, XPD K751Q, XRCC1 Arg399GIn,
      XRCC1 Arg399Q, GSTP1 l105V, and GSTM1 DEL). Blood samples are also collected periodically for
      pharmacokinetic studies and analyzed for oxaliplatin concentrations. Normal and tumor tissue
      are collected periodically and analyzed for total platinum concentrations.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 4, 8, and 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 4 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for at least 5 years.
    
  