
    
      The evaluation will use a cluster randomized controlled design in 3 test NUS eateries with 3
      control eateries that are matched on type (canteen or food court) and on similarity of
      students/staff that it typically serves (example: consumers from arts or sciences faculties).
      It will include both process evaluation and outcome evaluation components. The primary
      purpose of the process evaluation will be to understand the enablers or barriers to programme
      implementation which will help to adjust the programme as it is being implemented and to
      assess whether the intervention elements are being implemented as planned. The primary
      purpose of the outcome evaluation will be to assess if healthier options are available and if
      consumers are buying these healthier options. The investigators will triangulate data sources
      and use both quantitative and qualitative data to inform this evaluation.

      Specific aims include

        1. To conduct a process evaluation of the Healthier Dining Program (HDP) by assessing the
           reach, fidelity, dose delivered, dose received, and by examining the contextual barriers
           and facilitators towards the Healthier Dining Program implementation at NUS

        2. To assess the effects of the HDP on the knowledge, attitudes, and behavior of hawkers
           and consumers regarding healthier food options

        3. To conduct a cost effectiveness evaluation of the HDP

        4. To model the impact of changes in dietary intakes ascribed to the HDP intervention, on
           the incidence of type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases in Singapore using
           statistical modeling and computer simulation

      A total of 408 consumers at baseline and 10 weeks after the intervention (68 persons per
      cluster, 34 staff and 34 students) will be interviewed. The sample size was computed based on
      a proportion difference of 40 % (5 % in the control centers and 45% in the intervention
      centers) of consumers who eat healthier foods at least once per week. Healthier foods include
      wholegrain foods, less sugar/ healthier choice symbol (HCS) beverage and reduced calorie
      meals, foods that are being targeted by the programme. A power of 0.8,a two-sided alpha of
      0.05, an intra-cluster correlation of 0.15, and a drop-out rate of 25 % for consumers was
      assumed. Centers will be matched based on type (canteen or food court) and on similarity of
      students/staff that it typically serves (example; consumers from arts or sciences faculties)
      and will be randomized to either the intervention or control group. All eligible and
      consenting hawkers at the NUS canteens and food courts in the study will interviewed
      (approximately 15 per center, for a total of 90 hawkers).
    
  