
    
      This was a prospective, observational, and single-center study conducted between
      July-November 2018. The study protocol was approved by the Local Ethics Committee. The study
      was conducted in accordance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Written
      informed consent was obtained from the parent.

      The patients were separated into four groups according to the anaesthetic agents
      given.Intranasal premedication was applied to all the patients, then an intravenous cannula
      was placed and the anaesthetic agents were administered intravenously. The Ramsay Sedation
      Scale (RSS) was used to evaluate the level of sedation, with a target of 5 points. The RSS is
      scored from 1-6 as follows: 1: the patient is worried and anxious, or restless, 2: the
      patient is calm and co-operative, and can be directed, 3: the patient only responds to
      instructions, 4: the patient responds rapidly to painful stimuli, 5: the patient demonstrates
      a slow response to painful stimuli, 6: the patient does not respond. When RSS 5 was reached
      following the first bolus dose of the drug, an additional dose was administered. When RSS 5
      was obtained and hemodynamic stability was ensured, the patient was placed on the MRI table.

      The patient was monitored in the recovery room for regaining consciousness for up to 30 mins
      after the procedure. AED was evaluated using the PAED scale by a nurse trained in the use of
      this scale. PAED scoring was repeated every 5 mins until the patient was discharged from the
      recovery room. If the PAED score was ≥10, a diagnosis of AED was made. Adverse events such as
      laryngospasm, desaturation (SpO2 <95%), respiratory depression, bradycardia, allergy,
      hiccoughs, nystagmus, nausea, and vomiting were recorded. When a Modified Aldrete Score of >9
      was obtained, the child was observed for a further 15 mins then transferred from the recovery
      room.
    
  