
    
      APPROACH

      1) The main study The main study to investigate the difference between BT and PBT is a
      parallel-group randomized controlled trial with 6 months follow-up from baseline to determine
      the effect of PBT program on stepping behavior and fall incidence in community-dwelling older
      people. The study has been designed in accordance with the Consolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement48.

      Participants, recruitment and screening Participants will consist of community-dwelling
      adults aged over 65 years without a recent history of falls (one or more falls in the past 12
      months). All participants will be required to obtain medical clearance from their general
      practitioner prior to participation in the study. Exclusion criteria will be neurological,
      cardiovascular or musculoskeletal impairment that adversely affect balance or limit
      involvement in the intervention, diagnosis of dementia, cognitive impairment (score<24 on
      Mini Mental State Examination after adjustment for age and years of education49), functional
      disability/limitation in activities of daily living (Score>3 on Bayer Activities of Daily
      Living Scale50), osteoporosis, use of medication that affects balance or causes dizziness
      (e.g. psychotropics) and participation in supervised exercise one or more times per week.

      Random allocation and concealment Randomization will be performed following baseline
      assessment by personnel not involved in recruitment, training or assessments. Participants
      will be informed that they will receive one of two treatments. Due to the nature of the
      intervention, research personnel administering the treatments cannot be blinded to group
      allocation. However, the personnel that perform the prospective falls evaluation will be
      blinded to group allocation.

      Intervention BT group. This group will undertake 12 weeks of twice weekly BT in accordance
      with ACSM guidelines. Training will be conducted in small groups under the supervision of a
      trainer. Training will involve mobility, resistance and balance training components.

      PBT group. The PBT protocol uses multi-directional surface translations to provoke rapid
      compensatory stepping responses to recover balance. The protocol is a modified version of the
      stepping (but not grasping) component of the PBT program described by Mansfield et al., which
      was designed to improve rapid stepping reactions and minimize foot collisions in accordance
      with well-established principles of motor learning including individualization, specificity,
      progressive overload, and variability of training. At each session the PBT group will
      experience multi- directional disturbances to standing posture (forwards, backwards, left,
      right) delivered via translations of a motorized treadmill. 24 perturbations will be
      administered in a random sequence (with variation in timing, magnitude and direction) and
      interspersed with 30 s treadmill walking. Successful recoveries during training will be
      followed by an increase in the degree of difficulty, whereas consecutive failures will result
      in a return to the perturbation intensity that had previously been performed successfully.
      Our pilot testing indicates that the prescribed peak accelerations on our motorized treadmill
      to within ±3% can be achieved. The occurrence of actual falls will be prevented via the use
      of a custom safety harness attached to an overhead cable instrumented with a force transducer
      used previously. One familiarization trial in each perturbation direction will be performed
      at 50% intensity at the beginning of the first training session. Training sessions will be
      terminated when the participant completes the planned number of trials or if the participant
      elects not to continue (e.g. feels tired, uncomfortable or unwell).

      Primary outcome measures The tether-release54 test will be used to determine whether training
      effects generalize to balance recovery reactions that are not part of the intervention. Loss
      of balance will be induced by releasing participants from static forward lean postures
      corresponding to 15%, 20% and 25% of their body weight on a horizontal restraining tether in
      accordance with the PI's previous work groups published procedures. Participants will be
      instructed to attempt to regain balance by taking a single, rapid step. Full body kinematics
      and ground reaction forces will be recorded during all balance recovery tasks using a 3D
      motion capture system (12-camera Motion Analysis) and force platforms embedded in the ground
      (AMTI, Watertown, USA). Outcome measures will be margin of stability at touchdown of the
      stepping leg, step leg kinematics (step length and velocity) and trunk kinematics (trunk
      angle and trunk angular velocity). All analysis will be performed using OpenSim57 in
      accordance with the PI's and his previous research units published methods.

      Secondary outcomes measures Falls frequency will be monitored over the 3 months of the
      intervention and following 3 months of follow up with monthly falls diaries. Participants
      will return monthly falls diaries (daily entries) to determine frequency, time, location and
      cause of falls and related injuries as per consensus recommendations for falls trials52.

      OVERALL SUMMARY

      The proposed investigation forms the basis of improved understanding of balance recovery
      training methods and are important steps for ongoing research into the efficacy of balance
      recovery training modes relative to reducing the incidence of falls. In particular, the
      proposed study is the necessary precursor to a large prospective study to evaluate the effect
      of balance recovery training on health and wellbeing of rural Montanans.
    
  