
    
      COPD is a common lung disease and is the fourth most common cause of death in the United
      States. Symptoms include coughing, excess mucus production, shortness of breath,and wheezing.
      There is no cure for COPD, and the disease worsens over time. Treatment can include stopping
      smoking, taking medications, receiving supplemental oxygen, and in severe cases, undergoing
      lung transplantation. COPD is usually the result of many years of cigarette smoking, but it
      remains unknown exactly how cigarette smoking causes this disease.

      One reason that people with COPD experience shortness of breath and cough is because the lung
      airways are partly damaged and obstructed. In healthy people, oxygen is breathed in and then
      passes easily into the bloodstream through bunches of small air sacs that fill the lungs. In
      people with COPD, these air sacs are damaged, making it difficult for oxygen to pass into the
      bloodstream. However, even in people with severe COPD, the air sacs in some areas of the
      lungs continue to work, even though neighboring air sacs are damaged. It is possible that an
      overactive immune response may cause the air sac damage and that some people with COPD are
      more prone than others to such immune system abnormalities. By examining the differences in
      lung tissue in people with and without COPD who are undergoing a lung transplant, this study
      will investigate why some people's immune systems cause lung damage and others do not and how
      and why some air sacs are damaged while other nearby air sacs are not. Study researchers will
      also examine whether genetic factors play a role in the development and severity of COPD.

      This study will enroll people with COPD who are undergoing lung transplantation. Before the
      lung transplantation surgery, participants will attend one study visit, which will include a
      medical history review, height and weight measurements, and a blood collection. A portion of
      blood will be stored for future genetic research. Participants will also complete
      questionnaires to collect information on activities, health, and quality of life. Some
      participants will undergo a 3-Helium magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) procedure, which is an
      imaging technique that allows doctors to see the air spaces inside of the lungs. After the
      lung transplantation surgery, study researchers will collect lung tissue from surgery. Study
      researchers will contact participants at the end of the study to collect follow-up medical
      information.
    
  