
    
      RATIONAL Fatigue is a common symptom in people living with HIV (PHAs) that affects all
      aspects of life . This would include physical deconditioning, a reduction in motor skills .
      Numerous studies show that physical activity brings benefits for the quality of life of PHAs.
      However, due to the predominantly reported fatigue, many PHAs are not physically active
      enough in relation to these recommendations. While it is recognized that fatigue is
      predominant in PHAs, this complaint has mainly been subjectively quantified and has rarely
      been physically objectified. , a better understanding of the relationship between
      neuromuscular fatigue, perceived fatigue and the level of physical activity of PHAs is needed
      in line with current work on integrating fatigue.

      OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY This project, based on an integrative (eg, neurophysiological and
      psychological) approach to fatigue, aims to better explain and prevent the vicious circle of
      physical deconditioning in PHAs by examining the relationships between neuromuscular fatigue,
      perceived fatigue, Physical activity of patients.

      The main objective of the study will be to compare the characteristics of neuromuscular
      fatigue in physically active or inactive PHAs.

      The secondary objective will be to examine the relationship between neuromuscular fatigue,
      level of physical activity and perceived physical fatigue of PHAs.

      CONDUCT OF THE STUDY Cross-sectional comparative study without individual benefit for the
      patient. Monocentric test to quantify and relate neuromuscular fatigue, perceived physical
      fatigue, and physical activity level. The main inclusion criteria for this study are: PLHIV
      aged between 40 and 60; Diagnosed and treated with antivirals after 1996, irrespective of the
      value of the viral load and CD4 lymphocyte level at the last assessment; The physical
      activity level of the patients will be evaluated before the start of the study in order to
      constitute two distinct groups: (a) a group of patients considered as physically active (SAP>
      22) and (b) a group of patients considered as Physically inactive (SAP <15). Confirmed by
      blood diagnosis. Those who have recently stopped their antiretroviral treatment and / or
      their medical follow-up and who have a progressive recovery of their infection and those
      affected by other health conditions marked by fatigue will be excluded.

        -  Principal evaluation criterion: Investigation of the neurophysiological characteristics
           of fatigue will be done by recording the capacity to produce force at the level of the
           extensor muscles of the knee under conditions of voluntary contractions and evoked by
           magnetic stimulation at the level of Femoral nerve.

        -  Secondary evaluation criteria: the investigation of the perceived fatigue will be done
           by a valid psychometric questionnaire.
    
  