
    
      Lack of research oriented health care facilities especially rehabilitation department in
      Pakistan. 30-50 % of population of age 65 years and above have some problems with balance (3)
      and 75 % of people aging 70 years and above have poor balance which leads to fall related
      injuries (5). So fall and related injuries are major problem in this age group. All studies
      conducted so far addresses only one or two aspects of balance training not to all. This study
      will address all the aspects and develop a comprehensive balance training protocol and will
      try to contribute to this under research area.

      Cost effective treatment for patients. To meet the expectation of patient to improve their
      quality of life and improvement of their satisfactory level. It will be interesting for
      patient to visualize the activity patient is performing and comparison of effectiveness of
      comprehensive fall prevention protocol with traditional balance training.

      It will reduce the occurrence of fall episodes and hence reduce the cost to treat these fall
      and fall related injuries. Older adult will be less dependent, and more mobile and
      contributing member of the community.

      Objectives

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To compare the effect of comprehensive fall prevention protocol (CARE) on fall risk as
           compared to conventional training in elderly.

        2. To compare the effect of comprehensive fall prevention protocol (CARE) on Mobility Level
           as compared to conventional training in elderly.

        3. To compare the effect of comprehensive fall prevention protocol (CARE) on Wii Fit
           balance as compared to conventional training in elderly.

        4. To compare the effect of comprehensive fall prevention protocol (CARE) on Dynamic
           Balance as compared to conventional training in elderly.

        5. To compare the effect of comprehensive fall prevention protocol (CARE) on Quality of
           life as compared to conventional training in elderly.
    
  