
    
      Study type:

      This is a single center, prospective randomized controlled study.

      Inclusion criteria:

      The subjects are adults aged between 18 & 70 years who will be admitted to the intensive care
      unit (ICU) of National Hepatology & Tropical Medicine Research Institute (NHTMRI).

      All patients that will be included in the study should have septic shock diagnosed by having
      sepsis with an underlying circulatory and cellular/metabolic abnormality

      Exclusion criteria:

      Patients will be excluded if they are pregnant, have uncontrolled hypertension, ischemic skin
      necrosis, present or suspected coronary artery disease, present or suspected acute mesenteric
      ischemia, or peripheral vascular diseases (e.g. Raynaud's syndrome or related diseases) or
      hypersensitivity to terlipressin.

      Study design:

      Fifty patients will be enrolled in each arm of the study & randomly assigned in a 1:1 manner
      to receive either intravenous infusion (IVi) terlipressin by rate 1-2µg/kg/min. or
      intravenous infusion norepinephrine in an initial dose of 0.01µg/kg/min which can be
      increased every 15-30min. to 3µg/kg/min. maximum ± epinephrine with an initial dose
      0.05µg/kg/min. IVi & can be titrated every 15-30min. The increments of epinephrine dose will
      be 0.05- 0.2µg/kg/min. and up to 2µg/Kg/min. The end point of the study will be achieving
      mean arterial pressure ≥ 65mmHg & normalized lactate ≤ 2mmol/L or lactate clearance ≥ 10%
      within 6hours All demographic data will be obtained at time of admission, including the
      patients' age, sex, body mass index (BMI), associated co-morbidities (diabetes mellitus,
      hypertension), Child-Pugh score and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA).

      Vital signs including the heart rate, mean arterial pressure (MAP) through arterial cannula,
      central venous pressure (CVP) through a catheter inserted either in the internal jugular vein
      or the subclavian vein will be measured at admission and at regular intervals. The volume &
      fluid balance will be recorded at admission and then will be followed up daily and recorded
      as required. Daily ECG with ST analysis, lactate level & ScVO2 will be measured on admission
      and then recorded at regular intervals during treatment after 2, 6, 12, 24 & 48hours.

      Organ dysfunction and injury (aspartate aminotransferase, alanine amino-transaminase, total
      bilirubin, international normalized ratio, serum creatinine and troponin-I) will be analyzed
      at admission, and after 12, 24 & 48hours of treatment.

      The rate of norepinephrine ± epinephrine infusion as well as terlipressin dose required to
      keep MAP at 65 mmHg will be recorded at baseline and 6, 12, 24, and 48hours after treatment.

      Twenty-eight day mortality will be followed by phone calls to the patient or one of his/her
      first-degree relatives.
    
  