
    
      Patients: Severe COPD Patients (FEV/Forced vital capacity (FVC)<70% and in FEV<50% after
      bronchodilation) hospitalized in the pulmonology Department of the Reims Teaching Hospital.
      At the inclusion, patients should be stable. Inclusion of 20 patients needing 100 patients in
      total will require 24 months.The study of associated factors with colonization to PA and PA
      mutant OprD will be performed only for patients known to be not PA carrier. Microbiota
      characterization will be performed on all patients colonized with PA and on non PA colonized
      patients randomly selected. The analysis of of PA colonization influence on COPD evolution
      will be done 12 months after sampling for all patients included.

      Evaluation criteria:

        -  Presence of P. aeruginosa resistance to imipenem (OprD mutation)

        -  Pulmonary microbiota: Determination of the bacterial load (total number of bacterium)
           and bacterial community diversity. Then, Opertional Taxonomic Unit (OTU) relative
           abundance will be analyzed at phylum, class, order and family level.

        -  Factors associated with colonization with PA and PA mutant OprD: antibiotics,
           corticosteroids, hospitalization during the year preceding the inclusion, severity of
           COPD, respiratory symptoms of cough and expectoration, exertional dyspnea assessed by
           questionnaire the modified Respiratory Medical Council (MMRC), co-morbidities.

        -  PA porting Influence and PA mutant OprD on changes to 12 months: the number of
           exacerbation, severity of exacerbations, number of hospitalization, quality of life
           assessed by the St George's respiratory questionnaire, death, evolution of ventilatory
           disorders obstructive.

      Investigation:

        -  Proposal for participation to all eligible patients at a pulmonology consultation

        -  If participation of acceptance (signed informed consent form): 3 bacteriological
           samples: Sputum (usually done), oral wash with water before washing (made specifically
           for this study). No change in the patient's medical care (treatment, monitoring, etc
           ...). Clinical Data Collection: criteria for COPD, pulmonary function, dyspnea and
           sputum symptoms, assessed by the MMRC scale, quality of life assessed by St George's
           respiratory questionnaire, antibiotic therapy and hospitalization in the previous 12
           months . Revaluation 12 months after sampling as part of the regular monitoring of
           patients (idem as previously). All the samples will be sent to the clinical laboratory
           of bacteriology (CHU Reims) as usually done for samples: separation of sample into 2
           parts: 1 part stored at -80 ° C and 1 part commonly analyzed. Then, patients will be
           classified as PA or PA non colonized based on sputum analysis. Mutation in oprD will be
           characterized in a second step to classify patients as PA or PA OprD mutant carriers.
           Samples of all patients colonized with PA and on non PA colonized patients randomly
           selected which have been stored at -80°C will be sent to the "PEGASE" plateform of
           Institut Pasteur de Lille. Characterization of pulmonary microbiota will be performed by
           high-throughput sequencing on Illumina "MiSeq" allowing to reach 24 million reads in
           2x300 bp paired-end.
    
  