
    
      The NICHD Fetal Growth Study was a multi-site, prospective cohort study designed to establish
      a standard for normal fetal growth (velocity) and size for gestational age in the U.S.
      population. For the singleton study, 2,334 low-risk, non-obese gravidas were recruited from
      each of 4 self-identified race/ethnicity backgrounds. An additional 468 obese women and 171
      dichorionic twin gestations were recruited. After an initial sonogram in the first trimester,
      women were randomized to serial ultrasonology schedules. Each schedule comprised five
      additional sonograms for fetal biometry (six in twins) plus additional image and 3D volume
      acquisition for later analysis.

      Ultrasound measurements at each follow-up visit included standard fetal biometrics ((BPD, HC,
      AC, FL) and the following volumes in the singleton study if they were able to be obtained:
      1st trimester: fetus and gestational sac; 2nd and 3rd trimesters: head, cerebellum, face,
      chest, heart, abdomen, pelvis, arm and thigh. In twins, the volumes collected were 1st
      trimester: fetus and gestational sac and in the 2nd and 3rd trimesters the thigh. In addition
      to ultrasound, this study recorded maternal anthropometrics and a brief interview to capture
      changes in health status, stress and depression, and physical activity at each follow-up
      visit. Blood draws at baseline and at targeted gestational ages were obtained for the
      eventual identification of biomarkers indicative of fetal growth were collected. After
      delivery, neonatal anthropometric measures were assessed, placental biospecimens were
      collected, and select information about the obstetrical course and newborn status were
      abstracted from medical charts.

      The Fetal 3D Study is being conducted to catalog and perform 2 Dimensional (2D) and 3
      Dimensional (3D) measurement of the obstetrical ultrasound images in the existing bank of
      singleton and twin gestations collected from the NICHD Fetal Growth Studies. The research
      study aims to understand the relationship between gravid diseases and longitudinal changes in
      fetal body composition (subcutaneous fat, lean mass) and organ measurements (in singletons)
      over the course of pregnancy.
    
  