
    
      At present, the prevention of hepatitis B recurrence after liver transplantation is the most
      commonly used scheme for nucleoside analogue combined hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIG).
      HBIG is a condensed to prevent the efficient price of invasion of hepatitis b immunoglobulin,
      its function is a direct and virus.Also it is to block the virus into liver cells. Lamivudine
      with HBIG therapy has hepatitis b recurrence rate reduced to below 10%, entecavir combined
      HBIG hepatitis b recurrence rate is low below 1%. In European and American countries, HBIG
      the most commonly used method for long-term high-dose intravenous drip, but our country is
      long-term low-dose intramuscular injection, but all need lifelong medication, for how long
      after surgery or which patients can disable or not HBIG no consensus. Whether long-term
      intravenous drip or intramuscular HBIG, are some disadvantages such as high cost, drug side
      effects, also brought inconvenience to patients. The advent of potent against hepatitis b
      virus drugs continuously under the background of, in recent years, scholars have already
      begun to no application or short-term application HBIG discontinuation to prevent hepatitis b
      recurrence after research, low before transplantation of hepatitis B virus(HBV) DNA
      replication, such as effective antiviral therapy of hepatitis b recurrence after after
      transplantation were created the conditions of no HBIG solution. Most studies suggest that
      transplantation of nucleoside analogues alone for a long time without application or
      short-term application of HBIG scheme to prevent hepatitis b recurrence is safe, but there
      are only several transplant center in study abroad, and the Chinese mainland for all
      application or short-term application of HBIG clinical studies. Entecavir with potent
      antiviral capacity and high genetic barrier to resistance, low incidence of drug resistance,
      is currently the prevention and treatment of hepatitis b recurrence after liver
      transplantation of first-line drugs, entecavir combined long-term muscle injection low-dose
      HBIG is at present our country is the most commonly used drug for liver transplantation in
      our center.

      This study for entecavir combined after liver transplantation for short-term application type
      static note HBIG to prevent hepatitis b recurrence of prospective, multicenter, randomized,
      controlled experimental study, the equivalence. The purpose of this study is to observe a new
      scheme can achieve is the same as the traditional scheme of the effect of preventing
      hepatitis B recurrence.
    
  