
    
      Some patients with autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) have intractable
      disabling chronic kidney pain. Among methods used to manage these patients, removal of the
      nerve supply to the kidney by Videothoracoscopic excision of Splanchnic nerve
      (videothoracoscopic splanchnicectomy - VSPL) is one of the most promising procedures. Few of
      these procedures have been performed in ADPKD patients (and in only one patient using the
      less invasive thoracic approach). We recently performed VSPL on two patients who had chronic
      pain. Both had initial improvement but have had very short follow up. This study should
      improve understanding of the molecular mechanisms and mediators of kidney pain and provide
      the hope of an effective procedure to ADPKD patients with chronic kidney pain.

      We are now enrolling patients to study the effectiveness of the VSPL operation, collecting
      information on pain intensity, quality of life, kidney blood flow, kidney/cyst volume and
      also to study the involved pain pathways.

      Baseline Visit - The patient will also have a complete physical exam and have the kidney's
      filtration rate measured. Urine and blood tests are performed at each evaluation. You will
      have an MRI performed of your kidneys. There is no radiation exposure associated with this
      procedure. You will also be asked to complete Quality of Life (QOL), HALT Pain, and
      Depression Score questionnaires. These will take approximately 15 minutes to complete and
      will be repeated at each evaluation.

      The VSPL operation will be done within approximately 1 week of your Baseline Visit and is
      considered part of your clinical care and not part of the research.In this procedure the
      surgeon approaches the nerves supplying the kidneys through the chest wall, using 3 small
      incisions. He locates these nerves, then cuts a piece of them and removes it from the chest
      cavity.You will be released from the hospital when your pain is controlled on oral
      medications.

      1 Month Visit-You will be asked to return to the Mayo Clinic one month after your VSPL
      procedure for a physical exam and completion of the questionnaires.If unable to return to the
      Mayo Clinic this evaluation can be done with your local doctor.

      3 Month Visit-The 3 Month Visit will be identical to the Baseline visit. You will have a
      physical exam, blood and urine samples, MRI of your kidneys, Iothalamate Clearance, and the
      three questionnaires to complete.

      6 Months: The questionnaires will be mailed to you for completion.

      12 Month Visit-The 12 Month Visit is identical to the 1 Month visit. You will be asked to
      return to the Mayo Clinic for a physical exam and completion of the questionnaires.

      2 Year Visit-The 2 Year Visit will be identical to the Baseline visit. You will have a
      physical exam, blood and urine samples, MRI of your kidneys, measurement of kidney filtration
      and complete the three questionnaires.
    
  