
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival in patients with intermediate-risk endometrial cancer
           treated with pelvic radiotherapy vs observation after laparoscopically-assisted vaginal
           hysterectomy or total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

        -  Compare the time to locoregional recurrence (i.e., in the vaginal mucosa or elsewhere in
           the central pelvic area or lateral pelvic walls) in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the duration of ultimate pelvic control and event-free survival in patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare sexual health issues in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified by center, tumor
      grade (1 vs 2 vs 3), surgical staging (yes vs no), and sexual health assessment (yes vs no).

      Patients undergo laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy or total abdominal hysterectomy
      and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy. After surgery, patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo observation alone.

        -  Arm II: Beginning within 12 weeks (preferably within 6-8 weeks) after surgery, patients
           undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 5 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity. Protocol-defined brachytherapy is allowed.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline; at 16-18 weeks after surgery (arm I) or 5 and 9
      weeks after initiating radiotherapy (arm II); and then at 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 60
      months.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 4 months for 1 year, every 6 months
      for 2 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 400 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  