
    
      Nicotine withdrawal symptoms (e.g., increased negative affect, decreased positive affect,
      cigarette craving) are a core component of cigarette dependence that emerge upon the absence
      of nicotine administration, maintaining cigarette smoking and inhibiting cessation efforts.
      The use of electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) has increased dramatically in recent years,
      with studies demonstrating that e-cigarettes can reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms during
      acute cigarette abstinence. E-cigarettes with flavorings that simulate the sweet taste of
      fruit, candy and other sugary foods and beverages are widely available, commonly used and are
      frequently cited as a reason for the persistent use of e-cigarettes. During nicotine
      withdrawal, sweet flavors have been shown to reduce nicotine withdrawal symptoms.
      Additionally, a recent USC TCORS (Tobacco Center of Regulatory Science) administrative
      supplement study conducted at the University of Southern California (USC) Health, Emotion,
      and Addiction Laboratory (USC-HEAL) found that sweet-flavored solutions enhanced the appeal
      of e-cigarettes, independent of nicotine. However, the impact of e-cigarette flavorings on
      nicotine withdrawal symptoms is currently unknown. This behavioral pharmacology laboratory
      experiment will assess whether sweet (vs. non-sweet) flavored e-cigarette solutions reduce
      tobacco withdrawal symptoms and motivation to smoke among 40 smokers interested in trying
      e-cigarettes (for the first time) following 16-hours of nicotine abstinence. At each visit,
      participants will complete a standardized e-cigarette administration procedure, as developed
      in our prior work, in which flavor will be manipulated in a double-blind, cross-over,
      counterbalanced design. Following the e-cigarette administration, participants will complete:
      1) self-report measures of nicotine withdrawal symptoms; 2) physiological measurements and 3)
      a behavioral task that measures participants' ability to resist the desire to resume smoking
      under conditions in which it is advantageous to remain abstinent (i.e., monetary payment for
      each successive 5-min increment in which smoking is delayed). The study's experimental design
      will provide evidence of the causal effects of e-cigarette flavorings on a putatively
      critical factor for determining whether smokers continue e-cigarette use after initial
      trial-the ability of a product to suppress withdrawal and motivation to smoke during periods
      of tobacco deprivation.
    
  