
    
      BACKGROUND AND LITERATURE REVIEW Antiseptic preparation for surgical incision sites has
      greatly reduced postoperative infections. However, surgical site infections (SSI) are still
      the leading cause of hospitalizations after surgery. With the application of antiseptic
      preparation, a reduction in bacterial counts follows. The rate at which the bacterial counts
      rise between preparation and incision may be of variation depending on the surgical
      antiseptic scrub.

      Betadine (Povidone- iodine), Peridex (Chlorhexidine), baby shampoo and TechniCare
      (chloroxynel) are all surgical scrubs approved for the preparation of vaginal access
      surgeries. While there has been controversy on the use of Chlorohexidine for vaginal
      preparation surgery, due to its labeling as a cause for irritation, studies have shown that
      when 2-4% Chlorhexidine is used in the vaginal area there are little to no signs of
      irritation and the bacteria counts post incision are less than the bacterial counts for
      povidone iodine1,2. Baby shampoo can also be used as an effective antiseptic scrub with no
      irritation and no statistical difference in bacterial count reduction as compared to
      povidone-iodine3. Little research has been done to look at the antiseptic power of
      Chloroxynel in vaginal surgeries. However, when used as a root canal antiseptic it can reduce
      bacteria counts by 99.9%4. This is illustrative of its capability to reduce bacteria on a
      mucus membrane similar to the vagina.

      There is literature that shows the antiseptic power of Betadine, Peridex, Baby shampoo and
      TechniCare for post-incisional bacteria counts, but little is known about the pre-incisional
      power of these scrubs for vaginal access surgeries.

      SPECIFIC AIMS OR OBJECTIVES The aim of this study is to understand the power of vaginal
      surgical scrubs before incision. This will be done by collecting bacterial samples both
      before and 10 minutes after antiseptic preparation and after incision closure, along with
      follow-up data of irritation, infection post-surgery, and infection risk factors of each
      patient.

      SIGNIFICANCE TO PATIENT, INSTITUTION, PROFESSION, OR ALL Vaginal preparation research
      provides benefitted knowledge to hospitals and physicians in the prevention of surgical site
      infections (SSI). This specific project will provide insight regarding the
      bacteria-eliminating power of four different surgical scrubs used on the vaginal mucous
      membrane, pre-incision. There is potential for this study to determine the most effective
      scrub for vaginal surgeries, as well as correlate pre-incisional bacterial counts and the
      post-procedure bacterial counts with likelihood of surgical site infections. The information
      collected from this study could benefit future patients and hospitals alike in terms of
      reducing the risk of SSI's. The risks of this study could be unidentified allergies to any of
      the surgical scrubs, or a loss of patient data. These are unlikely risks due to the protocol
      of the study.

      METHODS This study will use block randomization. There will be four arms of the study one for
      each of the four surgical scrubs. There will be approximately 15 patients per arm. Patients
      undergoing vaginal surgeries will be recruited from Wright State Physicians Obstetrics and
      Gynecology. All procedures that require a vaginal incision will be included in the study,
      these being procedures like hysterectomies and reconstruction surgery. Non-incisional
      procedures like dilation and curettage will be excluded. Revision surgeries will also be
      excluded to decrease any complications. Patients who consent to the study will be given a ID
      and will be randomly assigned to one of the four arms. Patients will be excluded if an
      allergy to any of the scrubs is listed or found. Each recruited patient will be over the age
      of 18 with ability to provide consent.

      Each patient will be given a standard prophylaxis 30 minutes before surgery. After
      prophylaxis administration and before surgical antiseptic preparation, a one minute swab will
      be taken of the vagina making sure to span the surface area of the vaginal canal with
      avoidance of the cervix. The swab will then be broken off into a tube labeled with the
      patient ID, date, and "pre-scrub". The patient will then undergo antiseptic preparation with
      the assigned surgical prep. A standard procedure of application will be done for each of the
      arms. Ten minutes after application, another swab will be taken using the same procedure as
      the "pre-scrub" swab. This swab will be broken off in a tube labeled with the patient ID,
      date, and "post-scrub"1. After incision closure, a third swab will be taken and will be
      labeled 'post-procedure'. The swabs will then be transported to CompuNet for analysis of
      aerobic, anaerobic bacteria and fungal colonies using Matrix Assisted
      Depolarization/Ionization Time of Flight mass spectrometry (MADI-TOF).

      The data of colony counts will be collected from CompuNet. BMI, age, prophylaxis,
      postmenopausal information, diabetic information, smoking history, surgical duration,
      complication in surgery, and length of hospital stay will all be collected from patient
      records. No patient identifiers will be collected5. Patients will be followed up after
      surgery approximately two days, two weeks and a month after surgery to get information on
      irritation and/or surgical infection. This data will be collected either be phone call or at
      post-surgical follow-up appointment at Wright State Physicians. The South Hampton Grading
      Scheme for Surgical Wounds will be used to Quantify Each patients level of irritation and/or
      infection. The scale is a Zero to Five score, with Zero being no irritation or infection and
      Five being severe irritation or infection15.

      One potential obstacle of this study could be recruitment of patients. Patients will not be
      given incentive for participation and will not acquire any direct benefit from the study.
      Another potential issue may arise from the size of the study; there may not be enough
      subjects recruited for each arm of the study to find a detectable and significant difference
      in the use of one surgical scrub over another.

      Precautions will need to be taken for allergies. A recruited patient may not be aware of
      personal allergies to the surgical scrubs. This would put the patient at risk of harm if
      there was the potential for having an allergy to the assigned scrub. Since data will be
      collected from the patient's medical records, precautions will be taken to avoid loss of
      patient identifiers. All research investigators will only utilize the patients assigned
      research ID. This will both protect the patient and avoid bias.
    
  