
    
      Most patients with type 2 diabetes will, in time, need insulin therapy. Starting insulin
      poses considerable challenges. Also, improving glycemic control with insulin therapy often
      requires periodic dose adjustments based on glycemic response. Therefore, how to adjust their
      insulin doses are very important for improvement of glycemic control. Long acting insulin
      offers the benefit of a more consistent pharmacological dynamic with less hypoglycemia.
      Therefore, long acting insulin dose adjustments are widely used by patients based on
      simplified insulin dosing algorithms.

      In the management of diabetes, it is important to maintain an intimate and continuous
      doctor-patient relationship. To achieve an optimal glucose level and to prevent diabetic
      complications, frequent contact with a medical doctor is recommended, but this causes an
      increased amount of medical expense. In recent years, web and phone delivery of
      self-management programs have emerged as popular approaches to the management of diabetes.
      The major focus of the system was support for blood glucose monitoring with substantive
      feedback from expert to help interpret results of glucose-level values. Moreover, with this
      system the patients could be advised to determine the amount of insulin required. However,
      despite of using these programs, it can take a significant amount of effort and time for
      physicians to look over each patient's data, formulate an appropriate message, and send it to
      the patients. Accordingly, computerized, knowledge-based medical treatment advice systems
      will provide more abundant medical advices, also can be more economic than the previous
      systems, in which medical personnel were required for the same process.

      Recently we designed an Internet-based diabetic patient management using short message
      service (SMS) that was automatically produced by a knowledge matrix. Moreover, we reported
      this unique system has shown the great efficacy in glucose control. In this study, we
      designed the system in patients treated with long acting insulin to produce an automatic
      adjustment of insulin dose based on real time glucose level data and to provide to the
      patients the needed insulin dose by using a SMS and apply to the clinical practice with
      diabetic patients.
    
  