
    
      The intervention is modeled after CARE, a technology based HIV-counseling tool used in other
      settings. The investigators have adapted CARE to create CARE+ Corrections, a tool designed
      specifically for incarcerated and recently-released populations. New and innovative
      information communication tools (ICT), including a cell phone/text messaging component
      delivered in the community after release from jail, will be included in the intervention.

      The study is a randomized controlled trial. One half of the participants will receive the
      intervention either inside the jail, in addition to standard discharge planning services, or
      in the community right after release. The other half of the participants will view an
      educational video related to the prevention of drug overdose following release, in addition
      to standard discharge planning services, or in the community right after release. The
      investigators will follow all participants for 6 months post release/study enrollment and
      determine if the linkage to community care and adherence to HIV medications was higher in the
      intervention arm.

      The study also has an evaluation component to it. The evaluation component consists in a
      series of qualitative interviews with the goal of gaining a better understanding of the
      barriers and facilitators involved in implementing the CARE+ Corrections intervention and to
      better assess the usability and participants' experiences with the CARE+ Corrections
      intervention. The semi-structured interviews are being conducted among the following groups:
      1) managers and staff at local correctional facilities and agencies which have interaction
      with HIV+ individuals transitioning to the community; 2) leadership and selected staff at
      relevant and targeted community-based organizations; and 3) selected study participants from
      the intervention group of the RCT. the interviews elicit perspectives on the foreseen
      facilitators and challenges in implementing the CARE+ Corrections tool at their respective
      organizations as well as their perception on the acceptability of the tool. We also ask their
      views about the intervention and the post-release experiences of HIV-positive individuals who
      complete the CARE+ Corrections Tool and receive the text message plan.

      No prisoners will be involved in this subsection of the study.
    
  