
    
      Background:

      In Taiwan, more than 50% of maternal women will encounter obesity problems, because they have
      to take care of newborns, lack of proper exercise, and the traditional concept of confinement
      leads to excessive dietary supplementation, basal metabolic rate decline, and insufficient
      exercise. In addition to the physical changes after birth, women also face the change of the
      role of mothers. Caring for newborns is almost 24 hours on standby, gradually forming stress
      and fatigue. Stress may make postpartum women unable to perform the tasks of mothers. Makes
      postpartum women feel physiologically and psychologically uncomfortable. Both stress and
      fatigue have an adverse effect on their health, and are not conducive to parent-child
      attachment. However, early postpartum mothers and infants are almost inseparable. This period
      of attachment often affects infants' interpersonal relationships and emotions, if the
      relationship is not harmonious, may cause deviations in the baby's future behavior. Many
      studies have pointed out that moderate exercise can not only reduce the fatigue of postpartum
      women but also help to restore physical strength, help the recovery of organs and body,
      maintain physical health and weight management. However, busy with baby care and lack of
      continuous exercise often lead to postpartum women unable to reduce body weight. Therefore,
      this study hopes to develop a "Maternal-Infant Exercise Program" to improve the postpartum
      women's body composition, stress and fatigue, and to improve the attachment relationship
      between parents and their infants.

      Purposes:

      Explore the effectiveness of the intervention measures of the "Maternal-Infant Exercise
      Program" to improve the postpartum women's body composition, stress, fatigue and parent-child
      attachment.

      Method:

      In this study, a longitudinal and long-term follow-up randomized controlled trial study was
      adopted. The case was collected in a postpartum ward and an obstetrics and gynecology clinic
      of a medical center in the north Taiwan. The mothers who met the conditions for sample
      selection were selected as the research object. There are two different intervention modes
      (intervention group and control group), the intervention group is a Maternal-Infant Exercise
      Program, and the control group receives routine postpartum exercise nursing guidance. There
      are 50 people in each group. It is estimated that 100 healthy women with vagina postpartum
      will be collected. The questionnaires and physiological measurements are used to collect and
      aggregate the data. The main research variables are the Maternal-Infant Exercise Program, and
      the dependent variables are the postpartum women's body composition, stress, fatigue and
      parent-child attachment. The body composition of postpartum women is measured using a body
      fat meter, postpartum stress is measured using a Perceived Stress Scale(PSS), postpartum
      fatigue is measured using a Modified Fatigue Symptoms Checklist(MFSC), and the parent-child
      attachment relationship is measured using the Maternal Attachment Inventory(MAI). The two
      groups will collect data at one month, two months and three months after delivery, including
      body composition measurement and filling in each scale. The analysis method of the research
      data will use SPSS version 22.0 software, using chi-square test, independent sample t test ,
      Pearson correlation, generalized estimation equations for discussion of results.

      Result:

      This study expects to understand the current status of postpartum women's body composition,
      stress, fatigue, and parent-child attachment. It is expected that parent-child exercise
      programs will improve postpartum women's body composition, as well as improve stress,
      fatigue, and enhance parent-child attachment.
    
  