
    
      Enrollment: Recruitment will occur through schools and districts that are committed to
      partnering with the study team. Schools will be stratified into 2 groups and then randomized
      to receive either the SHINE intervention or standard education. Stratification will be based
      on school demographic factors. The investigators anticipate enrolling a total of 30 schools
      into the trial, with approximately half of schools assigned to the SHINE intervention. Prior
      to student enrollment, parents will be sent a cover letter describing the study and will be
      given the choice of opting their child out of the study. Students will receive an assent
      cover letter and will be given the choice of opting out of the study. With the exception of
      students who opt out of participation or are opted out by their parents, all students between
      the ages of 11 and 21 years present in class during the days of intervention delivery and
      assessments will receive the intervention and be asked to complete the assessments.

      Intervention: After randomization, each school will receive the intervention materials for
      the condition to which they were assigned. Both SHINE and standard education groups will
      receive 2 in-class intervention sessions, each lasting 40 minutes each, and a 40-minute
      in-class booster sessions. Schools allocated to SHINE will create individualized action plans
      and receive personalized UV photos. Schools allocated to standard education will receive
      presentations of basic skin cancer prevention information available through the American
      Academy of Dermatology and Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

      Study Assessments: Regardless of which intervention group students are randomized to, they
      will be asked to complete 5 assessments. The first assessment (baseline) will occur in the
      fall. The intervention will be delivered in the spring. Approximately one month
      post-intervention, students will be asked to complete the first post-intervention assessment,
      followed by a summer assessment delivered 3-4 months post-intervention. Students will also be
      asked to complete two longer-term follow-up assessments at one year post-baseline and
      one-year post-intervention. All assessments will be completed via the web using REDCap. Each
      of these assessments is expected to take no more than 20 minutes. Students will be asked to
      provide information via questionnaire on sun protection behaviors, tanning behaviors, sunburn
      occurrence, self-efficacy and response efficacy related to skin cancer, susceptibility to
      skin cancer, severity of skin cancer, demographic characteristics, recall of the
      intervention, and knowledge and awareness of skin cancer prevention and risk.
    
  