
    
      The objective of this pilot study is to produce preliminary data testing the feasibility and
      effectiveness of high intensity interval training (HIIT) on cardiovascular health parameters
      in individuals with paraplegia. The long term research goal is to determine whether these
      short term physiologic effects translate to long term reduction in cardiovascular disease and
      mortality in this high risk population. The rationale for this study is that identifying a
      well-accepted form of exercise in individuals with paraplegia, which is safe and effective in
      improving cardiovascular health parameters, would provide an efficient and sustainable
      evidence-based approach to lowering cardiovascular disease risk. We propose the following two
      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim #1: Measure cardiovascular changes after a 16-week HIIT program in individuals
      with paraplegia. Measurements will include oxygen utilization during maximal exercise via
      VO2max testing (primary outcome measure), body composition via dual energy X-ray
      absorptiometry, blood lipid panel, C-reactive protein blood test, and glucose utilization via
      oral glucose tolerance blood test.

      Specific Aim #2: Investigate the feasibility, sustainability and acceptance of implementing
      high-intensity interval training (HIIT) via arm-ergometer as a form of home exercise in
      individuals with paraplegia. After the personalized training session with the arm-ergometer
      and the HIIT protocol, each participant will be given an arm-ergometer (also known as
      arm-cycle) to use within their home to complete three sessions weekly for the entire16 week
      program. An adjustable table will be provided to allow for height customization of each
      arm-ergometer, and provide a method for securing the device during exercise. The
      arm-ergometers allow the subject to complete the exercise intervention from their own
      wheelchair. Compliance will be monitored via chest strap heart rate monitors. Acceptance of
      the program will be determined through a pre- and post- training survey Spinal Cord Injury
      Exercise Self-Efficacy Scale (SCI ESES) and interview with participants.

      At the completion of this project, we expect to have determined whether HIIT is an
      appropriate form of exercise intervention for individuals with paraplegia, effective in
      improving short-term cardiovascular health parameters within a 16 week home program. We
      anticipate participants will find HIIT acceptable given the time-efficiency of the protocol,
      the convenience of using their own wheelchair and the elimination of environmental barriers
      by performing the program within their home. This study is expected to have a positive impact
      on cardiovascular health in individuals with paraplegia and foresee this form of exercise
      being implemented as a standard of care recommendation in the physical activity guidelines
      for individuals with paraplegia.
    
  