
    
      Stroke causes approximately 15 300 hospital admissions per year in Ontario and 50% of
      individuals who have had a stroke are left with moderate to severe impairment. Because of the
      severity of their condition, these individuals often cannot stand and have poor sitting and
      standing balance. Most patients who are discharged from inpatient stroke rehabilitation are
      8-10 weeks post-stroke and have not completely recovered. Their brains are still in a period
      of enhanced neuroplasticity, during which great functional change can be made; Therapy
      outcomes are dose-dependent; intensive, high-repetition, task-oriented and task-specific
      therapies are most effective. Therefore, for the greatest recovery possible, these patients
      require ongoing therapy. Most are offered this on an outpatient basis. However, for many
      reasons (transportation difficulties, distance from downtown, weather etc.), not all eligible
      patients are able to attend outpatient therapy. Also, there is a waiting list and a limited
      number of outpatient therapy sessions are offered to each patient.

      Virtual reality training (VRT) uses computer software to track the user's movements and allow
      him or her to interact with a game or activity presented on a TV screen. It is convenient,
      timely, and enjoyable, and may be done for an unlimited period post-stroke. VRT has been
      shown to benefit upper extremity function, standing balance, gait and overall function.
      Home-based VRT offers a promising addition or alternative to existing rehabilitation programs
      and home exercise programs that could make a significant difference in the lives of stroke
      survivors. A few pilot studies have investigated the use of home-based VRT for standing
      balance and upper extremity recovery after stroke and shown the feasibility of these systems
      for ongoing rehabilitation in the home. The investigators wish to expand on these studies by
      using a new VR system, made by Jintronix Inc. (Montreal, QC). This system was initially
      developed for stroke rehabilitation and has also been used extensively with healthy and frail
      elderly individuals. The Jintronix system is marketed for institutional and home use and has
      a simple-to-use interface but its home use has not yet been fully evaluated. The games are
      designed to incorporate motor learning principles such as multiple forms of feedback and
      task-specific practice that can be progressed to maintain an appropriate level of challenge.
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the feasibility, acceptance and safety of this
      new, simple-to-use VRT system used in the home, combined with substantial remote support for
      the user.

      The primary objectives assessed the feasibility of using VRT in the home by patients
      post-stroke, using quantitative and qualitative methods. Specific objectives were:

        1. To estimate the recruitment rate of participants into the study;

        2. To assess the ability and compliance of the participants with respect to the components
           of the research protocol (ability to learn VRT through the training program; ability to
           comply with the exercise protocol; participant retention);

        3. To determine the safety of home-based VRT (presence of minor and major adverse events);

        4. To assess the ability of stroke survivors and their study partners to use VRT technology
           in the home (i.e. technical difficulties, difficulty learning the games);

        5. To assess the acceptability of the VRT intervention (enjoyment; perceived efficacy)

        6. To estimate the cost for a future definitive randomised control trial (RCT) on in-home
           VRT.

      The secondary objectives assessed the feasibility of the outcome measures, using quantitative
      and qualitative methods. Specific objectives were:

        1. To assess the feasibility and acceptance of a battery of outcome measures, including
           physical assessments, questionnaires, an interview and a log book;

        2. To assess the potential that home-based VRT might maintain or improve physical outcomes
           (standing balance, gait, general function) and community integration after discharge
           from hospital-based stroke rehabilitation, compared to those who only participate in
           their regular activities of daily living.

        3. To determine the sample size required for a future definitive RCT on in-home VRT.

      Procedures Participants in both the experimental and control groups (and their caregivers for
      those in the experimental group only) attend a total of 4 sessions at Élisabeth Bruyère
      Hospital. The first three sessions occur in the week or two before discharge from inpatient
      or outpatient rehabilitation. At sessions 1 and 2, each lasting approximately 60 minutes,
      participants and their study partners in the experimental group are trained on how to use the
      VRT system and play the games. They are also instructed what to do if something went wrong
      (for example, if the participant falls or the equipment does not work). Participants are
      given a simple manual on VRT. Participants in the control group also attend two training
      sessions, each lasting approximately 45 minutes, on how to use the tablet and use the apps.
      Outcome measures are performed at sessions 3 (before discharge) and 4 (after 6 weeks of VRT);
      each session takes approximately 1½ hours.

      After discharge from inpatient or outpatient rehabilitation, the research physical therapist
      (PT) installs the VRT system into the participant's home and reviews the games, safety
      considerations and follow-up procedures with the participant and their study partner. The
      supervising caregiver must be in the home of the participant while he or she is doing VRT.
      The PT monitors the game and parameter selections along with time spent on VRT at least once
      a week using the remote access feature of the VRT system, and modifies the games if
      necessary.

      Participants in both groups are instructed to perform their exercise plan 5 times a week for
      6 weeks for 30 minutes at each session. This amount of additional training (15 hours) has
      been shown to produce a significant improvement in activities of daily living post-stroke.
      All participants are contacted by telephone twice a week for the first week and at least once
      a week for the following 5 weeks to offer encouragement, suggest modifications to the games
      and identify any safety issues or technical problems. Participants are also invited to
      contact the research PT as needed. Participants in both groups are encouraged to do as many
      activities of daily living (ADLs) and instrumental ADLs (IADLs) as they wish, including
      walking, participation in exercise groups and therapy. They are not prevented from undergoing
      further rehabilitation while enrolled in the feasibility study.
    
  