
    
      Study Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoint:

      • The primary endpoint of this study is the change in the kinetics of tissue hemoglobin
      oxygen desaturation (expressed as time constants) following the onset of exercise.

      Secondary endpoints of this study include percent and absolute change in:

        -  Peak oxygen consumption

        -  Pulmonary oxygen uptake on-kinetics

        -  Steady state level of tissue hemoglobin desaturation during exercise

        -  Recovery kinetics of tissue oxygen saturation following exercise

      Adverse events will be collected.

      Exploratory Endpoints

        -  Peak Walking Time (PWT)

        -  Claudication Onset Time (COT)

        -  Time to Onset of Angina (TOA)

      Study Design:

      Investigator-initiated, prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Males age > 40 years.

        2. Subjects must have chronic stable angina, meeting the labeled indications for
           ranolazine:

           • Ranolazine is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. Ranolazine should be
           reserved for subjects who have not achieved an adequate response with other anti-anginal
           drugs.

        3. Subjects must have a resting ankle brachial index (ABI) of < 0.90 with a post-exercise
           decrement of ≥ 10% in at least one leg, OR a resting ABI of ≥0.90 to ≤ 1.00 with a
           post-exercise decrement of ≥ 20% in at least one leg

        4. The subject has provided written informed consent to participate, understands the
           requirements of the study, and agrees to return for the required assessments

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Non-atherosclerotic diseases of the peripheral circulation by clinical history

        2. Unable to complete the first stage of the modified, extended Astrand treadmill protocol

        3. Clinically significant ECG abnormalities or changes with exercise on the screening ECG

        4. Evidence of critical limb ischemia (CLI)

        5. Hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh Classes A [mild], B [moderate], or C [severe])

        6. End stage renal disease requiring dialysis

        7. Hemoglobin < 12 mg/dL.

        8. Platelet count < 90,000/mL.

        9. Planned surgical/endovascular intervention for coronary artery disease (CAD) or
           peripheral arterial disease (PAD) in the next 3 months

       10. Maximal exercise is limited by symptoms other than claudication or angina

       11. Significant mental illness or drug abuse within 30 days of enrollment that in the
           opinion of the Investigator could impact the subject's ability to successfully complete
           the trial

       12. Known allergy to ranolazine

       13. Pre-existing QTc prolongation on a resting electrocardiogram (ECG) at Screening due to
           the risk of worsening of this condition with the use of ranolazine

       14. Treatment with QT prolonging drugs such as Class IA (e.g. quinidine) and Class III (e.g.
           sotalol, dofetilide), antiarrhythmics, amiodarone, and antipsychotics (e.g.
           thioridazine, ziprasidone)

       15. Treatment with potent or moderately potent CYP3A inhibitors including ketoconazole and
           other azole antifungals, diltiazem, verapamil, macrolide antibiotics, cyclosporine,
           rifampin or structurally related rifabutin and rifapentin, phenobarbital, phenytoin,
           carbamazepine, St. John's Wort, or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) protease
           inhibitors

       16. The subject has previously received ranolazine within the 6-months prior to enrollment

       17. The subject has received an investigational drug within 90 days prior to enrollment

       18. Type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus

       19. Congestive Heart Failure, ≥ New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class III

       20. History of oxygen dependent Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD)

       21. Body Mass Index (BMI) >35
    
  