
    
      Self-administered acupressure is one possible safe, self-management technique that may be
      effective for improving fatigue as well as physical and psychosocial functioning in several
      chronic disease populations. Acupressure, a technique derived from acupuncture, is a
      component of Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) in which pressure is applied to specific
      acupoints on the body using a finger or small device, to treat disease. Our prior research
      demonstrated that acupressure, self-administered by women with breast cancer, significantly
      reduced clinically significant fatigue by approximately one-third in fatigued breast cancer
      survivors and was superior to standard therapies. Moreover these self-rated improvements were
      maintained up to one month after treatment was discontinued.

      However, impact on other chronic disease populations with fatigue is unknown. To explore this
      intervention in SLE, the investigators are conducting a pilot randomized clinical trial among
      72 SLE patients with established fatigue. The study will take place over the course of 12
      weeks, including 5 participant interactions.

      After completing the initial screening phone call, participant eligibility will be
      determined. If a participant is found ineligible then his or her participation in the study
      will end. If a participant is found eligible he or she may continue participation by
      attending the baseline visit during which participants will be randomized into one of four
      groups, three of which will be some type of acupressure and one which will be usual care.

      In three of these groups participants will be taught how to perform acupressure and where
      your acupressure points are located by study staff members that have been trained by a
      certified acupressure practitioner. Each treatment group uses a different set of acupressure
      points and is instructed how to effectively stimulate those different points. The study staff
      member will demonstrate on the participant how much pressure to apply at an acupressure point
      and will observe the participant locating each acupressure point. Participants will also be
      given information to take home showing them where these acupressure points are placed on the
      body.

      As part of this study, participants will be asked to attend 2 visits, answer phone calls or
      emails, and (if randomized to a treatment group) perform acupressure daily. There is also a
      follow-up visit or telephone call conducted at least 4 weeks after the last visit.
    
  