
    
      Preliminary evidence suggests that exenatide (Byetta®) may have several beneficial direct and
      indirect effects on NAFLD and liver lipid metabolism. Ad hoc analysis of phase III studies
      has shown that exenatide treatment is associated with improvement and normalization of
      alanine aminotransferase (ALT), a marker of liver injury, and that this effect is most
      pronounced in those with the greatest weight loss. In addition, treatment of leptin deficient
      ob/ob mice with exenatide reduced weight, liver lipid content, serum ALT and liver lipid
      peroxidation. Additional evidence suggests that the effects of exenatide on the liver are not
      simply a result of weight loss, but rather due to direct effects on the liver. Hepatocytes
      express GLP-1 receptors that are responsive to both GLP-1 and exenatide. Furthermore,
      exenatide treatment of ob/ob mice or isolated hepatocytes reduces mRNA for stearoyl-CoA
      desaturase-1 (SCD-1) and SREBP-1c, which would be expected to reduce DNL.

      Based upon this data, we hypothesize that exenatide treatment of diabetic patients with NAFLD
      and NASH will reduce liver injury through multiple mechanisms including weight reduction
      associated with exenatide, improved lipid metabolism by decreased expression of hepatic genes
      involved in DNL and reduction of adipokines and cytokines associated with severe NASH. This
      study is aimed to address the potential safety and efficacy of exenatide in the treatment of
      NAFLD and test these hypotheses.

      This will be an open label, single-arm, non-comparative trial of 20 patients with type 2
      diabetes and NAFLD treated with exenatide for 6 months with the following specific aims to be
      assessed:

      Determine the safety and efficacy of 24 weeks of exenatide treatment in diabetic patients
      with Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) Efficacy will be measured by changes in serum
      ALT (primary endpoint) and liver histology.

      Characterize the effects of exenatide on serum levels of adipokines and inflammatory
      cytokines including adiponectin, leptin and TNF- in NAFLD patients.

      Compare the hepatic expression of SCD1, SREBP-1c and PPAR- mRNA in NAFLD patients pre- and
      post-treatment with exenatide.

      Establish the effects of exenatide on post-prandial lipid metabolism.

      Determine the effects of exenatide on liver fibrosis in NAFLD.
    
  