
    
      Use of combined hormonal contraceptives (CHC) containing estrogen is associated with venous
      thromboembolic events. In an effort to decrease the risks of estrogen, the dose of ethinyl
      estradiol (EE) contained in combined oral contraceptive (COC) pills has decrease
      substantially from >100mcg to 20mcg. In 2012, a COC with only 10mcg of EE (Tradename
      LoLoestrin) was approved by the Food and Drug Administration. However, no studies have
      compared this formulation to pills containing progestin alone to determine if this very low
      dose of EE decreases ovulation or improves unscheduled uterine bleeding beyond what is seen
      with a progestin only pill (POP).

      We aim to compare a COC with EE 10mcg/norethindrone (NET) acetate 1mg to a POP containing a
      nearly equal amount of progestin (norethindrone 1.05mg). The objective of the study is to
      compare the incidence of ovulation among users of a COC with only EE10mcg/NET acetate 1mg to
      users of a POP with a nearly identical progestin dose of NET 1.05mg. We plan to recruit 58
      women between the ages of 18 and 45 years old, who are ovulatory at baseline based on serum
      progesterone levels. Subjects will be randomized to take either a COC containing EE 10mcg/NET
      acetate 1mg or a POP containing NET 1.05mg for one month. During the month of study
      treatment, we will measure ovulation incidence using a single serum progesterone levels of
      >=4.0ng/dl, sperm penetration of cervical mucus using the Eggert Kruse classification system,
      pill compliance by NET serum levels, and side effects including unscheduled uterine bleeding
      via subject daily diaries.

      Our primary outcome, ovulation incidence, will be compared between study arms. Secondary
      outcomes will compare cervical mucus quality, sperm penetration of cervical mucus, side
      effects (including uterine bleeding), and pill compliance between users of these two pills.
    
  