
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      (Phase I) I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of PARP inhibitor
      BGB-290 (BGB-290) and temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with recurrent IDH1/2 mutant glioma,
      including the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and characterization of dose-limiting toxicities
      (DLTs) in the Phase I portion.

      (Phase II) II. Determine the overall response rate of BGB-290 with TMZ in patients with
      recurrent IDH1/2-mutant gliomas that have progressed on TMZ and another alkylator (Arm A) in
      the Phase II portion.

      III. Determine the overall response rate of BGB-290 with TMZ in patients with recurrent
      IDH1/2-mutant glioma that have failed one alkylator with >= 12 months since last treatment
      (Arm B) in the Phase II portion.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of PARP inhibitor BGB-290
      (BGB-290) and temozolomide (TMZ) in patients with recurrent IDH1/2 mutant glioma, including
      the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and characterization of dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) in
      the Phase I portion. (Phase I) II. Determine the overall response rate of BGB-290 with TMZ in
      patients with recurrent IDH1/2-mutant gliomas that have progressed on TMZ and another
      alkylator (Arm A) in the Phase II portion. (Phase II) III. Determine the overall response
      rate of BGB-290 with TMZ in patients with recurrent IDH1/2-mutant glioma that have failed one
      alkylator with >= 12 months since last treatment (Arm B) in the Phase II portion. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) after treatment
      with BGB-290 and TMZ in recurrent IDH1/2-mutant gliomas in Arms A and B.

      II. Determine the duration of response to therapy in recurrent IDH1/2-mutant glioma.

      III. Confirm the safety and tolerability of BGB-290 in combination with TMZ.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess tumor response rates, PFS, and OS in patients with World Health Organization (WHO)
      grade IV glioblastoma (GBM) treated with BGB-290 and TMZ.

      II. Assess the mutational landscape via whole-exome sequencing (WES). III. Assess gene
      expression patterns using ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq).

      IV. Assess the methylation profiling with Infinium methylation assays. V. Quantify
      2-hydroxyglutarate (2HG) in archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens via
      liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) detection and correlate with treatment
      response.

      VI. Correlate response with 2HG levels, somatic alterations, gene expression/methylation
      patterns in FFPE tumor tissue.

      VII. Assess tumor tissue BGB-290 levels, 2HG, and PolyADP-ribosylation (PARylation) in a
      patient subset treated with drug prior to re-resection.

      VIII. Evaluate changes in tumor growth rate in subjects with non-enhancing glioma based on
      fluid attenuated inverse recovery (FLAIR) tumor volume measurements of serial MRI exams.

      IX. Assess if change in tumor growth rate (based on FLAIR tumor volume) in subjects with
      non-enhancing glioma before and after treatment is associated with progression by Response
      Assessment in Neuro-Oncology for Low Grade Gliomas (RANO LGG; phase II patients only) or
      survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose de-escalation study of temozolomide followed by a phase II
      study.

      PHASE I: Patients receive PARP inhibitor BGB-290 orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28
      and temozolomide PO once daily (QD) on days 1-28, 1-21, 1-14, or 1-7. Courses repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      SURGICAL PORTION: 10 patients eligible for re-resection at the time of recurrence receive
      PARP inhibitor BGB-290 PO BID on days 1-6 and QD on day 7 (the morning of surgery). Within 45
      days after surgery, patients receive PARP inhibitor BGB-290 PO BID on days 1-28 and
      temozolomide on the schedule established in Phase I. Courses repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients receive PARP inhibitor BGB-290 PO BID on days 1-28 and temozolomide PO QD
      on the schedule established in Phase I. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, every 2 months for
      2 years, then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  