
    
      A handoff is defined as the transfer of role and responsibility from one person to another in
      a physical or mental process.1 Handoffs in some fields, like commercial aviation and
      professional athletics, are highly visible. In these situations, the handoff process is
      practiced repeatedly and near misses are reviewed to avoid future errors. In other
      professions, such as medicine, handoffs occur behind the scenes and the lack of public
      visibility can result in poor recognition of problems.

      Current evidence shows that handoffs between medical providers are both common, and fraught
      with potential for harm. On the inpatient side, the scope of preventable medical errors
      became visible to the public in 1999 with the publication of "To Err is Human." The Institute
      of Medicine estimated that between 44,000 and 98,000 patients die each year in U.S. hospitals
      as a result of avoidable medical errors.2 Later studies estimated that communication failures
      among health care team members was the root cause of an estimated 75% of these hospital
      adverse events.3 Hospitalizations are complex and communication errors can occur at multiple
      points during a hospital stay. Miscommunication during patient care handoffs is a particular
      area of concern. Due to the sheer number of handoffs which occur, the potential for handoffs
      to cause harm is enormous. At one major U.S. academic medical center, 15 handoffs occurred
      per patient during a typical 5 day hospital stay and each intern on the medical service was
      involved in more than 300 handoffs over a 1-month rotation.4

      While handoff errors occurring as an inpatient are certainly a problem, they may just be the
      tip of the error iceberg. Available data would suggest that adverse events related to poor
      handoffs at discharge are an even larger patient safety issue. In one small study, nearly 50%
      of hospitalized medical patients experienced at least 1 medical error after discharge
      relating to either medication continuity, diagnostic workup, or test follow-up issues.5 In a
      large prospective Canadian study, 23% of discharged patients experienced a significant
      adverse event within 5 weeks, and more than half of these adverse events were judged to be
      preventable.6 Many of these adverse events after discharge were "handoff errors" related to
      discontinuity of care and breakdown in the communication between patients, hospital
      physicians and outpatient primary care providers. A 2007 review article on the transfer of
      information between hospital-based physicians and primary care physicians confirmed that
      direct communication was rare between hospital physicians and primary care physicians,
      summaries were often poor quality, and the availability of discharge summaries was low at
      initial outpatient follow-up visits. The study investigators estimated that missing discharge
      summaries negatively affected 25% of patients.7

      In spite of these communication deficits, handoff skills are rarely discussed or practiced.
      Formal instruction on handoff skills is lacking at many US medical schools, in fact a survey
      of clerkship directors in 2004 found that only 8% of schools had any curriculum on
      handoffs.1,8 In most academic medical centers, beginning interns (new pgy1 interns and m4
      subinterns) are responsible for performing the majority of handoffs4 (inpatient night float
      handoffs, team-to-team transfer handoffs, outpatient discharge handoffs, and others) in spite
      of evidence suggesting that interns are more likely to commit handoff errors.9 In lieu of
      formal training, beginning interns often learn their handoff techniques using the infamous
      "see one, do one, teach one" method. However, this is not the optimal format for adult
      learners acquiring a new skill.10 There is a perception among many hospital physicians that
      patients are "sicker and discharged quicker" than ever before.11 Without formal education,
      beginning interns may not have the skills required to perform these complex handoffs safely
      and effectively.

      Currently, there are few curricula available in the literature regarding the teaching of
      handoff skills. One single-institution study exists regarding the teaching of discharge
      summary skills.12 This study confirmed discharge summary quality can be improved with a
      targeted educational intervention, but the intervention was based on recurring
      faculty-delivered lectures and would not be easily implemented across multiple sites without
      investing in significant faculty development programs. Another single-institution study
      described the development of a curriculum on verbal sign out skills, but again, this
      intervention required noon conference participation and was only able to capture one-quarter
      of the targeted housestaff due to scheduling issues and patient care conflicts.4 Because of
      the faculty training involved, the hands-on time needed, and the difficulty of scheduling
      educational conferences for house officers already struggling with work-hours restrictions;
      it would be difficult to deliver these face-to-face programs on a large scale and ensure that
      all trainees receive the interventions.

      The purpose of study is to develop a curriculum focusing on key handoff safety issues. The
      investigators plan to create an independent learning tutorial that would be easily
      administered to all beginning interns (medical subinterns and 2nd month pgy1 medical
      interns), that would be accessible across multiple sites, that would increase learner
      knowledge regarding 25 key handoff safety issues, and would improve trainee satisfaction with
      the handoff process. The study's goal is to make this curriculum practical and time
      efficient. The investigators hope is that the educational intervention would also have a
      measurable impact on the quality of patient care.
    
  