
    
      Exercise-induced left ventricular regional wall motion abnormalities among patients with
      coronary artery disease indicate myocardial ischemia due to significant coronary artery
      narrowing. Recovery of such stress-induced wall motion abnormalities is thought to occur
      within minutes after the termination of exercise. However, in some patients, persistent
      contractile dysfunction has been observed up to 90 minutes into recovery. Whether persistent
      regional wall motion abnormalities after exercise are due to stunned myocardium (prolonged
      but reversible postischemic dysfunction despite restoration of blood flow) or persistent
      ischemia due to coronary vasoconstriction (prolonged postischemic dysfunction due to
      persistent reduction of regional blood flow) is not well established. It is possible that
      persistent but reversible left ventricular dysfunction post-exercise may represent persistent
      reduction in regional blood flow and/or altered regional metabolic state.

      In this protocol, we intend to elucidate the mechanisms of prolonged but reversible
      post-exercise left ventricular contractile dysfunction. Results of this study may provide
      insight into the post-exercise cardiovascular physiology among patients with coronary artery
      disease. In addition, clinical implications can be drawn regarding patient safety and timing
      of discharge from the exercise laboratory, as well as timing of post-exercise myocardial
      perfusion studies.

      We propose to evaluate left ventricular regional wall motion by gated blood pool tomographic
      (SPECT) imaging at rest, during maximal exercise, 15 and 30 minutes after termination of
      exercise. Myocardial perfusion (O-15 water) and metabolic (F-18 deoxyglucose) studies will be
      performed utilizing positron emission tomography (PET). Absolute regional myocardial blood
      flow (ml/min/gm) will be assessed at rest, during maximal exercise, 15 and 30 minutes
      post-exercise along with myocardial fluorodeoxyglucose utilization 45 to 90 minutes
      post-exercise. Patients afflicted with conditions that limit their capacity to perform an
      adequate exercise study will undergo pharmacological stress study with dobutamine. Normal
      subjects will also be studied in order to create a control database.
    
  