
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of brentuximab vedotin and rituximab in patients with lymphoid
      malignancies that are cluster of differentiation (CD) 30 positive (+) and/or Epstein-Barr
      virus (EBV)+, and to determine the recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the combination. (Phase
      I) II. To evaluate the efficacy, as measured by response rates, of brentuximab vedotin and
      rituximab in patients with lymphoid malignancies that are CD30+ and/or EBV+. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To further evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicity. (Phase II) II. To further
      evaluate the clinical efficacy of the combination of brentuximab vedotin and rituximab, as
      measured by progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) at one year after the
      end of treatment. (Phase II) III. To determine the effects of the combination of brentuximab
      vedotin and rituximab on markers of EBV activation and proliferation. (Phase II) IV. Further
      evaluate efficacy as measured by time to cytotoxic chemotherapy. (Phase II) V. Further
      evaluate efficacy as measured by observed rates of graft rejection. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether and to what extent CD30 expression predicts for response and outcome.

      II. To determine whether and to what extent expression of EBV markers predicts for response
      and outcome.

      III. To determine whether changes in serum levels of EBV correlate with response and
      subsequent loss of response to therapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of brentuximab vedotin followed by a phase
      II study.

      INDUCTION: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes once
      weekly for 3 weeks and rituximab IV once weekly for 4 weeks. Patients unable to achieve
      complete remission (CR) may receive additional optional consolidation therapy identical to
      induction therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients receive brentuximab vedotin IV once every 3 weeks and rituximab
      IV once every 6 weeks. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 1 year in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year, and
      then every 6 months for 2 years.
    
  