
    
      Radiation-induced xerostomia and hyposalivation are frequent side effects after completed
      treatment for oral and oropharyngeal cancers. This may induce eating and swallowing
      difficulties, compromised oral hygiene, pain in the mouth, or speech deficiencies. As a
      consequence, quality of life is often impaired for this group of patients even after
      completing treatment.

      This study hypothesize that chewing gum can stimulate salivary flow from the residual
      functional salivary glands and thereby improving the patient's oral well-being.

      Primary endpoint:

      - To assess whether the difference between the unstimulated and stimulated salivary flow
      after a one-month period of using chewing gum will result in improved oral well-being.

      Secondary endpoint:

        -  To assess if unstimulated and stimulated salivary flow differs between the two groups of
           patients

        -  To evaluate changes in quality of life with EORTC QLQ H&N-35 for patients using chewing
           gum

        -  To evaluate differences in quality of life with EORTC QLQ H&N-35 between the two groups
           of patients.

      All patients who have received curative intended treatment for oral or oropharyngeal
      carcinomas at the Department of Oncology, Odense University Hospital, will be invited to
      participate in the study. If the eligibility criteria are met the patient will be randomized
      2:1 to either the intervention arm with chewing gum or the control arm with standard oral
      care. The study intends to include 210 patients in total. Of these, 140 patients in the
      intervention arm and 70 in the control arm. Recruitment to the study was initiated in
      September 2016 and is expected to be completed in July 2018.

      The duration of the study is one month from inclusion and randomization to final follow up.
      For all included patients, saliva samples are collected (unstimulated and stimulated
      sialometry) and the EORTC QLQ H&N-35 questionnaire and a xerostomia specific questionnaire
      are completed. The patients in the control arm are only introduced to chewing gum at the last
      follow up visit. In the intervention arm, all patients are instructed to use the chewing gum
      on a daily basis (preferably 5 times a day) and to make notes in a patient diary to document
      compliance.
    
  