
    
      rationale: The introduction of drug-eluting stents (DES) in the treatment of coronary artery
      disease has led to a significant reduction in morbidity. However, the first generation of
      these devices had no positive impact on the mortality after PCI (compared to bare metal
      stents), which was greatly attributed to a somewhat increased incidence of late and very late
      stent thrombosis. Concerns about the role of durable polymers as a potential trigger of
      inflammation and finally adverse events also led to the development of DES with bioresorbable
      coatings, which leave after degradation of the coating only a bare metal stent in the vessel
      wall that does not induce an inflammatory response. While such bioresorbable polymer DES are
      increasingly used in clinical practice, data from head-to-head comparisons between
      bioresorbable polymer DES with a contemporary highly flexible new generation permanent
      polymer coated DES.

      Aim:

      The aim of the study is to compare the outcome of the bioresorbable polymer coated stent
      (ORSIRO) and a new generation permanent polymer coated stent (RESOLUTE ONYX) in an all-comers
      patient population and non-inferiority setting.

      Study design:

      The study is a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, multicentre trial with 1:1
      randomization for drug-eluting stent type, stratified for gender and the presence of diabetes
      mellitus.

      Study population:

      Patients who require percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for the treatment of coronary
      stenoses with an indication for DES use, according to current guidelines and/or the operators
      clinical judgement. All clinical syndromes will be included. A total of 2,470 patients will
      be included.

      Intervention:

      One group will receive the ORSIRO stent, the other group will receive the RESOLUTE ONYX
      stent. All other intervention and procedural characteristics are similar.

      Primary study outcome:

      Incidence of target vessel failure (TVF) at 1 year follow-up (according to ARC definitions).
      Components of the primary endpoint in hierarchical order: - Cardiac death: all deaths are
      considered cardiac, unless an unequivocal non-cardiac cause can be established. - Target
      vessel related myocardial infarction (MI) that is Q-wave or non-Q-wave, that can be related
      to the target vessel or cannot be related to another vessel. - Clinically driven repeated
      target vessel revascularization by means of PCI or coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
    
  