
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Congenital heart disease represents a major segment of clinically significant birth defects
      and is associated with high mortality and morbidity in infancy, a childhood marred with
      physical limitations and repeated invasive procedures, and an adulthood with increased risk
      of medical and social problems. Previous research has been principally directed to clinical
      methods of diagnosis and treatment, but the need for prediction and prenatal counseling
      requires further knowledge of environmental and familial risk factors. Congenital heart
      disease is not one of the malformations monitored by the International Clearing House of
      Birth Defects Surveillance System. Surveillance which does include congenital heart disease
      may lack diagnostic accuracy among the various reporting sources. Accurate clinical studies
      lack comparative control information. As a result, the true epidemiologic features of cardiac
      defects remain obscure.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The design of the Baltimore-Washington Infant Study was that of a case-control study. All
      infants under one year of age with confirmed diagnoses of congenital heart disease were
      eligible for inclusion if they were residents of the study area which encompassed 53 area
      hospitals in Maryland, the District of Columbia and five counties in Virginia. Case
      enrollment was done through five pediatric cardiology centers and through a periodic search
      of the obstetrics and neonatal and pathology logs of the participating hospitals. Control
      selection was by random numbers and all resident births were eligible as controls except for
      those with congenital heart disease. Mothers of cases and controls were interviewed at home
      for demographic information, and information on maternal health, maternal medication,
      reproductive history, lifestyle, environmental exposures in the home, occupation, and agents
      transmitted to the mother by the father. Data were collected on the characteristics, drug
      use, habits, and occupations of the fathers. Vital records and birth certificates were
      abstracted for all cases and controls. Death certificates were also abstracted. Variables
      including drugs, lifestyle and home exposures, and occupation, were screened to identify
      which single factors were most importantly related to congenital heart disease.

      Cases in which congenital heart disease was part of a genetic complex were evaluated
      separately for environmental exposures. Genetic data analysis focused on first degree
      relatives but extended family data were noted wherever available. The genetic data analyses
      included: estimation of recurrence risks in siblings for congenital heart disease with the
      same cardiac defect; any cardiac defect in the sibling; non cardiac birth defect and
      pregnancy loss in the family. Parental phenotype was investigated for the presence of birth
      defects and known genetic disorders. Twin births were assessed for concordance in zygosity.
      Hypotheses of genetic and environmental teratogenic and coteratogenic interactions were
      tested. Pathogenic mechanisms were further defined through anatomic and echocardiographic
      observations. The family inquiry was expanded to include cousins. Nutrition information was
      added on maternal vitamin A supplementation, protein, calories, and other nutrients.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  