
    
      Objective. Cardiac surgery is the leading cause of iatrogenic stroke in the United States; 1%
      to 5% of patients undergoing CABG have a stroke, and 30% have clinically silent new lesions
      that are detectable only on MRI. Cognitive dysfunction is also common after heart surgery,
      and up to 40% have long-term cognitive impairment. The primary objective of this study is to
      define the pre-operative risk profile that best predicts postoperative ischemic or cognitive
      changes in patients undergoing heart surgery and to 1) establish a registry of patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery to evaluate the relationship of new lesions on MRI, blood
      biomarkers, neurological and neurocognitive outcome 2) identify the most significant risk
      factors for post operative cerebral ischemic lesions 3) determine whether new ischemic
      lesions on DWI are associated with subsequent neurological or cognitive impairment. The
      objective of the genetics sub-study is to estimate the relative risk of specific
      polymorphisms of genes of molecules involved in the inflammatory response and occurrence of
      new ischemic lesions.

      Study population. 363 patients (188 consecutive patients undergoing CABG and 175 patients
      undergoing aortic or mitral valve replacement).

      Design. Patients will have a pre-operative medical and neurological evaluation before surgery
      and 24 and 48 hours after surgery. A brain MRI will be obtained preoperatively and 48 hours,
      30 days, and 6 months after surgery. Blood drawn to quantify biomarkers will be obtained
      before and immediately after surgery and 6, 24, 48 and 72 hours post-operatively. Patients
      enrolled in the genetics sub-study will have additional blood drawn for sequencing of
      inflammatory genes. Neuropsychological examinations will occur at 30 days and 6 months after
      surgery.

      Outcome measures. The primary outcome measure is the evidence of new ischemic lesions on the
      48-hour DWI relative to pre-operative DWI. In addition, the following outcome measures will
      be considered in exploratory analyses: 1) Any new ischemic lesion on 30 day DWI or FLAIR
      relative to pre-op DWI or FLAIR; 2) Evidence of clinically definite ischemic stroke (focal
      neurological deficits persisting for more than 24 hours) confirmed by non-investigational CT
      or MRI (if protocol-required scans are not obtained) occurring within the first 30 days (plus
      or minus 3 days) after surgery; 3) All cause mortality; 4) Encephalopathy; 5) Cognitive
      decline at 30 days; 6) Cognitive decline at 6 months; 7) Evidence of reperfusion injury on
      48-hour post-gadolinium FLAIR; 8) New ischemic lesions on 6-month DWI or FLAIR; 9) Changes in
      values of blood markers; 10) Number, volume, and location of new DWI or FLAIR lesions.
    
  