
    
      The NoL index, a nociception monitor using a multiparametric approach, has shown an excellent
      sensitivity and specificity in detecting noxious stimuli under general anesthesia. This
      monitor is better than any other parameter in grading nociception under general anesthesia.
      More recently, it has recently been shown a strong correlation between NoL index response to
      nociceptive stimulus and the level of opioid analgesia during surgery. No study has evaluated
      that NoL could predict post-operative pain so far. It has not yet been proven that NoL was
      correlated with post-operative opioid consumption or with post-operative pain scores.

      Some phenotypic factors were previously shown to correlate with post-operative pain and
      opioid consumption, such as psychological factors and tests, or also assessment of some
      pre-operative nociceptive thresholds (NT). Pain catastrophizing was proven in several studies
      to correlate with acute post-operative pain.

      So far, no study compared each of these preoperative psychological factors or nociceptif
      thresholds to the NoL index response to intraoperative standardized pain stimulus in terms of
      correlation with post-operative opioid requirements and pain scores.

      Moreover, there is no study evaluating the pro-inflammatory protein profiles that might
      likely be correlated to inter-individual differences in NoL response after this standardized
      nociceptive stimulus under general anesthesia.

      This study will assess the level of correlation between NoL index response to standardized
      stimulus under general anesthesia and the post-operative pain, assessed by opioid consumption
      and numerical pain scores after video-assisted thoracoscopy (VATS). It also evaluates the
      correlation between NoL index response to standardized stimulus under general anesthesia and
      pre-operative phenotype and post-operative pain biomarkers.
    
  