
    
      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly aggressive disease characterized by its rapid
      doubling time, high growth fraction, early development of disseminated disease, and dramatic
      response to first-line chemotherapy and radiation. Small cell lung cancer accounts for
      approximately 20%-25% lung cancer patients. SCLC patients are categorized as limited disease,
      defined as disease that is confined to the ipsilateral hemithorax that can be encompassed
      within a tolerable radiation port, or extensive disease (ED), defined as the presence of
      overt metastatic disease determined by imaging or physical examination. Two third of patients
      are diagnosed with ED at presentation. Despite the development of novel cytotoxic drugs, the
      therapeutic approach to SCLC has been stagnant for more than twenty years. Standard treatment
      for ED-SCLC remains EP or CE, a regimen that yield a median survival of approximately 9
      months and a 5-year survival of less than 1%.

      Most patients are destined to relapse, and the prognosis for this group of patients who
      relapse is poor. Patients who relapse < 3 months after first-line therapy are commonly called
      refractory, and patients who relapse 3 months after therapy are labeled as sensitive. In a
      randomized multicenter study, von Pawel et al compared cyclophosphamide, adriamycin, and
      vincristine (CAV) with topotecan as a single agent in patients who had relapse at least 60
      days (2 months) after initial therapy. The response rates were 24.3% in patients treated with
      topotecan and 18.3% in patients treated with CAV (P=0.285). Median times to progression were
      13.3 weeks for the topotecan arm and 12.3 weeks for the CAV arm. Median survival times were
      25 weeks for topotecan and 24.7 weeks for CAV. The proportion of patients with symptom
      improvement was greater in the topotecan arm than in the CAV arm. The authors concluded that
      topotecan was at least as effective as CAV in the treatment of patients with recurrent SCLC.
      So in some guidelines for SCLC, topotecan is recommended as the standard second-line
      treatment in patients who relapse less than 3 months. As for patients who relapse more than
      six months after the end of initial treatment, EP or CE regimen is recommended to be used
      again.
    
  