
    
      Eligible study subjects will be randomized into two groups 8-18 weeks after surgery. One
      group will be maintained on tacrolimus according to the standard of care at our center. In
      the second group tacrolimus will be converted to sirolimus, with one week overlap between
      sirolimus therapy and tacrolimus taper. All the deceased donor kidney transplant recipients
      transplanted at our center who experience DGF/SGF are eligible for inclusion in this study,
      if they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria as detailed later.

      Data will be collected on patient demographics, duration on dialysis, history of diabetes and
      chronic hepatitis C, previous transplantation, PRA, donor source, warm and cold ischemia
      time, donor demographics and comorbidity such as diabetes and hypertension, serum creatinine
      at the time of organ removal, early graft function, number of dialysis treatments after
      transplantation, induction agent and immunosuppressive regimen including the dose or level of
      the drugs at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18, and 24 months. Similar data regarding use of ACE
      inhibitors/ARBs, erythropoietic agents, number of anti-hypertensives and lipid lowering
      agents will be collected. In addition, the following tests and procedures will be obtained
      for this study.

        1. GFR measurement by cold iothalamate method at one year after transplantation.

        2. Evaluation of routine surveillance graft biopsies for chronic changes at 3 and 12 months
           posttransplant by morphometric analysis.

        3. Spot urine protein, albumin, and creatinine measurement at 3 and 12 months.

        4. Estimate GFR at 3, and 12 months using MDRD, CG, and Nankivell formulas

        5. Examine the surveillance and indicated biopsies for acute rejection and BK nephropathy.

        6. Fasting lipid profile at 3 and 12 months for all patients, and 24 months for those with
           at least 2 years of follow up.

        7. Office blood pressure measurements at 3 and 12 months for all patients, and 24 months
           for those with at least 2 years of follow up.

        8. Measurement of CRP, IL-6, and MCP at 3 and 12 months.

      The safety measures will include:

      Incidence of leukopenia (WBC < 3000) or thrombocytopenia (PLT < 100,000); hemoglobin level at
      12 months; proteinuria at 12 months; incidence of oral aphthous ulcers; incidence of new
      onset diabetes, incidence of CMV infection and rate of drug withdrawal due to side effects.
    
  