
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Hypertension affects up to 50 million Americans, and is a major risk factor for
      cardiovascular disease and other health outcomes. Among Black women, hypertension is more
      prevalent, less well controlled by treatment, and has more damaging health outcomes versus
      Whites for reasons still unclear. While several lifestyle and dietary factors are associated
      with hypertension, relevant biochemical and genetic markers remain less well studied

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      This is a nested case-control study of incident hypertension in 800 case-control pairs (400
      each of white and black women, totaling 1,600 women). Data will be used from the Women's
      Health Initiative Observational Study (WHI-OS), a cohort of 93,676 ethnically diverse
      postmenopausal women aged 50 to 79 years with extensive clinical and questionnaire data.
      Three hypotheses will be tested. First, the investigators will assess whether markers of
      inflammation - C reactive protein (CRP), interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-1-8, tumor necrosis factor
      (TNF) receptor 2, soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (slCAM-1), and
      metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) - are associated with the risk of hypertension in White and Black
      women. Second, they will examine six novel polymorphisms linked to the above inflammatory
      biomarkers - the CRP, IL-6, IL-1-beta, TNF-a, slCAM-1, and MMP-9 genes- and two other
      polymorphisms related to inflammation and the metabolic syndrome- the adiponectin and PPAR-y2
      genes - for their potentially important associations with the risk of hypertension. Third,
      they will comprehensively evaluate important single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the above
      genes and examine associations between common haplotypes and hypertension risk in White and
      Black women, using state-of-the art genotyping technology and statistical methods. Power is
      excellent; for each biochemical marker, they have 80% power to detect a trend across
      quintiles for a relative risk (RR) of hypertension, comparing the fifth versus first
      quintiles, of 1.49 for analyses of 800 case-control pairs and 1.74 for analyses of 400
      case-control pairs. For each genetic marker, they have 80% power to detect an additive effect
      of an allele for a RR of hypertension of 1.36 for 800 case-control pairs and 1.57 for 400
      case-control pairs.
    
  