
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Management of LMD in patients with metastatic breast cancer is an area of unmet clinical
      need. Increased survival in the era of hormonal and HER2 directed therapies has further
      heightened the need for more effective therapies against the late complications of metastatic
      disease. Prognosis is dismal with median survivals ranging from 6-8 weeks in untreated
      patients and with little improvement having been demonstrated over the past 20 years.

      Recently, there has been renewed interest in systemic chemotherapeutic options in these
      patients. Incorporation of systemic therapies into standard treatment algorithms has been
      limited as many agents have not been shown to adequately penetrate the blood brain barrier.
      High-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX), however, is unique in that it does penetrate the blood brain
      barrier. In fact, evidence suggests that it may target areas of poor cerebrospinal fluid
      (CSF) flow, penetrate bulk disease, and provide treatment to systemic disease burden.
      Methotrexate is a drug known to have activity against breast cancer and has been used in
      combination with cyclophosphamide and 5-fluorouracil as part of a standard adjuvant treatment
      regimen.

      Currently, HD-MTX is included in the NCCN Guidelines for LMD and is used intermittently at
      Johns Hopkins and cancer centers across the nation for LMD in breast cancer. These
      recommendations, however, are more representative of the lack of available therapies for LMD
      as opposed to strong evidence-based data. Only two retrospective studies have suggested that
      HD-MTX may be an effective option for treating central nervous system (CNS) metastasis, both
      with substantial methodological limitations.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE This phase II, prospective study will evaluate systemic, intravenous
      high-dose methotrexate (HD-MTX) in breast cancer patients with leptomeningeal metastasis
      (LMD). The primary objective is to determine if treatment with systemic intravenous HD-MTX
      will result in an overall survival (OS) exceeding 12 weeks among patients with triple
      negative, HER2-positive, and hormone refractory metastatic breast cancer patients with LMD
      with and without parenchymal brain involvement.
    
  