
    
      Introduction

      Bone scintigraphy (e.g. "bone scan") with Tc-99m diphosphonates is one of the most common
      imaging radioisotope procedures in departments of nuclear medicine worldwide, with several
      thousand performed every year in a busy nuclear medicine service. Despite giving fast and
      accurate skeletal surveys in conditions ranging from metastatic cancer, to fractures, to
      infection, the technology has seen little change since the early 1970's. The Anger camera
      remains the instrument of choice for taking serial images of a patient's skeleton, and since
      the late 1970's SPECT (Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography) - essentially "nuclear CT
      imaging of 3-D distribution of radiotracer" has been added to improve contrast resolution and
      lesion placement.

      Despite the known greater sensitivity of SPECT compared to planar bone nuclear medicine
      studies, SPECT is usually done only in limited patients due to time constraints. This is
      because a standard tomographic bone acquisition requires about 20 minutes, therefore it
      usually can only be performed over one body region such as the abdomen or chest.

      Skeletal PET scanning with F-18 Fluoride has become popular since the introduction of
      multiple PET scanners for imaging cancer with F-18 FDG. It provides much higher count rates
      than traditional bone scans done with Tc-99m phosphates, and many authors have shown that it
      is the most sensitive imaging modality for detecting skeletal lesions. Indeed, several PET
      centers have proposed replacing the standard Tc-99m bone scan with F-18 PET scans. However
      the short half-life of F-18 makes this type of study practical only for PET centers within a
      short distance from a cyclotron. Furthermore, most PET scanners are usually fully occupied
      doing other types of diagnostic oncology studies, and the cost of the F-18 is currently not
      reimbursed for simple skeletal surveys.

      Recently it has become feasible to dramatically shorten the time necessary for acquisition of
      a nuclear medicine SPECT study. This has occurred with the introduction of new image
      reconstruction software which includes resolution recovery correction (so called "collimator
      de-blurring"). Since this approach results in significant improvement of image resolution,
      many centers are currently looking at the feasibility of using this new technique to reduce
      imaging times. For example, its use has been investigated for nuclear cardiac scans with
      acquisition times shortened by half.

      We propose to investigate the performance of the image reconstruction software with
      resolution recovery correction for bone SPECT studies. We estimate that in only 30 minutes,
      using this new technique of collimator de-blurring, one could perform a fully 3-dimensional
      SPECT whole-body bone study, essentially obviating the necessity for doing planar bone
      studies.

      In the scope of the proposed project, our group aims to test the hypothesis that one can
      perform a Tc-99m whole-body SPECT study in the same time as a regular routine planar bone
      study, with greater localization accuracy, and greater lesion detection.

      To establish a "gold standard" necessary to assess the performance of the SPECT bone scans,
      we will compare number of malignant lesions detected in patients who are proven to have
      metastatic skeletal bone lesions on PET F-18 whole-body scans, with whole-body Tc-99m SPECT
      lesions. We also propose to compare the detection of SPECT scans with standard planar bone
      scans. This will allow for two major comparisons (a) the accuracy of SPECT bone studies
      compared to planar bone studies, and (b) the accuracy of SPECT bone scans compared to F-18
      PET studies. Most prior studies purporting to show the superiority of F-18 bone scans to
      Tc-99 bone scans were done only against either planar scans or a combination of planar scans
      and partial SPECT studies over the spine. We anticipate that F-18 bone scans, due to the
      higher counting statistics of PET agents, will show more lesions than SPECT, but the exact
      increase in sensitivity has never been compared to whole-body SPECT scans.

      Objectives

        1. Evaluate the feasibility of implementing whole-body SPECT in routine practice with
           standard SPECT gamma cameras

        2. Evaluate the value of whole-body SPECT compared to whole-body planar studies for the
           detection of bone metastases

        3. Compare the results of state-of-the art whole-body SPECT skeleton surveys with
           state-of-the art whole-body Na18F PET whole-body bone surveys.

        4. Obtain preliminary data on the respective accuracy of planar bone scintigraphy,
           whole-body SPECT and Na18F PET/CT to plan future studies on the cost-effectiveness of
           these methods to improve prostate cancer staging.

      Hypotheses

        1. A whole-body bone SPECT is more sensitive and specific than a conventional planar bone
           scan for the detection of bone metastases

        2. Whole-body bone SPECT is less sensitive than a whole-body bone PET but the lower
           sensitivity has minimal impact on the overall detection of bone metastases on a patient
           basis

      Overall study design

      This is an open phase II study designed to accumulate preliminary data on the relative
      diagnostic value of planar bone scintigraphy, whole-body bone SPECT and whole-body bone PET
      with sodium 18F-Fluoride. We plan to accrue a total of 25 subjects with suspected bone
      metastases who will undergo planar bone scintigraphy, bone SPECT and a Na18F whole-body bone
      PET scan.

      Data analysis

      All patients studies will be analyzed by 3 independent nuclear medicine readers, with number
      of lesions identified on planar scans being compared to number of lesions on non-Astonish
      SPECT bone scans and Astonish SPECT bone scans.

      Each study will be scored by noting:

        -  number and localization of lesions detected

        -  level of certainty (1 = definitely malignant, 5= definitely benign)

        -  general visual quality of images (graded from 1 = poor to 5 = excellent)

      The Na18F PET/CT bone study will serve as the reference gold-standard study against which the
      other acquisitions will be judged.

      Statistical consideration

      This is a pilot study which will provide preliminary data for further power calculations to
      estimate the study size needed to demonstrate a statistically significant improvement of
      whole-body SPECT compared to planar scintigraphy. With 25 subjects, we will have 82% of
      chance to demonstrate a statistically significant 30% difference in accuracy between planar
      scintigraphy and whole-body SPECT compared to the reference standard (PET/CT).
    
  