
    
      INTRODUCTION Osteoarthritis is a degenerative joint disease characterized by a decrease in
      joint space due to cartilage loss, subchondral sclerosis and osteophytes. Knee osteoarthritis
      consist in a clinical syndrome that is identified by the presence of pain and can be
      associated with radiological and laboratory tests Radiology was incorporated by the American
      College of Rheumatology as a valuable element in the classification of osteoarthritis.
      Considering the radiological findings and the presence of pain as sufficient criteria for
      diagnosis The scale used is that of Kellgren and Lawrence, which has 5 grades ranging from 0
      to 4, with the greater the degree, the greater the severity marked by the successive presence
      of decreased interarticular space, sclerosis, cysts and joint deformities. Despite the
      radiological findings, 40% of the individuals do not have pain.GA is the most significant
      cause of pain and limitation in the elderly. The prevalence of this disease in Spain is 46%
      in women and 21% in men over 45 years. Women and African Americans are at greater risk of
      suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee. The incidence is higher with increasing age. A
      very important risk factor in the development and progression of this disease is obesity.

      The pain of knee osteoarthritis is a multifactorial phenomenon in which structural,
      neurophysiological and psychosocial factors are involved. With regard to neurophysiological
      factors, it has been found that there are inflammatory mediators within the articular
      cartilage which alter afferent sensory inputs and cause plastic changes in the nervous system
      leading to central sensitization (CS).

      Sensitization is defined as an increased response to a painful stimulus, accentuating the
      signal in the central nervous system, either by increasing the pain signal or by decreasing
      the pain inhibition signals.

      On the other hand, magnetic resonance studies have shown that patients with gonarthrosis have
      a higher degree of vigilance and a lower capacity to disconnect pain, related to the abnormal
      activity of different areas of the brain such as the prefrontal areas, the cingulate cortex,
      the insula, the amygdala and the nucleus accumbens.

      The therapies that have had more evidence are pharmacological, non-pharmacological, surgical,
      infiltration, physical therapies, and lifestyle changes. Because most have side effects,
      physical therapy is often advised.

      The investigators found studies using multimodal treatments, which aim to look for
      synergistic effects to achieve a better outcome. But it has been shown that if these
      treatments do not include manual therapy they do not cause changes in central sensitization.

      The hypothesis of the study is that with AP and Mulligan's mobilizations the investigators
      can activate the downward chain.

      Primary Objective To evaluate the effectiveness of joint mobilization versus Mulligan's
      treatment on the activation of conditioned pain modulation, temporal summation, and
      generalized and local mechanical hyperalgesia Secondary objective As secondary objectives, we
      will evaluate the effect of accessory mobilizations versus Mulligan's treatment on
      disability, functionality, central awareness characteristics and psychosocial aspects.

      METHODOLOGY RESEARCH DESIGN It is an experimental, prospective, parallel and longitudinal
      double-blind study with elderly patients with knee osteoarthritis.

      PARTICIPANTS Selection of participants: elderly participants from a resident of the elderly
      in Comunidad de Madrid, who are informed of the procedure and asked for informed consent.

      SAMPLE SIZE The sample size will be calculated by means of the "Gpower 3.0.18." computer
      program.

      RANDOM Randomization will be done through the GraphaPad software (GraphPad Software, Inc CA
      92037 USA). Patients who meet the inclusion criteria and have none of the exclusion criteria
      will be entered into the study and the sample will be randomized to obtain the two groups, in
      opaque, sealed envelopes: A and B.

      MASKING The double-blind criteria are met, in which the subjects participating in the study
      will not know the group to which they were assigned, as well as the physiotherapist in charge
      of collecting the variable data.
    
  