
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The African-American population of the United States continues to experience high rates of
      mortality from cardiovascular (CV) disease, including coronary heart disease, stroke and
      renal failure. The major syndromes which determine CV risk, including obesity,
      hypercholesterolemia, glucose intolerance, and hypertension, all occur more frequently among
      African Americans. Nutritional factors underlie many forms of CV disease and are an important
      focus of current prevention efforts. Very little is currently known, however, about specific
      nutritional patterns among African Americans that might lead to CV risk, or the applicability
      of structured interventions.

      The study was conducted in response to an initiative on "Collaborative Projects on Minority
      Health" which was released in October 1992 after review and approval at the September 1992
      National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Given the growing recognition of the importance of total fat, from the point of view of both
      disease risk and eating patterns, the primary focus of the intervention was to reduce the
      percentage of calories in the diet from fat. Four hundred households were recruited and
      randomly assigned to either an active intervention or observation group for a period of 18
      months. Dietary change consistent with specific recommendations made to the American public
      for reducing cardiovascular (CV) risk was encouraged, namely, reduction in total fat,
      saturated fat (SFA), and cholesterol (Chol). A practical, community-based program was
      developed which could be taken into households. Nutrition education and enhancement of skills
      helpful in making behavioral change formed the basis of the intervention. Lay educators,
      recruited from the target neighborhoods, worked under the close supervision of a community
      nutritionist. Changes in reported dietary intake, serum lipids/lipoproteins and body weights
      were measured. In addition to the formal evaluation of the trial outcome, an important
      secondary goal was to obtain detailed information about eating patterns in this community and
      characterize behavior associated with the achievement and maintenance of target nutrient
      goals.

      The study was part of a collaborative project on minority health. Dr. Prewitt collaborated
      with Dr. Marian Fitzgibbon who was the principal investigator on R01HL51532.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  