
    
      Participants will be selected from Salisbury and Swain schools. Parents and students from the
      participating schools will be invited by the school to an educational assembly in the fall of
      2007. The material covered in the assembly will include issues of heart health and the
      importance of CPR. At the conclusion of the educational session, a description of the
      proposed study will be presented. The description will include details of the study and
      consent process. The consent and assent will be explained in detail to the prospective
      participants. The description of the study and consent/assent process will be delivered by
      one of the study investigators/coordinators. Details of the consent/assent will also be given
      to the prospective participants in a written format

      For those potential participants unable to attend the assembly, consent and assent forms will
      be sent home with the student. Description of the project and explanation of the
      assent/consent process will be included. The potential participants will be encouraged to
      contact a study team member should they have any questions relating to the project or
      assent/consent process. Potential participants will be asked to return to the school on the
      projected date of CPR evaluations. The study team members will have the opportunity during
      this meeting to explain the study procedures as well as obtaining assent/consent.

      After obtaining consent/assent, participants will be given a CPR Anytime kit and asked to
      complete the training at home with their parent(s)/guardian(s). They will also be encouraged
      to invite other family members and friends to participate with them in the training. All
      students in the 7th grade whether they participate in the study or not at the respective
      schools will receive a CPR Anytime kit.

      The kit consists of a portable inflatable CPR training mannequin, a CPR training booklet, a
      22 minute training DVD, and cleaning towelettes.

      After completing the training, the student and parent participants will be evaluated for
      quality of CPR/chest compressions by a trained CPR instructor. The evaluation will be done on
      an individual basis not as a group. If remediation is required, it will take place at the
      time of the evaluation. The evaluation will be done at the school. The student participant
      will return at approximately months for reevaluation by the CPR instructor.

      The student and parent participants will be asked to complete a survey at the time of initial
      training. The student participant will be asked to complete a follow up survey at the 3 month
      follow up

      The data collected will be entered into a database. Each participant will be given a study
      identification number and data will be entered into the database using that number. The
      surveys will be anonymous. The participants will be identified by name on the CPR
      evaluations. Those families who receive the CPR Anytime kit but do not participate in the
      research study for testing will be surveyed to see how they used the kit in their home.

      All hard copies (surveys and evaluation forms ) will be destroyed immediately after the data
      has been entered into the database. Access to the data will be limited to the PI and study
      coordinators. The hard copies and database will be stored in the research office and the
      office will be locked when not in use.
    
  