
    
      TMC207 is being investigated for the treatment of TB. TB is a contagious bacterial infection
      caused by M. tuberculosis that commonly affects the lungs, but can also affect other organs.
      Treatment of TB is protracted and burdensome and is further complicated by the emergence of
      multi-drug resistant M. tuberculosis strains. TMC207 is a diarylquinoline investigational
      compound that offers a novel mechanism of anti-TB action by specifically inhibiting
      mycobacterial adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-synthase. Multi-drug resistant TB (MDR-TB) is
      defined as infection with a strain of M. tuberculosis that is resistant to both INH and RMP
      (also known as rifampicin), two important drugs used to treat drug susceptible TB.
      Extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) is defined as MDR-TB with additional resistance to the
      most important second-line TB drugs, ie, one of the injectables (kanamycin, amikacin, or
      capreomycin) and fluoroquinolones. Pre-XDR TB is defined as MDR-TB with additional resistance
      to either a FQ or an injectable (kanamycin, amikacin, or capreomycin), but not to both a FQ
      and an injectable. Patients with either XDR-TB or pre-XDR will be included in this early
      access study. Patients who qualify for the study will be provided with a 24-week regimen of
      TMC207 which will be administered along with their background regimen (BR). BR drugs will be
      provided by the site investigator or designated study personnel in accordance with national
      TB program (NTP) guidelines. The BR should be constructed with at least 3 anti-tuberculosis
      drugs to which the patient's infection is known to be susceptible from recent drug
      susceptibility testing (DST) results (within the previous 6 months) or likely to be
      susceptible, based on known treatment history. The selection of the BR, including the number
      of companion drugs for TMC207, will be the responsibility of the investigator. At the
      screening visit, a completed inclusion/exclusion checklist list will be sent to the sponsor
      or its representative together with the patient's recent smear or culture and DST results
      (within preceding 6 months) and laboratory safety results to confirm eligibility. At
      baseline, a chest X-ray (CXR) will be taken in case no CXR or results of other imaging of the
      lungs are available within the previous month. Once treatment has been initiated, patients
      will be instructed to follow the visit schedule based on routine clinical care. Recommended
      visits and assessments should be planned 2, 4, 12, and 24 weeks following initiation of
      TMC207 in combination with the BR and 4 weeks (Week 28) and every 24 weeks (Weeks 48, 72, 96,
      and 120) after completion of TMC207 intake during the 96-week follow-up period. If needed,
      extra visits and assessments can be planned at the discretion of the investigator in order to
      best manage the patient's TB treatment. Patients who are taking clofazimine with TMC207 will
      require electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring at mandatory protocol-specified visits. Serum
      chemistry (electrolytes) assessment will be performed at every visit in which an ECG is
      performed. After their last intake of TMC207, all patients will continue to take their BR
      under the supervision of their treating physician or local health center/hospital in
      accordance with NTP guidelines and local multi-drug resistant (MDR) TB treatment practice
      (i.e., treatment may be extended for reasons of complicated lung disease, etc.). Patients
      will be followed up for 96 weeks (2 years) after their last dose of TMC207 to evaluate the
      microbiological effect (verification of microbiological status [measured locally as per local
      standard of care; eg, smear, culture, DST] is recommended to be performed every 24 weeks)
      that TMC207 has provided these patients, as well as to monitor the safety and tolerability of
      TMC207. Patients who withdraw early, unless due to withdrawal of informed consent, will be
      followed for survival/clinical outcome (approximately every 6 months) until the early access
      study comes to an end in the patients' corresponding country. Patients can enter the study
      until TMC207 will be commercially available in the patient's country or can be accessed from
      another source or until discontinuation of the development program of TMC207.
    
  