
    
      This study is a prospective, single-institution trial wherein each included subject will
      receive the experimental focused ultrasound renal denervation therapy. It will be conducted
      on a maximum of twenty adult male or female patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion
      criteria and have signed the informed consent form.

      Safety is the primary endpoint of this study. Safety will be assessed by incidence and
      evaluation of any serious adverse effects associated with the investigational procedure
      through the 52-week evaluation of bilateral treatment. Clinical utility is the secondary
      endpoint of this study. Clinical utility will be evaluated by assessing pre and post therapy
      systolic and diastolic blood pressure and norepinephrine (NE) spillover.

      The study has been designed so that subjects are treated in a careful and stepwise fashion in
      order to minimize the potential risks associated with the investigational therapy. After
      completing baseline testing, the investigational focused ultrasound therapy will be
      unilaterally administered. Each subject is first treated on the right side. Renal angiograms
      are obtained after treatment is completed to ensure any resulting complications are quickly
      identified. After three weeks of treatment, the subject is further evaluated again with blood
      tests, EKG, angiogram and a norepinephrine spillover test. If any complications that preclude
      participation in the study are revealed, then additional treatment is halted. Upon safe
      treatment of the right renal artery, the left renal artery is then treated. Safety and
      functional evaluation occurs three weeks, and three and six months after completion of the
      last treatment. This sequential unilateral treatment scheme minimizes the potential risks to
      any given subject.

      The second key factor in designing this study is the stepwise progression of applying the
      investigational therapy dose. Low dosing levels with established safety profile will first be
      applied before administering higher dosing levels. The low dosing level will be administered
      to the first ten subjects. The specified low dosing level was selected because it is just
      above the threshold value where renal denervation was detectable in the swine model, and
      patients participating in this cohort are expected to benefit from modest levels of renal
      neurolysis as measured by the norepinephrine spillover test. Only after five of the first ten
      subjects have been safely treated and evaluated at the 3-week follow-up evaluation may the
      remaining ten subjects (i.e., subjects #11 - 20) be treated with the higher dosing treatment.
      The specified higher dosing level was selected to induce increased renal neurolysis and
      thereby enable the expected escalated-dose response to be measured.
    
  