
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is caused by the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator
      (CFTR) gene mutation and represents one of the most frequent and lethal inherited disease in
      Caucasian. However, thanks to better treatments that slow down the progression of pulmonary
      disease, the median life expectancy has reached 41 years and there are nowadays more CF
      patients older than 18-year-old than younger. Chronic lung disease is the main manifestation
      and represents more than 90% of CF morbidity and mortality. However, there is a need for
      biomarkers more sensitive than clinical and functional findings for a personalized management
      of patients. Computed tomography (CT), owing to its high spatial resolution and contrast, is
      the standard of reference in imaging for depicting lung structural alterations. But CT is an
      ionizing technique, rising concern in cancer risk associated to cumulated radiation dose. To
      date, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) is a radiation-free technique which has been
      demonstrated to add meaningful functional information that cannot be reached using CT. Recent
      advances in 3-dimensional ultra-short echo time (3D-UTE) imaging have been shown promising to
      improve lung MR imaging quality. A clear delineation between airway wall and lumen was
      obtained, thanks to submillimeter voxel size, enabling readers to estimate both bronchial
      thickening and dilatation with very good concordance with CT, independently from the
      magnitude of score. The combination of pulse sequence may rather benefit from the potential
      of MRI to get more complete insight into inflammatory processes by combining several
      contrasts, as compared to other ionizing methods. Novel MR methods have been shown promising
      in assessing lung changes with high resolution and therefore could be proposed instead of CT
      for radiation- free repeated, life-long follow-up
    
  