
    
      Important reason for the development of chronic heart failure is a viral disease of the
      heart, the three phenotypes associated with: the presence of inflammation without viral
      agent, implying an autoimmune disease; presence of inflammation and persistent viruses; and
      the presence of persistent virus without signs of inflammation.

      There is a group of patients with coronary heart disease, which on the background of optimal
      treatment is observed progression of clinical symptoms of coronary heart disease with the
      subsequent development of heart failure, leading to ischemic cardiomyopathy. Perhaps the
      reason for this is the combination of inflammatory and ischemic cardiomyopathies.

      Inflammatory cardiomyopathy, involved in the pathogenesis of DCM, includes idiopathic,
      autoimmune and infectious subtypes. Inflammatory disease of the myocardium diagnosed by
      established histological, immunological and immunohistochemical criteria.

      This study will include 60 patients with decompensated heart failure with ischemic left
      ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVEF <40%) were hospitalized not earlier than 6 months
      after myocardial revascularization. This group of patients will receive standard treatment,
      according to national guidelines RSC and ESC, to stabilize heart failure. All patients will
      be held PCI to exclude ischemic heart failure decompensation. Also, all patients will be
      performed endomyocardial biopsy as a result of immunohistochemical studies will be made on
      the separation of the virus and the virus-negative-positive group. After that, the group will
      be divided into subgroups: virus - and inflammation in the myocardium inflammation without
      viral antigen, viral inflammation of the presence of antigen and the group with the presence
      of viral antigen without any signs of inflammation in the myocardium.

      The study is nonrandomized.
    
  