
    
      After screening for eligibility, subjects will be randomized into one of two study groups in
      a 1:1 ratio. Each subject will use a non-invasive light and sound device, called the GENUS
      device, at home for 1 hour per day for 6 or 9 months. The GENUS device, which is composed of
      a panel with light-emitting diode (LED) illumination and speakers for auditory stimulation,
      delivers light and sound at different frequencies.

      Subjects in the first group will use the device with active settings, and subjects in the
      second group will use the device with sham settings. After 6 or 9 months of the daily usage
      of the device, all subjects will be given an option to continue the daily usage for
      additional 6 or 9 months. For these additional 6 or 9 months, the device will be set to
      active settings for all subjects who choose to remain in the study.

      Over the first 6 or 9 months, cognitive, mental health and memory evaluations will be
      performed at baseline, after 1 month, after 3 months, and after 6 or 9 months of daily usage
      of the device. Blood draws as well as hearing and vision tests will be performed at baseline
      and after 6 or 9 months of daily usage of the device. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and
      electroencephalogram (EEG) will also be performed at baseline, after 3 months, and after 6 or
      9 months of daily usage of the device. For subjects who choose to continue the daily usage of
      the device for additional 6 or 9 months, MRI, EEG as well as cognitive, mental health and
      memory evaluations will be performed at the end of the 6 or 9 additional months of daily
      usage. One month after the completion of the daily usage, EEG as well as cognitive, mental
      health and memory evaluations will be performed (this will be 7 or 10 months after the start
      of the study for subjects who choose not to continue the daily usage of the device after the
      initial 6 or 9 months; this will be 13 or 19 months after the start of the study for subjects
      who choose to continue the daily usage of the device for additional 6 or 9 months after the
      initial 6 or 9 months).

      Participants who complete the study protocol and finish the final study visit at Month 12 or
      19 will be offered a long-term extension for a total of 36 months with yearly follow up
      evaluations.
    
  