
    
      The study will enroll 100 consecutive patients with acute STEMI presenting to Aswan Heart
      Centre catheterization-lab for primary PCI matching the selection criteria. Diagnosis of
      STEMI will be based upon:

      Sustained ST-segment elevation of at least 1 mm in at least 2 contiguous leads or
      new/presumably new left bundle branch block, plus

        -  Typical anginal pain

        -  or diagnostic levels of serum cardiac biomarkers

        -  or imaging evidence of new loss of viable myocardium or new regional wall motion
           abnormality.

      The study patients will undergo primary PCI according to the recent practice guidelines and
      the local hospital policy in managing ST elevation MI patients. Echocardiography and CMR will
      be performed twice: within 48 hours of admission and 3 months following the index event.

      Management

        -  Twelve-lead electrocardiogram will be recorded at baseline and 30-min post-procedure.
           The ST-segment changes will be evaluated in the single lead with the most prominent
           ST-segment elevation before intervention. The ST-segment elevation will be measured to
           the nearest 0.5 mm at 60 ms after the J point. Significant ST segment resolution (STR)
           is defined as a reduction in ST-segment elevation of 50% after 30 min of infarct artery
           recanalization .

        -  Immediately before the procedure, patients will receive aspirin (300 mg), clopidogrel
           (600 mg), or ticagrelor (180 mg). Adjunctive pharmacological treatment during the
           procedure will include:

             1. Unfractionated heparin as an initial bolus of 70 U/kg and additional boluses during
                the procedure to achieve an activated clotting time of 250 to 350 s (200 to 250 s
                if Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) antagonist is used). Heparin will be
                discontinued at the end of percutaneous coronary intervention.

             2. The use of a GPIIb/IIIa antagonist during the procedure, primary PCI technique,
                indications, and methods of thrombectomy if indicated will be done under the
                regulations of the local hospital policy and the most recent practice guidelines.

      The following data will be collected:

        1. Clinical data:

           These include age, gender, weight, height, body mass index, body surface area, smoking
           status, history of hypertension or diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, prior history of
           coronary artery disease (CAD), and previous coronary interventions. Times from onset of
           pain to first medical contact, to definitive diagnosis, to needle and to restoration of
           coronary flow will be recorded as well.

        2. Laboratory work up:

           Complete blood count, INR, cardiac biomarkers (total CK, CK-MB, troponin), Brain
           natriuretic peptide (BNP), soluble suppression of tumorigenicity 2 (sST2), liver enzymes
           (ALT and AST), urea and creatinine, and serum electrolytes (Na, K).

        3. Angiographic data:

             -  The thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) flow grade:

      TIMI flow grade will be assessed at three different time points; immediately after the
      diagnostic coronary angiography, after wiring the culprit vessel and at the end of the
      procedure.

        -  TIMI 0 flow: refers to the absence of any antegrade flow beyond a coronary occlusion.

        -  TIMI 1 flow: refers to faint antegrade coronary flow beyond the occlusion, with
           incomplete filling of the distal coronary bed.

        -  TIMI 2 flow: refers to delayed or sluggish antegrade flow with complete filling of the
           distal territory.

        -  TIMI 3 flow: refers to normal antegrade flow with complete filling of the distal
           territory.

           • The myocardial blush grade (MBG): Myocardial blush grade evaluates contrast density in
           the myocardial region of the infarct-related artery compared to regions of
           non-infarct-related arteries on coronary angiography. It will be reported at the end of
           the procedure.

        -  MBG 0: no myocardial blush.

        -  MBG 1: minimal myocardial blush or contrast density.

        -  MBG 2: moderate blush or contrast density, but less than a contralateral or ipsilateral
           non infarct-related artery.

        -  MBG 3: normal myocardial blush or contrast density similar to a contralateral or
           ipsilateral non infarct-related artery.

      When myocardial blush persisted ("staining"), this phenomenon suggested leakage of the
      contrast medium into the extravascular space, and will be graded 0 Angiographic incomplete
      reperfusion is defined as TIMI flow grade < 2 or MBG < 2.

      Echocardiography protocol:

      Patients will undergo transthoracic echocardiography using xMATRIX X5-1 phased array sector
      probe (1 - 5 MHz) of the Philips iE33 xMATRIX and EPIQ 7 machines (Philips Medical Systems,
      Andover, MA, USA). The blood pressure and heart rate during the study will be recorded.

        1. Conventional echocardiography:

           Standard views will be obtained and analyzed in accordance with the American Society of
           Echocardiography guidelines. . The following variables will be noted:

             1. Left ventricular ejection fraction: calculated by the modified Simpson's rule by
                tracing the endocardial border at end-diastole and end-systole in the two-chamber
                and four-chamber views.

             2. Left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes (LVEDV and LVESV): absolute
                values and indexed to body surface area.

             3. Assessment of regional wall motion abnormalities: wall motion scores for the
                seventeen myocardial segments and wall motion score index.

             4. Pulsed Doppler mitral inflow: E and A wave velocities, and E/A ratio.

             5. Lateral and medial mitral annular tissue Doppler E', A', and S' wave velocities,
                lateral and medial E/E' ratios.

             6. Left atrial volume: absolute and indexed to body surface area.

        2. 2D Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) of the left ventricle:

             1. Image acquisition:

                Images will be acquired using the same probe for conventional echocardiography of
                the Philips machine. Digital loops will be acquired from basal, mid, and apical
                parasternal short axis views, and apical long-axis, two-chamber and four-chamber
                views. Frame rates have to be higher than fifty frames per second.

             2. Strain analysis:

           The digitally stored clips will be analyzed offline using TomTec software. For each of
           the three apical views, the operator manually identifies three points: two on each side
           of the mitral valve, and a third at the apex of the left ventricle (LV). The software
           automatically detects the endocardium at end-systole and tracks myocardial motion during
           the entire cardiac cycle. The software automatically calculates the peak longitudinal
           and circumferential strain for each individual segment in a seventeen-segment left
           ventricle model, expressed as bull's eye, and calculates global longitudinal /
           circumferential strain by averaging local strains along the entire left ventricle. The
           software provides the strain curves for the 16 myocardial segments (excluding the apical
           cap). Using a similar process for the short axis views, the software automatically
           detects the endocardium and generates peak radial strain for each myocardial segment.

        3. 3D Speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) of the left ventricle:

             1. Image acquisition:

                • Three-dimensional echocardiography Images will be acquired using the same probe
                of the Philips machine for conventional echocardiography. Images will be acquired
                from the apical window, taking care to include the entire LV cavity within the
                pyramidal scan volume. The dataset will be acquired over 4 consecutive cardiac
                cycles during a short breath-hold to avoid stitching artifacts.

             2. Strain analysis:

                  -  Offline analysis of global and regional longitudinal, circumferential, and
                     radial strain will be performed using TomTec software.

      Cardiac Magnetic Resonance protocol:

      Studies will be performed on a 1.5 T unit (AERA [Siemens Medical System, Erlangen, Germany])
      using electrocardiographic triggering and a cardiac-dedicated phase-array coil. For the
      assessment of LV volumes and function, steady-state free precession breath-held cine images
      (bSSFP) will be acquired in the following orientations: vertical long axis, horizontal long
      axis and short axis. Standard parameters are: repetition time/echo time 3.6/1.8 ms; flip
      angle 50-70°; slice thickness 6 mm; matrix 160 × 256; field of view 350-400 mm; and temporal
      resolution 25 msec. The set of short axis images will encompass the left ventricle entirely,
      with a between slices gap of 2 mm. For delayed enhancement imaging, a dose of 0.15 mL of
      gadolinium per kilogram of body weight will be administered and images will be acquired 10
      minutes after contrast injection. The sequence used will be a segmented inversion recovery
      gradient-echo pulse sequence using the same image orientations as the cine images. Scan
      parameters are: TR/TE 4.01/1.25 ms, flip angle 15°, matrix 208 x256, and voxel size 1.6 x
      1.3x5 mm3. T1 is adjusted to achieve optimal nulling of myocardial signal.

      All images will be analyzed offline using Philips IntelliSpace Portal V8.0 workstation
      (Philips Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands) for analysis of LV volumes, function, and infarct
      size.

      Feature tracking strain analysis:

      This will be performed offline using Segment Medviso software that estimates myocardial
      strain curves by computing inter-frame deformation fields using a tracking strategy based on
      non-rigid image registration. Instead of myocardial boundaries tracking only, the method uses
      the entire image content (i.e. blood pool and entire myocardium) during the optimization
      process. Circumferential and radial LV myocardial Lagrangian strain are evaluated on
      short-axis cine SSFP images; longitudinal Lagrangian strain is derived from vertical
      long-axis ones. First, both endo- and epicardial contours are manually drawn at end diastole
      in the long and short-axis. Contours are propagated automatically by the software throughout
      the cardiac cycle generating myocardial strain and strain rate curves, with both global and
      regional values.28

      Infarct size:

      This will be determined using the full width at half maximum (FWHM) technique, which uses
      half the maximal signal within the scar as the threshold. The total final infarct area is
      expressed as percentage of the LV volume, given by the sum of the volume of hyperenhancement
      on delayed contrast enhanced images (necrosis/scar) for all slices divided by the sum of the
      LV myocardial cross-sectional volumes (%LV).

      LV volumes, function, and strain analysis will be performed in both the baseline and
      follow-up CMR study; the final infarct size will be calculated from the follow-up study.

      A second follow-up visit will be scheduled at 6 months of the index event to collect the
      following data on clinical outcome:

        1. Mortality (all-cause and cardiac)

        2. Recurrent angina assessed by Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) grading.

        3. Re-infarction.

        4. Target lesion revascularization (TLR): either repeat percutaneous or surgical
           revascularization for a lesion anywhere within the stent or the 5-mm borders proximal or
           distal to the stent.

        5. Target vessel revascularization (TVR): Revascularization of the same vessel of the
           primary event either surgical or percutaneous other than TLR definition.

        6. Re-hospitalization for heart failure. Data on compliance to medications will be reported
           as well. A written informed consent will be obtained from all patient
    
  