
    
      Rationale The conventional operative treatment of an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture
      is an ACL reconstruction, whereby the residual ruptured ACL is removed and replaced by an
      autograft hamstring tendon.

      Recently, two alternative natural healing techniques have been developed and proof of concept
      have been established. The two repair techniques are: Dynamic Intraligamentary Stabilization
      (DIS) and Internal Brace Ligament Augmentation (IBLA). Both DIS and IBLA allow the rupture to
      heal by itself. The biggest difference between the two techniques is that the DIS system
      consists of a polyethylene suture and a spring screw system, which stabilizes the knee joint
      with the same force during flexion and extension of the knee, and the IBLA system consists of
      a 2mm high molecular weight polyethylene FiberTape®.

      Objective The aim is to identify the optimal ACL technique for treating an acute ACL injury
      that can deliver an enhanced clinical efficacy and economic benefit for two time frames (0-4
      weeks and 5-12 weeks) following ACL rupture.

      Study design Two separate, interventional, single-blind, comparative, multi-centre,
      randomized controlled trials (RCTs) will be conducted. The University Hospital of Antwerp
      (UHA), University Hospital of Brussels (UHB) and OLV Hospital (OLVH) are the three
      participating sites. A total of 96 patients will be included in the study, 48 for study 1 and
      48 for study 2.

      The anticipated study duration is 72 months which will include a five month starting-up
      phase, 40 month recruitment period, a 24 month follow-up period and three months for final
      analysis. The study data will be collected over three periods: pre-operative, per-operative
      and post-operative.

      To meet the aim the time-dependent nature of ACL repair surgery has to be taken into account.
      As the DIS should be performed within a short period after the ACL rupture, study 1 is
      limited to 4 weeks after ACL rupture. IBLA can be performed up to 12 weeks after ACL rupture,
      therefore the time limit for study 2 is 12 weeks after ACL rupture. ACL reconstruction is
      preferably performed when the knee has 'cooled down', and this is from 5 weeks post-rupture.
      There is no time limit for the ACL reconstruction, since this can be performed up to several
      years post-rupture.

      • Study 1: RCT 1 DIS versus IBLA within 4 weeks after the ACL rupture.

      • Study 2: RCT 2 IBLA versus the conventional ACL reconstruction between 5-12 weeks after the
      ACL rupture.

      Study population Patients with a primary acute proximal ACL rupture, below the age of 50
      years. The ACL remnant must be suitable for repair.

      Intervention The conventional ACL reconstruction, DIS or IBLA surgery.

      Main study objectives Primary outcome: Difference of 13 points in IKDC score between the
      reconstruction technique and the repair techniques (DIS/IBLA) 6 months postoperatively.

      Main secondary outcomes: Failure/re-rupture, Tegner score, Lysholm score, EQ-5D-5L, return to
      work/sport, Lachman test, Pivot Shift test and complications.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, and benefit Proof of
      concept have been established and the expected complications are similar in the three
      treatment arms. The major benefit of the alternative repair techniques is the preservation of
      the native ACL and its own proprioceptors possibly leading to a faster recovery time.
    
  