
    
      This project is to conduct an efficacy trial of Diab and Nanoswarm to assess their potential
      for minimizing T2D and obesity risks. The proposed research will be conducted in two phases,
      covering a 3-year period: implementation and evaluation phase of 2.5 years and an analysis
      phase of 0.5 years.

      Specific Aim 1: Conduct an efficacy outcome evaluation of Diab and Nano using a randomized
      clinical trial.

      Hypothesis 1: Children will decrease fasting insulin by, at least, 2μU/dl, increase FV intake
      by at least 1.0 servings/day, and increase MVPA by at least 10 min/day from baseline to up to
      3 months post baseline.

      Hypothesis 2: Diet, MVPA and fasting insulin changes will not be moderated by demographic
      characteristics (e.g. gender, age, ethnic group).

      Hypothesis 3: Fasting insulin change will be mediated by changes in diet, PA and SB.

      Hypothesis 4: Diet and PA change outcomes will be mediated by changes in child's preferences
      and intrinsic motivation for FV and PA.

      Control Intervention will be a wait list group and receive the intervention at the end of the
      5-month post assessment.

      Intervention: Children will play the games at home. Each game session should take about 45 to
      60 minutes to complete with an ability to go back and replay the non-behavior mini-games.

      Child Measures include:

        -  Fasting insulin and glucose

        -  Height, weight and waist circumference

        -  Body mass index (BMI; kg/m2) BMI %

        -  Fruit, vegetable and beverage intake by food frequency, and preferences, self efficacy,
           and intrinsic motivation

        -  Physical activity (PA) by Actigraph GT3X accelerometer and PA preferences/enjoyment,
           self efficacy, intrinsic motivation and home equipment availability

        -  Transportation/immersion/liking of video games played

        -  Social desirability to reflect giving answers that are socially acceptable or expected

      Parent Measures includes:

        -  Family demographics

        -  Food and physical activity equipment availability at home

        -  Report of if their child liked and played the video games
    
  