
    
      1. AIM: To determine effectiveness of saccharomyces boulardii as an adjuvant to scaling and
      root planing in the treatment of chronic periodontitis 2. OBJECTIVES:

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of locally delivered saccharomyces boulardii on clinical and
           microbiological parameters in the treatment of chronic periodontitis.

        2. To compare the result of scaling and root planning alone and scaling and root planing
           with locally delivered saccharomyces boulardii in patients with chronic periodontitis.

      MATERIALS AND METHODS:- A split mouth, single blind, randomized placebo controlled, clinical
      & microbiologic study was carried out in 31 patients at the department of Periodontology.
      Based on power of study i.e 95% and with alpha (α )of 0.05 the sample size finalized was 31.
      Prior approval for the study was obtained from the Local Ethical Committee. Two interdental
      suprabony pockets with 5-8mm pocket depth in two different quadrants were chosen as the test
      site (TS) and control sites (CS).

      CONSENT After the study was explained, including the benefits, risks, and alternative
      treatments, the patients signed an informed consent form indicating their agreement to
      participate in the study, and each patient was assigned a patient number in ascending order
      to maintain the masking of evaluators. Eg. First patient was given a number D1, Second D2,
      and so on.

      GROUPS This was a Phase 2 clinical trial with an Interventional model of parallel assignment
      with two arms. Hence, after screening through inclusion and exclusion criteria in single
      patient two sites were selected in contralateral quadrants through randomization. 31sites
      were included in test site and 31 sites were included in control site.

      Test Site (TS):- SRP was followed by placement of Lyophilized S boulardii in the pocket. S.
      boulardii was delivered subgingivally by by mixing 1gm of sachet containing 250mg of
      lyophilized yeast with 0.5ml of distilled water this prepared paste was injected in the perio
      pocket with luer lock syring and cannula. Periodontal pack was given in delivered area to
      maintain the mixture into the pocket and patients were advised not to brush in that area. A
      stent was prepared and probing pocket depth was measured before and after the treatment. The
      stent enabled the periodontal probe to reach the same position before and after the
      treatment, to avoid error or bias during treatment.

      Control Site (CS):- Control site received placebo i.e distilled water after scaling and root
      planning.
    
  