
    
      This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter, international trial
      enrolling patients with metastatic CRPC who had a response to first-line docetaxel therapy
      and have prostate cancer-related pain with progression of disease. The intended intervention
      is second-line treatment with docetaxel retreatment or cabazitaxel plus study agent, where
      custirsen is to be administered in the investigational arm and placebo is to be administered
      in the control arm.

      Selection of the chemotherapy (docetaxel re-treatment or cabazitaxel) is to be determined by
      the treating physician, based on the patient's first-line response.

      The study will primarily assess pain and analgesic use for evaluation of durable pain
      palliation in response to study treatment. Pain and analgesic use will be obtained via a 3rd
      party contact center (direct contact with patient).

      Study treatment starts with a Loading Dose Period during which three infusions of study agent
      (custirsen vs. placebo) will be administered. Following the Loading Dose Period, study
      treatment will consist of docetaxel or cabazitaxel on a 21-day cycle with weekly study agent
      (custirsen vs. placebo) infusions on Day 1, 8 and 15 of each 21-day cycle and oral prednisone
      BID.

      Patients will continue study treatment until pain progression, unacceptable toxicity,
      completion of 10 cycles or other specific criteria for withdrawal identified in the protocol.
      If study treatment is completed or discontinued prior to pain progression, 6-day assessments
      will continue every 3 weeks until pain progression is documented. Follow-up after study
      treatment will occur for safety parameters for 3 weeks after the last study agent infusion in
      all patients. Survival status updates are to be reported every 12 weeks following
      documentation of pain progression. The amount of time that patients remain on the study will
      vary; but the average survival of these patients who receive second line taxane treatment is
      expected to be 14 to 15 months.
    
  