
    
      Children commonly require blood taking or placement of an intravenous line for both diagnosis
      and treatment during their visit to the emergency department. The distress from needle
      puncture is a particular issue in children. The development of needle phobia can subsequently
      adversely affect the well-being of the children and their relationship with the medical
      staff. Thus reduction of pain and distress would be beneficial to patients, parents, and
      medical personnel.

      Amethocaine (tetracaine 4%) (Ametop) is another topical anaesthetic cream which was marketed
      in Canada over the last 10 years; it was developed by Dr. David Wollfson at Queen's
      University, Belfast, the cream is available in a 1.5g tube that delivers only 1 dose, at a
      cost of ($3.24). structurally it has an ester type bond (Para-amino benzoic acid) and is
      formulated as a free base to allow tetracaine to diffuse across the skin barrier and reach
      pain receptors (nociceptors) which are located below the stratum corneum (outer most layer of
      skin). It acts by inhibiting sodium ion flux across the axon membrane thus preventing the
      nociceptors from signalling pain to the central nervous system. The application time required
      for the cream is only 30 minutes, and it possesses an action time of 4 hours after removal
      from the skin. Also Amethocaine has a low risk for methemoglobinemia, therefore it can be
      used safely in neonatal period and the only disadvantage of Amethocaine cream is skin
      erythema due to vasodilatation effect.

      Liposomal lidocaine 4% cream (Maxilene, RGR Pharma, Windsor, Ontario) is another anaesthetic
      cream that was launched recently in Canada in 2003. And 5 gm tube priced is 15 $. The
      liposome-encapsulated formulation protects the anesthetic from being metabolized too quickly
      (12) It has short onset of action and minimal vasoactive properties that minimize any
      potential interference with cannulation success, and it is not associated with
      methemoglobinemia.

      As of yet, there has not been a study done in children in the Emergency Department setting
      comparing the efficacy and side effects of both Liposomal Lidocaine cream and Amethocaine
      cream. Thus, there is no evidence guiding the use of these agents in Paediatric Emergency
      care setting, Furthermore using these creams are not considered standard care for children in
      Canada, and the usual clinical practice in Canadian emergency departments is not to use local
      anesthesia creams before IV insertion or blood extraction.

      Thus, if positive the results of this study could be directly applied to changing the care of
      children in acute and emergency care setting.

      Both creams have shown considerable potential in alleviating procedure pain, but both creams
      can also cause skin effect, and thus may affect the success rate of these procedures.
      Therefore we would like to test the two creams to demonstrate the efficacy of these two
      creams in controlling pain. As Liposomal Lidocaine is believed to have fewer side and skin
      effects than Amethocaine, it's possible that the success rate may be better with Liposomal
      Lidocaine than with Amethocaine cream and thus would be preferred agent for use for children
      in the Emergency and acute care setting.
    
  