
    
      Nordic Musculoskeletal Questionnaire: It is a scale that evaluates whether symptoms of pain,
      pain and discomfort have been experienced in the neck, shoulder, elbow, hand-wrist, waist,
      back, hip-thigh, knee-foot-ankle regions during the last 12 months and whether ordinary
      indoor and outdoor activities are hampered by these symptoms and whether there has been pain
      in the mentioned body areas for the last 7 days. It consists of 27 items and each item is
      answered as yes / no.

      Occupational Fatigue Exhaustion Recovery Scale: It is a scale developed to measure
      occupational fatigue. It consists of 15 items in total and 3 sub-dimensions evaluating
      chronic fatigue (questions 1-5), acute fatigue (questions 6-10) and recovery (questions
      11-15). Each item is scored between 0-6 points (0 = Strongly Disagree, 1 = Disagree, 2 =
      Somewhat Disagree, 3 = Neither agree nor disagree, 4 = slightly agree, 5 = Agree, 6 =
      Strongly Agree) by the participants. High scores in the chronic and acute fatigue
      sub-dimensions mean higher occupational fatigue, and higher scores in the recovery
      sub-dimension mean better recovery between working periods.

      Sleep Hygiene Index: It is a scale that evaluates sleep hygiene. The frequencies of sleep
      hygiene-related behaviors are questioned in a total of 13 items with a Likert-type scale
      where each item is scored between 0 and 4 (0 = never, 1 = rarely, 3 = sometimes, 4 = often, 5
      = always). Higher scores indicate worse sleep hygiene.

      WHOQOL-BREF-TR: It is a scale that evaluates the well-being of individuals in 4 sub-areas in
      which physical health, psychological status, social relations and environmental conditions
      are questioned, and their general quality of life and health status with one question. Each
      item is scored on a 1-5 Likert-type scale. Sub-domain scores represent the quality of life in
      their field independently of each other. Higher scores indicate better quality of life.
    
  