
    
      Background:

      Toddler's fractures (TF) are characterized as stable, spiral or oblique fractures of the
      tibial diaphysis or distal metaphysis that mainly occur in children between nine months and
      four years of age. Despite its inherent stability, the most frequent treatment option remains
      an above/below knee casting for three to six weeks, without clear and strong evidence to do
      so. Casting and orthopedic follow-up results in further burden including unnecessary visits
      to an orthopedic surgeon, additional sets of lower extremity radiographs and day-to-day
      inconveniences/complications (e.g. bathing/showering, problems of fit, breakage, and skin
      related complications). Commercially available removable immobilization devices have been
      applied successfully to low-risk stable extremity pediatric fractures, and have numerous
      advantages over conventional immobilization with casts (e.g. easy care, comfort and
      application/removal convenience) but have not properly been studied in the management of TF.

      Study Aims:

      To compare the recovery of children with TF when treated with a commercial, removable
      immobilization device versus an above-knee walking fiberglass cast.

      Hypothesis:

      The removable pediatric walking boot will be at least as effective as the walking above-knee
      cast with respect to pain with ambulation as measured by the EVENDOL scale at four weeks
      after injury.

      Research Design:

      This is a multi-centre, two-arm, non-inferiority randomized control trial. All independently
      weight-bearing children age 9 months to 4 years who present to the ED within five days of a
      lower extremity injury/complaint and diagnosed clinically and radiolographically with an
      accidental TF will be eligible for enrolment. Study participants will be randomly assigned to
      receive either a removable below knee device or a circumferential walking cast. The main
      outcome will be pain with ambulation as measured by the EVENDOL pain scale at four weeks.
      Complications, day-to-day burdens, unscheduled visits will be ascertained, as the impact and
      satisfaction with the treatment device. Accounting to a maximal 20% drop-off rate, a sample
      size of 160 participants was calculated to have a power of 90% to identify a difference of 2
      with an alpha value of 0.025. About one-third of participants will be recruited at CHU
      Sainte-Justine (n=54).

      Relevance:

      Current practice patterns predominately include treatment with a circumferential cast for
      several weeks. This type of rigid immobilization is likely unnecessary for such a stable
      injury. However, the research to date comparing casting with removable devices in children
      with TF has significant limitations and has not been of sufficient quality to change the
      immobilization and follow-up practice of TF. Specifically, retrospective design and analyses
      of data collected for a different purpose is subject to methodological limitations such as
      bias, missing data, and inconsistent measurement of outcomes. Further, these data have
      typically been limited to a single site, limiting generalizability. Other research has
      gathered data using surveys, which is limited by the fact that what physicians say they do
      does not necessarily represent what they actually do, and hence does not necessarily
      accurately represent clinical practice or outcomes. Finally, no research to date has
      considered the perspectives of families who need to care for these injured toddlers at home.
      Therefore, to secure the confidence of all relevant stakeholders, we need to provide high
      quality evidence to determine the most effective and convenient management strategy for this
      common childhood injury. If we can demonstrate that a removable device is at least as safe
      and effective as a circumferential cast in the treatment of TF, there are likely to be
      similar benefits for these fractures as it has been found with other minor pediatric
      fractures (e.g. comfort/convenience, safety, recovery, and cost-effectiveness advantages). As
      this is a common injury in childhood, the use of a removable device to manage this injury is
      highly likely to result in lower morbidity and save costs for the health care system and
      population, and these advantages will also generalize nationally and internationally.
    
  