
    
      Study aims are to:

        -  Investigate the intervention feasibility (capability of being done, carried out, and
           objectives accomplished), accessibility, acceptability, usefulness, safety, and cost.

        -  Explore the effect of the GP intervention on outcomes within and between groups and over
           time.

      Sample and Groups:

      Parents will be recruited to the study either following a prenatal or postnatal diagnosis of
      a complex congenital heart defect. 36 families will be recruited and then computer randomized
      to either the GP or usual care (UC) groups in a 2:1 ratio, with a goal of 30 families
      completing the study (20 GP families, 10, UC families). Six of the families will be enrolled
      at American Family Children's Hospital (Madison, WI) (AFCH), with the rest enrolled at CHW.
      Each participating parent couple will receive an electronic tablet that will be the couple's
      to keep. A library of published materials from the UW-Health Sciences Library about infant
      care has been installed on the Tablets for both groups.

      GP couples' participation together in development of communication competencies in the
      context of infant care will be supported by a handbook that is installed on the tablet as
      well as being given to parents in hard copy, and by telephone guidance, structured for
      collaboration with the nurse/research assistant beginning at approximately 2 weeks of age.
      Two face-to-face sessions are expected prior to hospital discharge, followed by 5 or 6
      monthly phone sessions. If the baby is inpatient at the time an intervention session is to
      take place, the session may be done face-to-face, if more convenient than a phone session for
      the parents.

      For both GP and UC groups, data will be collected prior to the infant's discharge from the
      hospital and at 2 and 6 months after the infant's birth. Two severity of infant illness
      scores will be computed by a pediatric cardiologist, the first for the neonatal period and
      the second when the infant is 6 months old. The data collections plus a monthly phone call to
      learn about infant and family changes make the UC group an attention control group.

      A survey regarding use of the materials supplied as part of the study and the couple's
      communication will be collected at 4 time points from parents in both groups. Baseline and
      soon after the baby begins oral feeding (up to to one week, both before hospital discharge)
      and, 2 months and 6 months (both at home, 6 months is end of study).

      Each data collection visit will include:

        -  self-report surveys

        -  assessment of heart-rate variability (HRV)

        -  an initial 20-minute interview about what the parents are experiencing and working on as
           parents, how they are managing stressors, and how caregiving is going

        -  an infant feeding of usual length

        -  an approximately 30-minute interview concerning the parents' internal working model of
           feeding, parenting communication and co-parenting pattern

        -  a couple problem-solving session with two 7-minute problems, each followed by
           independent evaluation of the problem session by each parent

        -  following each visit, data will be obtained from the infant's electronic health record

             -  anthropometric data (weight, length, head circumference)

             -  illness and treatments

             -  medical procedures

             -  neurodevelopmental progress

      The feeding and the problem solving will be video recorded for in-laboratory coding.
    
  