
    
      The carotid stenosis was one of the higher risk of the ischemia stroke in China.In the mean
      time ,more and more people accept revascularization because of carotid stenosis.NASCAT
      indicated that CEA is the "golden standard" of the therapy of the carotid stenosis.But in
      china , case the opposite,only little patient receive CEA,on the other hand , most patients
      received angioplasty.

      Expected no less than 2100 cases within 2 years for the whole study. We choose 39 hospitals
      whose experienced in CAS or/and CEA spread all over the country as multiple centers for this
      clinic registration study. All cases inclusion must be continuously registration.

      The subject choice:All registered patients must be signed informed consent to register for
      non intrusive research this study ,the researchers during the study period should be
      continuous registration in patients undergoing surgical treatment of carotid stenosis, to
      ensure that the selected participants reflect the target patient population.

      Medical Center choice: This research for the study of the registration, therefore, when the
      choice, all the medical center will be based on market research data.

      Primary endpoint or the main aim of this registration study is to observe the following
      details:

        1. The participants who suffer from stroke(ischemic or hemorrhagic), death or
           cardiovascular events within 30 days after any revascularization procedure.

        2. The participants who suffer from ipsilateral stroke(ischemic or hemorrhagic) or death
           beyond 30 days to 12 months after any revascularization procedure.

      Secondary endpoint or the other aims of this registration study:

        1. Success rate of any procedure (CAS or CEA).

        2. postoperative complications, including hyperperfusion syndrome,TIA, ipsilateral
           infarction, vascular dissection and other adverse events.

        3. To observe the rate of restenosis during follow-up.

        4. Stroke in patients with TIA mainly heart attacks and other cardiovascular events during
           follow-up.

        5. Changes of the patients with mRS NIHSS Barthel Index score.

        6. Postoperative patients with drug use.

        7. Patient survival after 12 months.

        8. Patients hospitalized cost during follow-up.

      This study does not need to be random. The study is expected to begin in July 2013 in the
      first, participants in the group stage for two years, to the end of June 2015 into the group
      of patients after surgery, follow-up of at least 12 months after the last case the
      participants into groups and followed up for 12 months, is expected to be completed in June
      2015.
    
  