
    
      Clinical tests: Each subject will be assessed using the following tests:

      National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS): The NIHSS is part of the usual highly
      standardized stroke workup. It consists of 15 items which can be scored with 0 to 4 points
      maximum. It is used to measure stroke severity as well as impairment and to detect
      improvement or deterioration of the patient. A high score corresponds to a severe stroke.

      FMA for UE and sensory system: The FMA for the UE and the sensory system describes the
      sensory-motor impairment of the arm after stroke. It consists of 66 items for the motor
      function of the UE and 24 items for the sensory function scored from 0 to 2. A high score
      corresponds to high function. It is not part of the usual stroke workup. The change of the
      FMA for UE after 90 days compared to the first score obtained on the stroke unit during the
      acute phase of the stroke event will serve as the primary endpoint of this study.

      Shoulder abduction finger extension (SAFE) score: To calculate the SAFE score shoulder
      abduction and finger extension is measured using the classification of the British Medical
      Research Council (MRC). The MRC scale scores muscle strength from 0 (no movement) to 5
      (normal power). The scores are added up producing a value from 0 to 10. A score of 5 or more
      predicts a good or excellent outcome after stroke affecting the UE. It is not part of the
      usual stroke workup.

      Grip strength: The grip strength can be quantified using a dynamometer. The best out of three
      trials counts. It is not part of the usual stroke workup.

      Bells test: The Bells test assesses neglect by requesting the subjects to cross all the bells
      (n = 35) which are mixed with distractors. Missing 5 bells counts as evidence for neglect. It
      is not part of the usual stroke workup.

      Aphasie-Schnelltest (AST): The AST is a short test for patients with acute aphasia scored
      from 0 to 31 and inspecting comprehension, talking, reading, and writing. A low score
      reflects severe aphasia. It is not part of the usual stroke workup.

      mRS: The mRS is a widely used test to determine impairment and dependency after stroke on a
      scale ranging from 0 (no symptoms) over 1 (symptoms but no disability), 2 (slight
      disability), 3 (requires help, but can walk without assistance), 4 (cannot walk without
      assistance), 5 (bedridden, severe disability, requires constant nursing) to 6 (death). It is
      part of the usual stroke workup.

      Barthel Index (BI): Like the mRS the BI is part of the usual stroke workup. It measures
      abilities of daily living. The items can be scored from 0 to 15 points maximum, adding up to
      0 to 100 points. A high score reflects high independency.

      Action Research Arm Test (ARAT): The ARAT assesses the range of activity of the UE after
      stroke. It consists of the subscales grasp, grip, pinch and gross movements which are scored
      from 0 (no movement) over 1 (movement only partially possible), 2 (movement possible but only
      with great difficulty or needing much time) to 3 (normal movement), adding up to 57 points
      maximum. A score with less than 10 points reflects severe impairment. It is not part of the
      usual stroke workup.

      Stroke Specific Quality Of Life scale (SS-QOL): The SS-QOL measures health related quality of
      life. It consists of 49 items which are scored from 1 to 5, adding up to 29-245 points. A
      high score reflects high quality of life. It is not part of the usual stroke workup.

      Beck's Depression Inventory (BDI): The BDI is a depression screening tool consisting of 21
      items which are scored from 0 to 3, adding up to 0 to 63 points. A high score reflects high
      possibility of depression, the threshold for a diagnosis of depression is 10. It is not part
      of the usual stroke workup.

      Apart from the clinical tests described above clinical data (e. g. vital parameters,
      medication etc.) will be collected. In the Universitätsklinikum Tübingen (UKT) this data will
      be retrieved automatically from the clinic system. In the rehabilitation facilities number
      and duration of therapies as well as independent training of the patient will be documented
      and classified according to the type of neurorehabilitative training (e. g., with or without
      equipment). In addition, therapy-influencing co-factors like support by relatives are
      registered using a questionnaire with a scale from 0-3 (never/very poor to daily/very good).

      Laboratory workup: Routine laboratory workup as part of the usual stroke workup will be
      collected.

      Imaging: For each subject neuroimaging is acquired. If possible and meaningful, MRI is
      conducted including diffusion weighted imaging (DWI), fluid attenuated inversion recovery
      (FLAIR) and a Magnetic Prepared-Rapid Gradient Echo (MP-Rage) sequence. The first two
      sequences are part of the usual stroke workup, the MP-RAGE sequence is added to obtain a 3D
      anatomical data set for exact assessment of the localization and volume estimation of the
      stroke lesion.

      The MRI images will be acquired at a 1,5 or 3 Tesla MRI scanner in the neuroradiological
      department of the UKT. The patient is placed in the scanner with earplugs and an emergency
      ball. Visual and verbal contact to the patient is maintained from the control room. Before
      scanning, patients are always evaluated by a medical doctor for MRI contraindications.

      If an MRI is neither meaningful nor available or there are contraindications, a cranial
      computed tomography (CT) in the neuroradiological department will be performed. CTs are part
      of the usual stroke work-up, there will be no additional scanning apart from what is
      clinically necessary.

      Functional MRI (fMRI): fMRI measures the blood-oxygenation-level dependent effect e. g.
      corresponding to specific task like moving the hand (task-related fMRI). Resting-state MRI
      determines functional brain networks of synchronized neural activity while the subject is
      resting (i.e. not performing a task). Resting-state fMRI and task-related fMRI will provide
      information about functional and effective connectivity, respectively. fMRI is not part of
      the usual stroke workup and requires additional scanning.

      The fMRI images will be acquired at a Siemens 3 Tesla MRI scanner in the MRI Research Center
      of Tübingen (Department Biomedizinische Magnetresonanz, Prof. Dr. phil. nat. Dipl.-Phys.
      Klaus Scheffler, Hoppe-Seyler-Str. 3, 72076 Tübingen). The patient is placed in the scanner
      with earplugs and an emergency ball. Visual and verbal contact to the patient is maintained
      from the control room. No drugs or contrast agents are used during fMRI examinations.

      For the task-related fMRI the patient will be asked to perform stereotypical whole-hand fist
      closings.

      Patients are evaluated by a medical doctor for MRI contra-indications and need to give
      written informed consent before the scan. The investigators do not consider dental retainer
      wires over four teeth at most a contraindication. However, subjects will be informed
      additionally about current scientific consent and instructed to press the emergency ball in
      the unexpected case of heating of the retainer wire.

      EEG: Resting-state EEG will be obtained using a 21-channel or 64-channel gel filled sintered
      ring electrode EEG cap (EasyCap, Munich, Germany) using the same optically isolated amplifier
      as described above (MEGA NeurOne Tesla, Kuopio, Finland). EEG will be recorded with eyes
      closed and eyes open for three minutes each in the same session in which the TEP and MEPs
      (described below) are acquired. EEG will always be performed before TMS (needed for TEPs and
      MEPs). If epileptic potentials are detected in EEG indicating an increased risk of seizure in
      the patient, TMS will not be conducted.

      Electrooculography (EOG): Eye movements will be recorded from additional bipolar channels
      using the same optically isolated amplifier as for electromyography (EMG) and EEG recordings
      (MEGA NeurOne Tesla, see above). The EOG data will be used to aid EEG artefact rejection from
      eye movements and as a behavioral readout in saccade and decision tasks.

      TMS: TMS is a technique which evokes action potentials in cortex with a spatiotemporal
      precision of millimeters and milliseconds. Conventional TMS stimulators (Mag & More, Munich,
      Germany, Research 100; Magstim 200 als BiStim bzw. 1-4 Quadripulse Option; Magstim Super
      Rapid Plus) and EEG compatible coils will be used. Experiments will be MRI-guided, using a
      TMS navigator system (Localite GmbH) to map the exact individual stimulation sites. Subjects
      will be seated on a comfortable reclining chair with both arms relaxed.

      EMG/MEP: Surface EMG will be obtained through an optically isolated battery powered biosignal
      amplifier (MEGA NeurOne Tesla, see above) using bipolar electrodes from hand muscles (first
      dorsal interosseous and abductor pollicis brevis extensor capri radialis muscles). MEPs are
      executed with pre-innervation of the target muscle or - if not possible - the contralateral
      side and maximum stimulator output (if required) to determine if the patient is MEP- or MEP+
      (at least 50 μV peak-to-peak amplitude in the target muscle in at least 5 out of 10
      consecutive trials). In case of MEP-, a paired-pulse protocol is conducted, which increases
      the probability to evoke a MEP and consecutively re-classify the subject as MEP+.

      EEG/TEP: TEPs will be recorded with a TMS-compatible gel filled sintered ring electrode EEG
      cap with at least 64 channels (EasyCap, Munich, Germany) using the same optically isolated
      amplifier as described above (MEGA NeurOne Tesla, see above). During the EEG recordings at
      least 100 trials of single TMS pulses are applied to the motor hotspot of the ipsilesional M1
      with a randomly jittered inter-trial interval of 7-8.0 s with 80% resting motor threshold
      (RMT). RMT is defined as stimulus intensity needed to evoke MEPs of 50 μV peak-to-peak
      amplitude in the target muscle in at least 5 out of 10 consecutive trials and will be
      determined for ipsilesional and contralesional M1. If no MEPs are detectable from the
      ipsilesional M1, the investigators will use the contralesional M1 for determining RMT and
      stimulator output and anatomical landmarks like the hand knob for locating the hotspot. To
      avoid auditory evoked potentials from the clicking noise of the coil patients will wear
      earplugs. Bone conductions is prevented by placing a thin layer of plastic film between the
      TMS coil and the EEG cap.

      List of measurements which are part of the usual stroke workup:

        -  Clinical tests: NIHSS, mRS, BI

        -  Routine laboratory workup

        -  Imaging: CT or MRI (depending on medical indication)

      List of measurements which are not part of the usual stroke workup:

        -  Clinical tests: FMA for UE and the sensory system, SAFE score, grip strength, Bells
           Test, AST, ARAT, SS-QOL scale, BDI

        -  Imaging: fMRI

        -  Electrophysiological measurements: EEG, MEPs, TEPs

      Endpoints

      Primary endpoint: Change in FMA of UE 3 months after the stroke event compared to FMA of UE
      within the first 25-48 hours after stroke onset.

      Secondary end points: Secondary endpoints will be quality of life, independency and range of
      activity of the UE measured by SS-QOL, mRS, BI and ARAT respectively 3 months after the
      stroke event compared to the respective values obtained in the acute phase.

      Subject inclusion and exclusion criteria

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Subject is 18 years or above.

        -  Subject has an acute stroke affecting one UE (FMA less than 50).

        -  Subject or caregiver understands the study and its procedures and gives informed
           consent.

        -  If the subject is not able to give informed consent:

           o The assumed will of the patient is to be determined by the patient's provision (if
           existing), the health care proxy (if existing) and/or the moral concepts expressed by
           the patient to close relatives.

        -  o The legal representative gives informed consent because participation is the assumed
           will of the patient as assessed by the aforementioned points.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Subject is less than 18 years old.

        -  The subject does not have an acute stroke, or stroke does not affect the UE, or FMA >
           50.

        -  Subject or caregiver legal representative cannot give informed consent.

        -  Patient has an intracranial implant (e.g., aneurysm clips, shunts, stimulators, cochlear
           implants, or electrodes) or any other metal object within or near the head (excluding
           the mouth) that cannot be safely removed.

        -  Subject has a history of any illness that, in the opinion of the study investigator,
           might confound the results of the study or poses an additional risk to the subject by
           their participation in the study.

        -  There is any concern by the investigator regarding the safe participation of the subject
           in the study, or for any other reason the investigator considers the subject
           inappropriate for participation in the study.

        -  Subject is pregnant.
    
  