
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive genetic disease. Although it is a monogenetic
      type of disease, its phenotype varies widely. CF is characterized by progressive lung
      disease, malabsorption of fat and protein, fatty stools, pancreatic insufficiency resulting
      in gastrointestinal malabsorption, intestinal abnormalities resulting in malnutrition, growth
      retardation, sinusitis, and diabetes. The most important problems seen in patients are
      excessive secretion, decreased exercise capacity, dyspnea and muscle strength loss. Exercise
      capacity, respiratory functions, respiratory and peripheral muscle strength, respiratory
      muscle endurance, balance, physical activity, quality of life are poor in cystic fibrosis
      patients.There are insufficient studies on this subject in the literature. The number of
      studies using objective method is few. Cystic fibrosis patients have upper extremity muscle
      weakness. There is no study on the evaluation of upper extremity exercise capacity in these
      patients in the literature. Even if patients with CF have normal pulmonary function test
      results, there are studies showing that exercise intolerance has developed. These reasons
      have revealed the need to investigate oxygen metabolism at the cellular level.There are only
      two studies in the literature evaluating muscle oxygenation in patients with cystic fibrosis.
      There is no study evaluating with a "Moxy" monitor.The primary aim of the study is to
      evaluate upper extremity exercise capacity, muscle oxygenation, balance and physical activity
      level in patients with cystic fibrosis.. The secondary aim of the study is assessment of
      functional exercise capacity, respiratory function, peripheral and respiratory muscle
      strength, respiratory muscle endurance, quality of life in patients with cystic fibrosis and
      compare them with healthy controls.

      The study was planned cross-sectional. At least 30 cystic fibrosis patients and 30 age- and
      sex-matched healthy controls will be included in the study. Individuals' exercise capacity,
      respiratory functions, physical activity levels, balance assessments, peripheral and
      respiratory muscle strength, respiratory muscle endurance, muscle oxygenation and quality of
      life will be evaluated. Upper extremity exercise capacity will be assessed using six minute
      pegboard ring test, functional exercise capacity using six minute walk test, muscle
      oxygenation using "Moxy" monitor, balance using "Biodex Balance System®" and Y balance test,
      physical activity using multi-sensor activity monitor, pulmonary function using spirometry,
      respiratory muscle strength using mouth pressure device, peripheral muscle strength using
      hand held dynamometer, respiratory muscle endurance using incremental threshold loading test,
      life quality using "The Revised Cystic Fibrosis Questionnaire (CFQ-R)" (Turkish version). The
      assessments will be completed in two days.
    
  