
    
      Theory Research question: Does nasal CPAP abolish postoperative hypoxia and lung function
      decline after abdominal surgery?

      Methods This is a randomized controlled trial with an allocation ratio of 1:1. Half of the
      patients are randomized to CPAP and half to routine medical care. Randomization is generated
      by a computer program and handled by a person outside the study. Randomization procedure is
      documented by the contact person and in the patient's study protocol.

      Include are one hundred and twenty patients age 18-80 years old, scheduled for abdominal
      surgery at Umeå university hospital. Excluded are patients with American Society of
      Anesthesia (ASA) class 2-3 and patients with cognitive impairment or dementia, unable to
      participate. Patients with ongoing CPAP treatment are not randomized. Instead, they form a
      separate group with ongoing CPAP after surgery

      The primary outcome is oxygen partial pressure (PaO2) measured on postoperative day 2
      compared with the day before surgery.

      Secondary outcomes include diffusion capacity for carbon-monoxide, vital capacity, FEV1 and
      carbon-dioxide partial pressure (PaCO2) on postoperative day 2 compared with the day before
      surgery.

      PaO2 and PaCO2 are recorded from blood gas measurements obtained from the radial artery.
      Percentage of nocturnal hypoxia defined as the percentage of oxygen saturation during 90% of
      the second postoperative night. Tolerance to CPAP measured by the number of hours used CPAP.
      Side effects related to CPAP.

      All patients are examined with a simplified sleep apnea examination (Noxturnal T3, Res Med)
      the night before surgery.

      A need of 35 patients in each arm was estimated to detect a difference in mean (SD) in PaO2
      of 1 (1.5) kilo Pascal with a significance of p<0.05 and a power of 80%. Due to dropouts, it
      is estimated a need to include and randomize 120 patients.

      Patients in the CPAP treated group are given an auto-CPAP that can increase the pressure
      during respiratory arrest (AirSense 10 AutoSet, ResMed Inc) including a silicone nasal mask.
      It is set with a minimum pressure of 5 cm and a maximum pressure of 10 cm during instruction
      on the day before surgery. Pressure and mask are tested by trained personnel at the Lung
      section so that both pressure and mask are comfortable and can be tolerated by the patient.
      Immediately after surgery they will be given CPAP for at least 2 hours immediately after
      surgery and during the first two postoperative nights. Oxygen is supplied to CPAP if oxygen
      saturation falls below 90%.

      Patients in the control group receive standard treatment and supplemental oxygen if oxygen
      saturation falls below 90%

      Included in a third arm are patients who already are using CPAP at night at home for
      previously diagnosed obstructive sleep apnea. They are instructed to use CPAP for 2 hours
      immediately after surgery and subsequent nights during hospital stay.
    
  