
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I.Our primary outcome for the purposes of the pilot study will be to describe recruitment in
      terms of accrual (number of subjects who agree to participate) and compliance (number of
      patients who follow up with the obesity referral). This will be described in terms of a
      specific number as well as a rate.

        -  Accrual rate is the number of women accrued divided by the number of women approached
           for the study.

        -  Compliance rate is the number of women who comply with the referral divided by the
           number of women accrued.

      Several secondary outcomes will be described:

        -  Weight loss at 12 & 24 months.

        -  Obesity interventions implemented (medical, surgical, behavioral, and selfguided)

        -  The incidence of obesity related comorbidities at baseline and 12 and 24 months
           (myocardial infarction, venous thromboembolism, stroke, diabetes and hypertension.)

        -  Cancer specific outcomes (recurrence rate, progression free survival).

        -  Mortality otucomes (Overall survival, cause of death)

        -  In patients with diabetes, we will record the number of diabetic medications required
           and the most recent hemoglobin A1C.

        -  In patients with hypertension, we will record the number of antihypertensive medications
           required

        -  We will assess the level of functioning, quality of life and symptomatology of women at
           baseline, 12 and 24 months using the EORTC-QLQ-C30 and EORTC-QLQ-EN24.

             -  Primary and secondary outcomes will be compared in relation to the timing of the
                referral by the gynecologic oncologist (within 1 year or greater than 1 year out
                from the endometrial cancer/hyperplasia diagnosis).

             -  Secondary outcomes of subjects included in this study will be compared to a
                historic cohort matches for age, stage and BMI in a 2:1 fashion.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients are referred to a weight loss specialist for assistance with weight loss and chart
      reviews are performed at baseline and every 3 months for 24 months. Patients complete the
      European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC)-Quality of Life
      Questionnaire (QLQ)-Cancer (C)30 and EORTC-QLQ-Endometrial Cancer (EN)24 at baseline, 12, and
      24 months. Patients are also contacted at 90 days to determine whether they have initiated
      any weight loss interventions.
    
  