
    
      This is a longitudinal, non-randomized clinical trial to assess the biology of AT after the
      use of cryolipolysis. The study will be developed at "Clinica Dra Ligia Colucci" in
      partnership with the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG). The project will be submitted
      for evaluation by the Research Ethics Committee (COEP / UFMG). All participants must sign the
      informed consent form (ICF), before the study begins.

      The experimental design will consist of five stages. Initially, women will be public
      recruitment. Through telephone contact, the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be
      verified, and volunteers who meet the criteria will be invited to attend the clinic for the
      first stage of the study. The presentation of the research, will be carried out 7 days before
      the beginning of the treatment, will consist of presenting the project to the volunteers,
      explaining all the risks and benefits related to the study and request the signature of the
      ICF. After 7 days, the volunteers must return to the clinic, then start the study. In the
      initial evaluation, an anamnesis of the volunteers will be carried out with a standardized
      form, including socioeconomic and clinical data, data on the use of medications, alcohol
      consumption, physical activity and food consumption. In addition, anthropometric assessments
      will be performed where weight, height, waist, abdominal and hip circumference will be
      measured. Ultrasonography will also be performed; the abdominal region will be photographed
      and blood will be collected to measure lipolytic and inflammatory markers and a biopsy of the
      subcutaneous WAT in the lower abdomen via umbilical scar. In addition, questionnaires will be
      applied to check the volunteers' satisfaction with the treatment. After 30 days, the
      volunteers must return to the clinic for time 0 (T0), where anthropometric assessments will
      be repeated as control variables. Ultrasound and blood collection will also be performed.
      Then the volunteers will be submitted to cryolipolysis in the abdominal region by the
      Coolsculpting® system. After 3 days of performing the Coolsculpting® procedure, the
      volunteers must return to the clinic for time 3 (T3), to perform a new biopsy of the
      subcutaneous WAT in the lower abdomen via the umbilical scar. After 60 days of the
      cryolipolysis, the volunteers must return to the clinic for the time 60 (T60), where all the
      evaluations of the initial evaluation will be carried out again and a personal satisfaction
      questionnaire will be applied in relation to the result of the procedure. Therefore, the
      study will total 97 days of monitoring of women, who will be instructed to maintain healthy
      lifestyle habits, according to the conventional lifestyle of each one of them. The data,
      images and biological materials (blood and adipose tissue biopsy) collected in the research
      will be filed with the researcher responsible for a period of 5 (five) years at the
      Experimental Nutrition Laboratory, room 315, of the UFMG School of Nursing and after that
      time will be destroyed. In case of occurrence of paradoxical adipose hyperplasia after the
      procedure, a case study of the possible affected patients will be carried out.
    
  