
    
      Patients harbouring tumours with functional O6 methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) DNA
      repair enzyme efficiently repair the DNA damage inflicted by Temozolomide and gain limited
      benefit from this chemotherapy. Bortezomib depletes the MGMT enzyme, restoring the tumour´s
      susceptibility to Temozolomide, if the chemotherapy is administered in the precise schedule
      when the MGMT enzyme is depleted. Additionally, Bortezomib inhibits the growth of tumour
      cells by blocking autophagy flux. Temozolomide causes genotoxic stress in cancer cells that
      in turn respond by inducing protective processes such as autophagy. If both autophagy and
      MGMT DNA repair enzyme are blocked a priori, the efficacy of Temozolomide will be enhanced.
      Thus, pre-treating the tumour with Bortezomib prior to administration of Temozolomide leads
      to DNA repair enzyme depletion and blockade of autophagy-induced survival signals. The
      combined effect will sensitize the tumour to therapy, improve chemotherapy efficacy and
      prolong patient survival outcomes.

      Hypothesis: Pretreatment with Bortezomib administered prior to Temozolomide will sensitize
      recurrent GBM with unmethylated MGMT promoter to standard TMZ in palliative setting.

      Objective:

        -  Assessment of safety and tolerability of Bortezomib administered with Temozolomide.

        -  Determining the optimal dose of TMZ, when administered as combination therapy

        -  Estimate the progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients with
           recurrent or progressed glioblastoma after pre-treatment with Bortezomib prior to
           combination with Temozolomide.

      Key secondary objectives

        -  Tumour response to the therapy assessed by RANO and NANO criteria

        -  Determine physiological, molecular and biochemical changes in blood and tumour tissue
           that correlate with treatment responses.
    
  