
    
      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to test the hypotheses that direct infusion of
      the brain (convection enhanced delivery) with neurotransmitter receptor agonists is 1) safe
      and 2) can be used to study the basic pathophysiology of the epileptic focus in human
      subjects. The approach described may be a new approach for precise localization of a seizure
      focus. It may also prove to indicate the distribution of suppression (in space) required for
      elimination of seizure activity in individual patients and, by doing so, may more accurately
      define the minimum treatment area that is required for success. Finally, the data obtained
      may support the treatment of patients with medically intractable epilepsy with
      neurotransmitter-specific agents infused directly into the epileptic focus.

      Study Population: The study population will include adult patients with medically intractable
      epilepsy who are candidates for surgical resection of their epileptic region.

      Design: Adult patients who are candidates for standard surgical care for medically
      intractable epilepsy will undergo standard noninvasive evaluation to identify the location of
      the seizure focus. After surface EEG confirms the side and approximate location of the
      seizure focus, a depth electrode with a central lumen will be placed in the seizure focus for
      the purpose of this research study. The lumen in the depth electrode will be used to deliver
      vehicle (artificial cerebrospinal fluid) or muscimol, a neurotransmitter (gamma-aminobutyric
      acid, GABA) receptor agonist that suppresses neuronal activity. During the infusion trials,
      patients will be monitored by neurologic examination and by video-EEG. Following the trials,
      the epileptic focus will be resected, which is standard care for medically intractable
      epilepsy, and the surgical specimen will be examined for any histological changes caused by
      the infusions.

      Outcome Measures: Basic pathophysiology of the epileptic focus will be examined by assessing
      the effect of the infusion on seizure frequency (the primary end point), EEG recordings,
      motor function, and visual object naming. Safety will be assessed by neurologic examination
      and by pathologic examination (gross and microscopic) of the resected surgical specimen
      (presence or absence of infusion-induced injury).
    
  