
    
      Although 80% of children with cancer will be cured of their primary disease, at least 70% of
      survivors will develop chronic medical, neurocognitive, and/or emotional conditions as a
      complication of their therapy. Most of these conditions are amenable to prevention and early
      intervention. In response, the Institute of Medicine strongly advised that all cancer
      patients should receive survivorship care with the following key elements: 1) a summary of
      previous cancer therapy, 2) individualized life-long screening for potential adverse
      therapy-related effects, and 3) education regarding desirable health behaviors. However, less
      than 30% of survivors receive recommended care. There is a tremendous need for research that
      addresses how to best implement evidence-based recommendations for this population.

      Two main health care delivery models have been advocated for survivorship care, but no
      comparison studies exist. The first model is a specialty survivor clinic, usually at a cancer
      treatment center. The second model, termed the empowered primary care model, involves
      patients receiving an individualized "prescription" for follow-up care prepared by a cancer
      survivor specialist to be implemented by the primary care doctor. Each model poses unique
      strengths and weaknesses. Specialty survivor clinics can be expensive and geographically
      inaccessible, can cause anxiety and stress to patients, and can accommodate limited numbers
      of patients. Primary care doctors may lack adequate expertise and time for these complex
      patients. Unless we know how these approaches compare with regard to quality of care and
      risks, advocates and policy makers will be stymied in their efforts to support the health
      needs of cancer survivors. This study seeks to compare subjects randomized to the empowered
      primary care model vs. a specialty survivor clinic.
    
  