
    
      Modern balance function assessment includes Electronystagmography and more recently,
      videonystagmography (ENG/VNG) to assess vertigo, dizziness, and imbalance. Additionally,
      vestibular-evoked myogenic potentials (VEMP), rotational testing, and computerized dynamic
      posturography (CDP) are very useful in evaluating multi-sensory integration of vision,
      somatosensory, and vestibular system function. VNG records eye movements using digital video
      image technology employing infrared illumination to determine eye position. The use of VNG
      enables simultaneous subjective observation of eye movements together with objective data
      collection and analysis of eye movement waveforms via computer algorithms. More recently
      vestibular function has been tested in rotational chair devices. These devices utilize VNG
      goggles and perform many of the same testes done in a traditional VNG test but adds tests
      that involve moving the body (and with the body the head) through a variety of motion
      paradigms. Eye response to these body/head accelerations are recorded and abnormalities can
      be plotted against established norms. This technology is useful but involves a large and
      expensive piece of equipment in a dedicated vestibular lab. As a result portable devices have
      been developed that perform many of the same functions that the chair performs. Head to head
      comparisons between rotational chair testing and portable vestibulo-ocular reflex gain and
      phase testing have shown consistent results between modalities. Portable vestibular testing
      has thus become a reality, allowing physicians and audiologists the ability to test subjects
      outside of the typical clinical setting and in a variety of environments and conditions.

      With the development of any new technology a number of elements of the device have to be
      tested. This study's results indicated a degree of post-prandial slowing in saccade
      parameters, however the study's retrospective design did not facilitate understanding whether
      this effect was due to slowing of metabolism post-prandially or to variability in circadian
      rhythm. One additional important question when considering portable vestibular testing is
      whether subjects may demonstrate improved performance on repeat portable testing due to
      learning effect. If present this may represent the significant influence of psychosomatic
      factors on this modality of vestibular testing.

      Beyond the need to establish the test re-test reliability of portable test recordings it is
      important to evaluate the status of patients after testing. To examine the effects of the
      tests on individuals after completing the test a fourth specific aim has been aided. In this
      aim volunteers will be testing with a standard 12 minute test and then fill out a
      questionnaire to assess any motion sickness-like effects. Each subject will do this twice.

      In a final specific aim eye motion in response to stimuli will be measured as another measure
      of goggle effect. Recent evidence suggests that the duration of nystagmus slow phases,
      saccadic dwell time, and saccadic reaction times (the time to make a saccade to a new target)
      behave as if they are governed by a 'clock' with an average interval of 200-250 msec. In this
      aim ten subjects will undergo a shortened version of the goggle test limited to Optokinetic
      (OKN) function and their eye motion will be analyzed to assess whether clock function can be
      determined by the goggles.
    
  