
    
      INTRODUCTION

      Malignant biliary obstruction is a life threatening condition in patients suffering from
      primary or secondary bile duct malignancies. Palliative therapies aim to prevent
      complications associated with the obstruction. Photodynamic therapy (PDT) aims to reduce the
      local tumor mass by inducing tumor necrosis after light activation of a photosensitizer
      during endoscopic retrograde cholangiography (ERC).

      STUDY AIMS

      The aim of the present study is to evaluate the feasibility and safety of PDT with
      polyhematoporphyrin, the photosensitizer most commonly used for PDT in Austria, in the
      context of a nationwide analysis.

      METHODS

      This retrospective study will be conducted at seven Austrian referral centers for
      bilio-pancreatic endoscopy. The study protocol was approved by the internal review board of
      the Medical University of Vienna (EK 1448/2012). Patients who underwent PDT with
      polyhematoporphyrin as therapy for malignant biliary obstruction after 2004 will be
      identified using examination report databases. Examination reports and patient charts will be
      analyzed to assess underlying diseases, oncological co-therapies, intra-procedural adverse
      events, hospital stay, adverse events within 30 days post intervention as well as 30-day,
      90-day, and overall mortality. All patient data will be de-identified using pseudonymization
      prior to any further processing. Descriptive statistics will be used to present the study
      parameters. Survival will be assessed using Kaplan-Meier statistics and compared between the
      different underlying tumor entities using the Log Rank test. Cox regression will be used to
      identify independent predictors of survival. Significant factors at univariate analysis will
      be entered into multivariate testing. P-values less than 0.05 will be considered significant.
      SPSS version 23.0 will serve for data analysis.
    
  