
    
      The laboratory has developed a minimally invasive screening method known as tethered capsule
      endomicroscopy (TCE) for imaging intestinal mucosa. With TCE, an unsedated subject swallows a
      tethered pill, which captures microscopic images of the entire esophagus, stomach, and small
      intestine, as it is naturally transits these organs via peristalsis and under the influence
      of gravity. The capsule implements a microscopic imaging technology called optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) that obtains 10-µm-resolution cross-sectional images of tissue. The
      procedure is brief, well tolerated, and can be much less expensive than endoscopy. The
      Investigators have implemented TCE for imaging the upper gastrointestinal tract of adults and
      adolescents with Celiac Disease (CD) and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE), inflammatory
      conditions that are common in the US. The qualities seen thus far in their TCE studies - high
      imaging resolution, comprehensive tissue assessment, and minimal invasiveness - are also the
      qualities needed for evaluating the intestinal mucosa in populations with EED.

      The Tearney Lab has also developed a new technique of deployment, Trans Nasal Endomicroscopy
      (TNE). The TNE catheter comprises of an introduction tube, similar to a standard Nasojejunal
      tube, with one or two balloons attached at the distal end. These balloons are inflated with
      Galinstan, a safe liquid metal alloy used in pediatric thermometers, which provides weight
      for the device to move to the duodenum under the forces of gravity and peristalsis.
      Alternatively, a sugar water mixture /saline may also be used to inflate a balloon. The TNE
      catheter encloses the OCT optics within, and is designed to have many of the same imaging
      properties of TCE but is introduced Trans nasally so that it can be effectively used in
      children and eventually infants.
    
  