
    
      Adipose tissue is a highly dynamic organ that produces a wide array of adipokines which can
      affect the function of other tissues throughout the body. The physiology of adipose tissue is
      a relatively new and exciting area of research and researchers are learning more about its
      complexity, in particular the way in which adipose tissue plays a dynamic and active role in
      various normal and pathological processes. Comparatively little is known about the changes
      that occur within adipose tissue over the natural course of ageing - and adipose dysfunction
      could play a role in ageing-related chronic systemic inflammatory diseases such as type 2
      diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

      In this study, the investigators would like to investigate inflammatory and metabolic changes
      that occur within adipose tissue with ageing. the investigators would also like to examine
      whether age-related changes in adipose tissue are specific to this particular tissue type by
      comparing adipose-resident immune cell populations and measures of inflammation and
      metabolism to those in muscle tissue and blood.

      By exploring the immune dysfunction that occurs with ageing in adipose tissue and relating
      them to inflammatory and metabolic differences in muscle and blood, this work may potentially
      reveal causal mechanisms in the development of ageing-related chronic inflammatory diseases
      and ultimately lead to the development of better treatment/management strategies.

      BACKGROUND Adipose tissue is sizeable endocrine organ and is highly dynamic, producing a wide
      array of adipokines which can affect a range of physiological processes including regulation
      of appetite, energy expenditure, insulin sensitivity, inflammation, endocrine and
      reproductive systems and bone metabolism. Ageing is a process that is associated with adipose
      tissue accumulation, changes in adipose tissue distribution and its dysfunction which in turn
      are linked to the development of chronic inflammatory disorders such as type 2 diabetes and
      cardiovascular disease.

      Adipose tissue inflammation may be key Adipose tissue consists not only of adipocytes, but
      also many other cell types including endothelial cells, preadipocytes, immune cells such as
      macrophages and lymphocytes such that adipocytes themselves may only represent 60-70 % cell
      numbers in adipose tissue. Research from over the last decade or so suggests that the
      presence of immune cells within the adipose tissue itself are important in regulating both
      local and systemic inflammation/production of adipokines. For example, adipose tissue
      macrophages contribute the majority of the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNFα and ~50% IL6
      secreted by adipose tissue, which show increased secretion with adipose tissue dysfunction
      and are implicated in the development of chronic inflammatory disorders. Changes in adipose
      resident immune cells have been relatively well studied in obesity but there are
      comparatively few studies in humans examining changes in immune cell populations and their
      potential impact on adipose tissue inflammation in the context of ageing. Given the
      time-course of adipose tissue accumulation in obesity compared to ageing, there is the
      potential for differences in the underlying mechanisms of adipose tissue dysfunction to
      occur.

      In humans, there is overwhelming evidence (including work by the investigator's group) that
      macrophages accumulate in subcutaneous adipose tissue with obesity and are important
      mediators of adipose tissue inflammation. Additionally, work performed by this group has also
      shown that T cells in adipose tissue are more activated with obesity and this may also be
      related to levels of adipose tissue inflammation. Only one study has attempted to investigate
      the impact of ageing on immune cells in adipose tissue, however, this was in a very specific
      population (Pima Indians) and only up-to the age of 45 years so it is not known how immune
      cells change with further increases in age where chronic inflammatory disorders become more
      prevalent. Studies using mouse models indeed suggest that there are discrepancies in immune
      cell populations within adipose tissue following diet-induced obesity compared to ageing. In
      mice, it is not clear if there is a change in the number or just a change from an anti- to
      pro-inflammatory phenotype which would be in contrast to obesity, where there is evidence of
      both an increase in number and skewing towards a pro-inflammatory phenotype. Mice also show
      an increase in T-cells in adipose tissue with ageing - especially in T-regulatory cells,
      however, in diet-induced obesity there may be an increase in the number of pro-inflammatory
      effector cells (e.g. CD8+).

      The potential role of adipose tissue inflammation in the development of age-related chronic
      inflammatory disorders and how this compares to the investigators' previous work in the
      context of obesity is something the investigators are keen to address in the present study.

      Investigating tissue specific changes with ageing With ageing there is an increased
      deposition of adipose tissue within muscle and this can have profound effects on muscle
      tissue including inducing insulin resistance and lipotoxicity. Considering that muscle is one
      of the major sites for glucose uptake, impairment in this process can have a profound effect
      on systemic glucose concentrations and whole body insulin resistance. Like adipose tissue,
      muscle itself is host to resident immune cells, but it is not known whether these differ in
      terms of proportion or function to those found in adipose tissue. Furthermore, it is not
      known how these immune cells in muscle tissue may affect local and systemic inflammation in
      the development of ageing-related chronic inflammatory diseases. It is important to consider
      the role of different tissues in disorders that affect the body as a whole as there may be
      specific responses to ageing that need to be considered when trying to understand the
      underlying pathophysiology of ageing-related chronic diseases. Thus, the impact of ageing on
      muscle immune cells and inflammation is another factor that the investigators are keen to
      address in the present study. the investigators are especially interested in examining
      whether ageing affects adipose and muscle in a similar or different way.

      Purpose The purpose of this study is to investigate inflammatory and metabolic changes in
      adipose tissue that occur with ageing and to compare these changes to those in muscle and
      blood.

      By comparing metabolic and inflammatory parameters within adipose tissue, muscle and the
      circulation in younger and older individuals, the investigators hope to gain vital clues
      regarding the potential pathogenic mechanisms involved in the development of ageing-related
      chronic inflammatory diseases. With greater understanding of these mechanisms the
      investigators hope to prepare the ground for new and more effective means of
      prevention/treatments for ageing-related chronic inflammatory diseases.
    
  