
    
      PHASE I:

      The primary objective of ACCESS-EU Phase I is to gain information in the European Union
      Countries regarding the use of the MitraClip System with respect to health economics and
      clinical care.

      PHASE II: (HAS BEEN CLOSED BY SPONSOR) The primary objective of ACCESS-EU Phase II is to
      gather additional clinical data, specifically Echocardiography Core Laboratory measurements
      of MR severity and left ventricular volumes and diameters, and other echocardiographic
      measures, on patients undergoing the MitraClip procedure in the European Union Countries,

      Clinical data collected from both study phases, is expected to contribute to decision making
      with regards to MitraClip therapy selection in patients with MR: (a) by establishing the
      value of the MitraClip therapy in the continuum of care; and (b) by providing practical
      information that will allow physicians to make therapeutic decisions, assist hospitals to
      make purchasing decisions, and assist insurers in making coverage decisions.

      Study Design:

      ACCESS-Europe is a two-phase prospective, observational, multicenter post-approval study of
      the MitraClip System for the treatment of mitral regurgitation (MR) in the European Union
      Countries. Patients will be evaluated per standard practice at baseline, discharge, 6-Months
      and 12-Months.

      Phase I of the study consists of patients who receive the MitraClip system for the treatment
      of MR and two concurrent comparator groups of (a) medically managed heart failure patients
      with MR and (b) patients who have undergone mitral valve surgery for MR. The two comparator
      groups will be followed and evaluated primarily from a health economic perspective.

      ACCESS EU Study Phase II will consist of only patients who receive the MitraClip System, with
      the objective to collect additional clinical data, specifically Echocardiography Core
      Laboratory evaluation of MR severity and other echocardiographic measures.

      Enrollment of patients in each study phase is as follows:

      ACCESS-EU PHASE I:

        -  A minimum of 300 MitraClip Therapy group patients,

        -  A minimum of 100 patients in the Mitral Valve Surgery comparator group

        -  As many patients as possible in the Medical Therapy comparator group

      First Patient Enrollment Projection: Q1, 2009 Last Patient Enrollment Projection: Enrollment
      in the Mitral Valve Surgery and Medically Therapy groups ceased on December 31, 2010.
      Enrollment in the MitraClip group will cease when Phase II of the study is initiated at each
      site.

      ACCESS-EU PHASE II:

      A minimum of 300 MitraClip therapy subjects will be enrolled in Phase II.

      First Patient Enrollment Projection: Q2, 2011 Last Patient Enrollment Projection: Enrollment
      will cease when the Sponsor has determined that an adequate number of patients have been
      enrolled.
    
  