
    
      Background: Simulation-based skills training has been proposed as a method of augmenting
      traditional in vivo training of surgeons.[1] Simulation based training is still in its
      infancy and there is considerable variability in the United States and around the world on
      how this type of training is configured.[2] The first successful simulation validation study
      used a proficiency-based progression methodology.[3] Trainees were required to demonstrate a
      performance benchmark (based on experienced surgeons performance on a simulator) before
      completing a laparoscopic cholecystectomy in vivo.[4] This approach has not been used in
      arthroscopy. In this study we propose to evaluate the utility of proficiency based skills
      training for learning how to perform an arthroscopic Bankart repair for unidirectional
      anterior shoulder instability.

      Proficiency will be determined using metric based performance levels of surgeons very
      experienced in performing an arthroscopic Bankart procedure.[5] Metrics have previously been
      identified, operationally defined and agreed upon at an Arthroscopy Association of North
      America Delphi panel meeting and then validated. Metrics which have demonstrated construct
      validity will be used to define a performance benchmark/level of proficiency. Group C will be
      required to train on a simulator model until they demonstrate this predetermined performance
      level. At the completion of training all trainees are required to complete a Bankart
      procedure on a fresh cadaver shoulder specimen. Operative performance will be video recorded
      and subsequently assessed by two experienced arthroscopic surgeons blinded to subject
      identity and group. Raters will have been trained to reliably identify predefined procedural
      steps, errors and sentinel errors to an inter-rater reliability level of r >0.8. [6]

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that proficiency based progression trainees will perform an
      arthroscopic Bankart procedure significantly better on a fresh cadaver shoulder than
      traditionally trained subjects. They will also perform significantly better than trainees who
      received the exact same curricular material,including the use of a simulator, but will be
      allowed to progress at their own desired pace with no requirement to demonstrate performance
      of skills to a proficiency benchmark before progressing in training.

      Procedure: Three groups of orthopaedic surgical trainees in postgraduate years four and five
      will be provided online access to orientation videos demonstrating how to perform a standard
      arthroscopic Bankart repair. A set of baseline assessments of all 3 groups will be obtained
      prior to the beginning of training and include visuospatial,[7] perceptual,[8,9] and
      psychomotor evaluations[10-13] to ensure that the groups are comparable. The standard
      training group (Group A) will then progress with the training as they would today during a
      routine resident course. Groups B and C will be prospectively randomized (using an online
      randomizer) to their respective training conditions. Group C will study the online didactic
      information until they have demonstrated a predefined proficiency criterion. In addition,
      successful completion and proficiency demonstration with arthroscopic knot tying will be a
      requirement for them to proceed to the simulation based training models. The benchmark has
      been established using knots tied by an experienced group of arthroscopic surgeons. On the
      simulation models they will continue training until proficiency has been demonstrated. Group
      C trainees will be supervised and given formative feedback on their performance by an
      experienced trainer and assessor during these skills training sessions. Group B will complete
      the same curriculum as Group C with the exception that they will be free to progress through
      training at their own desired pace with no requirement to demonstrate proficiency in any
      phase of the training.

      Outcome assessment On completion of the course proper all three groups of trainees will be
      required to complete a Bankart procedure on a fresh cadaver specimen. They will be assisted
      by an experienced orthopaedic surgeon blinded to the subjects training group and instructed
      to assist ONLY at the direction of the study participant. No guidance will be provided. Their
      performance will be video recorded for subsequent analysis. Video raters will be experienced
      orthopaedic surgeons who will be blinded as to subjects' identity and group. Objective
      assessment of their intra-operative performance will be measured using the pre-defined
      performance metrics agreed upon by the Arthroscopy Association of North America Delphi panel
      and previously demonstrated to show construct validity. These will include correct steps of
      the procedure completed, time to complete the procedure, intra-procedure errors and sentinel
      errors.

      Power Calculations Based on data derived from the construct validity study on the shoulder
      model the following power calculation estimates were obtained for Steps completed correctly,
      Time to perform the procedure, Errors and Sentinel Errors made. Calculations are based on a
      group size of n = 16, and reference mean and standard deviation scores, an Alpha of 5% which
      corresponds to a 95% Confidence Interval and a two-tailed statistical test for significance.

      In previous studies a transfer effectiveness ration (TER) of 26 - 42% has been shown for
      novices.[13] A TER of 20% means that the PBP trained group would complete 44.88 steps of the
      procedure in comparison to the control groups 37.4. The statistical power of this difference
      is 0.99. A similar magnitude of difference (i.e., 20%) for time and sentinel errors would
      result in a mean difference with a statistical power > 0.8. Error scores would require a
      difference between the mean scores of the group ~ 40% to reach an acceptable level of
      significance. Furthermore, all of these differences would mean that the PBP trainees were
      still not outperforming the experts.

      Statistical Analysis

      The following analyses will be conducted:

        1. The primary analysis will compare the intra-operative performance of trainees. For each
           subject, the number or intra-operative steps completed, time taken, errors and sentinel
           errors will be compared across the three groups with one factor analysis of variance
           (ANOVA) and specific contrasts between groups will be conducted with Scheffe F-tests.

        2. Two-factor ANOVA for repeated measures where factor one is training method and factor
           two is the anchor number will be conducted on the variables listed. The sphericity
           assumption, relating to the conditional variances of all pair-wise differences will be
           evaluated.

      Statistical comparisons for repeated measures for the placement of Anchors 1 - 3.

        -  Anchor Preparation and Insertion steps

        -  Anchor Preparation and Insertion Errors

        -  Suture Delivery and Management Steps

        -  Suture Delivery and Management Errors

        -  Knot Tying Steps

        -  Knot Tying Errors

      Baseline Aptitude and Performance Pearson Product Moment Correlation Coefficient and Multiple
      Regression Analysis will be used to assess the strength of the relationship between trainees'
      performance on individual and combined baseline assessments and objectively assessed
      performance on the Bankart procedure. The same type of analysis will be used to assess the
      strength of the relationship between knowledge at the start of the course and Bankart
      procedure performance.
    
  