
    
      Objectives: The proposed grant seeks to compare the effects of a manualized form of Cognitive
      Behavior Therapy (CBT) combined with Cognitive Remediation (CR) with CBT alone and Support
      Services (SS) alone on vocational outcomes for persons with schizophrenia spectrum disorders.
      Key hypotheses are: I) Participants receiving CBT +CR will work more weeks and hours than
      participants receiving CBT alone or SS alone; II) Participants receiving CBT + CR condition
      will show better work performance than the CBT alone and SS alone conditions; III)
      Participants receiving CBT + CR will experience greater improvements in symptoms,
      dysfunctional beliefs and quality of life than the CBT alone or SS alone conditions Research
      Plan: One hundred twenty participants with Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV (SCID)
      confirmed diagnoses of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder will be recruited from the
      Roudebush VA Medical Center , surrounding mental health centers and the Marion VA Medical
      Center. Participants with these diagnoses will be eligible if they are sufficiently stable to
      sustain participant in rehabilitation, as defined by no hospitalizations, medication or
      housing changes in the last 30 days. Participants will be offered a 6 month paid job
      placement and randomly assigned to receive either CBT + CR, CBT only or SS only.

      Methodology: Following informed consent, a baseline assessment will include an inventory of
      work, residential, substance abuse, legal, quality of life, psychiatric and service
      utilization history. Participants will be offered a 26-week job placement at the VA Medical
      center or within the community and randomly assigned to receive 6 months of either CBT +CR,
      CBT only or SS. Jobs will include entry-level positions supervised by regular job site
      supervisors. Participants in the SS condition will attend a weekly individual and support
      group offering unstructured support regarding work related problems they identify.
      Participants in the CBT group will attend weekly group and individual sessions employing a
      manualized CBT intervention to identify and correct dysfunctional cognitions related to work.
      Participants in the CBT + CR condition will attend meetings as indicated for CBT along with
      performing cognitive exercises on the computer, progressing at their own pace. Hours of work
      will be recorded weekly. Work performance will be measured biweekly. Symptoms and cognitions
      will be assessed every 2 months. Primary forms of data analyses will be multivariate repeated
      measure analyses of variance in which CBT +CR, CBT only and SS groups will be compared on
      vocational, symptom, and self-esteem variables.

      Results: The investigators have recently demonstrated in separate randomized controlled
      trials that CBT and CR can be fully implemented in a VA setting and that each leads to better
      work outcomes in schizophrenia. Means and standard deviations of key outcomes have been
      determined and are used in the power analysis for this study.

      Significance: The proposed research aims provide a scientifically sound exploration of the
      therapeutic value of productive activity in the rehabilitation of persons with schizophrenia
      and to determine the extent to which manualized CBT procedures when combined with CR may
      contribute to the success of this process. Results may provide exportable guidelines for
      augmenting work services with an appropriate psychological treatment. This information may
      lead to more effective rehabilitation programs as well as increases in productivity,
      functional independence and an enhanced quality of life for persons with schizophrenia. The
      study also fulfills the rehabilitation goal of maximum inclusion by providing CBT and CR
      services that may make it possible for some patients to function at work that otherwise could
      not.
    
  