
    
      The number of ESRD patients is growing at a much faster rate than the total population, with
      almost 1,000 (941.7) ESRD patients per one million as of 2006. The ESRD prevalence in Korea
      is ranked as high as 10th globally. The most common underlying diseases of ESRD in Korea
      include diabetes (42.3%), hypertension (16.9%), and chronic glomerulonephritis (13.0%).
      Diabetes and hypertension have been continuously increasing, as with a number of elderly
      patients due to population aging. From the examples of foreign countries with 2-to-3 fold
      larger dialysis population per million than Korea (ex. Japan, Taiwan, and the US), dialysis
      population here is forecasted to skyrocket. According to the 2003 data from the National
      Health Insurance Corporation that investigated diseases with high yearly treatment cost of
      over 5 million KRW, chronic renal failure (CRF) ranked first in both men and women. It was
      the single most expensive disease in 2000, with 212 billion KRW medical spending on 18,000
      CRF patients, representing a significant burden to the national healthcare budget.

      The ESRD Patient Registry run by the Korean Society of Nephrology (KSN) requires dialysis
      institutions to annually report the number of ESRD patients who receive renal replacement
      therapy, types of underlying disease, dialysis modality, and cause of death. Though the KSN
      statistics is useful as isolated epidemiological data, the program participation rate is only
      60%, and cases of death are rarely reported. Clinical research on treatment or prognosis in
      CRF in Korea has mostly been performed by a single hospital or university, with no
      prospective, long-term, multi-center study performed yet.

      The American Society of Nephrology, the National Kidney Foundation, and the American
      Association of Kidney Patients produce treatment guidelines based on effectiveness and safety
      proven through clinical trials. In the UK, NKRF and MRC have built databases on
      cardiovascular complications of chronic renal disease and outcomes with different treatment
      methods. Industrialized countries including the US, the UK, and Japan develop their standard
      treatment guidelines by thoroughly investigating etiology, progression, treatment, and
      cardiovascular complications and comparing effectiveness of known treatments.

      The 5-year survival rate in ESRD patients in Korea is 37.8% for peritoneal dialysis patients
      and 65.2% for hemodialysis patients, respectively. There is a big discrepancy between
      patient's survival on HD and PD in Korea. However, it has been suspicious whether or not
      these survival data is convincing. QOL in maintenance dialysis patients is extremely low.
      Co-morbidity and time lost on dialysis makes it difficult to return to work while causing
      frequent hospitalization. Though their QOL might vary depending on country, culture, race,
      and dialysis modality, no multi-center study has been evaluated in Korea. CRF causes the
      largest per-patient health insurance reimbursement by the government, with the patient
      population continuously growing. Hospital stay is prolonged due to serious complications that
      require multi-disciplinary consultation drive up the medical cost. A cost-effectiveness study
      is urgently required. As in industrialized countries, the resources needed for development of
      the clinical practice guidelines are provided by the national government. "Effective clinical
      practice guidelines" will lower healthcare costs by preventing unnecessary medical practice
      and promote socioeconomic benefits and quality of care. The national government or related
      medical societies have yet to come up with a clinical practice guideline. Efforts should be
      made to work out "the KOREAN clinical practice guidelines" that will prevent clinical
      physicians from relying on foreign guidelines, which do not reflect the possibility of racial
      differences or was not proven to have effects on Koreans, and engaging in improper medical
      practices.

      Our research contents are the same as below.

        1. Basic data input by dialysis modality.

        2. Collection of data on comorbidity and residual renal function at baseline.

        3. Collection of data on referral time and history of emergent dialysis.

        4. Comparative analysis of short-term QOL within 1 year of beginning dialysis.

        5. Comparative analysis of complications by dialysis modality.

        6. Comparative analysis of short-term patient/descriptive mortality and risk factors.

        7. Creation of infection prevention and treatment guidelines in dialysis patients.

        8. Comparative analysis of patient/descriptive mortality (3-year), complications, and risk
           factors by dialysis modality.

        9. Analysis of cost-effectiveness by dialysis modality: survival rates and QOL versus cost.

       10. Comparative analysis of residual renal function, its rate of decline, and survival rates
           by dialysis modality.
    
  