
    
      Activation of splanchnic nerves results in vasoconstriction and reduces splanchnic
      capacitance, therefore recruiting blood volume into the central circulation. In heart
      failure, a reduced splanchnic vascular capacitance could be the mechanism underlying symptoms
      of exercise intolerance and could predispose to rapid decompensation with external fluid
      intake or retention. A compromised vascular reservoir is likely unable to buffer shifts of
      fluid and actively contributes to the acute or chronic expulsion of fluid from the splanchnic
      vascular compartment to the central thoracic compartment. The redistribution of blood volume
      into the central circulation may lead to a sudden rise in pulmonary and left-sided cardiac
      pressures in HF. This makes the splanchnic vascular compartment an attractive target in heart
      failure. Our preliminary proof-of-concept work in patients with acute decompensated and
      chronic heart failure showed promise for the concept of splanchnic nerve modulation in heart
      failure. In a series of two small first-in-human studies for acute decompensated heart
      failure (N=13) (NCT02669407) and chronic heart failure (N=17) (NCT03453151), we found that a
      splanchnic nerve block (SNB) with lidocaine (90 min duration of action) and ropivacaine (24
      hours duration of action) acutely reduced resting and exercise-induced intra-cardiac filling
      pressures, associated with improved patient symptoms and functional capacity.

      The present study will be a prospective open-label pilot study to help establish feasibility,
      safety and enable dose finding for botulinumtoxin. Following a baseline invasive (right heart
      catheterization) cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPX) patients will undergo unilateral
      celiac plexus block, followed by repeat hemodynamic testing. Functional testing at baseline
      and follow up will be supplemented by measures of blood volume and autonomic tone.
    
  