
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the effect of tinzaparin sodium on fibrin formation (prothrombin fragment
           F1.2), thrombin generation (thrombin-antithrombin complexes), and fibrinolysis (D-Dimer)
           from baseline to 2 weeks and at nadir or disease progression in patients with
           unresectable metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC).

      Secondary

        -  Determine the effect of tinzaparin sodium treatment on circulating angiogenesis markers,
           including vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and basic fibroblast growth factor
           (bFGF).

        -  Determine the proportion of patients developing venous thromboembolism and hemorrhage.

        -  Determine the tolerability of tinzaparin sodium treatment for up to 6 months in these
           patients.

        -  Establish the feasibility of undertaking a multicenter renal cell carcinoma trial with
           specialized coagulation test collection, shipping, and processing.

        -  Obtain more accurate and specific mean, median, and variability in biomarker data in
           advanced RCC patients treated with tinzaparin sodium for purposes of planning larger
           future trials.

        -  Estimate the progression-free survival at 4 months in patients treated with tinzaparin
           sodium.

        -  Correlate progression-free survival with changes in markers of coagulation activation or
           angiogenesis.

        -  Correlate the anticoagulant activity of tinzaparin sodium (anti-Xa activity) with change
           in coagulation markers, angiogenesis markers, and progression-free survival.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, pilot, multicenter study.

      Patients receive a treatment dose of tinzaparin sodium subcutaneously (SC) once daily for 14
      days followed by a prophylactic dose of tinzaparin sodium SC once daily for up to 6 months in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 35 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  