
    
      This proposal is a collaborative effort between MedShape and the Medical University of South
      Carolina. This is a prospective investigation to assess the clinical outcomes of patients
      with a subtalar arthrodesis with the Sustained Dynamic Compression Intramedullary Nail
      (DynaNail Mini). The study plan is to enroll 60 patients.

      Patients with end-stage talocalcaneal (subtalar) joint arthritis from any etiology will be
      asked to enroll in the study. After informed consent, the patients will be asked to complete
      the following patient reported outcomes questionnaires as part of the Surgical Outcomes
      System (SOS) Global Registry: Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain, Veterans RAND 12 Item
      Health Survey for function, Foot Function Index - Revised for function and pain, the Foot and
      Ankle Ability Measure (FAAM) for function, and the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle
      Society (AOFAS) scales for pain, function, and alignment. After informed consent, they will
      then be scheduled for surgery in a routine fashion.

      The following surgical procedure is standard of care. The surgical procedure will involve
      subtalar (talocalcaneal) joint preparation through a lateral approach. The use of
      supplemental bone graft is at the discretion of the treating surgeon but must be documented.
      The MedShape DynaNail Mini will then be inserted according to the manufacturer's technique.
      The patient will be placed in a short leg splint and kept non-weight bearing. The patient
      will be discharged from the hospital when medically ready.

      The patient will return to clinic for visits at the following intervals after surgery: 6 (+/-
      1) weeks, 14 (+/- 1) weeks, 6 months (+/- 2 weeks), and 12 months (+/- 2 weeks). At each of
      these time points, the same SOS patient specific outcome questionnaires will be administered.
      3-view X-rays will be taken at each of these visits to assess the amount of travel of the
      Mini compressive element. At 15 (+/- 1) weeks post-op, a CT scan will be obtained to assess
      healing. Additionally, a radiographic and clinical follow-up form will be filled out at each
      of the following follow-up visits: 6 weeks, 14 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year.

      Patients will be identified in the clinic by an attending orthopaedic foot and ankle surgeon
      or his physician assistant based on clinical exam and radiographic findings. Inclusion
      criteria include anyone over age 18 who has end-stage subtalar arthritis and has failed
      nonoperative management. Typically, these patients have multiple medical comorbidities and
      therefore the exclusion criteria will be patients who are not healthy enough to undergo
      surgery. Additional exclusion criteria include non-English speakers, and patients that are
      blind, illiterate, or are prisoners. Additionally, pregnant women will be excluded. Patients
      of all racial, religious, and cultural backgrounds will be included in this study.
    
  