
    
      This is a small interventional pilot study that will be conducted as a single-site study at
      Duke University Health System (DUHS). All subjects with pancreatic cancer and low-volume
      liver metastases (< or = 3 lesions) who meet criteria for pancreatic and liver resection will
      be offered the opportunity to participate. Potential subjects will be referred by the Medical
      Oncology physicians at Duke if they feel like the patient would be suitable for this study.
      We anticipate enrolling 15 subjects to include 10 evaluable subjects in the analysis.

      Any subject who consents to the study will proceed with primary resection, including
      pancreaticoduodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy, and liver resection/ablation of the
      metastases.

      Screening will include a medical record review, standard of care CT scan/MRI, clinical
      evaluation including physical, vitals, height weight and routine blood tests.

      Preoperative data such as sex, race, age at resection, ASA class, race, body mass index
      (BMI), pretreatment staging, CA 19-9 (missing in open PD), tumor size (cm), and neoadjuvant
      therapy (no; yes), time to initiation and completion will also be captured.

      Perioperative data like date of surgery, OR time, ASA class, intra-operative transfusion
      requirements, fluid administration, EBL, operative complications (including but not limited
      to infection, bleeding, need for re-operation, thrombus, pancreatic leak, bile leak, liver
      failure, nutritional data like use of TPN and tube feedings, and length of stay will be
      collected.

      Post-operative data regarding re-admission and surveillance data for oncologic outcomes such
      as re-operation, final pathology margin status, nodal status, and postoperative CA 19-9, as
      well as DFS and OS, including date of death if applicable, during the provided follow up
      period.

      To ensure accurate and complete incorporation of medical data, a database of perioperative
      outcomes will be prospectively maintained during the subject's hospital stay and for the
      first 3 months following surgery. Duke University is a member of the National Surgical
      Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP), with 100% participation in Hepatopancreaticobiliary
      (HPB) procedures. As such, all preoperative data and 30-day outcomes are collected by a fully
      trained Surgical Clinical Reviewer and are available within our electronic medical record
      (EMR). NSQIP provides a robust, audited dataset that has been validated to optimize the
      accuracy of data collection, substantially reducing the cost and resource requirements of
      data extraction. Following this 30-day period, data will be collected at regularly scheduled
      clinic visits, which typically occur weekly until 6-12 weeks post-surgery, then 3-4 months
      for the first year, and every 6 months thereafter and stored in a local, REDCap database.

      Subjects' medical records will be continually reviewed for surgical complications and for
      overall survival (date of subject death).
    
  