
    
      Background:

        -  NF1 is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder characterized by distinct features
           including the development of benign plexiform neurofibromas (PN) and malignant
           peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST) tumors of the nervous system.

        -  Development of MPNST typically results from malignant transformation in a preexisting
           PN. Associated symptoms may overlap and be difficult to distinguish from growth of a
           benign PN. Currently surgery is the only standard treatment for PN and MPNST.

        -  The 5-year overall survival rate for NF1 patients with a MPNST is poor; therefore, early
           detection of malignant transformation of a PN is an important goal.

        -  Fluoro-deoxy-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in NF1 has utility in
           detecting malignant transformation. However, concerning lesions can have high FDG uptake
           and be benign on biopsy.

        -  Fluoro-thymidine (FLT) PET measures cell cycling and proliferation. Malignant lesions
           have higher proliferation rates than benign tumors; therefore, FLT-PET may be sensitive
           and specific in the early detection of malignant transformation and assess response.

        -  Genetic analysis is an important component in evaluating the transformation of PN to
           MPNST. Biallelic NF1 and tumor suppressor gene mutations (p53, INK4A, p27kip1),
           increased Ras activity and abnormal growth factor signaling have been described, but
           there is no known signature for MPNST.

        -  Massively parallel ( next generation ) sequencing technology permits whole-genome,
           whole-exome and transcriptome sequencing of multiple tumors including MPNST.

      Objectives:

        -  Determine the feasibility of FLT PET in patients with NF1 and MPNST or lesions
           concerning for MPNST, or MPNST.

        -  Evaluate the ability of FLT PET to distinguish benign PN from malignant lesions, and to
           determine if FLT PET is more accurate than FDG PET in correctly classifying a tumor as
           benign or malignant.

        -  Evaluate the feasibility of whole-exome sequencing and other genetic/genomic methods,
           including detection of epigenetic and/or expression changes and RNA Seq of tumor (MPNST
           or lesion concerning for MPNST and adjacent benign PN) biopsies using interventional
           radiology sampling techniques in consenting individuals with NF1 participating in
           10-C-0086.

        -  Perform detailed clinical analysis of individuals with NF1 and MPNST or lesions
           concerning for MPNST.

        -  Perform detailed pathologic analysis of biopsy specimens from tumor areas to determine
           if increased uptake of FDG or FLT predicts for malignant transformation.

        -  Identify somatic genetic variants that distinguish PN from MPNST and from germline
           sequence by whole-exome sequencing potentially identifying targets for treatment.

      Eligibility:

        -  NF1 patients with lesions concerning for malignancy or with active MPNST.

        -  Willingness to enroll on NCI protocol 08-C-0079: Natural History Study and Longitudinal
           Assessment of Children, Adolescents, and Adults with Neurofibromatosis Type 1.

      Design:

        -  Up to 15 patients will be enrolled on this pilot study.

        -  Patients will undergo the following evaluations:

        -  Detailed clinical evaluation of NF1 manifestations on NCI protocol #08-C-0079

        -  Imaging studies including:

             -  MRI, FDG-PET/CT scans (as standard care) in all subjects; and

             -  [(18)F]-FLT-PET/CT (research study) in subjects 10 years of age or older

        -  Genetic counseling (if participating in the germline blood sampling and biopsy analysis
           portion of the study)

        -  Tissue analysis:

           ---Patients 18 years of age or older with MPNST will participate in tissue analysis, if
           consenting and appropriately preserved archival tissue is available, or if patient
           agrees to optional research biopsy (if consented and safe). Patients with lesions
           concerning for malignancy will undergo clinically indicated biopsies of concerning
           lesions and of adjacent benign PN (if consented and safe) for detailed pathologic
           analysis and whole-exome sequencing (co-enrollment on 10-C-0086 Comprehensive Omics
           Analysis of Pediatric Solid Tumors and Establishment of a Repository for Related
           Biological Studies). Biopsies to be directed by PET fusion imaging in interventional
           radiology.

        -  Whole-exome sequencing of a germline blood sample (optional) if participating in the
           tissue analysis (co-enrollment on 10-C-0086 Comprehensive Omics Analysis of Pediatric
           Solid Tumors and Establishment of a Repository for Related Biological Studies).

        -  To better characterize lesions concerning for MPNST and predict those at higher risk for
           malignant transformation, we will correlate clinical and imaging findings, including
           radiographic evaluation with FDG-PET/CT, and [(18)F]-FLT-PET/CT, pathologic evaluation
           of tumor biopsies (if available), and analysis of whole exome sequencing of germline
           blood samples (if consented) and of tumor samples (when available).
    
  