
    
      The key pathophysiology of COPD is expiratory flow limit and hyperinflation that is a major
      factor related exertional dyspnea and exercise limitation. When expiratory minute volume( V
      ̇E) raise up while exercise, respiratory response by increase respiratory rate (RR) and tidal
      volume (VT), force exhalation occur lead to develop premature airway closer. These generate
      dynamic air tapping breath by breath and result in dynamic hyperinflation (DH). The DH limits
      VT expansion, increase respiratory muscle load, and it is a major cause related dyspnea and
      exercise termination. Furthermore, Pre-inflammatory products from the COPD lung contribute to
      another system, and provoke systemic inflammation lead to nutritional abnormalities, weight
      loss, skeletal muscle dysfunction, osteo-skeletal effect, cardiovascular effect and
      psychological effect. All of these affect the exercise tolerance and gradually affect
      physical activity and health-related quality of life (HRQL) as well.

      COPD GOLD guideline states that goal for treatments of stable COPD comprise of relive
      symptoms, improve exercise tolerance, improve health status, prevent disease progression and
      reduce mortality. Several evidences have suggested an effect of pulmonary rehabilitation (PR)
      in patient with stable COPD and following acute exacerbation. Strong evidences reported that
      the PR program could improve exercise tolerance, reduce dyspnea, decrease fatigue and improve
      health-related quality of life.

      The core stone of PR is an exercise program. Several types of exercise were published such as
      endurance exercise, interval exercise, strengthening exercise, respiratory muscle
      strengthening and breathing exercise. Most COPD patient stop exercise causes from dyspnea
      that related DH development during exercise. Previous studies reported various strategies to
      reduce DH development during exercise for extending exercise time or increase exercise
      capacity in immediate effect such as bronchodilators , hyperoxic breathing, heliox breathing,
      positive pressure therapy by non-invasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV), by pursed
      lip breathing (PLB) and by positive expiratory pressure (PEP) device.

      The PEP therapy have been conventionally using for reduce premature airway closer by moving
      equal pressure point from distal to proximal, improve gas exchange and improve secretion
      clearance. In the past decade, the knowledge of dynamic hyperinflation in COPD patient has
      rapidly glowed up. The PEP device and PLB have used to reduce DH development during exercise
      that reported in only 5 studies. They expected that delay DH development, it may delay
      exertional dyspnea, and may result in improve exercise capacity.

      Three studies reported DH parameter at pre and post exercise. Results indicated that using
      the PEP device can reduce DH when measuring immediate post exercise. However, effects of
      positive pressure therapy (PEP device and PLB) on exercise capacity were also inconclusive.
      But three studies showed positive effect of PEP therapy on exercise capacity.

      Training effect of PEP therapy on physical performance and quality of life was present in two
      studies. The first study showed the benefit of breathing retraining (including PLB, and other
      breathing techniques) that were integrated to all daily activities and exercise program,
      superior than control group in peak oxygen consumption after 7th week of exercise program.
      The second study applied PLB to reduce DH during exercise program. They found that after ten
      sessions (within 3 to 4 weeks) of program, both PLB and control groups significantly improve
      6 minute walk distance and quality of life, but non-significant effect between groups. To
      date there was only two studies of PEP therapy applying to exercise program, and results were
      not conclusive.

      In spite of the PLB was wildly used, but positive pressure from this technique was reported
      about 5 cm H2O, it is lower boundary of therapeutic pressure range (5 to 20 cm H2O), this may
      result in a non-success of DH reduction. Consequently, The PEP device may be a convenient
      alternative way to generate positive pressure within therapeutic range for reduces DH during
      exercise or daily activities living. This may increase patient's physical performance and
      quality of life greater that exercise alone.
    
  