
    
      This study aims to evaluate the biomarkers of lung injury in the hyperinflation maneuver with
      mechanical ventilator versus manual hyperinflation with ambu in septic patients under
      mechanical ventilation through changes in the cellular levels of interleukin 8 (IL-8) and
      receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE). As specific objectives, compare the
      variables of ventilatory mechanics (dynamic compliance, static complacency, frequency airway
      resistance) and hemodynamic parameters (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure,
      mean arterial pressure and heart rate) before and after each maneuver and between groups. It
      is characterized as a randomized clinical trial. The binary randomization of the groups will
      be performed using the electronic application Bracket RTSM (version 2.0.0, Bracket Global),
      and will be performed by a blind researcher to the groups evaluated. After the eligibility
      criteria, the selected patients will be randomized and divided into two groups :
      Hyperinflation group with mechanical ventilator (HVM) and manual hyperinflation group (HM).
      Triage will be carried out daily in order to detect patients eligible to apply the study
      through communication with the local multiprofessional team. Once patients are eligible
      according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria, randomization will be performed to
      determine the techniques to be employed. Prior to the application of each technique, all
      patients will be placed in the dorsal decubitus (DD) with the head elevated at 30 degrees and
      will be aspirated by the nursing team once with probe number nº 14 and with a vacuum of
      -40cmH2O. Five minutes later, a 4.5 mL blood sample from the study participant for analysis
      of lung injury biomarkers (IL-8 and RAGE) will be collected in an EDTA tube. Blood samples
      will be sent to the Molecular and Protein Analysis Unit (UAMP) of the HCPA Experimental
      Research Center (CPE) in a box cooled by a blind collaborator who is not part of the study
      and will be stored at -80ºC. The biomarkers will be tested in duplicates through the plasma
      of the sample collected using the Luminex Human Magnetic Assay kit (R & DSystems,
      Minneapolis, MN). The results will be transcribed to the datasheet. A period of five minutes
      will be waited for the start of the initial technique chosen by randomization. When drawn to
      the HVM group, there will be an increase in initial positive inspiratory pressure until
      reaching a peak pressure of 40 cmH2O and PEEP equal to 7 cmH2O. During the application of
      this technique VC will increase significantly in most patients, which may cause and / or
      increase Auto-PEEP. In order to minimize and / or extinguish this adverse effect the RF
      should be reduced to allow exhalation. When drawn to the HM group, the manual resuscitation
      bag will be connected to the oxygen system at five liters per minute. The participant will be
      disconnected from the ventilator and then initiate a slow inspiration with inspiratory pause
      followed by abrupt expiration, totaling twelve (12) cycles / minute. Data will be collected
      on ventilatory mechanics (dynamic compliance, expiratory tidal volume, respiratory rate, peak
      pressure, plateau pressure, airway resistance) from the ventilator used in the SERVO-s®
      institution and hemodynamic parameters (systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure,
      mean arterial pressure and heart rate) in the hemodynamic monitoring device MP60® before and
      after the application of each technique, and the data will be recorded on an evaluation form.
      After each maneuver, a period of three hours will be waiting and then a blood sample will be
      collected again from the patient for the analysis of lung injury biomarkers.
    
  