
    
      This research study is a Phase I clinical trial, which tests the safety of an investigational
      Personalized Cancer Vaccine in combination with Nivolumab (Opdivo®). "Investigational" means
      that the Personalized Cancer Vaccine is being studied. It also means that the U.S. Food and
      Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved the Personalized Cancer Vaccine as a treatment for
      any disease.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has not approved Nivolumab for this specific
      disease but it has been approved for other uses.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if it is possible to make and administer safely a
      vaccine against ovarian cancer by using information gained from specific characteristics of
      the participant's own ovarian cancer. It is known that ovarian cancers have mutations
      (changes in genetic material) that are specific to an individual patient and tumor. These
      mutations can cause the tumor cells to produce proteins that appear very different from the
      body's own cells. It is possible that these proteins used in a vaccine may induce strong
      immune responses, which may help the body fight tumor ovarian cancer cells. The study will
      examine the safety of the vaccine when given at several different time points and will
      examine the blood cells for signs that the vaccine induced an immune response.

      Ovarian cancer cells will be obtained from the tumor through a biopsy. The genetic material
      contained in the ovarian cancer cells will be examined for the presence of tumor-specific
      mutations. This information will be used to prepare small protein fragments, which are called
      "peptides". The vaccine will consist of up to 20 of these peptides as well as a drug that
      activates the immune system called Poly-ICLC.

      Poly-ICLC (also called Hiltonol) is an experimental "viral mimic" and an activator of
      immunity. Poly-ICLC binds proteins on the surface of certain immune cells to make it appear
      as if a virus is present. When the cells detect the vaccine, they think it is a virus and
      turn on the immune system. Poly-ICLC is a compound that has been used to help the body in its
      fight against cancer. Poly-ICLC will be mixed with NeoAntigen peptides and administered as an
      injection given underneath the skin. Poly-ICLC is an investigational drug, meaning the FDA
      has not approved it as a treatment for any disease.

      Nivolumab (Opdivo®) is an antibody that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug
      Administration (FDA) for the treatment of metastasic lung cancer, metastasic melanoma,
      advanced renal cell carcinoma, recurrent or metastasic carcinoma of the neck, hepatocellular
      carcinoma, advanced or metastasic urothelial carcinoma, metastasic colorectal cancer, and
      relapsed or progressed Hodgkin Lymphoma.

      An antibody is a common type of protein produced by your body that the immune system (a
      system that defends the body against potentially harmful particles) uses to find and destroy
      foreign molecules (particles not typically found in the body) such as bacteria and viruses.
      Antibodies can also be produced in the laboratory for use in treating patients. There are now
      several approved antibodies for the therapy of cancer and other diseases.

      Nivolumab is an antibody that acts against PD-1. PD-1 is a molecule that controls a part of
      the immune system by shutting it down. Researchers believe that one way cancers can escape
      the immune system could also be by blocking it out so. An antibody against PD-1 can stop PD-1
      from turning off the immune system, allowing the immune reaction to continue. The body's
      immune reaction may help the body to destroy cancer cells.
    
  