
    
      The Clearblue Fertility Monitor is a personal monitor designed to be used with disposable
      test sticks for the semi-quantitative measurement of estrone-3-glucuronide (E3G) and
      luteinising hormone (LH) in women's urine. This personal information allows women to identify
      their fertile window and appropriately time intercourse in order to maximise their chances of
      conception. A new version of this monitor (Clearblue Advance Fertility Monitor) has been
      developed with enhanced functionality including the option to test for pregnancy.

      This study will assess the use of the new Clearblue Advanced Fertility Monitor in a home
      setting by female volunteers seeking to become pregnant, for three menstrual cycles or until
      pregnancy is achieved (whichever comes first). This is a single centre clinical study which
      will be conducted by volunteers at their residence and co-ordinated by the clinical
      department at SPD Development Company Ltd.

      The overall objective of the study will be to demonstrate the usage of the new Clearblue
      Advanced Fertility Monitor in a home setting, to assess the benefits of monitor usage and to
      compare monitor data to laboratory analyses on the same urine samples.

      In order to achieve these objectives, a minimum of 200 female volunteers representing the
      target consumer will be recruited to use the new Clearblue Advanced Fertility Monitor at home
      as per the instructions for use. This will involve them setting up the monitor, using the
      monitor for the duration of the study..

      All volunteers will be required to complete a daily diary and to collect a daily urine
      sample. Volunteers who become pregnant on the study will be asked to continue to collect
      urine samples. At the end of the study all volunteers will complete a study questionnaire
      which includes questions relating to monitor usage and knowledge and behaviour regarding
      conception. Upon return to SPD, the urine samples will be tested by auto-analyser for various
      hormones.
    
  