
    
      There are about 11.9 million Americans affected with cancer. 53% of patients with cancer
      experience pain at all stages of cancer. These patients often require high doses of opioids
      with uncontrolled pain that makes them too sedated to effectively participate in day-to-day
      activities and have a good quality of life. Depression often co-exists with cancer pain due
      to the nature of the disease. The researchers are searching for improved therapies for
      chronic cancer pain and ketamine with its novel mechanism of action may be a promising
      solution.

      Ketamine is an FDA approved anesthetic with the ability to effect memory loss, pain relief
      and sedation. Safety and efficacy of ketamine as an anesthetic and analgesic agent is well
      documented. Low doses of ketamine have minimal adverse impact on circulatory or breathing
      functions but can reduce pain. Research has shown that ketamine is effective in controlling
      breakthrough pain and reducing depression in a randomized double blind controlled trial.
      There is limited data regarding the use of ketamine for pain management in cancer.

      One of the challenges with ketamine is the route of administration, most commonly given
      intravenously (IV) or intramuscularly (IM). It has also been given by mouth and rectally, but
      absorption is very poor. Intranasal (NAS) administration may be a promising method of
      delivery and can be ordered by a physician from a compounding pharmacy. From other research
      the investigators expect absorption to be higher than oral or rectal administration and this
      method of delivery as needle-free is a patient-friendly route of administration.

      The main purpose of this study is to determine the safety, feasibility, and utility of
      intranasal (NAS) ketamine in persistent uncontrolled cancer related pain. In this prospective
      clinical trial the researchers will investigate the use of NAS ketamine in patients with pain
      related to cancer or cancer treatment. The researchers plan to enroll at least 15 patients
      meeting inclusion/exclusion criteria, to achieve a minimum of 10 patients who complete the
      study. Participants will be recruited from the oncology clinic, pain clinic and Acute Pain
      Service at Emory. Participants will be asked to return to the Phase I unit of the Winship
      Cancer Building C for a total of 5 study visits, each two to five days apart. During these
      visits participants will complete questionnaires, have blood samples drawn and will have
      study medication administered to them in escalating doses. For safety monitoring participants
      will be contacted by telephone 14 days after the last dose of medication administered.

      Data obtained from this study will help determine if ketamine provides a reduction of pain
      using the Numeric Pain Rating Scale and a reduction in the use of opioid consumption and
      other rescue medications. Additionally the researchers will study the bioavailability,
      pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of ketamine and the safety profile of NAS ketamine.
    
  