
    
      As part of the Prehospital Stroke Study at the Universitair ziekenhuis Brussel (PreSSUB)
      project, the investigators have developed and tested several prototypes for prehospital
      telemedicine. The current system consists of commercially available hardware and a Web-based
      telemedicine platform. The data are transmitted to a multimedia server unit over a mobile
      (ultra)broadband connection (3G or 4G). Data privacy is secured by password-protected logins,
      role-based access control, and hypertext transfer protocol secure encryption.

      The results of a feasibility study using the 4G network in healthy volunteers have been
      reported and feasibility data using the 3G network in healthy volunteers are available
      (unpublished data). The investigators recently evaluated the safety, technical feasibility
      and reliability of in-ambulance telemedicine in patients during emergency missions by a
      Paramedic Intervention Team of the Universitair Ziekenhuis Brussel (Feasibility study on
      AmbulanCe-based Telemedicine, FACT) and yielded satisfactory results (paper under review,
      trial registered at clinicaltrials.gov: NCT02119598).

      Telestroke consultations should include standardized evaluation of key stroke features, which
      can be obtained by application of validated clinical scales (e.g. Glasgow Coma Scale for
      evaluation of consciousness). Prehospital assessment of stroke severity remains challenging
      and inspired researchers to develop adapted scales, among which the Unassisted TeleStroke
      Scale (UTSS). The UTSS has shown to be a rapid, simple, quantitative measure for the
      evaluation of stroke severity through telemedicine, without need for assistance from a third
      party at the patient's bedside. Moreover, it has been shown that this scale can be used for
      ambulance-based telemedicine for emergent patient transportation.

      The PreSSUB trial I builds further on the reassuring data obtained in a general patient
      population during emergency missions in the FACT study and will focus on prehospital
      telemedicine for patients with suspicion of acute stroke only.
    
  