
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform a phase I dose-escalation study in patients with recurrent or refractory
      neuroblastoma (NB) and other GD2-positive tumors to evaluate the safety and tolerability and
      to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) for anti-CD3 x hu3F8 bispecific antibody
      (GD2Bi)-armed activated T cells (aATC) infused twice a week for a total of eight infusions in
      combination with daily IL-2 (300,000 IU/m^2/day) and GM-CSF (250 ug/m^2 twice per week) in a
      standard 3 + 3 dose escalation schema with 40, 80, and 160 x 10^6 cells/kg/infusion dose
      levels.

      II. To conduct a phase II clinical trial to explore efficacy and confirm the toxicity profile
      of GD2Bi-aATC combined with IL-2 and GM-CSF in a phase II expansion cohort of 22 patients
      with neuroblastoma (NB) using MTD determined in the phase I.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluate immune responses in the phase I/II trial by sequential monitoring of anti-NB
      cytotoxicity of peripheral blood lymphocytes and IFN-gamma EliSpots directed at NB lines.

      II. To evaluate persistence of aATC in the blood and tumor biopsies by staining for murine
      IgG2a to confirm trafficking of armed T cells to tumor.

      III. To conduct exploratory study of (18F FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed
      tomography (CT) after armed ATC infusions in selected patients with PET/CT measurable soft
      tissue and skeletal lesions.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of OKT3/humanized 3F8 bispecific
      antibody-aATC followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive IL-2 subcutaneously (SC) daily on days -2 to 35, sargramostim SC twice
      weekly for 4 weeks, and OKT3/humanized 3F8 bispecific antibody-aATC intravenously (IV) over
      30 minutes twice weekly for 4 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1, 3, 6, and 12 months.
    
  