
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the rate of Prostate Specific Antigen response associated with EMD121974 therapy
      in patients with non-metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety of EMD121974 in patients with non-metastatic androgen-independent
      prostate cancer.

      II. To assess the change in the slope of Prostate Specific Antigen associated with EMD121974
      in patients with non-metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.

      III. To assess response duration, time to progression and survival.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of integrin αvβ3 and αvβ5 inhibition on total circulating tumor
      and endothelial cells isolated from peripheral blood and bone marrow aspirates from patients
      with non-metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer.

      II. To study the genotypic/phenotypic variances in circulating tumor cells in patients with
      non-metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer before and after EMD121974 treatment.

      III. To develop a genetic profile by cDNA microarray analysis of circulating tumor cells
      isolated from patients with non-metastatic androgen-independent prostate cancer before and
      after integrin αvβ3 and αvβ5 inhibition.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, multicenter study.

      Patients receive cilengitide IV over 1 hour on days 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 22, and 25.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least 3 courses in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. After 3 courses, patients undergo evaluation. Patients achieving a
      complete prostate-specific antigen (PSA) response (i.e., PSA < 0.2 ng/mL) receive 2-3
      additional courses of therapy. Patients with partial PSA response or stable disease continue
      treatment indefinitely in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients demonstrating disease progression by CT scan, MRI, or bone scan are removed from the
      study.
    
  