
    
      Congenital heart disease is the most frequent congenital malformation and concerns 9 newborns
      per 1000 live births, i.e. nearly 1% of births. Half of these children present a complex form
      of congenital heart disease requiring surgery during the first months of life. More than one
      child in two will present a neurodevelopmental disorder resulting from brain damage beginning
      in utero and continuing in the post-natal period. In the newborn with complex congenital
      heart disease (CCHD), cerebral immaturity is synonymous with vulnerability, leading in half
      of the cases to the perioperative occurrence of hypoxic-ischemic cerebral lesions, most of
      which affect the white matter. These white matter injuries (WMI) are a prognostic factor for
      motor, cognitive, language and behavioural disorders that induce psycho-social difficulties
      in adulthood, altering the quality of life of patients. In newborns with CCHD (Transposition
      of Great Arteries or Left Ventricular Hypoplasia) operated on later in the neonatal period,
      both the incidence of perioperative BSL and post-operative morbidity are increased.

      Earlier surgery may therefore be a neuroprotective strategy leading to a reduction in
      perioperative WMI, postoperative morbidity and a better neurodevelopmental prognosis in
      infants with CCHD.

      The investigators propose a prospective observational study whose main objective will be to
      determine whether there is an association between age at surgery (days of life) and
      neurodevelopmental outcome in patients with CCHD. Secondly, the investigators planned to
      study the relationship between age at surgery and (i) the incidence of WMI observed on pre-
      and post-operative cerebral MRI (ii) post-operative morbidity as defined by the occurrence of
      post-operative complications (haemodynamic, infectious, neurological, surgical) and (iii) the
      length of hospital stay.

      Recruitment will be performed in a prospective cohort (n=50) of neonates with CCHD requiring
      surgery during the first 2 months of life and benefiting from pre- and post-operative
      cerebral MRI, standardized neurological examinations at 4, 12, 24 months and
      neuropsychological evaluation with a Bayley III test at 24 months.
    
  