
    
      Rationale: Biologics are very effective treatments for psoriasis. Research indicated that the
      dose of TNFα-blocking biologics can be reduced in a proportion of patients. Safety profiles
      can improve and costs can be reduced if the reduction of the dose is successful. Recently,
      the newest generation of biologics entered the market: interleukin (IL) 17 and IL23
      inhibitors. It is not yet known whether dose reduction of these agents is possible, and to
      what extent they can be reduced. The timely investigation of the possibilities for dose
      reduction of new biologics is therefore important.

      Objectives: The primary goal is to investigate whether controlled dose reduction of IL17 or
      IL23 inhibiting biologics is not inferior compared to usual care. This is measured by
      comparing the proportion of long-term disease flares between the two groups (dose reduction
      group versus usual care group). Secondary goals are: determining the proportion of patients
      with successful dose reduction, clinical effectiveness measured with the Psoriasis Area and
      Severity score (PASI) score, Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) scores, predictors for
      successful dose reduction, safety, and cost-effectiveness of dose reduction. Pharmacokinetic
      (PK) analysis will be performed for modeling.

      Study design: a multicenter, practice-oriented, pragmatic, randomized, controlled,
      non-inferiority study.

      Study population: Patients treated with the newest generation of biologics (IL17 or IL23
      inhibitors), with long-term stable low disease activity at a normal dose. A total of 244
      patients will be randomized (2:1) to dose reduction or continuation of usual care.

      Intervention: Dose reduction by interval prolongation in 2 steps to a maximum decrease of 50%
      of the original dose when disease activity (PASI) and quality of life index (DLQI) remain
      low.
    
  