
    
      The trial was randomized and double-blind (patient and operator). Advertising was held to
      invite participation in dental school and through social networks like Facebook or Twitter.

      Sample size

      To determine the size of the sample GPower 3.1 software was used, considering a significance
      level of 5% statistical power of 80%.

      A total of 74 patients were examined to assess whether they met the criteria for inclusion
      and exclusion. Patients: over 18 years, with one or more non-vital teeth, the restoration
      does not cover the vestibular face, endodontic treatment is in good condition, without apical
      lesion, with no previous experience of tooth whitening and tooth shade A2 or greater
      according to the Vita Classical scale. Patients were excluded pregnant or lactating, patients
      with enamel hypoplasia, with teeth stained by tetracycline or fluorosis, in orthodontic
      treatment with fixed appliances, patients with cancer or periodontal diseases. In addition to
      those volunteers to be examined clinically and radiographically present caries, periapical
      lesions, external or internal dental resorption and / or periodontal disease, as may be
      informed and referred to specialists for treatment.

      46 patients, of whom 44 completed treatment and attended all controls were selected.

      Were formed at randomization two study groups as the bleaching agent used, each with teeth n
      = 25, G1 = teeth bleached with Hydrogen Peroxide 35% (Opalescence Endo - Ultradent, USA). G2
      = bleached teeth with carbamide peroxide 37% (Whiteness Superendo, FGM, Brazil).

      Bleaching procedure

      The application of the bleaching agents was performed according to manufacturers instructions
      in four sessions with an outpatient technique (Walking Bleaching), with one week apart from
      each.

      Session Preparation: Preparing root canal with absolute isolation, were removed from 3mm seal
      the endodontic cement-enamel limit reference. The final sealing was made with 2mm with glass
      ionomer resin composite modificao and curing by (Riva Light Cure, SDI, Australia) and
      light-cured for 40 seconds (Cal Radii, SDI, Australia).

      Unblocking a radiographic control and sealing the root canal, and radiographs, post seal was
      obtained.

      4 sessions of Whitening: The Application of the bleaching agent was according to
      manufacturer's instructions. An amount of gel bleaching agent was left intracamerally with
      moisture (Walking Bleaching). Subsequently he sealed with a temporary cement to the next
      session.

      Closing session: the access cavity was washed with water and a temporary sealing leave for 7
      days prior to the completion of the final seal.

      Patients were advised not to eat or drink foods that can stain, such as coffee, tea, red
      wine, etc. during the study period. They were given written instructions and contact
      information for any questions or problems arise.

      Color Evaluation

      Two calibrated evaluators, with 80% agreement (Kappa test), recorded the color of teeth at
      baseline (baseline), immediately after each bleaching session, one week and one month
      post-treatment.

      Color evaluation was measured in the middle third of the labial surface of tooth bleaching.
      Patients were examined in the same room with the same lighting, for both examiners
      independently. using the Vita Bleachguide scale (Vita Zahnfabrik, Bad Säckingen, Germany)
      .For every "value" color is assigned a numerical value in order to calculate the change in
      units scale (SGU Δ).

      Evaluation of markers RANKL-OPG-Interleukin in crevicular gingival fluid (FGC) Obtaining and
      handling of samples FGC

      FGC samples were obtained from six sites periodontal 3 vestibular and 3 palatal / lingual
      (average mesial - distal) undergoing teeth whitening. Samples were taken before the whitening
      (baseline) and after each whitening session, a week and a month post-whitening.

      For this were used Periopaper® absorbent paper strips (OraFlow Inc., New York, NY, USA). The
      teeth were isolated from a relative fashion using cotton rolls, once isolated with a Gracey
      3/4 the supra-gingival plaque be removed and gently the surface of the triple air dry
      syringe. The paper strip was introduced into the selected tooth gingival sulcus until mild
      resistance tissue and held for 30 seconds. Then they were placed in properly labeled
      Eppendorf tubes and transported immediately to be stored at -80 ° C until the centrifugal
      elution process. The paper strips contaminated with saliva or blood were discarded.

      The paper strips were subjected to centrifugal elution to obtain total proteins present in
      the FGC. To do this, incubated for 30 minutes in 100 .mu.l of elution buffer containing 0.05%
      Tween in Tris-HCl pH 7.4 (Fluka, Sigma-Aldrich Chemie GmbH, Buchs, Switzerland) and then
      centrifugarnn 10,000 xg for 5 minutes at 4 ° C. The process of centrifugal circumvention
      repetio 3 times to a final volume of 300 ul, which was stored at -80 ° C until analysis.

      Evaluation of markers RANKL-OPG-Interleukin in crevicular gingival fluid (FGC) Total proteins
      were quantified by the Bradford ® system (R & D Systems Inc., Minneapolis, MN, USA) and from
      50 ul of sample eluted from medieronn levels of RANKL, OPG and interleukin by ELISA
      (Quantikine®; R & D Systems Inc. ) following the manufacturer's protocol. The average
      absorbance at 492 nm with correction at 630 nm using an automated plate reader (Universal
      ELx800 Microplate Reader, Bio-Tek Instruments Inc., Winooski, VT, USA). The concentration of
      the markers in each sample was calculated using an equation of the line of 4th grade.
    
  