
    
      An open-label, prospective cohort study with two arms over 16 weeks comprising 8 weeks of
      treatment with montelukast and 8 weeks without treatment of montelukast. All patients will be
      followed from recruitment to the study end date.

      Study Population 62 patients aged 6-16 years old with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis
      recruited from the Royal Children's Hospital and Box Hill Hospital dermatology clinics having
      already previously received eczema education (SCORAD >25) Study Product Oral tablet
      montelukast Dose Regimen For patients 6-8 years old - 4mg montelukast once daily For patients
      9-13 years old - 5mg montelukast once daily For patients 14-16 years old - 10mg montelukast
      once daily Evaluation Criteria Primary objective measurement: mean change in SCORAD index at
      8 weeks Patients will be randomized into 2 arms: Arm 1 treated with montelukast therapy over
      8 weeks followed by no montelukast therapy for 8 weeks. Arm 2 followed for 8 weeks without
      montelukast therapy followed by 8 weeks with montelukast therapy.

      Assessment Schedule Clinical assessment will be conducted at baseline (week 0), and reviewed
      every 4 weeks over 16 weeks with a safety follow-up visit 2 weeks after the treatment ends
      (week 18). At the first clinic visit, demographic data, medical history and baseline SCORAD
      and cDLQI will be recorded. cDLQI will be completed by the participants. Participants with
      SCORAD <25 are considered to have mild disease and will not be included in the study.
      Suitable participants will be prescribed oral montelukast as an adjunct to their standard
      topical therapy (corticosteroids, emollients) or immunosuppressive therapy. Adverse effects,
      SCORAD (assessed by a blinded assessor) and cDLQI will be assessed at each review.

      Data will be analyzed based on intention-to-treat. Paired data on SCORAD and cDLQI will be
      analyzed. A p value <0.05 will be considered statistically significant. A 30% improvement in
      SCORAD and cDLQI scores will be considered clinically significant.
    
  