
    
      Cognitive behavioral treatment (CBT) produces positive outcomes for late-life worry/GAD in
      academic and primary care settings, but minorities are significantly underrepresented in
      clinical trials, and standard CBT poorly addresses the needs of low-income minority older
      adults in underserved communities. More attention needs to be given to service delivery of
      anxiety treatments for underserved older adults. Calmer Life (CL) is a culturally tailored,
      participant-centered research study that offers a skills-based intervention for late-life
      anxiety and includes other elements of care to meet the needs of underserved, minority older
      adults, including the option to integrate religion/spirituality (R/S), flexible delivery
      modes, and modular treatment format.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to CL or Enhanced Community Care(ECC). CL and ECC will
      be provided by behavioral health clinicians recruited from partner organizations, psychology
      trainees, and other research staff over 3 months. Assessments will occur at baseline and 3
      months.

      Participants in the CL condition can choose up to 12 individual skill sessions, and will be
      recommended to complete a minimum of 6 sessions. If participants desire to incorporate R/S,
      an R/S assessment occurs during session 2 to help the provider understand the participant's
      beliefs and practices. R/S can be integrated into any of the skills learned during the
      intervention (e.g., deep breathing, self-statements, sleep management) or omitted entirely.

      Participants in the ECC condition will receive brief biweekly check in calls to provide
      information about community resources (including mental health), offer emotional support, and
      assess symptom severity and need for crisis intervention. Emergency procedures will be
      followed in crisis situations. After 3 months of ECC is completed, participants in the ECC
      group will be offered the CL intervention.

      Outcome measures will be administered for participants in both groups at baseline, 1 month,
      and 3 months. Participants in ECC will complete measures at 6 months after completion of CL.
    
  