
    
      Due to the demographical development, age-related diseases will drastically increase over the
      next decades. To face this healthcare challenge, early and accurate identification of
      cognitive impairment is crucial. The early detection of cognitive decline requires a tool
      that is short, easy to administer and interpret, and has high diagnostic accuracy. Currently,
      a widely used instrument is the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE). However, the MMSE
      sensitivity is poor when identifying individuals with MCI, and it lacks meaningful assessment
      of executive functions. The Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) has been developed to
      address these weaknesses. It has demonstrated better diagnostic accuracy in patients with
      MCI, has less ceiling effect, and a higher test-retest-reliability. In addition, the MoCA
      better captures the cognitive domains proposed in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of
      Mental Disorders (DSM-5).

      In 2018, the investigators generated demographically adjusted normative values for the German
      version of the MoCA in cognitively healthy individuals. However, these normative data alone
      are not suitable to determine the exact diagnostic accuracy. Therefore, the investigators aim
      to analyze data from patients with cognitive disorders to validate the German version of the
      MoCA.

      Validation studies for the MoCA have been performed in various languages and different
      etiologies, mainly in patients with MCI and AD. However, when applying the MoCA in a clinical
      routine setting, the patient population is more heterogeneous and different etiologies may
      lead to deficits in characteristic cognitive domains. Therefore, patients with diseases other
      than AD may perform differently on items of the MoCA. This might translate into differences
      regarding the optimal cut-off score to detect possible cognitive impairment. Thus, when
      solely relying on a cut-off score that has been validated in a population of AD patients,
      patients with other diseases leading to cognitive impairment may be missed.

      The investigators therefore aim to establish the diagnostic accuracy of the MoCA when applied
      in a clinically diverse patient sample, namely, a sample that is seen in a typical Memory
      Clinic. In a first step, the diagnostic properties of the MoCA will be investigated by
      differentiating between healthy controls and all patients with mild and major neurocognitive
      disorders (NCD). In a second step, healthy controls will be compared separately to patients
      with mild NCD and to patients with major NCD. The investigators further aim to investigate
      the aptness of the MoCA for differential diagnostic. The MoCA performance of different
      diagnostic patient groups will be compared. Investigating the presence or absence of deficits
      per subitem in each patient group may reveal if different etiologies lead to characteristic
      MoCA profiles.
    
  