
    
      The study will be based on a sample of 25 heart failure patients enrolled with the UMHS Heart
      Failure Program who give informed consent to participate in the study. The clinical protocols
      and electronic software were developed by the UMHS-CVC Heart Failure Program in collaboration
      with the UMHS Telemedicine Resource Center. These protocols contain automated trigger
      mechanisms when certain values are exceeded to alert the provider and the patient for the
      need to take appropriate remedial action.

      The UMHS Heart Failure Disease Management Program contains a registry of more than 3000
      patients with heart failure problems. Currently, a multidisciplinary nursing team maintains
      routine contacts with these patients through telephone calls and paper records. The program
      has been acknowledged for its adherence to quality of care measures, and was the first to be
      awarded accreditation by JCAHO for ambulatory heart failure care. Despite its relative
      success, patients continue to be at high risk for re-hospitalization due to worsened heart
      function. The proposed tele-monitoring system is expected to reduce the need for
      re-hospitalization and to improve health outcomes by virtue of automated daily reporting and
      greater patient involvement in self-management. Because of its high promise, this area of
      research has been receiving increased attention, but so far without definitive results.
      Previous research has provided evidence of reduced emergency room visits and
      hospitalizations, improved patient compliance with care and overall cost containment among
      high-risk patient populations. But the studies relied on relatively expensive systems
      involving specialized hardware and proprietary software. The cost of these interventions
      presents a limitation to the broad adoption and use of the technology. The proposed project
      is an attempt to ascertain the optimal method from a clinical and cost standpoint for in-home
      telemonitoring for this large patient population that is likely to grow with the aging of the
      population.

      The primary end-points of this pilot are: (1) patient willingness to use the system,
      perceptions regarding its efficacy and effectiveness and problems encountered in its use; (2)
      patient adherence to heart failure-specific self care practices; (3) patient health literacy
      and quality of life; and (4) provider perceptions of the efficacy and effectiveness of the
      system and problems encountered in its use.

      The findings should be helpful in refining the clinical protocols and data management
      algorithms and establishing a solid foundation for large-scale randomized clinical trials for
      obtaining the necessary evidence for wide-scale adoption of these systems in the United
      States and elsewhere.
    
  