
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility and efficacy of a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen
           comprising alemtuzumab, fludarabine, melphalan, and thiotepa followed by allogeneic
           peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) in patients with hematologic
           malignancies.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the safety of LMB-2 immunotoxin-treated, selectively-depleted donor T cells,
           administered after allogeneic PBSCT, in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of LMB-2 immunotoxin-treated, selectively-depleted
      donor T cells.

        -  T cell preparation: Patients and donors undergo apheresis to obtain peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMCs), which are expanded in culture. Patients' PBMCs are irradiated
           and mixed with donor PBMCs. LMB-2 immunotoxin is added to the PBMCs in order to
           selectively deplete T cells from the donor PBMCs.

        -  Conditioning: Patients receive alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on days -9 to -5, fludarabine
           IV over 30 minutes on days -8 to -5, melphalan IV over 15-20 minutes on day -4, and
           thiotepa IV on days -3 to -2.

        -  Immunosuppression: Patients receive tacrolimus IV continuously on days -10 to 1.

        -  Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation: Patients undergo
           allogeneic PBSC transplantation on day 0.

        -  LMB-2 immunotoxin-treated, selectively-depleted donor T cells: Patients receive LMB-2
           immunotoxin-treated, selectively-depleted donor T cells IV over 30-60 minutes on
           approximately day 28.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating dose of LMB-2 immunotoxin-treated,
      selectively-depleted donor T cells until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The
      MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting-toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed weekly for 100 days
      post-transplantation and then periodically for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 15-20 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  