
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the change in volume of foci of prostate cancer as assessed by T2-weighted
           MRI, following exposure to dutasteride (Avodart) 0.5 mg daily for six months.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the change in volume of prostate cancer as determined by
           gadolinium-enhanced MRI and diffusion-weighted MRI after 6 months of dutasteride 0.5 mg
           compared to placebo.

        -  To determine the change in volume of prostate cancer as determined by T2-weighted MRI,
           gadolinium-enhanced MRI, and diffusion-weighted MRI after 3 months of dutasteride
           compared to placebo.

        -  To determine the changes in MR characteristics of prostate cancer (perfusion, cell
           density) between baseline and six months in patients on dutasteride compared to placebo.

        -  To determine the change in volume of prostate cancer as assessed by HistoScan
           transrectal ultrasound between baseline and six months, in patients on dutasteride
           compared to placebo.

        -  To determine the association between the measured prostate cancer volumes on MRI with
           the measured prostate cancer volumes on HistoScan at baseline and six months in patients
           on dutasteride compared to placebo.

        -  To determine the association between the measured changes in prostate cancer volume
           using MRI, and the measured changes in prostate cancer volume using HistoScan
           transrectal ultrasound, at baseline and at six months, in patients on dutasteride
           compared to placebo.

        -  To correlate changes in tumor volume and characteristics seen on MRI with changes seen
           on HistoScan between baseline and six months in patients on dutasteride compared to
           placebo.

        -  To correlate change in tumor volume and characteristics seen on MRI with histological
           features as seen on 6-month biopsy (Gleason score and sum, number of cores involved,
           cancer core length) in patients on dutasteride compared to placebo.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral dutasteride once daily for 6 months. Treatment continues in
           the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 6 months. Treatment continues in
           the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients undergo a multi-sequence MRI at baseline, 3 months, and 6 months and HistoScan
      transrectal ultrasound at baseline and 6 months. Patients may also undergo a targeted biopsy
      of the prostate (standard transrectal biopsy plus ultrasound-guided targeting of lesions seen
      on MRI) at 6 months.
    
  