
    
      Ovarian cancer has the highest mortality of all gynecological cancers, with an overall 5-year
      survival rate of only 30-40%. The incidence of ovarian cancer also increased in recent year
      in Taiwan, and it became a more and more important issue. The lack of symptoms, difficulties
      in early diagnosis, insufficient accurate tumor markers, and lack of information about
      ovarian tumor biology contribute to the poor prognosis in ovarian cancer patients. The
      prognostic factors for ovarian carcinomas include tumor stage, subtype of histology, grade of
      differentiation, the residual tumor after debulking surgery, and the response to
      chemotherapy. Especially the resistance to chemotherapy plays a great role in the prognosis
      of the patients. However, the current studies present an incomplete picture of the tumor
      biology of ovarian cancer. It will be quite helpful to clinical management if the
      investigators can examine the possible underlying mechanism of tumorigenesis and drug
      resistance.

      Malignancy usually origins from the abnormal proliferate cells which accumulate several
      genetic or epigenetic aberrations. The most important key question is "What kind of cell
      could be the cancer cell?" Recent studies figure out there is "cancer-initiating cell" in the
      malignant tumor. Cancer-initiating cells organized self-renewing, anchorage-independent
      spheres and were reproducibly. Moreover, cancer-initiating cells were also capable of
      intraperitoneal tumorigenesis (demonstrating activity in their native microenvironment) and
      could serially propagate tumors in animals. Although the proportion of the cancer-initiating
      cells in the cancer tissue is very low, the characteristic abilities of cancer-initiating
      cells fulfill all currently accepted criteria for the existence of a subpopulation of
      tumor-initiating cells, and their specific detection and targeting could be highly valuable
      for therapy of tumor heterogeneity, uncontrolled proliferation, local invasion, distant
      metastasis and even resistance to current management including chemotherapy.

      Some tumor initiating cells which have the properties of cancer stem cells have been isolated
      from leukemia, breast cancer, and brain tumor. Some potential cell markers for cancer
      initiating cells were identified, including CD34(+)/CD38(+) in leukemia, CD44(+)/CD24(+) in
      breast cancer, and CD133(+)/nestin(+) in brain tumor. Aberrant cell signal transduction
      pathway of stem cell is associated with malignant transformation, such as Wnt, Hedgehog, and
      Notch pathways. Up to our knowledge, the specific antigens expressed on ovarian
      cancer-initiating cells have not been identified and characterized yet. In the current study,
      using primary human ovarian tumors, the investigators will isolate and characterized ovarian
      cancer-initiating cells fully capable of reestablishing their original tumor hierarchy in
      vivo. The investigators will also elucidate the novel diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers on
      ovarian cancer-initiating cells by identifying numerous differentially potential surface
      antigens and/or over-expressed genes. Furthermore, a mouse ovarian cancer study model will be
      genetically engineered and investigated to monitor the possible therapeutic effects of
      immunotherapy and chemotherapy to these ovarian cancer-initiating cells. The investigators
      hope to specify and to stratify the molecular patterns, response to chemotherapy, prognostic
      biomarkers in patients with ovarian cancer-initiating cells. These results might offer some
      novel ovarian cancer therapy hypothesis to evaluate its function on tumorigenesis and
      potential on targeting ovarian cancer-initiating cells.
    
  