
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the in breast recurrence rate following repeat radiation to the breast.
           These patients will be followed for a period of five years following completion of
           radiation to determine these rates.

        -  To determine the cosmetic outcome resulting from partial breast re-irradiation using
           different techniques, including both physician and patient rated scales.

        -  To determine patient satisfaction of partial breast re-irradiation as it pertains to
           their overall treatment experience, as measured by a questionnaire.

        -  To determine if there are patient factors illuminated during a discussion of informed
           consent, which limit a patient's suitability to receive partial breast re-irradiation
           delivered by a particular technique.

        -  To evaluate tylectomy wound healing and overall complication rate after partial breast
           re-irradiation.

        -  To determine ipsilateral breast tumor recurrence rates and tumor bed recurrence
           rates.These patients will be followed for a period of five years following completion of
           the second course of radiation to determine these rates.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to which modality is best suited for the patient.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

      All patients undergo excisional biopsy or needle localization removal of the tumor. Patients
      with margins < 2 mm undergo re-excision of the biopsy cavity.

        -  Group 1: Patients undergo partial breast irradiation delivered as a single
           intra-operative radiation dose to the tumor bed.

        -  Group 2: Patients undergo partial breast irradiation delivered by Mammosite®
           brachytherapy consisting of 10 fractions over 5 days.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, 1 month after completion of radiotherapy, and then
      at follow-up visits.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 3 months for
      1 year, and then every 6 months for 5 years.
    
  