
    
      Subjects meeting the study inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized equally to receive
      either:

        1. Prednisone 0.5 mg kg/day for 6-months (MAX dose 30 mg per day) or

        2. Methotrexate 15-20 mg po, sc, or IM once a week for 6-months + Folic Acid 2 mg OD for 6
           months + Prednisone 20 mg day for 1 month, then 10 mg OD for 1 month, then 5 mg OD for
           one month then STOP

      Methotrexate will be initiated at a dose of 15 mg once a week and increased to 20 mg once a
      week after 4 weeks if tolerated. In case of Methotrexate-induced side-effects general
      guidelines will be provided, however specific management will be left to the treating
      physicians. Folic acid will be taken to help reduce methotrexate side-effects.

      Prior to randomization and study treatment all subjects will have the following baseline
      tests done: baseline safety blood work; FDG-PET scan with myocardial perfusion imaging; ECG;
      echo; and a bone mineral density scan. Cardiac MRI (CMR) is optional but strongly encouraged.
      Blood will be obtained for biomarker core-lab analysis. Biomarkers to be assayed will include
      highly sensitive Troponin I. Samples will be stored for future novel biomarker discovery.
      Quality of LIfe (QOL) questionnaires (KSQ, SAT and SF-36) will be completed prior to
      treatment start.

      After therapy initiation subjects will be seen at 4 weeks, 8 weeks (methotrexate arm only),
      and 12 weeks, with a final visit at 6 months. Safety bloodwork and assessment for medication
      side effects, using a medication side-effect questionnaire, will be completed at all visits.
      At 12 weeks QOL questionnaires will be completed. The primary endpoint will be assessed at
      6-months, when FDG-PET with myocardial perfusion imaging, ECG, echo, bone mineral density
      scan, QOL questionnaires, blood for biomarkers and device interrogation will be done. CMR may
      be repeated. Skin, muscle strength testing and neuropsychiatric assessment will be completed
      at 6 months as part of the composite glucocorticoid toxicity index.

      After the 6 month visit. further management will be at the treating physician's discretion.
      Details of the physicians planned treatment following the 6-month PET scan will be collected.

      Standardized protocols for all aspects of FDG-PET scans (i.e. patient preparation, image
      acquisition, image processing, transfer to the core lab and analysis at core lab) will be
      followed.
    
  