
    
      It is clear that a large proportion of individuals regain weight following dietary weight
      loss interventions most likely because of homeostatic and non-homeostatic factors favouring a
      return to initial energy status. However, studies performed to date have documented these
      effects in the context of interventions favouring both energy restriction and CDR. Thus, the
      difference between a state of energy restriction alone and a state of energy restriction
      combined to CDR on factors regulating energy balance is not known. In order to study this
      important question appropriately, we need to create a condition of energy restriction without
      increasing CDR, which can only be achieved with a satiating diet (i.e. well-balanced low
      energy density diet). This is easier to create in the context of a controlled intervention in
      which all foods and drinks are provided. We propose to create, in a controlled context, an
      energy restriction for which subjects will be blinded i.e. they will consume less energy than
      their energy needs without knowing that they are restrained. Such a design will permit to
      document for the first time the independent effects of CDR in the context of a reduced
      calorie diet on factors associated with the regulation of energy balance. The proposed study
      will also allow exploring the impact of increasing CDR on women's attitude toward their
      children's eating behaviours. Taken all together, results arising from the proposed study
      will better position the relevance of developing weight loss approaches not focusing on CDR
      to favour healthy weight management for women and their family. Data will be collected before
      and after the 4-week intervention, as well as 3 months after the end of the intervention. In
      order to appropriately test our hypotheses, we cannot state the real purpose of the study in
      the informed consent form and women will be told that it is a study about the impact of diet
      on blood pressure. However, at the end of the study, women will be debriefed and will sign a
      second informed consent form in which the true purpose of the study will be explained.
    
  