
    
      Non-invasive respiratory treatments are being used more frequently during neonatal intensive
      care. High-flow nasal cannula,1-2 nasal continuous positive airway pressure,3 nasal
      intermittent mandatory or synchronized ventilation,4 and high-frequency nasal continuous
      airway pressure5-6 are some of these modalities. These non-invasive therapies attempt to
      provide adequate oxygen delivery, positive end-expiratory pressure to maintain lung
      recruitment, and ventilation assistance without the need for endotracheal intubation. The
      benefits may be substantial, including decreased frequency of nosocomial infection, decreased
      risk for lung injury, and prevention of arrest in pulmonary development for those very
      preterm infants with immature lungs. However, there are very few reports of actual
      measurement of nasopharyngeal pressure during use of these non-invasive therapies.1,7
      Combined, only 27 patients are included in two studies. Only one modality, high-flow nasal
      cannula, was evaluated. One study in 11 patients suggests a 2-3 cmH2O pressure drop exists
      between applied and delivered airway pressure.7 In order to better understand the
      relationship between applied and delivered airway pressures with all types of non-invasive
      therapy, we propose to measure nasopharyngeal pressure in neonates being treated with these
      modes of respiratory support.

      If non-invasive respiratory support is initiated as part of routine pulmonary therapy for a
      neonate admitted to neonatal intensive care, the infant will be considered eligible for study
      if no exclusion criteria are met. Informed consent/parental permission will be requested and
      if obtained, the infant will be included for study.

      The study procedure will be as follows:

        -  Care information will be documented, to include the infant's post-menstrual and
           post-delivery age, current weight, current level of supplemental oxygen administration,
           current pulse oximeter saturation level, applied flow and pressure settings, and if
           non-invasive ventilation is being used, the ventilator parameters.

        -  A high resolution fiber optic pressure tip transducer catheter will be inserted into a
           5F or similar size fenestrated tube (such as an Anderson catheter) and introduced
           through the mouth towards the posterior pharynx. The pressure transducer/catheter
           combination will only be inserted the minimum distance to obtain a stable pressure
           signal reading and not produce choking or gagging in the infant. If the infant
           demonstrates choking or gagging, the tube will be withdrawn to a position that does not
           produce choking or gagging in the infant. If the pressure signal suggests that the
           catheter openings may be occluded with mucous, 5mL of air may be injected into the
           catheter to clear the mucous and obtain a satisfactory recording.

        -  A 1 to 5 minute recording will be made from the pressure transducer onto a notebook
           computer at the current non-invasive therapy settings.

        -  Two more 1 to 5 minute recordings will be made, either 0.5-1.0 cmH2O or 0.5-1.0 liter
           per minute flow (depending on the non-invasive modality) above and below the current
           settings. The order of the increase or decrease will be by random sequence.

        -  A final fourth 1 to 5 minute recording will be made when the settings have been returned
           to the current baseline settings.

        -  Pulse oximeter saturation will be recorded both before and after each recording.

        -  A study infant will undergo a baseline study procedure, and re-studied whenever the
           non-invasive therapy settings are changed based on clinical management.
    
  