
    
      The current method for posterolateral lumbar fusion surgeries utilizes autograft bone
      typically derived from the patient's iliac crest. However, complications have been reported
      concerning the use of iliac crest bone, that include additional healing time due to the
      secondary surgical site and gait abnormalities. Clinicians are in need of an adequate
      alternative, and many have begun testing growth factors or synthetic compounds used in
      conjunction with local bone autografts. Though this avoids the need for a secondary surgical
      site, synthetic materials are not without their own limitations. These compounds must achieve
      similar growth and fusion rates as native bone. This study will test the applicability of
      Actifuse, a synthetic bone graft substitute, in instrumented multi-level adult spinal
      deformity surgery.

      Actifuse is a silicate substituted calcium phosphate. It is osteostimulative, and is a bone
      void filler intended for orthopedic applications such as a filler for gaps and voids that are
      not intrinsic to the stability of the bony structure. Actifuse has several features that
      mimic human bone (amount of silicon, resorption rate, etc). It provides a scaffold for
      long-term bone healing and is intended to be packed gently into bony voids or gaps of the
      skeletal system, i.e. extremities, pelvis and spine including use in posterolateral spinal
      fusion procedures with appropriate stabilizing hardware. These defects may be surgically
      created osseous defects or osseous defects created from traumatic injury to the bone. The
      product provides a bone void filler that is resorbed and replaced by native bone during the
      healing process.

      Actifuse accelerates bone growth by combining an interconnected macro- and micro- porous
      structure with osteostimulative chemistry created through a patented silicate substitution
      process to attach and stimulate osteoprogenitor cells (OPCs) and mesenchymal stem cells
      (MSCs). It resists irrigation and can be easily viewed on x-rays to monitor healing. Previous
      groups have shown that Actifuse is successful in the laboratory as well as in patients;
      however, previously reported literature has not studied the efficacy of Actifuse in
      instrumented multi-level adult spinal deformity.

      Based on previous literature, investigators expect the Actifuse ABX to successfully fuse to
      native bone growth and promote fusion as well as an autograft replacement. Potential pitfalls
      include Actifuse not functioning as well in place of native bone. If this occurs,
      investigators will conduct revision surgery to ensure proper bone union.

      The success of this project could have significant effects for the society at large. It is
      estimate that over 200,000 arthrodeses are performed each year, and the autologous iliac
      crest bone graft is often considered the standard of care, therefore these results could
      improve the outcome of surgery for thousands of patients every year. In addition, it will
      likely cut down on time the surgeon is in the operating room. It could also speed patient
      recovery by 1) lowering the amount of autologous bone harvested from the patient, and 2)
      taking advantage of the properties of Actifuse (osteostimulation, resorption rate, etc) that
      should result in quicker bone fusing and healing.
    
  