
    
      Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) affects approximately 250,000 UK adults. It causes symptoms
      including diarrhoea and extreme faecal urgency and has an unpredictable relapsing-remitting
      course. A quarter of people with IBD report faecal incontinence (FI) and two-thirds have
      urgency, even when IBD is in remission. Although this limits peoples' lives, most do not seek
      professional help. No study has determined whether nationally recommended approaches to FI
      would help people with IBD.

      Research question Does implementation of the nationally (NICE)-recommended approach to active
      case-finding and step-wise management of FI improve bowel control and quality of life in
      people with IBD.

      The investigators will address 3 objectives:

        1. To implement 'active case finding' for FI and life-restricting faecal urgency in people
           with IBD, monitoring uptake of the offer of help and investigating barriers to accessing
           care.

        2. To determine the effectiveness of implementing the algorithm of care proposed by NICE
           for people with FI in a randomised controlled trial compared to provision of the same
           information in a self-management booklet. The trial will measure the effects of each
           intervention at 6 months after completion of the intervention.

        3. To obtain detailed qualitative feedback from patients and staff on the best way of
           enabling health-seeking, the experience of the intervention and suggestions for future
           service developments.

      Plan of investigation We will conduct research in 6 UK specialist IBD services, in two phases
      with an integral qualitative element.

      Phase 1: active case finding: will (a) Compare active case finding rates of disclosure for FI
      as recommended by NICE by using a postal, telephone or face to face approach; and (b)
      Determine currently unmet need for intervention for FI. All hospitals will conduct postal
      case-finding (1000 people) and all will conduct face to face or telephone questioning (1000
      people) to compare numbers reporting FI and uptake of offer of intervention.

      Phase 2: randomised controlled trial 186 patients with IBD and FI will be recruited (from
      people wanting help in Phase 1) to a parallel multicentre RCT comparing 2 interventions: (a)
      CONSULT + BOOKLET: 3-4 face to face or telephone consultations with an IBD specialist nurse
      who has received extra training on FI plus provision of a booklet developed with IBD patients
      on self-help for FI; (b) BOOKLET: intervention is booklet alone.
    
  