
    
      Actinic keratosis (AKs) are common skin diseases affecting areas previously overexposed to
      the sun (in particular face, nape of the neck, hands). They affect mainly elderly people
      (mean age: 74 years old, with 97% who are over 50 years old) and preferably men (60%). In
      Europe, prevalence of AK in the adult population over 40 years is estimated to be between 6%
      and 25%.

      Subjects at risk are light-skinned people (phototype I and II according to Fitzpatrick scale)
      with high cumulative sun exposure or phototherapy. Over 80% of patients have a light
      phototype and 37% of patients with AK have an outside professional activity.

      Diagnosis of AK is usually clinical, during skin examination which is recommended for any
      physician's visit. There are often multiple lesions, some of which, in the absence of
      effective treatment, can progress to squamous cell carcinoma (0.025% to 20% per year/lesion).

      Although the evolution rate of AKs to carcinoma remains low and disappearance or sole
      persistence of the lesion is possible, their evolution is unpredictable, and it is therefore
      recommended to monitor and treat the AKs.

      Treatment options include cryotherapy, topical treatments, photodynamic therapy, vaporization
      of lesions by CO2 laser or electrocoagulation and curretage.

      When there are few AK lesions, which are localized and with superficial forms, cryotherapy is
      the reference treatment (it is widely used by dermatologists, as it is simple, fast and does
      not require special equipment), whereas topical treatment (5-FU, imiquimod, diclofenac) is
      recommended in case of multiple keratosis or lesions on a larger area of the skin. The
      disadvantage of cryotherapy and photodynamic therapy is that these techniques can be painful
      and lead to depigmentation or scarring. Topical treatments which are available (imiquimod,
      5-FU, diclofenac) may induce severe inflammatory reactions sometimes responsible for
      premature termination and thus ineffective.

      Combined with their length (4 to 16 weeks), the complexity of current topical regimens would
      be the cause of poor compliance.

      So, all dermatologists agree with the need to shorten duration of treatment and reduce the
      number of applications. Ingenol mebutate gel (Picato®), used in very short 2-3 days cycle,
      with one application per day, meets this need.

      Development of ingenol mebutate gel included 4 pivotal phase III trials, evaluating its
      efficacy and safety. The results of these studies have established satisfactory efficacy and
      safety for Picato® with, on one hand, proven efficacy after two months for face, scalp, trunk
      and extremities and, on the other hand, transient local skin reactions (erythema,
      flaking/scaling, crusting,swelling,...), which appear early, peak in intensity after the end
      of treatment (day 3 or day 4) and disappear without sequelae within 2-4 weeks after
      application of the gel. At day 57, mean patient global satisfaction scores, either assessed
      with TSQM or Skindex-16, were statistically higher in the ingenol mebutate gel group than in
      the vehicle group. In a long term follow up study, ingenol mebutate produced clinically
      relevant sustained clearance and long-term lesion reduction.

      These characteristics are a potentially important advantage for treatment compliance as well
      as for patient comfort.
    
  