
    
      Parkinson's Disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease clinically characterized
      by rigidity, bradykinesia and resting tremor. Beyond these symptoms the principal feature of
      this condition is the lost of habitual automatic movements and the disruption of different
      cognitive-motivational processes. These features are related to a pathological dopaminergic
      tone that alters the cortico-striatal pathways with several consequences on motor and
      emotional behaviours. Given its complexity PD impact very seriously on patients' quality of
      life (QoL).

      Dopamine replacement therapy (DRT) is the standard treatment for the motor symptom of PD and
      previous studies have demonstrated its positive effect on QoL. However DRT does not reduce
      axial PD symptoms such as freezing of gait, postural instability and balance disturbances.
      Further, long-term DRT could negatively impact on cognitive and motivational functions and
      leads to different motor and behavioural side effects.

      In the last years, rehabilitation has been proposed as an effective and complementary
      treatment for the management of PD and several evidences highlighted the need of a
      multidisciplinary and intensive approach to achieve good results.

      To evaluate the impact of an intensive, multidisciplinary rehabilitation treatment (MIRT), on
      QoL of subjects with PD. Literature data showed that this type of treatment determine a
      positive effect on both motor and non-motor symptoms. Starting from these evidences, in this
      study the investigators have examined whether MIRT act positively on QoL and for how long
      this potential positive effect is maintained.

      250 PD patients with Parkinson's Disease hospitalized for a 4-weeks MIRT were enrolled. PDQ39
      was administered at enrolment, and at three points after discharge: at 1, 3 and 6 months. The
      investigators decided to evaluate QoL after homecoming in order to avoid an inpatient state
      bias. Other outcome measures were considered and assessed at the enrolment and at discharge:
      Unified Parkinson's Disease Scale (UPDRS), Parkinson Disease Disability Scale (PDDS), Berg
      Balance Scale (BBS), FOG (Freezing of Gait Questionnaire), 6MWT (6 minutes walking Test),
      Time Up and Go test (TUG). Cognitive and psychopathological status of patients was also
      assessed using Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), Frontal Assessment Battery (FAB), State
      Trait Anxiety Inventory (STAY I-II), Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
    
  