
    
      ET is a critical step of an IVF cycle that merits the utmost attention. Its success depends
      on the frequency of uterine contractions, the endometrial receptivity and the quality of
      embryos transferred.

      Uterine contractions are the most fundamental constituents of the uterine receptivity.
      Excessive contractions may decrease the implantation potential of embryos by expelling the
      embryos from the uterus. Studies have revealed a six-fold increase in uterine contractility
      in IVF cycles when measured before ET as compared to the condition before ovulation in
      natural cycles. Excessive manipulation of the cervix such as the use of tenaculum during
      difficult ET can also trigger uterine contractions, consequently leading to failure of embryo
      implantation.

      IVF success rates have been potentially improved by the use of drugs that inhibit pronounced
      uterine contractions at the time of ET. Treatment strategies such as the use of beta-agonists
      or nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agents for tocolysis have not been beneficial in IVF-ET
      procedures.

      Atosiban is a combined oxytocin/vasopressin V1A antagonist. It functions mainly by blocking
      oxytocin and vasopressin V1a receptors to decrease the frequency and amplitude of uterine
      contractions, which enhances implantation and pregnancy rates. RIF remains unexplained in
      most cases, which results in considerable variation in how RIF is treated and managed.
      Atosiban competes with oxytocin at oxytocin receptors in endometrial cells and inhibits
      oxytocin-induced PGF2α release, thus inhibiting uterine contractions and increasing chances
      of embryo implantation and may add value in improving the outcome in RIF patients.

      Recently published studies showed that atosiban inhibits oxytocin-induced PGF2α and uterine
      contractility, consequently leading to improved IRs. Studies have shown a considerable
      reduction in the frequency of uterine contractions before and after the administration of
      atosiban in women undergoing ET.
    
  