
    
      Spinal fusion can be associated with significant blood loss requiring allogeneic blood
      transfusion (ABT). Ongoing concerns about the costs, risks, and availability of allogeneic
      blood have prompted the implementation of multiple techniques (preoperative erythropoetin,
      autologous pre-donation, intra-operative blood salvage, and induced hypotension) to reduce
      the necessity of ABT. However, 28% of patients undergoing spinal fusion at the Toronto
      Western Hospital still receive ABT. Also, none of these modalities (with the exception of
      induced hypotension) actually reduce the amount of blood shed from the surgical wound; thus
      the severity of anemia is largely unaffected. Consequently, many of these patients can suffer
      from adverse effects of anemia postoperatively as well as potential complications from blood
      transfusions.

      The underlying assumption of the proposed study is that excessive fibrinolysis occurs during
      spinal fusion surgery. This can result in increased and recurrent blood loss, which can
      exacerbate the significant amount of bleeding already associated with major spine surgery.

      Tranexamic acid - an antifibrinolytic drug blocks the dissolution of hemostatic fibrin, which
      stabilizes fibrin structures, and thus may decrease blood loss secondary to increased
      fibrinolysis.

      This research proposal will test the following hypotheses:

        1. Tranexamic acid reduces the estimated perioperative blood loss in adult patients
           undergoing elective spinal fusion.

        2. Tranexamic acid reduces the need for blood transfusion in adult patients undergoing
           elective spinal fusion.

      This multi-centered trial will be valuable for establishing the efficacy and safety of
      tranexamic acid for reducing blood loss and allogeneic blood transfusion in adults having
      elective spinal fusion. Tranexamic acid is easy to administer, is relatively inexpensive, and
      has not been associated with significant adverse effects. If it is shown to be efficacious,
      it can be incorporated into routine clinical practice as part of the multi-modal
      perioperative blood conservation techniques currently used to reduce perioperative blood
      loss, transfusion and the risk of allogeneic blood transfusion.
    
  