
    
      Chronic noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) are the cause of increased consumption of
      socio-health resources, this in time and costs of medication these patients, added to this is
      the aging population that has drawn the attention of economists, politicians, health workers
      and researchers. At present, the change in the population pyramid is one of the factors that
      caused the increase in chronic diseases, which are the leading cause of morbidity and
      mortality worldwide. (Campos, M. Moya, D. Mendoza, D. Child, E., 2014).

      The presence of chronic non-communicable diseases makes it of interest of the whole society
      including the government, private sector and academia, twenty-one making it more advantageous
      and cost-effective strategies are needed as new media and thus strengthen the capacity of
      health services to respond to NCDs. (World Health Organization, 2012).

      For other part of the (NCCD) usually are long and slow evolution, affecting all age groups
      and all regions regardless of condition social, besides also they characterized by total or
      partial loss of autonomy seeing the person who has it must depend wholly or partly from a
      caregiver who provides security and support during his illness and in the process of
      recovery, This requires that promote the development of knowledge and skills in people with
      chronic non-communicable diseases and their caregivers and form social and support networks
      to facilitate better adaptation process against disease, through sources that allow you to
      collect systematize and disseminate information in order to improve the level of knowledge
      and induce changes to behaviors and lifestyles that promote physical and mental health care
      cuidadorsujeto dyad. (Herrera, A. Florez, I. Romero, E. Montalvo, A. Physical, psychological,
      social and spiritual implications of chronic non-communicable disease (NCD), affect not only
      the sufferer, but also their family caregiver (5), which substantiates the need to go beyond
      the organic approach the same; thus the social support family caregivers of people with NCDs
      takes importance. (Barrera, L. Campos, M. Carre침o, S. Carrillo M, Chaparro,L. Jaimes, M.
      Ortiz, S. Piratoba, B. Rosales, R. S치nchez, B., 2013) According Colliere quoted by Campos,
      CARE is an act of life that means an infinite variety of activities to sustain life and
      enable continuity and reproduction. Garcia says that caring is a habitual simple activity in
      humans, continually practiced as an integral part of the daily activities of people, to
      answer the essential aspiration to meet the needs. (Campos, M. Moya, D. Mendoza, D. Child,
      E., 2014) Escudero says Sitter is "the person or family, which provides most of the care and
      daily support who suffers from a disease or require assistance for the development of
      activities of daily living, without receiving financial remuneration" (Campos, M. Moya, D.
      Mendoza, D. Child, E., 2014) In Colombia in the study by Barreto and collaborators reported
      that most care for his family since the beginning of the NCCD, with exceeding seven months
      and more than seven hours per day times, which can mean an oppressive and incompatible work
      with a good quality of life. However, just over half report not only carers and have braces,
      spiritual and social family.

      Additionally it was found that 8.6% of caregivers reported dysfunction and, particularly,
      3.6% reflecting deterioration in mental status, thus the risk of the occurrence of adverse
      events for themselves and their families with NCDs is very high. (Barreto, R. Campos, M.
      Gonz치lez, G. Coral, R. Chaparro, L. Duran, M, et al, 2015) This study also found that
      knowledge and access to information and communication technologies (ICT), mostly middle and
      upper part, constitute an invaluable opportunity for social support for this group; only
      42.8% of caregivers reported healthy.

      The results corroborate the charge that the role of caregiver is associated with extensive
      wear and confirm findings from different studies analyzing the burden of care. (Barreto, R.
      Campos, M. Gonz치lez, G. Coral, R. Chaparro, L. Duran, M, et al, 2015).

      This study adopts the concept of skill care proposed by Nkongho as a multidimensional concept
      with three dimensions including knowledge, courage and patience. From these principles
      Nkongho ability develops the concept of care as "the ability to help others grow in a
      relationship that involves process development." (Eterovic, C. Mendoza, S. Saenz, K. 2015)
      This project is a research derived "Program Decreased Burden of Chronic Disease Transmissible
      No (NCDs) in Colombia". In which a pilot test where the results showed the felt need for an
      educational program on the ability of care in family caregivers of patients with chronic
      disease was made.

      This justifies the realization of this project will allow participation in Extension and
      Social Outreach, an effective educational model for caregivers of people with
      non-communicable chronic disease in Colombia. In addition, the consolidation of the alliance
      between Everest group at the University of Santander with the Latin American Network of
      chronic patient care and teaching hospital in Bucaramanga The Communards projects. Finally it
      is expected to consolidate training in the area of research students in undergraduate and
      graduate programs in specialization in Quality Management and Audit in Health at the
      University of Santander.
    
  