
    
      After the patient has given their consent to participate in the trial, a series of tests will
      be performed to determine if the patient is eligible. These tests may take place up to 21
      days before the surgery to remove a tumor sample or cancer-containing fluid, which will be
      used to create the vaccines. The tumor cells or fluid is then brought to a special, certified
      laboratory where the vaccine is made. Specially trained laboratory technicians then use a
      method known as adenoviral mediated gene transfer, which adds a new gene to the cancer cells.
      This gene causes the cells to make GM-CSF, a powerful hormone that stimulates the immune
      system. The cells are then given radiation so that they will not grow. Participants will
      start receiving vaccine on day 1, 8, 15, 29, and then every two weeks until the supply of
      vaccine has run out. The amount of the vaccine depends upon the total amount of cells that
      are obtained from the breast cancer tumor or fluid. Each time the patient is vaccinated, they
      will be given injections that will be placed underneath the skin. A different place will be
      used for each injection. If there are enough cells from the patient's tumor sample, the
      patient will be given an injection of non-transduced irradiated cells (the gene was not
      added) . These cells will help to measure how the patient's immune system is reacting to the
      tumor cells. This is called Delayed-Type Hypersensitivity (DTH). With vaccine #1 and #5, the
      patient will also receive a DTH injection. Two to three days after the vaccine and DTH
      injection, skin biopsies will be taken of both sites. At week 10 in the study treatment, or
      earlier if necessary, the patient will have a chest, abdomen, and pelvic CT scan to determine
      if the vaccine therapy has had an effect on their disease. A brain MRI will be performed if
      there were any abnormalities on the first brain MRI or if new symptoms have developed.
      Patients may participate in this study until one of the following happens: All vaccine
      created from the tumor has been given to the patient; the patient's disease worsens; the
      patient experiences an unacceptable and/or harmful side effect; the patient is unable to
      follow the study plan; or the patient's doctor feels it is no longer in the best interest of
      the patient to continue.
    
  