
    
      Previous studies reported earlier age of onset, symptom with longer duration, more
      exacerbation and devoid of adequate health care in Asthma Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD) Overlap (ACO) patients compared to asthma and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD) alone. However their prevalence rate was reported between 15 and 55%.
      Existence of asthma and COPD has been reported in between 15-20% of patient. There is no
      population based data on ACO patients in Bangladesh. But one study very recently reported
      11.6% of Asthma COPD Overlap (ACO) patients in this country. Thus it is of utmost importance
      to perform more research on this significant disease.

      Several studies investigated autonomic function in asthma and COPD patients. Both asthma and
      COPD affect cardiac autonomic function. Poor asthma control is associated with lower HRV,
      depressed sympathetic and enhanced parasympathetic modulation. It has reported that the risk
      of cardiovascular disease in COPD is increase by 2 to 3 fold and it is the leading cause of
      death in mild to moderate COPD. But to the best of our knowledge no study investigated the
      cardiac autonomic function of ACO patients.

      Vitamin D deficiency is a common feature in ACO patient. Previous studies demonstrated the
      relationship between vitamin D deficiency and reduced HRV resulting in incidence of
      cardiovascular disease. Only one study reported the effect of vitamin D administration on
      HRV. They enrolled young healthy subjects and observed the effect of vitamin D on HRV in
      response to physiological stressor such as angiotensin II induced stress. All these subjects
      were vitamin D insufficient and their result showed improvement of sympathovagal balance
      after administration of vitamin D. With this experimental observation we can expect,
      administration of vitamin D in vitamin deficient ACO patients might improve cardiac autonomic
      function and thereby protect them from the risk cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

      However vitamin D appears to be a simple, cost effective treatment to reduce cardiovascular
      disease associated risk by improving function of autonomic nerve function in both healthy and
      chronic disease population worldwide. But the volume of information regarding the effect of
      vitamin D administration in ACO patients is not enough for reaching any final conclusion.
      Moreover, with the best of our knowledge no study have been conducted to observe the effects
      of this fat soluble vitamin on HRV in vitamin D deficient, stable patients with ACO.

      Therefore, on the basis of this background the present study has been designed to evaluate
      the effects of Vitamin D on heart rate variability in D deficient, stable patients with ACO.
      This study will draw attention of the physicians on the cardiac autonomic status of ACO
      patients and the effects of Vitamin D on it.

      General Objectives:

      This study will assess the impact of vitamin D therapy on cardiac autonomic tone in vitamin D
      deficient ACO patients by heart rate variability analysis.

      Specific Objectives:

        -  To measure HRV by time domain and frequency domain and nonlinear methods in vitamin D
           deficient ACO patient at baseline.

        -  To measure all these above parameters after 3 months of vitamin D and placebo
           administration.

        -  To Compare pre and post intervention HRV parameters in both vitamin D group and placebo
           group of ACO patients.

      Methods

        1. Study design:

           This study will be a randomized controlled trial where experiment will be done with
           either vitamin D therapy or with placebo for 3 months onward.

        2. Study center:

           This study will be carried out in the department of Physiology of Bangabandhu Sheikh
           Mujib Medical University (BSMMU), Dhaka under continuous supervision and monitoring.

        3. Period of study:

           This study will commence from September, 2017 and expected to end by August, 2018.

        4. Ethical Clearance:

           The protocol of this study involving the human subjects will be submitted to
           Institutional Review Board (IRB) of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU)
           for ethical and other technical approval before commencing the actual study.this project
           is a part of an ongoing research which was approved by Institutional Review Board (IRB)
           of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU).

        5. Sampling:

      Sample size:

      Total 60 subjects will be recruited in this study, which is designed for randomized
      controlled trial on the basis of outcome measures (effect size) i.e. estimation of mean
      differences between pre & post intervention mean of the study which has already been
      published in a cross sectional study that assess the association of vitamin D deficiency with
      cardiac autonomic activity. Sample size based on effect size .

      Sampling Technique:

      Simple random sampling will be adopted to select the patients. According to the selection
      criteria total 60 subjects of both male and female with specific age range suitable for the
      aim and objective of the study will be enrolled. These diagnosed ACO patients (diagnosed by
      applying the "tick box" approach recommended by the joint committee of GOLD & GINA from Out
      Patient Department (OPD) of NIDCH) will be selected by clinicians in OPD of National
      Institute of the Disease of Chest and Hospital (NIDCH).

      Grouping of the subjects:

      After a careful brief interview, selection and enrollment of the subjects for this study will
      be done. All the subjects will be divided into following groups according to the objectives
      of the study

      Baseline group:

      This group will include 60 vitamin D deficient ACO patients.

      Group A:

      25 diagnosed vitamin D deficient ACO patients will be included in this group and they will be
      given vitamin D. This group will be further divided into the following group.

      Group A0: Vitamin D deficient ACO patients with placebo at day 0. Group A90: Vitamin D
      deficient ACO patients with placebo at day 90

      Group B:

      25 diagnosed vitamin D deficient ACO patients will be included in this group and they will be
      given placebo. This group will be further divided into the following group.

      Group B0: Vitamin D deficient ACO patients with vitamin D at day 0. Group B90: Vitamin D
      deficient ACO patients with vitamin D at day 90.

      All the patients will be similar by age, sex and BMI.

      8. Study intervention:

      The intervention will be given by oral administration of vitamin D3 capsule each of which
      contain 40000 International Unit (IU) of vitamin D. The capsule will be manufactured and
      supplied by Beximco Pharmaceutical Limited, Bangladesh. The placebo will also be manufactured
      and supplied by the same pharmaceutical company and will be similar in size shape &
      appearance to vitamin D capsule but it will contain sucrose powder. All patients will be
      advised to take 2 capsule after breakfast on a fixed day of the week for 3 consecutive
      months.

      At the time of enrollment all patients will be randomized to one of the two interventions
      (placebo or vitamin D) immediately. The intervention will be double blind randomized and
      cross over design so that each patient will act as his/her control. Each participant of the
      placebo group & vitamin D3 group will be studied before & after intervention and comparison
      will be done between these two groups. In addition comparison will be done post intervention
      data of placebo & vitamin D group.

      9. Study procedure:

      On the first day of enrollment the researcher will introduce herself to the patient and ask
      for permission to talk to them. Then she will cordially explain about the objectives,
      purpose, and procedure of the study on the day of enrollment. The benefit as well as risk (if
      any) of the study should be carefully mentioned. Special emphasis will be given on explaining
      how he/she will be benefited from this study. The patient will be motivated for voluntary
      participation and will be allowed to withdraw him or herself from the study even after
      participation, whenever the patient feels uneasy. If he or she agrees to be a part of the
      study, an informed written consent will be taken in a prescribed form. Detailed family
      history, medical history and thorough physical examination of each patient will be done and
      all the information will be recorded in a standard data sheet. Then all the patients will be
      requested to attend the Department of Physiology at 8:30 am on the day of biochemical
      examination On the examination day, 5 ml of venous blood will be collected and taken to the
      biochemistry laboratory as soon as possible for the estimation of serum 25(OH)D. BMI will
      also be calculated by recording height weight. After getting the biochemical report, the
      final selection will be done, according to the inclusion and exclusion criteria..

      Randomization and blinding: As it is not possible to exclude ACO patient with hypertension
      and/or diabetes , we will apply stratified randomization technique according to these two
      confounding factors. Four strata will be formed, as hypertension, diabetes, diabetes with
      hypertension and without hypertension and diabetes. Whenever a patient will be selected for
      enrollment, he will be given an Identification Number (ID) and assigned to one of the four
      strata according to his characteristics.

      The randomization and blinding design was developed by a faculty of the Department of
      Physiology who is not included in the study team. The ID number and stratification will
      informed to the faculty. She (the faculty) will then then randomly allocate the patient in
      either group A (placebo) or group B (vitamin D) considering his strata so that both the group
      had equal number of patients from each strata. The faculty will then note down the patient ID
      in the allotted group and supplied principal investigator (PI) the drug (placebo or vitamin
      D) according to the allotted group.

      At the end of the study, the faculty will provide the list of the patient's ID with allotted
      group to the PI

      Data collection: All the selected patients will be then requested to come to the Department
      again on the next day for the HRV test with proper preparation.

      Preparation for HRV test: Preparation for the test will be explained to them. For HRV
      examination, the subject will have to take their meal by 9:00 pm and need to have a sound
      sleep in the previous night. From previous night up to the time of examination, they will be
      requested not to undergo any physical or mental stress and also avoid taking any sedatives or
      any other drugs that affect central nervous system (Task force, 1996).The patients will be
      requested to take light breakfast in the morning without tea or coffee. After that, the
      selected subjects will be kept in complete bed rest in supine position for 10-15 minutes in
      the cool and calm laboratory environment to adjust with the lab conditions. During this
      period, the subject will be advised not to talk, eat or drink and also not to perform
      physical or mental activity even sleep .

      Laboratory conditions and recording of HRV: The recording of HRV measures will be done by 8
      active channels, power lab 8/35 (AD instrument, Australia), in the Autonomic Nerve Function
      Laboratory of Department of Physiology, BSMMU. The temperature of the laboratory will be
      maintained at 25°C-28°C and lights will be kept dim. It will also be maintained noise free.
      Door of the lab will be closed and no one will be allowed to enter the room during the test
      except the investigator and the subject.

      Once the HRV recording will be completed, the patients will be provided the drug (containing
      placebo or vitamin D3 ) and will be asked to take 2 capsule per week for consecutive 90 days.
      The schedule of the therapy will be explained meticulously in detail to the patients. He/she
      will also be informed about the possible side effect of the drug (e.g. diarrhea). If the
      subject is able to understand everything explained to him, then he/she will be advised to
      continue the drug therapy for the consecutive 90 days. If the subject finds it difficult to
      understand the intervention or if any side effect of the drug appears, he/she will be asked
      to come to the department or to contact via telephone. During this period, the subjects will
      be regularly monitored and encouraged to be the part of this study by maintaining regular
      communication through telephonic calls several times a week. A good rapport will be built up
      to take time to time follow-up over telephone and visiting patient's place. In addition,
      scheduled appointment, hot-line and follow up will be maintained properly. If the subject
      finds it difficult to understand the intervention or if any side effect of the drug appears,
      he/she will be asked to come to the department or to contact via telephone. All the selected
      ACO patients will be allowed to continue standard therapeutic treatment as prescribed by the
      physician for these three months. Along with this, all the subjects of both the groups will
      be advised to continue a diet according to their own choice. Subsequently, all subjects will
      be requested to attend the Department of Physiology, BSMMU again on the 90th day for
      assessment of all the above-mentioned study variables. Any subject who fails to follow the
      study procedure exactly during the study period will be dropped and a new one will be
      included to fulfill the desired total sample size. At the end of the study i.e. after 90 day
      vitamin D3 will be given to all the patients of placebo group.
    
  