
    
      Cervical dystonia (CD) is a condition characterized by involuntary movements of the neck.
      Generally these movements are rotational and are frequently associated with significant pain.
      Treatment of CD with oral medications is usually unsuccessful and the current treatment of
      choice for the majority of patients consists of periodic injections of botulinum toxin into
      the offending muscles. Resistant cases are considered candidates for selective surgical
      denervation procedures.

      Botulinum toxin type A (Botox®) is a FDA approved treatment for CD. Botox® has been safely
      used to treat CD in our clinic since 1989. In controlled trials, Botox® significantly
      improved pain in patients with CD.

      Cervico-thoracic pain syndromes not associated with dystonia (refractory cervicothoracic
      myofascial pain syndrome or CMPS) is a chronic regional pain syndrome. It is a common
      component in acute and chronic pain syndromes, occurring in up to 14% of the U.S. population.
      This pain is often resistant to treatment and is characterized by a series of tender trigger
      points. These are often injected with local anesthetics that provide temporary relief of pain
      in some patients. Recent uncontrolled trials have suggested that Botox® may be helpful in
      patients with CMPS. Most attempts to use Botox® to treat these Patients have utilized smaller
      doses of Botox® than those used typically to treat CD. Also, most studies have used Botox®
      injection into tender trigger points rather than into the belly of the muscle as is commonly
      done to treat CD.

      In this study we will use doses of Botox® that are typically used to treat CD. Injections of
      Botox® will be guided by EMG to determine areas of involuntarily firing muscle rather than
      solely into tender trigger points. The results in patients with CMPS will be compared to the
      pain relief experienced with those with CD. It is hoped that this trial will provide pilot
      data for planning a larger safety and efficacy trial of Botox® for chronic cervico-thoracic
      pain not associated with CD.
    
  