
    
      Disease-related malnutrition is a health problem with high prevalence and associated costs.
      Poor nutritional status has an unfavorable effect on clinical outcomes in terms of
      complications, post-transplant survival and mortality in relation to the liver, in addition
      to a decrease in quality of life. The same complications of liver disease, such as
      hypoalbuminemia or ascites, make it difficult to assess malnutrition in cirrhotic patients.

      The use of screening tools defines the first step in the prevention and treatment of patients
      at risk of malnutrition or overt malnutrition. The use of screening tools to detect
      malnutrition upon admission to hospital improves the identification of malnourished patients
      by 50-80%, early treatment of patients can reduce hospital stay. It has been observed that
      nutritional interventions, after assessment of nutritional risk, appear to prevent
      complications and improve quality of life and survival rate in cirrhotic patients.

      Due to changes in body composition in cirrhotic patients (i.e. ascites), the most common
      questionnaires for screening for malnutrition (e.g. MUST, NRS-2002), which use anthropometric
      measures, have not been validated in cirrhosis and are therefore not considered suitable for
      malnutrition screening. On the contrary, in recent years two specific nutritional screening
      tools have been developed for cirrhotic patients, the Royal Free Hospital Nutritional
      Prioritizing Tool (RFH-NPT) and the Liver Disease Undernutrition Screening Tool (LDUST). Both
      questionnaires, however, require further validation against clinical outcomes in cirrhotic
      patients.

      This study will use two screening tools for malnutrition risk (RFH-NPT and LDUST), to compare
      their validity in detecting malnutrition risk in patients with liver cirrhosis. These tools
      will be validated by performing a nutritional assessment with the new diagnostic criteria of
      malnutrition promoted by the Global Leadership Initiative on Malnutrition.

      Sarcopenia can occur in malnourished cirrhotic patients, so it will be of interest to know
      what the possible prevalence may be in the sample of patients studied. The use of the
      screening questionnaire SARC-F will allow an assessment of the prevalence of risk of
      sarcopenia. Situations such as malnutrition or sarcopenia can have an impact on the patient's
      health-related quality of life, so this parameter will be assessed using the Chronic Liver
      Disease Questionnaire.
    
  