
    
      Obesity is an independent risk factor for coronary disease and is prevalent among patients
      who undergo percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The significance of cardiac disease is
      often underestimated by patients who undergo PCI, and therefore they are more reticent in
      modifying their cardiac risk factors such as obesity following PCI. This issue is
      particularly problematic for rural populations, given that weight reduction specific programs
      are often not available in rural communities. The overall goal of this pilot study is to
      evaluate a 12 week cognitive behavioral intervention for weight reduction of overweight or
      obese PCI patients who participate in a rural cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program. The
      Maximizing Outcomes Needed After Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI) Using Weight
      Management (MOMENTUM) intervention is comprised of 6 modules, totaling 52 daily sessions
      promoting weight reduction, and 4 coaching sessions over the duration of the 12 week MOMENTUM
      intervention. The MOMENTUM intervention will be delivered using telehealth methods (Viterion
      telehealth device will be used to deliver the module content and the telephone to deliver the
      coaching sessions). The intervention was purposively designed to overcome access barriers by
      using delivery modes accessible to patients in rural settings, in their home and at times
      convenient to their schedule. A randomized, 2-group, repeated measures experimental design
      will be used. Subjects who have had a PCI, are overweight or obese and enroll in a rural
      cardiac rehabilitation program will be randomized to either the MOMENTUM group (n=25) and or
      control group (usual care)(n=25). The primary aim of the study is to compare the differences
      between the groups on weight reduction (primary outcome), diet behavior and physical activity
      (secondary outcomes) over time (baseline, 16 weeks, 6 and 9 months after PCI). The second aim
      of the study is to to evaluate the feasibility of implementing the MOMENTUM intervention for
      a larger randomized controlled trial. The innovation in this pilot study is the use of
      technology to deliver a comprehensive cognitive-behavioral weight reduction program to those
      cardiac patients in rural communities who otherwise might not have access to specific weight
      reduction programs to improve their cardiac risk profile after an acute cardiac event, such
      as a PCI.
    
  