
    
      Background: Although ET is the most common of movement disorders, its pathophysiology has not
      yet been fully explained. Central nervous system functional studies have shown that
      oscillatory activity within the cerebello-thalamo-cortical networks plays a key role in ET's
      pathophysiology. The origin of this oscillatory activity and the potential role of the
      primary motor cortex in its formation or modulation remains unknown. Neuropathological
      studies found degenerative structural changes in the cerebellum of ET patients. Propranolol
      and primidone are the first-line therapies for ET and the sole medications for treating ET
      with the level A recommendations according to the latest guidelines of the American Academy
      of Neurology. Propranolol is a beta-blocker class of medication and primidone is a
      barbiturate. In spite of solid evidence of their effectiveness in ET patients, the mechanisms
      of their central action are not yet fully understood. It is believed that propranolol
      mediates its therapeutic action through peripheral beta-2 adrenergic receptors of skeletal
      muscles and muscle spindles and through central beta-adrenergic and serotoninergic receptors.
      After oral intake, primidone is partially metabolized to phenylethylmalonamide (PEMA) and
      phenobarbital. Even though the studies have shown that PEMA does not have anti-tremor
      activity, primidone is much more effective in alleviating tremor than phenobarbital alone. In
      addition, it has been shown that the anti-tremor effect of primidone occurs sooner than its
      metabolite phenobarbital is produced. This may be due to the non-metabolized primidone
      compound having an anti-tremor activity or due to PEMA's and phenobarbital's synergistic
      activity. No association between anti-tremor activity and the concentration of primidone or
      phenobarbital in the serum has been found. While phenobarbital activity is well known to be
      mediated through binding to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptors, the mechanism of
      action of non-metabolized primidone is poorly understood.

      Aims: To study the mechanisms of primidone and propranolol action in ET with the use of TMS.
      The investigators believe that studying mechanisms of action of medications that have been
      shown to reduce ET can further improve the understanding of ET pathophysiology. Since the
      cerebellum is thought to be involved in ET pathophysiology the EBCC paradigm will be used to
      evaluate cerebellar dysfunction in ET patients and to show whether cerebellar dysfunction
      influences the effectiveness of propranolol and primidone.

      Patients and inclusion/exclusion criteria: Fifty patients will be recruited from the
      outpatient clinic for extrapyramidal disorders. Only patients with the diagnosis of ET made
      according to the newest consensus statement on the classification of tremors and only
      patients who will be initiated on propranolol or primidone will be included. Exclusion
      criteria for TMS will be used. Patients having a history of seizures or mental illness,
      patients with a cardiac pacemaker, metal material in the head (except dental material in the
      mouth), or with medication pumps and pregnant women will be excluded from the study.

      Study protocol: Patients treated with propranolol or primidone will be studied prior to
      treatment and 3 - 6 months after treatment initiation. Patients will not be allowed to start
      any new medication with the action on the central nervous system, while included in the
      study. Tremor will be assessed clinically using the TETRAS scale and by EMG and accelerometry
      recordings. Positive treatment response will be defined as a 30% or more decrease in tremor
      amplitude. At baseline cerebellar function will be assessed clinically with the SARA scale
      and electrophysiologically using the EBCC paradigm. TMS will be used to study motor cortex
      excitability.

      Methods:

      Accelerometry with electromyography: Tremor (frequency and amplitude) will be objectively
      evaluated in the subjects with accelerometry. A triaxial accelerometer will be attached to
      the 3rd metacarpal bone bilaterally. Simultaneously EMG will be recorded. Bipolar Ag / AgCl
      surface EMG electrodes will be placed over the flexor carpi radialis and the extensor carpi
      radialis muscle bilaterally. Electromyography and accelerometry will be recorded while
      subjects will be sitting in an armchair/wheelchair or lying in a hospital bed (a) at rest
      position (b) with arms outstretched (postural condition) (c) at the postural condition with
      500 g mass attached to the hand (weight loading) and (d) while performing a goal-directed
      task (action).

      Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) Single TMS pulses will be applied using Magstim 2002
      magnetic stimulator with monophasic waveform (Magstim Company, Carmarthenshire, Wales, UK).
      For double TMS pulses, two Magstim 2002 stimulators connected with the Bistim module will be
      used. The stimulators will be connected to a standard figure 8 coil. The coil will be
      positioned tangentially to the skull and over the 'hotspot' point on the scalp, with the
      handle pointing backward at an angle of ~ 45 ° with respect to the sagittal plane. Hotspot
      point is defined as stimulation site resulting in the largest motor evoked potentials (MEPs)
      recorded over the contralateral abductor pollicis brevis (APB) muscle. A hotspot point will
      be found by visual inspection. The MEP amplitude in APB muscle will be measured with EMG.

      The eyeblink classical conditioning (EBCC) paradigm is a protocol of associative motor
      learning in which paired presentation of a conditioned (CS) and unconditioned stimulus (US)
      leads to the production of a conditioned eyeblink response (CR) 10,42. The CS will be a tone
      with a frequency of 2000 Hz and a strength of 50-70 dB higher than the hearing threshold of
      the subject (but at least 80 dB) and a duration of 400 milliseconds that will be presented
      bilaterally via binaural headphones. The unconditioned stimulus will be delivered by
      percutaneous supraorbital nerve electrical stimulation through a pair of Ag-AgCl cup
      electrodes with the cathode over the supraorbital foramen and the anode 2 cm above.
      Percutaneous electrical stimulation of the supraorbital nerve will last 200 microseconds and
      will start 200 microseconds before the end of the CS so that the stimuli will co-terminate.
      Blinking will be recorded with EMG electrodes placed bilaterally over the orbicularis oculi
      muscles. The test will consist of seven sets. In the first six sets, there will be nine
      trials with paired conditioned-unconditioned stimuli, one trial with the only US, and one
      trial with only CS. In the seventh section, eleven trials of only CS will be given. Among the
      individual tests, there will be a random interval (from 10s to 30s), so that the habituation
      will be as small as possible.

      Statistical analysis: Clinical and TMS measures before and after treatment will be compared
      using parametric or nonparametric two-related-samples T-test, depending on the data
      distribution or repeated-measures ANOVA. Regression analyses will be used to determine
      demographic, clinical, and electrophysiological predictors of response to treatment.

      It is hypothesized by investigators that in ET patients, baseline electrophysiological
      parameters will differ between patients who will improve while taking propranolol or
      primidone (responders) and patients who will not improve while taking any of these
      medications (non-responders). Propranolol and primidone will cause a different pattern of
      change in electrophysiological parameters among responders. Since the intention component of
      action tremor usually responds to treatment to a lesser degree than other components of
      tremor and is reported to be associated with cerebellar dysfunction, the investigators
      hypothesize that cerebellar dysfunction will negatively correlate with the patient's response
      to treatment.
    
  