
    
      We designed a cross-sectional study for an observational analysis. The target population will
      be the group of SLE patients visited the service of Rheumatology hospitals in Catalonia
      (Spain).

      The criteria for subjects selection to participate in our project are:

      1 . Inclusion criteria: patients with SLE according to established diagnostic criteria in
      1997 2. Exclusion criteria:

        -  Presence of cardiac: Ischemic heart disease or congenital or acquired structural heart
           disease (hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, valve disease
           with clinical significance).

        -  Background heart surgery or cardiac ablation procedures.

        -  Background in other pathological processes has been described affecting cardiac
           conduction tissue: Steinert's disease, Lyme disease, Chagas' disease with heart
           involvement or hypothyroidism.

      The selection of patients and controls are done through a sampling of consecutive patients
      seen in our outpatient rheumatology center to achieve the sample size. This has been fixed in
      two subgroups: 100 patients with SLE and positive for anti-Ro (with positivity for anti-Ro
      only 52 or positivity for anti-Ro and anti-Ro 52 60) and 50 patients (controls ) with SLE and
      negative for anti-Ro (anti-Ro52 and anti-Ro 60).

      As defined as primary variables, the study of cardiac conduction disorders will be done
      through the analysis of resting electrocardiogram (ECG) and a 24-hour Holter.

      Other descriptive variables are listed below:

        -  Collection of general medical history of patients, with emphasis on Rheumatology and
           cardiac involvement.

        -  Check the current medication.

        -  Height and weight.

        -  Physical examination.

        -  12-lead resting ECG with analysis of rate base, as well as the duration of the PR
           interval, QRS and QT. Analysis of the presence of intraventricular conduction disorders
           and the presence of ectopic beats.

        -  Record 24-hour Holter Presence and number of ventricular ectopic beats, classification
           of events according to the Lown's criteria. Presence of significant pauses (RR interval>
           2000mseg). Measurement of corrected QT (QTc).

        -  Presence of autonomic dysfunction parameters: time domain parameters such as the mean RR
           interval, standard deviation of all normal RR intervals (SDNN), the root of the mean
           difference between successive adjacent normal RR intervals (RMSSD ) and the percentage
           of adjacent intervals over 50mseg (PNN50)

        -  Echocardiography to rule out structural heart disease: Analysis of ventricular diameters
           and systolic and diastolic function, presence of significant valve disease, pulmonary
           systolic pressure, pericardial effusion and other congenital or acquired structural
           heart disease.

        -  Analysis with serologic immune profile, determining the degree of organic involvement by
           SLE
    
  