
    
      There have been few controlled studies that focus on treatments for marijuana dependence. The
      symptoms associated with marijuana withdrawal, including anxiety, irritability, bodily aches
      and pains, and difficulty sleeping, resemble those caused by depression and nicotine
      withdrawal. Therefore, antidepressant or nicotine withdrawal medications may be effective in
      treating marijuana dependence. Nefazodone and bupropion are two medications currently used to
      treat depression. The purpose of this study is to determine the effectiveness of nefazodone
      and bupropion in alleviating marijuana withdrawal symptoms. In addition, this study will
      evaluate whether these medications successfully treat marijuana dependent individuals in
      terms of treatment adherence and drug abstinence.

      Participants in this double-blind trial will be randomly assigned to receive nefazodone,
      bupropion, or placebo. Daily doses of medication will be provided to participants in dated
      pill boxes; pill boxes will then be returned to the study nurse at each study visit.
      Medication will be taken in three daily doses; one of the doses will be a nonmedicated pill.
      Nefazodone will initially be given at a dose of 150 mg per day, which participants will take
      at bedtime. Every 5 days, the daily dose will increase by 150 mg, to a maximal dose of 600 mg
      of nefazodone per day. Bupropion will be given at an initial dose of 150 mg, which
      participants will take in the morning. After 3 days, the daily dose will increase to a total
      dose of 300 mg of bupropion per day.

      Study visits will occur daily, at which time participants will complete drug use and
      withdrawal symptom reports. In addition, participants will partake in weekly therapy visits,
      which will consist of four sessions of motivational enhancement therapy followed by sessions
      of relapse prevention therapy. Bi-weekly psychiatry visits will include evaluations on
      substance use behavior and overall clinical symptoms, and will last 15-30 minutes.
    
  