
    
      Critical illness due to severe sepsis and trauma are major causes of morbidity and mortality,
      and a substantial economic burden in the United States and worldwide. Despite advances in
      clinical care, patients with sepsis and trauma-associated respiratory failure represent
      specific populations with high rates of adverse outcomes. The etiology of respiratory failure
      in patients with severe sepsis and trauma is multifactorial, but acute lung injury (ALI) is
      one of the leading causes, and is associated with prolonged ICU and hospital stays,
      mortality, and long-term sequelae. Other than general supportive care, few specific
      interventions other than lung protective ventilation have been shown to improve outcomes in
      such patients. New approaches for understanding the pathogenesis and developing better
      therapies are urgently needed.

      Acute Lung Injury (ALI) is a syndrome consisting of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure with
      bilateral pulmonary infiltrates that is associated with both pulmonary and nonpulmonary risk
      factors (eg. sepsis, trauma) and that is not due primarily to left atrial hypertension.
      Although a distinction between ALI and a more severe subtype (termed acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) has been made, the pathogenesis, risk factors, and outcomes appear
      to be similar and for the purposes of this protocol, the term acute lung injury [ALI] will be
      used to encompass both entities. Accepted consensus definitions of ALI have been introduced
      and are now widely used for laboratory and clinical investigations of ALI. Acute Lung Injury
      (ALI) is defined as:

        -  PaO2/FiO2 <300

        -  Bilateral pulmonary infiltrates on chest x-ray

        -  Pulmonary Capillary Wedge Pressure <18mmHg or no clinical evidence of increased left
           atrial pressure Although a broad range of risk factors for ALI have been described,
           those that account for the majority of cases include: sepsis, pneumonia, trauma, and
           aspiration. It is well established that severe trauma is recognized as a precipitating
           cause of ALI. Recent studies have demonstrated that the incidence of acute lung injury
           (ALI) is much higher than previously thought, with an estimated age-adjusted incidence
           of 86 per 100,000 persons per year, resulting in an estimated ~190,000 cases annually in
           the US. The clinical and health care system impact of ALI is substantial, with an
           estimated 2,154,000 intensive care unit (ICU) days, 3,622,000 hospital days, and 75,000
           deaths in 2000, and is expected to grow significantly given the marked age-related
           incidence and the aging population. Although general improvements in ICU care over the
           last 2 decades have led to a trend towards lower mortality due to certain ALI-associated
           risk factors (trauma, aspiration), the most common causes of ALI, sepsis and pneumonia,
           remain associated with high mortality rates of ~25-35%. Mortality in ALI is most
           commonly due to secondary infections/sepsis and multiorgan system failure rather than
           primary respiratory failure due to hypoxemia, highlighting the systemic nature of ALI.
           Even among initial survivors of ALI, substantial pulmonary and nonpulmonary functional
           impairment remains for months to years. Specifically, a proportion of those who survive
           the initial insult are at risk for prolonged mechanical ventilation and ICU/hospital
           stay, and the risk factors remain poorly defined. It has been hypothesized that a "2nd
           hit" may predispose certain patients to greater morbidity in this setting. Despite
           intensive basic and clinical investigation, only a single intervention (low-tidal volume
           ["lung protective"] ventilation) is generally accepted to decrease mortality in ALI,
           while multiple other strategies have failed to improve survival either in early clinical
           studies or definitive efficacy trials. Thus, given the high incidence and continued
           substantial clinical impact of ALI despite improvements in general medical/ICU care, and
           limited proven options other than lung-protective ventilation, new approaches to
           understanding the pathophysiology and identifying novel targets for intervention in ALI
           are a high priority.

      Overly intense, persistent and dysregulated pulmonary and systemic inflammation has emerged
      as the leading hypothesis for the pathogenesis of ALI and its complications, but the
      contributory factors and mechanisms are incompletely defined. Several carefully-conducted
      prospective human studies have shown an association between specific inflammatory biomarkers
      in blood and BALF (both the initial levels at onset and changes over time) and important
      clinical outcomes in ALI. [Animal models have also demonstrated an association between
      inflammatory cytokines and non-pulmonary organ injury and dysfunction] In addition, one of
      the most important interventions (low-tidal volume ["lung protective"] ventilation) shown to
      decrease mortality in ALI is associated with reductions in inflammatory cytokines (IL-6,
      IL-8) in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid [BALF].

      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a ubiquitous virus in humans worldwide, and has been linked to
      adverse clinical outcomes including prolongation of mechanical ventilation, increased length
      of stay, and mortality in multiple studies of critically-ill, apparently immunocompetent,
      seropositive adults.

      Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a human herpes virus known to infect more than 50-90% of US adults
      and is known to be a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients.
      CMV infection can be acquired through multiple means, including: mother-to-child (in utero,
      breast milk), infected body fluids (saliva, genital secretions), blood transfusion or organ
      transplant. The prevalence of CMV infection increases with age throughout life such that by
      age 90, ~90% of persons will have acquired CMV infection. In immunocompetent persons,
      following primary infection by any of the routes noted above, CMV is controlled by the immune
      system and establishes latency ("dormancy") in multiple organs/cell-types for the life of the
      host. In particular, the lung represents one of the largest reservoirs of latent CMV in
      seropositive hosts, and may explain the propensity for CMV-associated pulmonary disease in
      predisposed hosts. During periods of immunosuppression (or as a result of specific stimuli
      such as TNF-α, LPS, or catecholamines that are commonly associated with critical illness &
      sepsis [CMV can reactivate from latency (preferentially in the lung) to produce active
      infection (viral replication). In persons with impaired cellular immunity, reactivation can
      progress to high-grade CMV replication and commonly leads to tissue injury and
      clinically-evident disease such as CMV pneumonia. Lower-grade CMV reactivation that is
      otherwise clinically silent ("subclinical") can also be detected in apparently
      immunocompetent persons with critical illness using sensitive techniques such as PCR. In
      addition, even low-level, otherwise asymptomatic subclinical CMV reactivation can produce
      significant biologic effects both in vitro and in vivo, such as inflammation, fibrosis and
      immunosuppression. Each of these biologic effects of subclinical CMV infection has either
      previously been demonstrated (inflammation, fibrosis) or could theoretically be important
      (immunosuppression) in sepsis-associated ALI and its complications. These biological effects
      of CMV have been shown to occur through various mediators and other indirect means
      [Importantly, several important CMV-associated adverse clinical outcomes in transplant
      populations [allograft rejection, secondary infections] are not necessarily accompanied by
      overt CMV disease and can only be detected by relatively sensitive means of virus detection
      such as PCR.

      Reactivation of CMV in apparently immunocompetent patients with critical illness due to a
      broad range of causes has been documented in multiple prior studies using a variety of
      virologic techniques. The specific triggers for CMV reactivation from latency have been
      identified and are known to be elevated in patients with sepsis and acute lung injury [A
      prospective study in intubated patients with sepsis from Germany reported more than 60% rate
      of CMV DNA detection in tracheal aspirates.

      In addition to CMV reactivation in sepsis, CMV reactivation has also been demonstrated
      specifically in lung and blood of patients with acute lung injury.

      Retrospectively testing samples collected in a prospective observational cohort study of
      patients at risk of developing ARDS, CMV reactivation (ie. CMV DNA by PCR) was detected in
      BALF and/or plasma of 2/5 [40%] of subjects who developed ARDS, in sequential samples from
      7/20 [35%] patients with ARDS, but not in patients at risk but who did not develop ARDS (0/5)
      [Limaye 2009 unpublished data]. In a separate study, CMV reactivation was retrospectively
      assessed by PCR in BALF of 88 subjects enrolled in a randomized trial of fish oil for
      treatment of ALI. Seropositivity at baseline (ie. evidence of latent CMV infection) in the
      cohort was 65% (similar to prior age-related estimates), and CMV reactivation (ie. CMV DNA by
      PCR) was detected in BALF of 12/57 [21%] patients [Limaye unpublished data 2009].

      Several lines of evidence have linked CMV reactivation with adverse clinical outcomes in
      non-immunosuppressed adults with critical illness. In a recent meta-analysis, CMV
      reactivation (compared to no reactivation) was associated with a 2-fold increased odds of
      mortality in ICU patients.

      In addition to mortality, recent studies have demonstrated a strong and independent
      association between CMV reactivation and increased hospital and ICU length of stay and
      duration of mechanical ventilation.
    
  