
    
      Peripheral congestion is caused by an excess of fluid in tissues and vessels. Fluid overload
      is associated with poor outcome in heart failure (HF)(1). Several clinical signs can suggest
      peripheral congestion, such as peripheral edema or neck vein distention. In particular, the
      clinical sign of the neck jugular vein distention is used to estimate right atrial pressure
      (RHC) and is associated with fluid overload and congestion. Nevertheless, clinical assessment
      is somewhat subjective depending on the anatomy of the patient's neck and on the expertise of
      the physician (2). It has been reported that the detection of elevated RAP can be measured
      using a bedside ultrasound (US)(3). In this study, the Authors compared the jugular vein
      distensibility (IVD) ratio assessed with US with the invasive measure of the RAP reporting a
      good accuracy in detecting normal RAP. They showed a good performance of this diagnostic
      test, nevertheless, they evaluated this diagnostic test in a mix population including only 27
      patients with congestive HF. More recent studies showed the prognostic value of the IVD ratio
      in patients with HF (4). Nevertheless, a specific threshold of the internal JVD ratio to
      identify patients with normal RAP in the setting of patients with systolic chronic HF (CHF)
      has never been described. Furthermore, in patients with CHF clinical signs of congestion
      cannot always be evident at clinical examination, making the decision to modify diuretic
      dosage or to introduce vasodilator drugs uneasy. Thus, a convenient, accurate, and
      reproducible non-invasive tool to identify patients with normal RAP (normal mean RAP is 7 or
      less mmHg) patients with systolic CHF would be desirable to tailor therapy, in particular in
      outpatient clinics.

      The main hypothesis of this study is that US-assessment of the internal JVD could be an
      accurate diagnostic tool to identify patients with normal RAP in this challenging set of
      patients.

      The primary aim of the study prospectively validates an US-assessed internal JVD ratio to
      identify patients with systolic CHF and RAP of 7 or less mmHg measured by RHC. In a
      calibration cohort, a threshold of the JVD ratio above which the RAP is normal with the
      highest accuracy will be identified and then this diagnostic tool with a defined JVD ratio
      will be validated in a second prospective validation cohort.
    
  