
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the median overall survival of patients with adenocarcinoma of the pancreas
      treated with induction chemotherapy, neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy, surgical resection and
      adjuvant chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the percent of patients surviving at annual intervals through five years.

      II. To determine the median recurrence free survival following pancreaticoduodenectomy.

      III. To determine the clinical response rate to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and
      chemoradiotherapy.

      IV. To determine the pathologic response rate to neoadjuvant chemotherapy and
      chemoradiotherapy.

      V. To determine the cancer antigen (CA) 19-9 tumor marker response rate to neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy.

      VI. To determine the surgical completion rate and complication rate following neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy and chemoradiotherapy.

      VII. To determine the frequency and severity of toxicities associated with this treatment
      regimen.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 75
      minutes and docetaxel IV over 30 or 60 minutes on days 4 and 11. Patients also receive
      capecitabine orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NEOADJUVANT CHEMORADIOTHERAPY: Beginning no more than 14 days after completion of induction
      chemotherapy, patients receive capecitabine PO BID on days 1-14 and oxaliplatin IV over 2
      hours on days 1 and 8. Patients also undergo IMRT once daily on days 1-5 and 8-13.

      SURGICAL RESECTION: Approximately 2-6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant
      chemoradiotherapy, patients undergo pancreaticoduodenectomy.

      ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY: Beginning 4-10 weeks after surgery, patients receive gemcitabine
      hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes and oxaliplatin IV over 2 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 14 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients then receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, and 15.
      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months.
    
  