
    
      This was a prospective, controlled and randomized clinical trial, conducted with patients
      undergoing cardiac surgery at Hospital de Força Aérea do Galeão (HFAG - Rio de Janeiro, RJ,
      Brazil). According to Helsinki declaration, the protocol was approved by UNISUAM Ethics
      Committee (process: 15/2007) and written informed consent was obtained from all participants.
      All patients at the HFAG, who were scheduled for cardiac surgery between November 2007 and
      February 2009 were eligible to participate in this study.

      Patients were not included if any of the following criteria was present: informed consent
      could not be obtained, they could not perform the preoperative tests, cognitive impairments
      to perform the IS, intolerance to the use of BS mask. Exclusion criteria included:
      hemodynamic complications (intraoperative myocardial infarction, major blood loss, marked
      hypotension, reduced cardiac output requiring the use of an intra-aortic balloon pump or
      extraordinary use of medications) and intubation period longer than 72 hours following
      arrival in the intensive care unit. In all patients the surgical procedure was through a
      median sternotomy, and the postoperative routine was the same, including optimal treatment
      for pain control. A verbal pain score was obtained using a visual analog scale and all
      patients initiated the physiotherapeutic treatment at the first postoperative day, following
      extubation. Demographic data, clinical history and preoperative risk factors were recorded.

      In the preoperative period all patients were instructed about the importance of early
      mobilization and excessive bronchial secretion removal. Patients were taught huffing (forced
      expiration while the glottis is opened), supported cough (with patient's hands placed on the
      sternotomy incision) and mobilization, including active limb exercises, sit out of bed and
      deambulation (starting on the third postoperative day). Then, they were randomly allocated
      into three groups. Exercise group (E) performed only the procedures described above.
      Incentive Spirometry group (IS) was oriented to take a deep breathing through Voldyne 5000TM
      (Sherwood Medical; St Loius, MO, USA) from Functional Residual Capacity (FRC) to Total Lung
      Capacity (TLC). Breath-Stacking group (BS) performed inspiratory efforts using a facial mask
      adapted to an unidirectional valve. Since the mask was set to allow only inspiration (the
      expiratory branch was occluded), the patient carried through successive inspiratory efforts
      for a period of 20 seconds. Then, the expiratory branch was released allowing exhalation.
      These three treatments were applied for five days, with three series of five maneuvers twice
      a day. Patients management was similar among groups in terms of assessment, mobilization
      protocol and cough orientation.

      For safety purposes, vital signs and oxygen saturation (SpO2) were monitored throughout the
      interventions. SpO2 was measured continuously for seven minutes using a portable pulse
      oximeter (Model 2500A, Nonin Medical INC; Plymouth, USA) with patient breathing room air.
      After seven minutes the most consistent value for 30 seconds was recorded and previous oxygen
      therapy was reinitiated. If during the assessment, patient's SpO2 dropped to below 85%,
      oxygen was recommenced and it was registered.

      All procedures were performed under the supervision of an experienced physical therapist.
      Forced spirometry was carried out in the preoperative period and from the first to the fifth
      postoperative day, using a Pony Fx® spirometer (Cosmed; Rome, Italy). A Wright® ventilometer
      (British Oxygen Company; London, England) was properly attached to Voldyne and to
      Breath-Stacking mask, allowing to measure the Inspiratory Capacity (IC) during the
      procedures.

      Postoperative risk was evaluated by means of Torrington Scale, using clinical and functional
      data.

      Statistical Analysis Statistical analysis was done using Sigma Stat 3.1 (Jandel Scientific,
      San Rafael, CA, USA). Data are presented as average and standard error of the mean. They
      presented normal distributions (Kolmogorov-Smirnov test with Lilliefors' correction) and
      homogeneous variances (Levene median test). Comparisons of FVC between IS, BS and E were done
      with ANOVA, followed by Tukey test whenever multiple comparisons were required. Student's
      t-test was used to compare IC between IS and BS. The significance level was always set at 5%.
    
  