
    
      This multifactorial intervention contains four overlapping core components reflecting key
      elements of the Chronic Care Model.This model identifies patients, practice teams, the
      community, and health systems as four necessary elements in the successful management of
      chronic diseases such as diabetes. Six health centers (two academic center clinics affiliated
      with the University of Chicago and four FQHCs) are part of the intervention. Researchers at
      the University of Chicago received grant funding from the Merck Company Foundation's Alliance
      to Reduce Disparities in Diabetes and the National Institutes of Health to implement and
      evaluate the intervention.

      The research and implementation team includes faculty and staff members with expertise in
      quality improvement, behavioral change, community outreach, patient education, and research
      methods.

      The intervention has four main components:

        1. Patient Activation: We hold culturally tailored, 10-week patient education classes that
           combine culturally tailored patient education with training in shared decision-making
           skills to empower patients to be proactive in their diabetes self-management.

        2. Provider Training: We provide educational workshops for provider, clinical, and
           non-clinical staff at our six intervention clinics on patient-centered communication,
           cultural competency, behavior change counseling, and shared decision making.

        3. Quality Improvement: Our team facilitates quality improvement (QI) programs redesigning
           clinic operations to improve care for diabetes patients. QI initiatives have included
           instituting group visits, patient medication cards, peer support groups, flow sheets,
           nurse case management, and patient registries. New initiatives include improving access
           and tracking of specialists visits through EMR, employing community health
           workers/patient navigators, coordinating care, and implementing other team-based care
           initiatives. We also perform a cost/benefits analysis of intervention implementation
           from the business case perspective of the outpatient clinics and determine the major
           barriers and solutions to successfully implement and sustain the project at each
           location.

        4. Community Outreach: We collaborate with existing community resources to create
           sustainable collaborations that support diabetes patients outside of the health care
           system and promote nutrition and a healthy lifestyle. We collaborate with grocery
           stores, food pantries, the Chicago Park District, farmers markets, media outlets,
           grocery stores and other community-based organizations.
    
  