
    
      For the majority of Coronary Artery Disease (CAD), treatment with Percutaneous Transluminal
      Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) provides high initial procedural success. However, the medium to
      long-term complications range from rather immediate elastic recoil or vessel contraction to
      longer processes like smooth muscle cell proliferation and excessive production of extra
      cellular matrix, thrombus formation and atherosclerotic changes like restenosis or
      angiographic re-narrowing. The reported incidence of restenosis after PTCA ranges from
      30%-50%. Such rates of recurrence have serious economic consequences. Bare Metal Stents
      (BMS), designed to address the limitations of PTCA, reduced the angiographic and clinical
      restenosis rates in de novo lesions compared to PTCA alone and decreased the need for CABG.
      BMS substantially reduced the incidence of abrupt artery closure, but restenosis still
      occurred in about 20%-40% of cases, necessitating repeat procedures. The invention of Drug
      Eluting Stents (DES) significantly improved on the principle of BMS by adding an
      antiproliferative drug (directly immobilized on the stent surface or released from a polymer
      matrix), which inhibits neointimal hyperplasia. The introduction of DES greatly reduced the
      incidence of restenosis and resulted in a better safety profile as compared to BMS with
      systemic drug administration. These advantages and a lower cost compared to surgical
      interventions has made DES an attractive option to treat coronary artery disease.

      An interesting group of analysis resulted to be diabetic patients. It has been concluded that
      the incidence of both nonocclusive and occlusive restenosis is higher in diabetic subjects
      after stenting as judged from comparison with historical control subjects. Results implicate
      accelerated restenosis as both a consequence of diabetes and a cause for increased mortality
      after PCI in diabetic patient.

      Therefore this observational registry has been designed for the clinical evaluation of the
      Orsiro LESS in diabetic subjects (Diabetic patients type 1 or 2) requiring coronary
      revascularization with Drug Eluting Stents (DES). Results will contribute to the collection
      of clinical evidence for the clinical performance and safety of the Orsiro Drug Eluting Stent
      System in daily clinical practice.
    
  