
    
      R115777 is a new drug that blocks the function of an enzyme that is important in making some
      proteins work. One of the most important targets for this enzyme is a protein that can make
      cells become cancer. Imatinib mesylate is a drug that blocks the function of the protein that
      comes from the Philadelphia chromosome. The Philadelphia chromosome is an abnormality in
      chromosomes 9 and 22 that changes blood cells into leukemia cells.

      Before treatment starts, participants will have a physical exam, blood tests (About 3 tubes,
      2 teaspoons each), and a bone marrow biopsy. The bone marrow will be removed with a large
      needle.

      Participants in this study will take imatinib mesylate by mouth every day for as long as they
      stay on study, which means as long as it works. Participants will also take R115777 twice a
      day for 2 weeks. This will be repeated every 3 weeks. The amount of each of these medications
      that participants take will depend on when they enter the study. The doses will be slowly
      increased from participant to participant until the highest dose that does not cause serious
      side effects is found.

      Participants will be asked to visit their doctor for a physical exam and measurement of vital
      signs. The frequency of doctor visits will vary depending on physical condition. Blood tests
      (about 2 teaspoons each) will be done every week during the first 3 weeks of treatment. Blood
      tests will then be done every 8-12 weeks for the length of the study, as needed. The blood
      samples will be used for routine lab tests. A bone marrow sample will also be taken to check
      and measure cells related to the disease every 3 months in the first year and then every 6-12
      months. Participants can stay on study for as long as the treatment is considered to be
      beneficial. Participants will be taken off study if their disease gets worse or intolerable
      side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. The FDA has authorized the use of imatinib mesylate for
      patients with CML. It is the combination of imatinib mesylate and R115777 that is
      experimental. R115777 has been authorized for investigational use only. A maximum of 30
      patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  