
    
      One hundred male patients who are scheduled for bilateral, nerve-sparing RARP that meet the
      eligibility criteria will be enrolled. These patients will be equally randomized (1:1) into
      two groups (n=50/group): one group will receive adjunctive CLARIX® CORD 1K (Amniox Medical,
      Inc., Miami, FL) during RARP, while the other group will undergo RARP without adjunctive
      CLARIX® CORD 1K. Subject stratification will be performed based on the surgeon that will be
      performing the RARP. All patients will be given the same routine preoperative, perioperative
      and postoperative evaluation and care aside from the CLARIX CORD 1K placement in the
      treatment group during RARP. RARP will be performed at Hackensack University Medical Center
      (30 Prospect Ave, Hackensack, NJ 07601) and follow up visits performed at Hackensack
      University Medical Group Urology (360 Essex Street, Suite 403, Hackensack, NJ 07601) or New
      Jersey Urology (255 W. Spring Valley Avenue Suite 101, Maywood, NJ 07607).

      Two weeks prior to the RARP surgery, subjects are instructed to take low-dose oral
      phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (i.e. 20 mg q.d. sildenafil citrate or 5 mg q.d.
      tadalafil) and perform standardized Kegel exercises (3x/day) which is our current standard
      care protocol. RARP surgery will be performed at Hackensack University Medical Center
      (Hackensack, NJ). The following are the key aspects of the RARP surgical technique which will
      be adhered to by all surgeons: 1) dissection of the bladder neck, seminal vesicles and vasa
      deferentia; 2) dissection of the neuroplexus from the posterior Denonvilliers' fascia and
      lateral prostatic fascia leaving the nerves intact; 3) division of the prostatic pedicles
      without cautery; 4) transection of the dorsal venous complex; and 5) urethrovesical
      anastomosis. More specifically, surgical technique includes exposing the prostate in the
      space of Retzius with the traditional anterior approach.

      The prostatovesical tissue is dissected with monopolar electrocautery scissors with entry
      into the bladder proximal to the prostatovesical junction. The bladder neck is transected in
      the standard fashion followed by posterior dissection of the seminal vesicles and vasa
      deferentia.

      Electrocautery is kept to a minimum when dissecting the seminal vesicles to avoid damage to
      the neuroplexus. (Note: each step hereafter must be performed by the PI or Sub-investigators,
      e.g. not a Resident Physician). A posterior surgical plane is then created between the rectum
      and prostate dorsally working from a medial to lateral direction and maintaining at least 1
      layer of Denonvilliers' fascia on the rectal wall. The endopelvic fascia is then excised from
      lateral prostate and carried to capsule to create a plane of dissection immediately alongside
      the prostatic capsule and keeping the nerves attached laterally to the endopelvic fascia.
      Athermal division of each prostatic pedicle will be performed. Clips or suture may be placed
      on each pedicle at the discretion of the surgeon. The apex of the prostate is then dissected
      athermally sparing the neuroplexus. The dorsal vein complex is proximally transected with
      electrocautery while using the fourth arm to place traction on the prostate to define the
      space between the dorsal vein complex and the apex of the prostate. Apically, the prostate is
      divided from the urethra (paying special attention to the sphincter muscle and posterior
      lateral nerve bundle on each side) allowing the prostate to be removed. Once free, the
      prostate is placed in a collection bag and a drain is used for a certain period at the
      discretion of the surgeon.

      Surgical site bleeding is managed using standard surgical techniques with sutures or
      cellulose polymer. If the patient is randomized to the treatment group, CLARIX CORD 1K is
      placed flat over the neuroplexis at the 5 and 7 clock position where the largest
      concentration of nerves exist. Sutures may be used to secure the CLARIX in place if necessary
      and cellulose polymer (Surgicel, Ethicon, Somerville, NJ) can be placed over the CLARIX CORD
      at the discretion of the physician.

      At this point the bladder neck will be reconstructed as necessary to maintain a lumen of
      approximately 30 french. The vesicourethral anastomosis is performed using a V-lock barbed
      suture. The anastomosis will be tested by filling bladder to confirm the absence of leakage.
      If indicated, a bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection is performed (with clips at the
      discretion of the physician) using standard (borders along the external iliac artery and
      vein, obturator fossa, obturator nerve and pubic bone) or extended (borders additionally
      include internal iliac artery) technique at the discretion of the physician. Bleeding will be
      adequately managed. Postoperatively, all subjects are instructed to take low-dose oral
      phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (i.e. 20 mg q.d. sildenafil citrate or 5 mg q.d.
      tadalafil) and perform standardized Kegel exercises (3x/day) following urethral catheter
      removal. When patients are sexually active, they may increase to full dosage of oral
      phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors up to twice a week. At 3 months after RARP, and if
      patients have severe or worse incontinence (defined as ICIQ score of >12) and desire
      additional treatment for urinary incontinence,[42] they will undergo pelvic floor therapy.
      Subjects will return for follow up visits at 6 weeks (±1 week), 3 months (±2 weeks), 6 months
      (±3 weeks) and 12 months (±4 weeks) when data will be collected.

      Patient reported outcomes will be assessed including continence, potency, and satisfaction.
      Occurrence of adverse events, number of readmissions, and need for reintervention will also
      be recorded. Measurement of serum PSA levels will also be performed.
    
  