
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess whether adjuvant therapy with erlotinib hydrochloride (erlotinib) will result in
      improved overall survival (OS) over observation for patients with completely resected stage
      IB (>= 4 cm)-IIIA epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutant non-small cell lung cancer
      (NSCLC) (confirmed centrally) following complete resection and standard post-operative
      therapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether adjuvant therapy with erlotinib will result in improved disease free
      survival (DFS) over observation for patients with completely resected stage IB (>= 4 cm)-IIIA
      EGFR mutant NSCLC (confirmed centrally) following complete resection and standard
      post-operative therapy, both overall and within the stage subgroups: IB and II/IIIA.

      II. To evaluate the safety profile of erlotinib in the adjuvant setting. III. To assess
      whether adjuvant therapy with erlotinib will result in improved DFS rate at 2 years, and OS
      rate at 5 and 10 years over observation for patients with completely resected stage IB (>= 4
      cm)-IIIA EGFR mutant NSCLC (confirmed centrally) following complete resection and standard
      post-operative therapy, both overall and within the stage subgroups: IB and II/IIIA.

      IV. To assess the primary and secondary objectives in all randomized patients, regardless of
      central confirmation of the EGFR mutant status.

      V. To study detection of circulating EGFR mutations in cell-free plasma deoxyribonucleic acid
      (DNA) as a prognostic marker in resected early stage NSCLC.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms.

      ARM A (BLINDED ERLOTINIB- CLOSED 06/14/17): Blinded patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B (PLACEBO- CLOSED 06/14/17): Patients receive placebo PO QD on days 1-21. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM C (UNBLINDED ERLOTINIB): Unblinded patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride PO QD on days
      1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 2 years in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM D (OBSERVATION): Patients (including patients previously randomized to placebo) undergo
      observation at least every 6 months for 2 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 4 years and
      then yearly for 6 years.
    
  