
    
      The clinical study of the CTR-10 and CTR-12 Capsular Tension Rings is to be conducted with
      the following objectives:

        1. Determine the ability of the device to maintain the shape of the capsular bag and
           therefore keep the intraocular lens centered;

        2. Determine post-operative visual acuity of patients receiving the capsular tension ring
           as a secondary method of determining the efficacy;

        3. Describe the occurrence and time course of postoperative complications and adverse
           reactions for capsular tension ring implant subjects;

        4. Describe the occurrence of postoperative complications for the implant group and their
           relationship to ocular complications.

        5. Identify groups within the implant study population that are at "high risk" of
           particular complications.

        6. Collect and analyze against those historical controls published by FDA data on:

             1. Overall Visual Acuity

             2. Best Case Visual Acuity

             3. Cumulative Hyphema

             4. Cumulative Macular Edema

             5. Cumulative Retinal Detachment

             6. Cumulative Pupillary Block

             7. Cumulative Lens Dislocation

             8. Cumulative Endophthalmitis

             9. Cumulative Hypopyon

            10. Cumulative Surgical Reintervention

            11. Persistent Macular Edema

            12. Persistent Corneal Edema

            13. Persistent Iritis

            14. Persistent Raised IOP Requiring treatment

            15. Frequency and degree of posterior capsule opacification

      The investigational plan for the clinical study of capsular tension rings is designed to
      satisfy the requirements of the Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) regulations, which
      require a well-controlled clinical trial with ongoing monitoring to evaluate the safety and
      efficacy of the intraocular lenses.

      The study will consist of adult patients who will be enrolled into the study. The results of
      these implants will be carefully monitored for approximately twelve (12) months.
    
  