
    
      It is postulated that in sedentary patients with moderate to severe sleep apnea, an increase
      in physical activity can reduce the severity of OSAS.

      Our main objective was to determine the effectiveness of a physical exercise program to
      reduce the number of respiratory disorders during sleep (AHI) in patients with
      moderate-severe OSAS. The primary outcome variable will be the decrease in the AHI at least
      50% of its baseline value.

      Secondary objectives were:

        1. To evaluate the impact of a physical activity program on glucose metabolism (glycemia,
           insulinemia, glycosylated hemoglobin, HOMA index).

        2. Determine the effect of the physical activity program on the lipid profile (total
           cholesterol, HDL-C, LDL-C, triglycerides, apolipoproteins A1 and B).

        3. Assess the role of a physical activity program on the systolic and diastolic blood
           pressure.

        4. Determine the effect of a physical activity program on body weight (BMI).

        5. To analyze the effect of a physical activity program on the perception of the impact of
           sleep on daily life (FOSQ questionnaire).

      It is a controlled, randomized and parallel group clinical trial with an allocation ratio of
      1: 1 For randomization, a table of random numbers with sampling module of the Epidat 3.1
      program will be prepared by a statistician who does not participate in the study.

      The ratio of subjects assigned to each group will be 1: 1. The random numbers will be kept in
      closed envelopes.

      The staff of the Sleep Unit will be responsible for explaining the result of the polygraphy
      and following the patient, but in no case will participate in the measurement of the results.

      All patients will be informed about the nature of the clinical trial, but without exposing
      the hypothesis to the patient. There will be no differences in the patient's follow-up
      because it will be performed by the same physician.

      Special emphasis will be made so that the medical and nursing staff does not try to obtain or
      offer specific information that may indicate to which treatment arm the patient was assigned.

      Once the patient is randomized and assigned to an arm of the study, those assigned to the
      intervention group will be sent to the physiotherapist to explain and initiate the exercise
      program while the control group will be informed to maintain their usual physical activity.

      All subjects will be recommended to maintain a stable sleep habit, to sleep at least 7 hours
      at night, avoid the intake of relaxing medication during the evening and maintain the
      nutritional pattern recommended by the American Heart Association, this is 35% of calories in
      the form of fat (22% monounsaturated fat, 6% polyunsaturated fat, 7% saturated fat) 15%
      proteins and 50% carbohydrates. These recommendations and an explanatory leaflet based on the
      pyramid model of the mediterranean diet will be delivered to the two groups. The monitoring
      of the diet will be supervised by filling in the questionnaire of the Quality Index of the
      Mediterranean Diet (KIDMED) by the subjects in the initial visit, the third month and the
      sixth month. In the initial visit, the type of diet will be evaluated and all patients will
      be advised to follow a mediterranean diet as a general treatment measure. If the Kidmed index
      is ≤ 3, it will be re-educated to perform a Mediterranean diet and if the index is ≥ 7 you
      will be advised to maintain the diet during the following months.
    
  