
    
      Over the past ten years dating violence (DV) has been recognized as a significant public
      health problem affecting adolescents. Emerging data suggest that boys and girls have
      different developmental trajectories toward violence and therefore prevention programs that
      target their unique pathways to DV are needed. Despite this need, there is a relative dearth
      of such gender-informed programs for early adolescent boys. This research project aims to
      prevent the emergence of DV perpetration/ victimization among boys by developing a web-based
      intervention that is informed by research on gender-specific pathways to violence and
      harnesses the influence of parents during the early adolescent years.

      Among boys, the perpetration of delinquency-related violence and attitudes supporting
      violence has been found to predict later perpetration of DV. Thus, gender-informed
      interventions designed to prevent DV in boys need to target skills that underlie violent
      behavior and attitudes. The goal of this study is to test a web-based intervention to enhance
      emotion regulation skills and parent-son relationship communication to prevent DV.

      A pilot trial was conducted to create and test the efficacy of the web-based intervention.
      Preliminary results suggested the program was effective in reducing dating-violence
      involvement. This Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) will test the efficacy of the
      intervention against an active control designed to provide health related information in a
      format similar to that of the intervention condition. 340 families (English or
      Spanish-speaking) will be randomly assigned to complete the intervention program or the
      health-promotion control program. All families will complete the program in an observed
      setting, to ensure fidelity to intervention dosing. Parents and adolescents will complete the
      program together and then complete assessments of aggressive and risk behaviors, parent-child
      communication, and emotion regulation at baseline, 3-month,6-month, 12-month, 18-month, and
      24-month follow-ups.
    
  