
    
      Approximately 800,000 Americans suffer a stroke every year and 689,450 reported having short
      and long-term disabilities leading to dependence in activities of daily living. It has been
      reported that stroke survivors experienced detrimental falls each year and most occurring
      during walking. The likelihood of experiencing a fall upon discharge from rehabilitation
      being significantly higher than during the rehabilitative phase. Falls resulting from
      environmental perturbations such as slips contribute to a significant percentage of these
      falls. Hence, it is important to develop innovative and effective paradigms for fall-risk
      reduction in chronic as well as sub-acute stroke survivors. The purpose of this research is
      to understand the effect of bilateral slip-perturbation training protocol targeting training
      both paretic vs. non-paretic limbs on fall-risk reduction and prevention. Also, to find its
      effect on increasing community ambulation in community dwelling stroke survivors.

      Participants in this study will be individuals with chronic (> 6 months) hemiparesis
      following stroke or individuals with sub-acute stroke (> 6weeks and < 6 months), ambulatory
      (with or without assistive device) and more than 21 years of age. Subjects will be screened
      for the inclusion criteria. If subjects pass the screening, they will go through the full
      clinical balance assessment and laboratory dynamic stability test. The chronic stroke
      survivors will be randomized into two groups: - Group A: Slip training group; Group B:
      Control group. While, the sub-acute stroke survivors will be randomized into two groups: -
      Group C: Slip training group; Group D: Control group.

      For the slip training groups (A and C), all subjects' normal walking pattern and their
      recovery responses to slip will be recorded with a motion tracking system (including
      videotaping) while they walk across an instrumented area along a straight path in the lab. A
      slip will be induced after a subject steps on a low-friction platform.

      For the chronic stroke subjects, baseline activity monitoring using wearable sensors will be
      performed for up to four weeks prior to the training session followed by activity monitoring
      for 12 months. While for the sub-acute stroke subjects, it would be done for 6 months.

      For groups A and B, the follow-up stability test will be at 6 and 12 months post-training
      session, which will consist only of one slip induced on the training side and contralateral
      side. For groups C and D, follow-up session is 6 months post training session.

      Incidence of falls and physical activity will be monitored between training and re-test
      sessions through falls, activity monitoring-questionnaire to describe details of the falls
      and through the wearable sensors for groups A, B, C and D.
    
  