
    
      For this 3-year cohort study, consecutive ICU stay over 24 hours and adult patients (≧20
      years) will be screened for enrollment at 6 medical ICUs in the National Taiwan University
      Hospital. Participants will be assessed daily for delirium occurrence daily ICU and at the
      ICU discharge. The instrument used for delirium assessment are the confusion assessment
      method for ICU-7 point rating scale (CAM-ICU-7) and the intensive care delirium screening
      checklist (ICDSC). Delirium assessment is possible,if the the patient's Richmond Agitation
      and Sedation Scale (RASS, -5~+4) is ≧ -3, -4~-5 are deeper levels of sedation (unarousable or
      responsive to painful stimulation only) cannot be assessed accurately. The CAM-ICU-7
      comprises four features which assess the following: acute change or fluctuation in mental
      status (Feature 1), inattention (Feature 2), disorganized thinking (Feature 3) or an altered
      level of consciousness (Feature 4). Patients are considered to have delirium if they present
      with both the first (acute onset and fluctuating course) and second (inattention) core
      symptoms and either the third (altered consciousness) or fourth (disorganized thinking)
      symptom. The ICDSC comprises eight items (score 0-8), ICDSC score of 4 or higher are
      considered delirium.

      At ICU discharge,assess ICU-AW using a standardized protocol. Participants will be followed
      for one year after ICU discharge at 1, 3, 6, 12 months. A comprehensive functional evaluation
      (6-minute walking test, grip strength test, maximum inspiratory pressure test, mini-mental
      state exam, physical function ICU test score and basic and instrument activities of daily
      living questionnaires, medical research council scale and medical research council
      questionnaire) will be completed. Estimated 158 participants will be enrolled and followed
      for one year.

      Data will be analyzed using the SPSS package. The Generalized Estimating Equation (GEE) will
      be performed to delineate the trajectory of physical functions one year after ICU discharge
      and to test the interaction among ICU-AD, ICU-AW, and one-year functional trajectories. The
      findings will add to the development of intervention program to reduce ICU-AD and ICU-AW,
      thus promoting functional recovery for ICU survivors.
    
  