
    
      The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Research Institute IDIAP Jordi Gol
      (P15/047/2015) and by Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron Clinical Research Ethics Committee
      (PR(AG)133-2015). The study will be conducted in compliance with the Declaration of Helsinki.
      Registry information was collected from the government-run healthcare provider responsible
      for all inpatient care in Catalonia. All participants will receive written information and
      thereafter sign informed consent before inclusion, will be selected among the electronic
      registers from two different health areas in Catalonia, and will be identified by their
      10-digit personal identification number assigned to all citizens in Catalonia.

      These patients will be given an appointment in their primary care centre and will receive a
      comprehensive assessment consisting of:

        -  Clinical characteristics: demographic factors (age, gender, habits); vascular risk
           factors (hypertension, diabetes, dyslipidemia), medications, comorbidities (especially
           those related to AF such as coronary disease, heart failure), vital signs (blood
           pressure, glycaemia, weight and height).

        -  Electrocardiographic assessment: three different devices will be tested on each
           participant (MyDiasnostik, AliveCor and WatchBP). A conventional ECG will be performed
           to be compared with the results from these devices.

        -  Blood sample collection: a blood sample of 32 cc divided into two serum tubes (8.5 cc),
           two plasma EDTA tubes (6 cc) and one TempusTM RNA tube (3 cc). Samples will be processed
           and stored at -20 ºC at the recruiting centre until shipment to Neurovascular Research
           Laboratory, where the sample bank will be set up.

        -  Holter ECG monitoring: a Nuubo Holter will be given to each patient to be carried for
           four weeks. Electrocardiographic devices will be read blindly. The device records,
           anonymized and encrypted, will be sent for blinded reading to the Rhythm Disorders Unit
           from Hospital Virgen del Rocio in Seville.
    
  