
    
      Study Setting All patients affected by moderate TBI (Glasgow Coma Score 9-13) admitted to the
      neurosurgical department of the University Hospital of Messina, Italy, will be screened for
      recruitment.

      Ethics The institutional review board (IRB) approved the study. Written consent will be
      obtained from each patient or the closest family member prior to the start of the study.

      Study Design A randomized controlled single-blind study to assess the effects of
      co-ultraPEALut (Glialia®) administration in TBI patients will be carried out. The study is
      set to recruit at least 30 patients.

      Recruited patients are randomly allocated to one of the two branches of the study: standard
      TBI treatment + Glialia® (Study Group) and standard TBI treatment (Control Group) in a 1:1
      ratio using precompiled randomization tables.

      General treatment

      All patients will undergo standard treatments according to patterns of severity and in the
      light of distinct variables, mainly represented by the conditions of cerebral hemodynamics.
      These procedures can be summarized as follows:

        -  Surgical evacuation of hemorrhagic masses and / or "debridement" of outbreaks brain
           contusion;

        -  Medical management aimed to maintenance of euvolemia and adequate brain perfusion. Goals
           were a systolic blood pressure >90 mmHg and a cerebral perfusion pressure >60 mmHg.
           Prevention of secondary complications of critical illness included: preventive therapy
           of venous thromboembolism (VTE) using low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and seizures
           using levetiracetam prophylactically for the first seven days after injury;

        -  Patient who underwent surgical treatment, received also postoperative intensive care
           treatments including: position of the head high, lower values of end-tidal CO2, sedation
           with reduced metabolic consumption of O2, increase in plasma osmolarity by
           administration of mannitol in controlled doses or hypernatremia, therapeutic CSF
           drainage.

      Specific Treatment The investigations agent, the co-ultraPEALut, will be administered orally
      twice daily (every 12 h) for 180 days in association with the specific therapy (e.g.,
      antiplatelet agents, anticoagulants, antiepileptic drugs) commonly administered to these
      patients and/or with drugs prescribed for comorbidities (i.e. diabetes, arterial
      hypertension).
    
  