
    
      Participants will be randomly assigned (1:1) to one of two arms:

      Arm 1: Indwelling pleural catheter (with talc pleurodesis if suitable) Arm 2: Pleurodesis via
      Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery

      Arm 1: Indwelling pleural catheter is a long-term catheter that is tunnelled under the skin
      and allows ongoing drainage of pleural fluid by the patient or carer at home. It is inserted
      using local anaesthetic with or without sedation depending on local practice. An experienced
      respiratory physician inserts the catheter. Once the catheter is inserted, the pleural fluid
      will be evacuated as completely as possible. If the lung fully re-expands and there is no
      contraindication to talc pleurodesis, 4-5g of sterile graded talc will be instilled via the
      IPC. The participant will then be discharged on a daily drainage regimen for 14 days. The
      drainage will either be performed by the participant's carer or nurses in the community. A
      bottle or bag will be attached to the drain to allow for removal of accumulated pleural
      fluid. Once completed the drain will be reattached to the pleural catheter. At review in
      clinic on day 14 (+/- 2 days), the participant will be assessed for spontaneous pleurodesis
      (<50ml drainage on 3 consecutive drainage attempts). If pleurodesis has occurred and there is
      no residual symptomatic effusion, arrangements will be made for IPC removal. Otherwise the
      participant will switch to a symptom-guided drainage regimen. If the lung does not fully
      re-expand following complete fluid evacuation, they will be discharged on a symptom-guided
      regimen without instillation of talc. The drainage regimen will continue for the duration of
      the study and beyond if pleurodesis has not occurred and pleural fluid continues to
      accumulate. All participants will remain under the care of their study doctors who are also
      their usual physicians, after the end of the study.

      Arm 2: Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery is a type of key-hole surgery performed under
      general anaesthetic and usually single lung ventilation by a cardio-thoracic surgeon. This is
      expected to take about 1 hour. Between one and three ports are used to insert a camera and
      instruments into the chest cavity. Adhesions can be broken down if present and the lining of
      the lung (visceral pleura) can sometimes be removed (decortication) to facilitate lung
      re-expansion. The surgeon can then perform either mechanical abrasion or talc poudrage to
      induce inflammation and subsequent pleurodesis. A chest drain is left in situ
      post-operatively and is removed when the fluid draining is below a certain volume depending
      on local practice.

      Participants in both arms will be reviewed at the same time points - at discharge, 14 days
      post-procedure, monthly to 6 months, then 3-monthly to 1 year. The reviews will include
      quality of life and breathlessness questionnaires.

      All data will be obtained by the designated study research team who will carry out the IPC
      insertions and where VATs pleurodesis is undertaken, the research team will liaise directly
      with the study surgeon.
    
  