
    
      Tracheostomy is a common procedure in patients with severe acquired brain injury (sABI)
      requiring prolonged mechanical ventilation (MV) and airway protection. Once the acute
      indication for tracheostomy has resolved, the patient needs to be evaluated for safe
      decannulation. Prolonged decannulation increases the risk of adverse effects such as causing
      inflammation and excessive cough, formation of granulation tissue and tracheal stenosis.
      Decannulation timely and safely can help discharge these patients to rehabilitation
      institutions or home, with decreased hospital stay, nosocomial infections and costs. Hence,
      there is a growing need to identify a protocol not only for assessing whether a patient is
      ready for decannulation but also specifically designed for sABI patients.

      A commonly used test to determine whether a critically ill patient with a tracheostomy tube
      is ready for decannulation is a capping trial, in which the cuffless tracheostomy tube was
      occluded by a cap for a period of time to see if the patient tolerates this challenge.
      Capping trials have usually been considered to be the key criteria before decannulation with
      high specificity and a positive predictive value for successful decannulation, but their
      conservative nature can delay decannulation -During the capping trail, the respiratory
      workload increased significantly because of the increase in airway resistance which
      remarkably limit respiratory muscle function. That means, patients who do not meet the
      capping trial criteria for decannulation actually may still be able to undergo decannulation
      successfully. In addition, one study has shown that in the process of continuous tube
      capping, the incidence of complications such as pulmonary infection and tracheitis seems to
      be higher which makes the decannulation delayed. An alternative approach to assessing
      readiness for decannulation is to measure the number of times that secretions are suctioned
      from a patient's airway over a given period of time, with fewer episodes of suctioning
      considered to be a positive indicator of potentially successful decannulation.

      In 2021, Gonzalo et al. found that in critical ill patients with tracheostomy that have been
      weaned from ventilation, basing the decision to decannulate on suctioning frequency plus
      continuous highflow oxygen therapy rather than on 24-hour capping trials plus intermittent
      highflow oxygen therapy reduced the time to decannulation, with no evidence of a
      between-group difference in the incidence of decannulation failure. This is the first
      multi-center randomized study focused on different decannulation protocol. However, in this
      study, both protocols included the use of high-flow oxygen therapy which is not always
      available in rehabilitation ward, and differential use of high-flow oxygen therapy in the two
      groups might influence the result. Moreover, sABI patients are characterized not only by
      severe neurological impairment but also by cognitive disorders, which alter motor control and
      the ability to execute simple voluntary tasks. There is a growing need to identify a protocol
      specifically designed for sABI patients.

      In this study, the investigators compared an assessment of readiness for decannulation that
      was based on suctioning frequency with an assessment that was based on tracheostomy capping
      in subacute sABI patients.
    
  