
    
      1.0 Problem of Interest

      Patients with heart failure have a pumping action of the ventricles in which one ventricle
      contracts before the other ventricle. This uncoordinated (unsynchronized) pumping is due to a
      delay in the stimulation of the left ventricle because of its increased size. Pacing both the
      right and the left side of the heart (or cardiac resynchronization therapy [CRT]) has been
      proven to be effective in the treatment of heart failure. Current market-approved devices
      combine both pacing (CRT) and shocking (ICD) therapy for patients who have severe heart
      failure and are at risk for developing life-threatening heart rhythms. These devices provide
      an electrical pacing stimulus to both ventricles at the same time and may help the heart
      contract in a more coordinated way and improve heart failure symptoms.

      The investigational portion of this trial involves the implantation of a market-approved CRT
      implantable cardioverter defibrillator (CRT-D) system in patients who do not meet the current
      criteria for a CRT implant. In order to receive a CRT-D implant today, patients must have
      heart failure symptoms, have a weakened heart muscle, and have uncoordinated pumping of the
      heart. To demonstrate this uncoordinated pumping of the heart, a test (ECG) is done. It is
      believed that by using a different test (echocardiogram) to measure whether this
      uncoordinated pumping is present, more patients will be identified that will benefit from
      CRT-D therapy.

      2.0 Study Summary

      Testing will be performed to determine if patients are eligible for this study. An EKG
      (electrical tracing of the heart) will be performed. They will be asked to complete a 6-
      minute hall walk test that will provide information regarding their ability to exercise and
      conduct daily activities. An echocardiogram with tissue Doppler imaging (ultrasound of the
      heart) will be performed to determine how the heart muscle contracts. Results of this
      echocardiogram will determine if patients are eligible to participate in this study.

      The device system that will be implanted consists of a St. Jude Medical CRT-D and three
      pacing leads (insulted wires that carry electrical energy from the device to the heart). One
      lead is placed in the upper right chamber of the heart (atrium), a second lead is placed in
      the lower right chamber of the heart (right ventricle) and the third lead is placed within a
      vein that runs along the outside of the heart and is positioned at a location near the left
      lower chamber of the heart (left ventricle).

      A randomization visit will occur approximately 14 days after implant. Patients will be
      randomized (like a flip of a coin) to one of two groups. Each patient will have an equal
      chance of being randomized to either of the two groups. One group will receive cardiac
      resynchronization treatment (CRT ON) and the other group will not receive cardiac
      resynchronization treatment (CRT OFF). Patients in the CRT OFF group can receive cardiac
      resynchronization treatment at 6 months after randomization if the doctor determines that it
      is appropriate.

      Prior to randomization and programming of the device, the following tests will be completed:

        -  Quality of Life Questionnaire - contains 21 questions that provide information as to how
           heart failure affects the patient's daily life.

        -  EKG

        -  6-Minute Hall.

        -  Cardiopulmonary Exercise Stress Testing (CPX) - measures the amount of oxygen used by
           your body while exercising on a treadmill and breathing through a special breathing tube

        -  Echocardiogram

      Follow-up visits will occur at 3 and 6 months following randomization and every 6 months
      thereafter until the end of the study. The tests performed at the randomization visit
      (Quality of Life Questionnaire, EKG, 6 minute hall walk, CPX and echocardiogram) will be
      repeated at the 6-month follow-up visit. Additionally, each visit will include a review of
      the patient's condition and current medications and an evaluation of the CRT-D device.

      3.0 How Will the Research Advance Scientific Knowledge and/or Human Health?

      It is hoped that by pacing both lower chambers of the heart in these patients that they will
      feel better. They may be able to do more activities with fewer symptoms. In addition, the
      information gathered in this study will add to the understanding of treatment options for
      patients with heart failure.

      4.0 What is the Current Standard of Care?

      Alternative treatments to the St. Jude Medical CRT-D system (includes the left heart lead)
      currently available include implantation of a standard ICD system and/or treatment with
      medications.
    
  