
    
      Objective:

      The overall objective of this study is to investigate the feasibility and effectiveness of
      various non-pharmaceutical interventions on the occurrence of influenza in residence units of
      the University of Michigan.

      Specific Aims:

      The three specific aims of this study are to: (1) determine the feasibility of using face
      masks and hand hygiene education among students living in residence hall units at the
      University of Michigan, (2) estimate the reduction of influenza infection and illness during
      laboratory documented influenza outbreaks in individuals and groups using one or more
      interventions compared to those not using such interventions, and (3) track occurrence of
      influenza cases in the participating residence units of the University.

      Background:

      Community based intervention studies that target prevention of droplet transmission, via face
      masks in addition to hand-to-hand transmission along with alcohol-based antiseptic use, are
      needed along with culture confirmed respiratory illness data.

      Methodology:

      The proposed study is a randomized intervention designed to examine the effectiveness of face
      masks alone and layered face masks and hand hygiene interventions for reducing transmission
      of influenza among students residing in University of Michigan residence halls during
      laboratory defined influenza seasons. Randomization will be by geographically separate
      housing unit. In the first year, residence halls will be assigned to each of the
      interventions and to the observed comparison to bring the total number of participants to 750
      in each of the interventions and the comparison (total number: 2250). For year two,
      randomization was performed at the residence house level to increase clustering units and
      also aimed for 750 students in each intervention. Students living in each of the residence
      halls will be asked if they wish to participate in the study. Those giving informed consent
      will be asked to complete a survey each week to ascertain illness occurrences. When influenza
      illness is documented to be occurring in the University setting, the interventions will be
      implemented. During that period, the survey will be expanded to include questions on
      intervention use, as appropriate for the particular housing unit. Also during this period,
      those with illnesses meeting a case definition will be asked to provide specimens for virus
      identification. This collection will not be limited to those agreeing to the use of the
      interventions, since informed consent will be obtained for all specimen collections.

      Intervention Methods:

      Randomization will be clustered by residence hall since it is likely that incidence of
      influenza infection will be correlated among subjects within residence halls. In year 2,
      clustering was done by residence house to increase the clustering units. The intervention
      residence halls will receive one of the following two interventions: (i) masks alone or (ii)
      masks plus alcohol-based hand sanitizers (62% ethyl alcohol) and hygiene education. The
      remaining halls will serve as comparison units. The control dorms will be similar to the
      intervention dorms on basic demographic distributions, such as age range and geographical
      proximity. Residence halls that are randomized to the control arm will not receive any masks,
      hygiene education materials, or alcohol-based hand sanitizer.

      Within each of the randomized residence halls assigned to receive an intervention, our goal
      is to assess the use of face masks and hand sanitizer. The intervention will be put into
      effect only when two or more virus positive illnesses are detected in a single week. Rapid
      tests will be available to help in identifying cases if laboratory confirmation may be
      delayed. The use of face masks will continue until the outbreak is recognized by virology to
      be coming to a close or after the passage of 6 weeks, whichever occurs first. It is felt that
      there needs to be a guaranteed duration in order to assure compliance with face mask use.

      Face Mask:

      Residence halls receiving interventions (i) and (ii) will receive face masks and will be
      asked to comply with their use at least while in the residence hall when it is known that
      influenza virus is transmitting on campus. A week's supply of face masks and plastic bags for
      disposal will be bundled along with instructions for use. They will be requested to wear the
      masks when out of the halls, but this may be more difficult to implement. As indicated below,
      we will ask what proportion of time the masks are worn. The choice of the specific face masks
      will be carried out in conjunction with the CDC project officers. The face mask intervention
      would require a once a day change during use to ensure proper protection and a hygienic
      barrier. It is clear from the recent Institute of Medicine report that little is known about
      long term use or reuse of face masks, so variations in the number of times in which a face
      mask is changed is a variable that could be assessed in this study.

      The use of face masks will continue for 6 weeks. Instructions will be given as to the correct
      and incorrect way to utilize surgical masks. As part of the evaluation of level of use, staff
      observers in each facility will estimate what proportion of individuals actually use them
      properly. This will take place in common rooms, hallways, and residence hall dining
      facilities to supplement the self reports that will be collected by e-mail from all
      participants.

      Hand Hygiene Education and Antiseptic Product Use:

      All students in residence halls receiving intervention (ii) will be provided with a
      comprehensive hand hygiene education component in addition to mask use. The educational
      component will include posters and pamphlets that provide background information on
      transmission of influenza, an explanation of the effectiveness of hand hygiene for reducing
      transmission, and guidelines for proper hand hygiene, including the need for hand hygiene at
      critical locations throughout the residence halls. The hand washing campaign will consist of
      posters on bulletin boards and weekly email hand hygiene reminder messages to participants in
      the intervention residence halls. The educational component of the study will include a video
      for both the control arm and the intervention arms. The control video will address
      information on influenza and an overview of the study. The intervention video will address
      both information on influenza and an overview of the study, in addition to hand hygiene
      education and the use of hand sanitizer and the use of face masks. Both videos are available
      on the website (www.mflu.org) and on Survey Monkey linked to the consent form.

      The intervention dorms will be given a portable alcohol-based hand sanitizer and a large
      stationary pump alcohol-based hand sanitizer to use throughout the study period in addition
      to basic hand hygiene education materials and messages. In order to quantify the effect of
      the alcohol-based hand sanitizer use on influenza virus transmission, regular self reports of
      hand-sanitizer use will be collected and the products provided will be monitored for use (by
      weighing) and re-supplied as needed on a weekly basis during the influenza season. Control
      participants will also be required to provide information on type and name of product used
      and daily frequency of use, should they be using any.

      Control Residence Halls:

      Students residing in the control housing units will be asked to participate in the disease
      surveillance aspect of the study. They will be contacted by e-mail, be asked to consent to
      participate in a wellness study in which they will report on respiratory and enteric illness
      symptoms on a weekly basis. The students will be compensated for this participation but not
      at the level of those who are in the intervention arms.

      Hand Hygiene, Face Mask and Illness Surveillance:

      Participants in both the intervention and control housing units will be asked to report
      information on a weekly basis concerning use of the interventions (where appropriate) and the
      occurrence of respiratory and enteric illness symptoms. Questions on the health attitudes and
      knowledge will be collected at the start and end of the study season. This survey will be
      modified for residence hall participants so that frequency of use of face masks can be
      similarly determined, including attitudes about wearing them.

      Both intervention compliance and outcome measures will be collected via electronic survey.
      This will include mask use, alcohol-based hand sanitizer use, and details regarding
      respiratory symptoms and enteric symptoms. During the first year, the survey instruments will
      be assessed for reliability for use among our target student populations in residence halls
      and may be modified in the second year. Honoraria will be calculated based on the weeks the
      report is completed, and paid at the end of the season.

      Collection of Specimens for Virus Identification:

      All residents in the intervention and comparison residences will receive small magnetic
      cards, modified after those currently used in the vaccine study, describing the case
      definition. An individual will be asked to have a specimen collected for virus identification
      whenever an illness that meets the case definition occurs. Information on symptoms, duration
      of illnesses and other relevant characteristics will be obtained.

      Laboratory Methods for Virus Identification:

      All specimens for virus identification will be collected by throat swab and placed in veal
      infusion broth transport medium. This transport medium has been found to protect viruses for
      days during shipment from remote sites and to be suitable for PCR tests as well.

      Positives are passed to additional tubes of cell culture. Initial typing is carried out by
      fluorescent antibody techniques. Subtyping of type A viruses are carried out by
      hemagglutination-inhibition. For specimens collected in the influenza vaccine efficacy study,
      specimens are also processed by real time PCR. By collecting data on vaccination use among
      participants, we will be able to control for vaccine use in our study analyses. Given the low
      rate of vaccination uptake among college age individuals, we do not expect vaccine use to be
      a significant confounder in our study design.

      Statistical Design:

      To estimate the reduction of influenza infection and illness during laboratory documented
      influenza outbreaks in individuals and groups using one or more interventions compared to
      those not using such interventions. The effect of the intervention will be tested through the
      use of generalized estimating equations (GEE) as applied to statistical regression models for
      clustered data. The main outcome for this aim will be the rate of influenza cases and rates
      of secondary influenza transmission comparing the intervention and control dormitories.
      Additional outcomes will include other non-influenza respiratory illnesses and enteric
      illness symptoms. Predictor variables will include the main effects of the intervention and
      control for potential confounders depending upon balance of the known confounders across
      intervention and control residence halls.
    
  