
    
      This randomized controlled trial is designed to determine the effect of a pharmacist
      intervention to manage lower urinary tract symptoms (LUTS) in the community. The objectives
      of the study are to determine the effect of the pharmacist as measured by the Patient
      Perception of Bladder Condition (PPBC) (primary objective), the Bladder Self-Assessment
      Questionnaire (B-SAQ), and the International Consultation on Incontinence Module
      Questionnaire Short Form (ICI-Q-SF) (as secondary objectives).

      The pharmacists at community pharmacies will be recruited through the networks already
      established within Alberta for pharmacy practice research, and the Pharmacists Association of
      Alberta. The pharmacists must have advanced prescribing authorization with their professional
      license.

      The patients will be recruited with the posting of shelf-talkers by the incontinence and
      menstrual products section of the pharmacy and with leaflets in prescription bags. If a
      patient obtains a LUTS product or if the patient presents him/herself in response to the
      shelf-talker, the pharmacist will screen the patient to determine if LUTS are present.The
      patients will be eligible to participate if they are at least 60 years of age, report LUTS,
      can communicate in English, and provide consent.

      The patient will be randomized to either a control or intervention. Those assigned to the
      control group will be eligible to receive the intervention following the follow-up period.
      Both the control and intervention group will have a baseline PPBC, B-SAQ, and ICI-Q-SF
      questionnaires, in addition to demographics and a medical history.

      The control group will receive a healthy aging pamphlet and will be called back at 8 weeks to
      have the questionnaires repeated.

      The intervention is based on the published guide for LUTS for pharmacists (Gabriel, et al.
      2015). The pharmacist will assess the patient's LUTS and determine an appropriate
      intervention plan, which may include education, lifestyle, behavioural, or medication
      modification. The patient will be given a summary of the plan and the primary care provider
      will also receive a summary. At 4 weeks the patient will be contacted by phone or in person
      (per patient preference), with a review of the plan and repeated bladder questionnaires. At 8
      weeks the patient will complete the final interaction with the pharmacist and will complete
      the bladder questionnaires for the final time.

      The primary outcome is the change in PPBC from baseline to 8 weeks, and secondary outcomes
      include the change from baseline until 8 weeks in the B-SAQ, ICI-Q, and health system use
      (including referrals to physicians, specialists, and pharmacist billing).

      We plan to enroll 100 patients (50 in each group). All analyses will be by intention to
      treat.
    
  