
    
      Physical activity is a vital component of self-management for patients with diabetes
      mellitus, yet there are special problems in patients whose disease is complicated by
      insensate feet (i.e. loss of protective sensation caused by diabetic distal symmetric sensory
      peripheral neuropathy). Foot ulcers develop in 15% of the 17 million people in the United
      States with diabetes mellitus, and contribute to 84% of foot or toe amputations. Foot ulcer
      risk is very high among those with insensate feet. Although the roles of neuropathy, plantar
      foot pressure, and footwear in foot ulcers have been extensively studied, the independent
      role of physical activity has not. The overall goal of this study is to determine whether a
      "lifestyle" physical activity intervention, based on the Second Community Healthy Activities
      Model Program for Seniors (CHAMPS II), which we call FEET FIRST, can be used to safely
      increase moderate-intensity physical activity (achieving at least 40% of maximal oxygen
      consumption, as in walking briskly) among people with diabetes and insensate feet.
      "Lifestyle" physical activity interventions help participants to accumulate at least 30
      minutes of self-selected activities in short bouts during the day. CHAMPS II effectively and
      safely increased physical activity in sedentary older adults with multiple chronic illnesses.

      Substantial research has also found that people with diabetic peripheral neuropathy are also
      at increased risk of falls. Diabetic peripheral neuropathy also leads to postural
      instability, i.e. impairment in measures of functional dynamic balance. Moreover, this
      instability worsens with age. People with diabetic peripheral neuropathy in particular tend
      to have ankle instability due to decreased proprioception, making them less able to rapidly
      recover balance during sudden ankle dorsiflexion, inversion or eversion when walking on
      uneven surfaces.

      There is ample evidence that promotion of an active lifestyle and specific exercises
      targeting endurance, strength and balance improves reduces functional decline in the elderly,
      and that home-based exercise programs effectively decrease fall risk in the elderly as well.
      One small, non-randomized trial found preliminary evidence that a 3-week intervention that
      focused on ankle strength improved balance measures in those with diabetic peripheral
      neuropathy. However, no randomized studies have investigated the effect of a physical
      activity intervention on fall risk in community-dwelling people with diabetic peripheral
      neuropathy, who may also be at increased risk of cutaneous injuries (i.e. foot lesions)
      during weight-bearing activity. Before we unequivocally recommend to people with diabetic
      peripheral neuropathy that they engage in exercise, we need to determine that this will be
      safe for their feet, and not increase fall risk.
    
  