
    
      Primary light chain amyloidosis (AL) is the most common systemic amyloidosis, resulting from
      a plasma cell dyscrasia, a hematological malignancy. It causes a restrictive cardiomyopathy
      (AL-CMP) in over 70% of individuals. AL-CMP is as lethal as stage 4 lung cancer and more
      lethal than any other form of restrictive heart disease; if untreated, the mortality rate is
      50% within 18 months. Moreover, myocardial dysfunction, the hallmark of AL-CMP, significantly
      increases early treatment related mortality, predominantly cardiovascular death, and is a
      powerful predictor of poor long-term survival. Two potentially treatable mechanisms underlie
      myocardial dysfunction-mechanical effects of amyloid and toxic effects from circulating light
      chain/ amyloid interactions-and predispose to heart failure, arrhythmias, and sudden death in
      individuals with AL-CMP. Until now, efforts to determine the mechanisms of AL-CMP have been
      hampered by a lack of animal models and the limitations of noninvasive techniques to directly
      image myocardial amyloid. A recent breakthrough, 18F-florbetapir PET/CT, has provided for the
      first time specific and quantitative imaging of myocardial amyloid including toxic amyloid
      protofibrils. Furthermore, we propose to investigate three pre-clinically proven pathways of
      light chain toxicity in humans-myocardial oxidative metabolism, oxidative stress, and
      coronary microvascular function. Our central hypotheses are that myocardial 18F-florbetapir
      retention is a biomarker for aggressiveness of AL-CMP and that effective chemotherapy will,
      by reducing circulating light chains, decrease aggressiveness of AL-CMP and improve oxidative
      stress, myocardial oxidative metabolism, microvascular function and contractile function,
      prior to an improvement in myocardial amyloid content. In Aim 1, we will quantify myocardial
      18F-florbetapir retention as a marker of aggressive myocardial disease in individuals with
      AL-CMP and active plasma cell dyscrasia compared to control individuals with AL-CMP and
      long-term hematological remission. In Aim 2, we propose, using advanced imaging, to assess
      the effects of light chain reduction due to chemotherapy on myocardial structure, function,
      and metabolism and define the time course of these changes. Serial ECV and strain imaging by
      CMR, serum F2-isoprostanes and peroxynitrite levels, myocardial oxidative metabolism (Kmono)
      and coronary flow reserve by 11C-acetate PET, and 18F-florbetapir imaging will not only
      intricately characterize the myocardial substrate in AL-CMP, but also identify changes in
      response to therapy. The proposed studies offer the potential to transform our current
      understanding of AL-CMP as a restrictive heart disease caused by passive amyloid-related
      architectural damage to that of a more complex disorder resulting from both passive and
      aggressive factors. The results of these studies may form the foundation for drug discovery
      programs to prevent and cure AL-CMP.

      Interactions of environmental factors, immunity, and host-related factors likely trigger
      AL-amyloidosis, but have not yet been explored. Changes in metal ions and gut microbiota may
      be causal, representing the integrated effects of all these factors, or may be the downstream
      effect of systemic amyloid deposition in the organ systems. A plethora of recent literature
      strongly support the role of microbiota in the pathogenesis of several diseases, suggesting
      that gut microbiota changes with age, influences heart failure (HF) outcomes, and plays a
      role in the formation of β-amyloid deposits in Alzheimer's disease. Importantly, alterations
      in lifestyle, diet, prebiotics, probiotics, or phenols and gut microbiota may represent
      therapeutic and preventative strategies in amyloid disease, but it has not been explored in
      AL-amyloidosis. We propose to study the role of salivary and gut microbiome in AL
      amyloidosis.
    
  