
    
      Dislocation of the hip following total hip replacement (THR) is the sole reason for the
      endorsement of precautions following THR. This has remained unchanged sine the first hip
      replacement in 1969.

      The precautions are;

        -  Patients must not bend past 90 degrees at the hip (including sitting)

        -  Patients must not twist in either standing or sitting

        -  Patients must partial weight bear with elbow crutches for a minimum of 6 weeks

        -  Patients must sleep on their back for a minimum of 6 weeks

        -  Patients must not cross their legs

      Studies exploring factors affecting dislocation following THR identified three main
      influences: surgical technique, type of prosthesis and post-operative precautions. A number
      of studies have challenged the continued use of precautions or explored their impact on
      dislocation. However, these studies did not fully consider the impact of all precautions on
      dislocation, choosing to only select elements of the precautions for investigation. A recent
      review concluded the evidence evaluating practice and the impact of precautions was of poor
      quality. The review suggested further research should take into account different surgical
      approaches, different femoral head sizes and the type of prosthesis. Although there are
      studies that explored some of these hip dislocation confounders, the true impact of
      precautions remains unknown.

      Whilst precautions continue to be endorsed by surgeons and other clinicians, previous
      challenges have raised awareness of the possible excessiveness of precautions and the
      importance of further robust work recommended. This is particularly so in the wake of
      developments in surgical technique and prostheses design, such as hip joint capsule repair
      and larger femoral head sizes (larger hip replacements). These developments and their impact
      on dislocation are beginning to cast doubt on the impact of post-operative precautions and
      their direct link to incidence of dislocation, which is their primary purpose.

      The imposition of precautions has been evidenced to impact on both function and quality of
      life, with resultant non adherence in a proportion of patients. This study intends to explore
      whether an unrestricted pathway has no worse outcome in function, pain and quality of life
      parameters, in two specialist units in a multi-centre, prospective, randomised,
      non-inferiority study.
    
  