
    
      Over a one-year period, we will evaluate specific outcomes related to the use of the
      internet-based asthma treatment plans. Patients identified by their physician as candidates
      for the study will be screened by the CAE. All subjects will be provided with an information
      sheet and will be asked to sign an informed consent. All subjects asthma treatment will be
      reviewed for adequacy of medical management (as defined by the Canadian Consensus Guidelines
      for Asthma Care) and may have treatment adjusted by one of the study physician specialists to
      ensure compliance with guideline-based best practice if necessary

      Following obtaining consent, all subjects will receive identical standardized education. This
      will include: review of medications and inhaler device technique, review any environmental
      triggers, and generate a written action plan. All subjects will receive a peak flow meter and
      will be instructed in its use. All subjects will undergo baseline pulmonary function tests if
      they have not had one conducted in the previous six months that will include flow-volume
      loops pre and post bronchodilator. Subjects that do not demonstrate a 12% improvement in FEV1
      post bronchodilator will also have a methacholine challenge test to assess airway
      hyperreactivity. A urine sample will be obtained and frozen for subsequent NMR spectroscopy.
      Standard demographic information will be obtained from all subjects including smoking status,
      age, education status, and weight assessed as BMI. Subjects successfully completing screening
      tests and fulfilling inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomly allocated to either to
      the active therapy using the Internet site, or to a placebo therapy using a web-based
      intervention. Randomization will occur using an internet based program created by the EPICORE
      Centre at the University of Alberta.

      All subjects will be given an individualized access code and the website address and will
      receive a brief demonstration of the website. Following initial log-on to the website the
      subject's in the intervention group will have their asthma profile reviewed daily by a
      Certified Asthma Educator (CAE). Patients who do not log-on to the website within 1 week of
      randomization will be contacted by telephone. The intervention group will have access to the
      full version of the website with access to the CAE and they will be expected to enter daily
      symptoms, evening and morning peak flows and medication use under their subject profile.
      Patients who consent but do not log-on despite additional telephone contact will be deemed as
      an immediate compliance failure. Otherwise patients' individual profiles will be evaluated
      until the end of the 12-month period. Non-compliance to the asthma management program will be
      defined as:

        1. Failure to enter any information for 7 consecutive days for patients experiencing poor
           asthma control in the preceding 2 weeks.

        2. Failure to enter any information for 14 consecutive days for patents experiencing good
           asthma control in the preceding 2 weeks. This point will be deemed the time to
           compliance failure.

      The internet-based system will utilize a secure website to deliver the following to the
      intervention group: 1) ongoing patient education, 2) regular feedback regarding significance
      of symptoms, 3) regular feedback regarding significance of peak flows, and 4) a written
      action plan. Patients will also have their individual files monitored regularly by a CAE.
      Finally patients in the intervention group will have on-line access to an asthma educator
      through a secure email system.

      The placebo web-based intervention will include basic patient information on asthma and
      asthma management; however will not include an interactive component. They would not have
      personalized information tracked on the asthma management website, however they will be asked
      to complete the outcome measurements at regularly scheduled intervals online. All subjects
      will be sent regular email reminders to continue to log into the program and complete the
      outcome measures. These reminders will be sent at regular intervals and include basic
      information on asthma to encourage participation.

      All patients will be requested to provide their Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan Number to
      allow access to their individualized health care utilization data from Capital Health and the
      Calgary Regional Health Authority. In particular, clinic visits; emergency room visits; and
      hospitalization data will be requested from the health regions. Patients will also be asked
      to provide a copy of their prescription records for the duration of the study. All data will
      be entered into a SPSS database and will be analyzed using this and other statistical
      programs. Data analysis will be conducted by EPICORE at the University of Alberta.

      All subjects will be monitored via website for one year. All subjects will be asked to
      complete the 15D and AQLQ at baseline, six months post enrollment and 12 months post
      enrollment. Additionally, they will be asked to complete the Weekly Survey every two months.
      The intervention group only will be asked to complete the symptom survey at each login, as it
      is used primarily for clinical reasons by the CAE. All subjects will have seven days to
      complete and submit the outcome measures and reminders will be sent via email every second
      day. If a subject fails to complete the measurements within the seven-day period, they will
      receive a phone call reminder. Subjects will be asked to return 12 months post enrollment to
      the clinic for repeated spirometry testing and a second urine sample collection. No
      additional office visits are anticipated.
    
  