
    
      Background: Respiratory symptoms, dyspnea and acute respiratory failure are often reported in
      patients admitted to the Hospital with a do-not-intubate (DNI) order. These patients are
      routinely treated with medical therapy, sometimes to reverse the underlying process, but also
      often to achieve palliation. The therapies include opioids or anxiolytics, oxygen, CPAP and
      non-invasive ventilation (NIV) depending on the underlying disease.

      Rationale: Considering that most of the available data on the palliative use of NIV are
      limited to short-term prognosis and are collected selecting DNI patients among those subjects
      already receiving NIV treatment. A prospective observational study focusing on therapies
      offered to patients entering the hospital with or switching to a DNI status during the
      hospitalization would be helpful to fill in the blanks regarding the current palliative
      treatment of dyspnea in critically ill DNI patients. The assessment of patients' symptoms and
      comfort and family members' perspective would be important to further understand how the
      discussion with healthcare proxies and families should be addressed in relation to end-of
      life-decisions. In addition, the collection of health care providers' impressions on the use
      of different treatments to alleviate dyspnea and respiratory distress in this situation could
      help to better understand how to implement palliative treatment of respiratory symptoms in
      DNI patients.

      Our aim is to monitor and establish the prevalence of use of NIV among DNI patients and to
      assess patients, family members' and caregivers' perspectives on the patient's and their own
      experience of NIV relative to other approaches to palliating symptoms.

      Study design: A prospective, observational study enrolling all consecutive patients with
      dyspnea and/or acute respiratory failure with DNI orders admitted to the study site.

      Study procedures: Subjects participating in the study will be treated as per hospital
      procedure and according to the attending physician orders, to maintain oxygen saturation at
      the targeted level and to optimize patient comfort using anxiolytics and narcotics as
      indicated. No changes in the standard of care will be performed based on participation in the
      study.

      Some data (demographics, medications, vitals, arterial blood gas, history of present illnes
      and past medical history, treatment plan) will be extracted from medical records. A daily
      assessment of dyspnea score (Numeric rating scale, (NRS)), comfort (NRS) and pain (NRS) will
      be performed. Patients and family members will be asked to fill in a questionnaire at day 3.
      Heal care providers (attending physician, nurse and RT) will be asked to fill in a
      questionnaire at discharge. Family members and/or patients will be contacted by phone 30 days
      after discharge to get additional information about patient's outcome.

      Research plan: Demographics and baseline characteristics of patients will be summarized for
      each group overall and by cohorts (DNI on NIV, DNI on CPAP, DNI with no ventilator support).
      Continuous variables will be reported as mean ± standard deviation. Categorical variables
      will be reported as n and %. For the primary outcome, a one-way ANOVA will be used to compare
      the difference in means between the groups. If the data are not normally distributed, the
      Krusman-Wallis test will be performed. Regression analysis will also be conducted to evaluate
      the consistency of treatment effects across the cohorts, controlling for potential
      confounding factors at baseline.

      A Chi-square test (or Fisher's exact test if the counts are below 5) will be used to compare
      the distribution of categorical outcomes between the groups. Where appropriate, generalized
      linear models will be fitted with categorical and count data to evaluate the consistency of
      treatment effects across the cohorts, controlling for potential confounding factors at
      baseline.
    
  