
    
      Purpose: To test the efficacy of WellStart Health program to to arrest and / or reverse type
      2 diabetes.

      Future comparative studies between programs programs are anticipated, utilizing this data to
      help identify the strengths and weaknesses of different programs, as well as identify
      subpopulations that might benefit from one program as opposed to another.

      Data from this study will be shared via posters and papers among the lifestyle medicine
      community / publications to help contribute to better lifestyle interventions.

      Pilot programs reported on the WellStart web page report reduction in hemoglobin A1c (HBA1c)
      and weight during the 12 week program.

      The web site states:

      Evidence for the Program:

      The 12-week lifestyle medicine program provides online health coaching and education on 5
      domains of wellbeing: whole food, plant-forward nutrition, movement, mindset and social
      support and resilience. The pilot programs have shown a mean weight reduction of 6.9 lbs in
      85% of participants of the 12-week program. 85% of participants with prediabetes experienced
      a reduction in hemoglobin A1c, while 100% of those with diabetes had a mean hemoglobin A1c
      reduction of 1.1. WellStart has also helped 35% of participants on pharmacotherapy, eliminate
      medication (antihypertensives and metformin).

      Studies have shown the ability of plant-based nutrition to reverse chronic disease including
      coronary artery disease. The BROAD study found a statistically significant reduction in BMI
      and cholesterol in those following a plant-based diet. Furthermore, Dean Ornish's research
      showed regression of coronary atherosclerosis after 5 years of a plant-based diet in addition
      to lifestyle changes and found that it reduced cardiac events by half. Caldwell Esselstyn's
      research on a whole food plant-based diet also demonstrated a significant reduction in major
      cardiac events in adherent patients.

      Furthermore, a 2016 comprehensive literature review supports a plant-based diet as medical
      nutrition therapy for diabetes based on its ability to reduce fasting blood glucose,
      hemoglobin A1c, body mass index and reduce medication use.

      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), a lifestyle and diet intervention program, reduces the
      risk of diabetes by half in a population at risk. It has been successfully adapted to the
      online setting. WellStart is taking this concept a step further by providing participants
      with additional education and support to transition to plant-forward nutrition habits.
    
  