
    
      Spina bifida aperta (SBA), often referred to as myelomeningocele (MMC) or myeloschisis, is a
      devastating yet non-lethal congenital malformation with complex physical and
      neurodevelopmental sequelae. Its prevalence is approximately 4.9 per 10,000 live births in
      Europe and 3.17 in the United States. SBA results in motor and sensory deficits, their
      extension being defined by the upper level of the anatomical defect. These range, as the
      level increases, from bladder, bowel and sexual dysfunction, to involvement of the lower and
      even upper extremities, and secondary orthopaedic disabilities. Despite improvements in
      prevention, diagnosis, and postnatal management, SBA remains a major source of morbidity and
      mortality throughout the world. Children with SBA almost invariably have an associated Chiari
      II hindbrain malformation (CM II) and ventriculomegaly. The Chiari II malformation is
      characterized by posterior fossa (PF) and brain stem abnormalities, with downward
      displacement and compression of the cerebellum and brain stem.

      Geerdink demonstrated that morphometric measures reliably quantify the morphological
      distortions of Chiari II malformation on postnatal MR images. These included downward
      herniation of the cerebellum, displacement of pons, medulla and fourth ventricle, medullary
      kinking, abnormal fourth ventricle, tentorium and mesencephalic tectum. The mamillopontine
      distance (MPD) and the cerebellar width were the most sensitive and specific determinant of
      Chiari II. Some foetuses with SBA have ventriculomegaly and its degree is believed to be
      predictive for the need of postnatal shunting.

      In 2011, the Management of Myelomeningocele Study (MOMS) demonstrated the benefit of in utero
      repair of MMC as the need for ventricular shunting at 12 months was reduced and motor outcome
      at 30 months improved. Fetuses with the suspicion of SBA should be assessed comprehensively
      to counsel parents about the expected outcome and whether they would be candidates for fetal
      surgery. In this assessment, fetal MR has a crucial role to characterize the extent of brain
      abnormalities, the level of the lesion, and to rule out additional anomalies in fetuses with
      SBA. For fetal surgery eligibility, the presence of CM II on MR is a necessary finding. Many
      measurements have been proposed to describe the typical PF changes in fetuses with SBA, yet
      the reproducibility of these has rarely been studied. These include the transverse cerebellar
      diameter (TCD), the transverse diameter of the posterior fossa (TDPF), the midsagittal PF
      area, the level of cerebellar herniation and the clivus-supraocciput angle (CSA). These
      parameters have also been shown to change after in utero repair of SBA in small series and at
      different time points after fetal surgery, yet no study has consistently reported early
      postoperative assessment in utero.

      The aims of this study were threefold: (1) to assess the reproducibility of measurements of
      the brain stem and PF that have been suggested to be representative on postnatal 8,9 and
      prenatal MR imaging (2) apply those parameters that were shown to be reproducible, to
      discriminate fetuses with SBA from gestational age matched fetuses with a normal PF; (3) and
      document early changes in these measurements one week after fetal surgery.
    
  