
    
      Background: The proposed work will generate evidence-based practice guidance for temperature
      control liner technologies and allow providers to optimize care to Service members and
      Veterans with limb loss. Sizeable numbers of Service members and Veterans live with limb
      loss, mostly due to traumatic musculoskeletal injury. Addressing the resulting functional
      deficit with prostheses increases the risk for secondary conditions such as pressure sores,
      impaired blood perfusion, and injuries from accidental falls. Any of those occurrences can
      render the prosthesis temporarily useless, making it challenging for users to engage in many
      activities of daily life, including work, exercise, and social participation. Many of the
      described issues originate at the interface between residual limb and prosthetic socket,
      where the objectives of sufficient weight distribution and suspension are conflicting with
      the necessity to facilitate heat exchange and limit contact pressure and friction.

      Recently, prosthesis liners that contain phase-change material have become commercially
      available, holding the promise that the micro climate at the interface between the residual
      limb skin and the prosthetic socket can be regulated to reduce the users' tendency to sweat.
      Preliminary studies on these liners indicate that the socket temperatures inside the socket
      stayed lower and rose slower than in conventional liners. However, the clinical relevance of
      those findings remains unclear. While (perceived) socket comfort is certainly an important
      criterion in prosthesis fitting, it may be claimed that only tangible functional benefits are
      of concern.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The purpose of this study is to investigate whether longer (6+ months)
      periods of use of phase-change material based temperature control liners have clinically
      meaningful effects.

      It is hypothesized that use of phase-change material infused liners will improve prosthesis
      utilization (measured in days of prostheses use per time), physical performance (measured by
      2-minute walk test), and self-reported prosthesis related quality of life (assessed by
      questionnaire). The research follows the rationale that lower and steadier skin temperatures
      should result in reduced sweat, friction, skin damage, and prosthesis abandonment. This would
      encourage users to wear their prosthesis for longer periods of time and for an expanded array
      of purposes, thus increasing their ability to ambulate and to engage in a greater variety of
      activities.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To compare phase-change material liners to conventional liners with regard to activity
           and participation

        2. To quantify the effect of phase-change material liners on prosthesis related quality of
           life and physical performance over time

        3. To investigate the relationship between perceived benefits of phase-change material
           liners and patient-centric outcomes

      Study Design: The proposed study will utilize a double-blind longitudinal cross-over research
      design. A sample of trans-tibial prosthesis users will be wearing their regular gel or
      silicone liners for six months and phase-change material liners for another six months in a
      randomized sequence. Their prostheses will be equipped with activity monitors, and
      participants will be asked to maintain a record of days when they could not wear their
      prosthesis due to any perceived issues with their residual limb or socket fit. In 1.5-month
      intervals, subjects' activity, physical performance, and overall prosthesis assessment will
      be recorded using standardized methods.
    
  