
    
      New HIV infections among people who inject drugs (PWID) are increasing in the United States
      and San Francisco. Methamphetamine is a driving force in the transmission of HIV. Multiple
      studies across diverse populations have found methamphetamine use to be independently
      associated with both injection and sexual risk behaviors for HIV acquisition. Cisgender men
      who have sex with men (MSM) who inject methamphetamine are at particularly elevated risk for
      HIV from both injection and sexual risk behaviors.

      Daily, oral pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is safe and highly effective for HIV prevention
      when taken consistently. The Centers for Disease Control and other health agencies recommend
      PrEP for PWID. Despite this recommendation and increasing PrEP use in the US, almost no PrEP
      studies or demonstration projects have focused on PWID. The small number of studies that have
      evaluated PrEP use among MSM who inject methamphetamine have shown slow PrEP uptake and
      adherence challenges.

      The PRIME study will randomize 140 MSM who inject methamphetamine, are HIV-negative, and have
      recently engaged in an HIV sexual risk behavior to video directly observed therapy with
      contingency management (VDOT-CM) and counseling or counseling alone for 24 weeks. The primary
      aim of this study is to evaluate if VDOT-CM helps MSM who inject methamphetamine adhere to
      daily PrEP for HIV prevention. Participants will be MSM, age 18 years or older, who have
      injected methamphetamine within the past 30 days, are HIV negative and interested in
      initiating PrEP, and report condomless sero-unknown/discordant sex with a man in the past 12
      months.

      All subjects will complete the following study visits: screening, enrollment, follow-up
      visits 6, 12, and 18 weeks from enrollment, and a final follow-up visit at 24 weeks. At
      screening, enrollment, and all follow-up visits, laboratory testing for HIV, gonorrhea,
      chlamydia, and methamphetamine metabolites will be done. Syphilis and creatinine testing will
      be done at screening, week 12, and week 24. In addition, hepatitis B surface antibody (HBsAb)
      and antigen (HBsAg) and hepatitis C antibody (HCV) testing will be done at the screening
      visit. HCV testing will also be done at the week 24 visit.

      At screening a medical history and physical exam will be performed; during follow-up a
      symptom-directed exam will be performed at all visits, and under clinician discretion, a
      medical history and full exam will be done if needed. AEs will be assessed starting at
      enrollment and throughout follow-up. Vital signs will be checked at screening, enrollment,
      and the week 24 visit.

      At enrollment, participants will be randomized 1:1 to receiving only Integrated Next Step
      Counseling (iNSC) or iNSC and video directly-observed therapy (VDOT) with contingency
      management (CM). All participants will receive iNSC throughout their participation to support
      PrEP adherence and help their reduce risk for HIV. Dried blood spots (DBS) will be collected
      for FTC/TAF drug level testing at weeks 6, 12, 18, and 24. Participants randomized to the
      VDOT-CM arm will be asked to record taking their daily PrEP dose on VDOT every day from
      enrollment through week 24.

      In-depth interviews will be conducted with at least 36 participants (18/arm) and participants
      who discontinue PrEP early or become infected with HIV during the study.
    
  