
    
      Background:

      This study was designed to assess the effectiveness of a Health Education Program (HEP) for
      improving the well-being and reducing the health care use and cost of care of frail older
      outpatient veterans, and for improving the well-being of their spouse caregivers. HEP is a
      multi-component group program delivered in 8 weekly, 2-hour sessions, and 10 monthly 2-hour
      follow-up sessions, it includes emotion-focused and problem focused coping strategies,
      education and support.

      Objectives:

      The objectives of this study are to evaluate: 1) effects of HEP on the perceived health
      status, emotional well-being, and social support of frail veterans; 2) effects of HEP on the
      perceived health, emotional well-being, social support, burden levels, self-appraisal of
      change, pressing problems associated with caregiving, knowledge and use of community
      resources by caregiver; and 3) effects of HEP on the health care use and costs of care
      recipients.

      Methods:

      HEP was evaluated using a randomized control group design. The design has two levels of
      intervention, HEP vs. Usual Care (UC), 3 VA medical centers (VAMCs), and 4 times of
      measurement (at baseline, after the 8th HEP meeting, and at 1 and 2 years after baseline).
      Data reported here are for 8 week and 1-year psychosocial outcomes and 18 months for VA cost.
      Caregivers and veterans (n = 466) were randomized in 3 VAMCs, 114 to UC and 119 to HEP. The
      typical caregiver was 68 years old, married, white, female, with some college education and
      living with the veteran. The typical veteran care recipient was 74 years old, white, male
      with some college education, and suffered from one or more chronic health problems. Fifteen
      HEP groups were conducted. Caregivers and recipients were assessed on: 1) health and
      functional status; 2) emotional well-being; and 3) social support. In addition, caregivers
      were assessed for change in coping skills, change in burden level, pressing problems, and
      knowledge and use of community resources. Data was analyzed using random effects regression
      models.

      Status:

      Data on two-year outcomes for health and functional status, emotional well-being, and social
      support of caregivers and veterans, problems associated with caregiving and Medicare plus VA
      costs are being collected and analyzed for an amended final report.
    
  