
    
      The enteric microbiota is now accepted as an important etiologic factor in the pathogenesis
      of human Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD) and immune-mediated chronic experimental intestinal
      inflammation, with ample data to implicate the microbiome as a main factor in the occurrence
      of IBD. This can be inferred from animals in germ-free environment which can protect from
      experimental colitis. In addition, increased gut permeability due to dysbiosis, is frequently
      seen in patients with IBD even in remission and, similarly, first degree relatives of IBD.
      Therefore, it is not surprising that therapeutic interventions aiming at modifying the gut
      microbiome would be of therapeutic benefit. Ulcerative colitis is a condition that is
      characterized by chronic inflammation of the colon. It is an important pediatric disease as
      25% of all cases begin in childhood and its incidence is continuously on the rise. It is
      believed to be related to a genetically and environmentally-generated altered immune response
      to the enteric microbiome. Previous work in the PI's laboratory suggests that children harbor
      a unique gut microbial profile, which can predict therapeutic response. Therefore, modifying
      the gut microbiome may result in therapeutic benefit. However, attempts to modify the gut
      microbiome were largely unsuccessful until the advent of fecal transplant, which is a new
      approach in treating colitis. Fecal microbiota transplant (FMT) has been introduced several
      decades ago in an attempt to restore the gut microbial balance and it appears to be a more
      efficient method to effectively change and sustain the gut microbial composition. To date
      there have been a number of successful reports to suggest control of disease activity and in
      some cases cure of the disease. This study aims to further determine the safety and efficacy
      of FMT in treating children with ulcerative colitis
    
  