
    
      BACKGROUND

      Sub-Saharan Africa HIV mortality:

      In 2016 in South Africa approximately 154,000 PWH died. Of these deaths, 110,000 have been
      characterized as excess mortality due to HIV (HIV associated deaths). Overall, HIV-associated
      deaths are associated advanced disease defined by a low cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4)
      count.

      In-Hospital and Post-Hospital Mortality in Africa:

      Inpatient mortality among people with HIV (PWH) in Africa is uniformly high ranging from 17.2
      to 29.6% across the continent, including in South Africa. Following discharge from an index
      hospitalization the mortality is also high. In investigators' preliminary work investigators
      have observed a 26% mortality in the 6 months after hospital discharge. This observation is
      consistent with mortality from other reports: 50% mortality at twelve months and 30% and 31%
      at six months reported from Tanzania, Kenya, and South Africa, respectively.

      Contribution of Post-Hospital Mortality to Overall Death among People with HIV:

      In South Africa there are approximately 84,633 public sector acute care hospital beds of
      which approximately 25% are adult medicine beds. By extrapolating the post-discharge
      mortality investigators observed to all discharges among PWH in South Africa investigators
      can estimate the annual mortality among PWH with a hospital discharge in the past six months.
      Considering the national proportion of all admissions that are for PWH, the average length of
      stay, and the annual readmission rate an estimated 240,000 PWH are admitted to medicine wards
      in South Africa annually. A six-month post-hospital mortality of 26% suggests a total of
      62,374 post-hospital deaths among PWH. This number of deaths represents 40% of the
      approximately 154,000 total annual deaths among PWH in South Africa. A modest reduction in
      post-hospital deaths could substantially reduce overall HIV mortality in South Africa.

      Causes of Post-Hospital Death:

      Some post-hospital deaths may be unavoidable due to advanced or incurable disease. Other
      post-hospital deaths may be avoidable with improved retention in care. A study from
      Johannesburg, South Africa assessed loss from care for HIV-TB co-infected patients; only 42%
      of patients discharged were known to have been to an HIV clinic within 30 days of hospital
      discharge [the time needed to obtain or refill antiretroviral therapy (ART) prescriptions at
      the time of the study]. Similarly in Investigators' preliminary study, only 19% of
      participants attended a scheduled follow-up visit. Failure to attend a scheduled visit was
      associated with subsequent mortality in Investigators' preliminary study and in a report from
      Tanzania. At present, there is limited research regarding approaches to retaining PWH in care
      during the post-hospital transition.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      The overarching goal of this proposal is to demonstrate clinical trial feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of structured post-discharge medical home visits to
      reduce mortality following the transition from the hospital to home. Investigators are
      proposing a pilot randomized clinical trial (RCT) to determine preliminary efficacy,
      feasibility of trial implementation and intervention delivery, acceptability of the
      intervention, the effect of the intervention on barriers to care, and to obtain detailed
      baseline psychosocial and medical needs to inform intervention refinement and explain
      outcomes.

      The primary objectives of this study are:

        1. To estimate 6 month mortality rates and assess for evidence of efficacy of the Home Link
           intervention compared to care as usual.

        2. To determine the feasibility, acceptability, and effect of the Home Link intervention on
           identified barriers to care.

        3. To characterize medical and behavioral needs among participants in the study.

      The secondary objectives of this study are:

        1. Determine post-hospital health care out-of-pocket costs for participants

        2. Assess re-admission

        3. Estimate 12 month mortality by study arm

      SIGNIFICANCE

      This study fits with the South African National Strategic Plan to increase effective HIV
      treatment. The study is also consistent with NIH HIV/AIDS highest priority research and the
      South African National Strategic Plan on HIV, TB, and STIs 2017-2022. Given the high
      post-discharge mortality findings from this study could contribute to approaches to reduce
      mortality for PWH.

      METHODS

      Study design:

      This is a pilot randomized clinical trial (RCT) to refine and test the feasibility,
      acceptability, and preliminary effectiveness of Home Link.

      Study setting:

      This pilot operational research study will be conducted in Matlosana. All participants will
      be recruited from Tshepong Hospital. Eligibility will include residing within Matlosana
      sub-district.

      Tshepong Hospital: Tshepong Hospital is a tertiary care hospital in Matlosana. An average of
      30 patients are admitted to medicine wards daily. Nearly 50% are PWH.

      Description of the geographical areas of study implementation:

      The proposed study will be conducted at the 500 bed Tshepong Hospital in the Northwest
      Province. Tshepong Hospital is one of 5 hospitals in Kenneth Kaunda District and the single
      tertiary care public hospital serving the population of 400,000 in Matlosana. This hospital
      was selected due to its size, heterogeneous catchment area (rural to urban), and
      long-standing working relationships with the research team. Tshepong Hospital currently
      provides discharge services that include (1) discharge counseling and education provided by
      counselors and (2) a medical record notebook with a discharge summary for the patient to take
      to his or her clinic visits.

      Rationale for selecting geographical areas of study implementation:

      Investigators selected Tshepong Hospital based on a long-standing working relationship
      between the PI, the Perinatal HIV Research Unit (PHRU), and the Tshepong Hospital. This has
      included a prior study of post-hospital outcomes.

      Study Population:

      The study population is comprised of adults (≥18 years old), either male or female, spending
      at least two nights in a medical ward of Tshepong Hospital. Investigators will only include
      individuals with known HIV status, either HIV-positive or HIV-negative. Investigators propose
      to recruit up to 180 HIV-positive and 60 HIV-uninfected participants. Randomization to the
      intervention vs control arms will be stratified by HIV status.

      Pre-discharge study procedures:

      All participants will have a baseline demographic health and psychosocial questionnaire
      (E001, E002).

      Care-as-usual (CAU) study arm:

      Participants will receive standard discharge care as provided at Tshepong Hospital during the
      study. This currently includes discharge counseling from a trained discharge counselor and
      will be provided with a follow-up return date (usually two weeks post-hospital). Discharge
      counseling will include a review of discharge medications and instructions regarding
      follow-up care visits.

      Home Link study arm:

      The Home Link intervention will be delivered by a home visit team including a primary care
      nurse and counselor trained in patient-centered. A rotating hospital-based doctor will be
      available for pre-home visit clinical file review and post-visit discussion, via cell phone,
      for decision making and input on patient care during a household visit. Investigators have
      termed this individual a "discharge officer". The discharge officer will be a Tshepong
      clinician who is working in the hospital. Supporting Home Link is expected to take <30
      minutes of the physician's time during the day. For study-specific concerns, the team will
      consult with a Good Clinical Practice (GCP)-trained, PHRU research doctor based at the
      Tshepong Hospital.

      Post-discharge follow-up:

      The primary outcome is mortality six months after hospital discharge. Secondary outcomes
      include mortality 12 months after hospital discharge, number of nights spent in a hospital,
      number of ambulatory clinical encounters after the index hospitalization, and patient
      out-of-pocket costs for medical care. Outcomes will be assessed through scheduled contact and
      completion of a structured questionnaire with the participant or designated next of kin
      (either telephonic or in person if telephonic fails) at 8, 12, 26, and 52 weeks. Mortality
      will be further ascertained through a 26 and 52 week review of the Tshepong Hospital file
      (including the affiliated Klerksdorp hospital files) and matching of participant national
      identification numbers to the vital statistics register through consultation with the
      Department of Home Affairs. Repeat hospitalization will be ascertained using self-report /
      next of kin report and hospital records. Most subsequent hospitalizations can be expected to
      be at Tshepong Hospital due to the substantial distance to reach the next nearest hospital
      (>50 km to a lower level facility). In Investigators' prior experience investigators have
      observed rare use of alternative hospitals. Clinic visit data will be ascertained by
      self-report followed by verification through review of clinic paper or electronic (tier.net)
      records and National Health Laboratory Service electronic records (TrackCare).
    
  