
    
      BACKGROUND: Articular cartilage repair in the knee is aimed at young patients with area(s) of
      cartilage loss and no deformity of the knee. These patients aren't indicated for a knee
      replacement. Articular cartilage repair leads to improvement of symptoms of pain, locking and
      function. Traditionally, articular cartilage repair has always involved exposing the entire
      knee joint with an arthrotomy. This, though effective, would lead to a large scar, longer
      hospital stay, longer rehabilitation and its associated complications. Also, the use of Bone
      Marrow Aspirate Cells (BMAC) for the purpose of cartilage repair has long been debated with
      both sides having valid arguments and good surgical results.

      RATIONALE: Both procedures in this study are performed in one stage, arthroscopically and as
      day case procedures, which offers minimal scarring and quicker recovery. This automatically
      confers a significant advantage over the traditional surgical techniques.

      To correct the articular cartilage defect, the ACIC method requires autologous Atellocollagen
      (a protein based structure), while the MCIC method uses concentrated BMAC taken from the
      patient's iliac crest.

      Both procedures have shown encouraging results in terms of pain relief, cartilage growth and
      improved function. Since one technique utilises a protein based reagent and the other
      involves mesenchymal cells, this study aims to ascertain if either technique is superior to
      the other.

      STUDY DESIGN: This study aims to compare two techniques of articular cartilage repair in the
      knee, namely Autologous Collagen Induced Chondrogenesis (ACIC) and Mesenchymal Cell Induced
      Chondrogenesis (MCIC). The principal objective of is to ascertain and assess the superiority,
      if any, of either surgical technique over the other. The superiority will be assessed with by
      the certain scoring systems (IKDC, KOOS, Lysholm and MOCART) measured pre- and
      post-operatively.

      Depending on which procedure the patient chooses to have, they will be allotted to either the
      ACIC or the MCIC group. The patient is followed up in the clinic at the Spire Alexandra
      Hospital at 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months, 1 year and 2 years following the surgery
      and their progress is documented by questionnaires and clinical examination. MRI scans are
      done at one and two years to assess the extent of cartilage growth.

      SURGICAL TECHNIQUES

      Autologous Collagen Induced Chondrogenesis (ACIC):

      ACIC is a single stage arthroscopic procedure. It is done as a day case? procedure and the
      patient is admitted a few hours before the procedure. The anaesthetic method depends is the
      Anaesthesiologist's prerogative and depends on the patient's general health. Under sterile
      conditions in an operating theatre, the arthroscopic instruments are introduced inside the
      knee joint. As assessed previously by MRI scans, the area of cartilage defect is debrided by
      curettage, shaving and burring and then microfractured. The ACIC method utilises autologous
      Atellocollagen, a protein based structure, mixed with thrombin and fibrinogen to form a gel
      which coats the area with a cartilage defect. The entry ports are then closed and the knee is
      covered with a sterile dressing. The patient is transferred to the surgical recovery ward
      and, when medically stable, then transferred to their room on the ward.

      After discharge from the hospital, the patient is advised partial weight bearing on the
      operated leg for 6 weeks after the surgery. They also undergo 5 sessions of physiotherapy.
      Surgical clips and sutures are removed at 2 weeks following the surgery.

      Mesenchymal Cell Induced Chondrogenesis (MCIC):

      MCIC is a single stage arthroscopic procedure. It is done as a day case? procedure and the
      patient is admitted a few hours before the procedure. The anaesthetic method depends is the
      Anaesthesiologist's prerogative and depends on the patient's general health. Under sterile
      conditions in an operating theatre, the arthroscopic instruments are introduced inside the
      knee joint. As assessed previously by MRI scans, the area of cartilage defect is debrided by
      curettage, shaving and burring and then microfractured. The MCIC method involves aspiration
      of Bone Marrow Aspirate Cells (BMAC) from the patient's iliac crest (hip bone) and
      concentrating the cells by centrifugation in the operation theatre itself. The BMAC are then
      mixed with thrombin and fibrinogen to form a gel which coats the area with a cartilage
      defect.

      After discharge from the hospital, the patient is advised partial weight bearing on the
      operated leg for 6 weeks after the surgery. They also undergo 5 sessions of physiotherapy.
      Surgical clips and sutures are removed at 2 weeks following the surgery.
    
  