
    
      Several randomised controlled trials in patients with stable Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD) have demonstrated that pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) improves dyspnoea,
      exercise tolerance, and health-related quality of life. Research in this field has been
      important in our department for several years. The first study in this respect was started in
      1986 comparing outpatient rehabilitation with rehabilitation in the community in patients
      with severe COPD. This study showed that rehabilitation supervised by a physical therapist in
      the community is effective for a long period in contrast to outpatient rehabilitation. In
      1990 the second study started showing that positive initial benefits of home based
      rehabilitation on quality of life can be maintained for 18 months if the patients visit the
      local physical therapist once a month.

      However, less positive effects of rehabilitation have been reported in the more severe
      patients. Because of dyspnoea due to inspiratory muscle fatigue patients may not receive an
      adequate training stimulus, and therefore rehabilitation might be less effective. In these
      more severe patients alternative therapies are needed. These non-pharmacological treatments
      include nutritional supplementation, oxygen therapy, lung transplantation, lung volume
      reduction surgery and ventilatory support.

      The last few years a discussion within the 4 home mechanical ventilation centres (HMV) in the
      Netherlands has been started about the role of chronic ventilatory support in end-stage COPD.
      Theoretically, it might be effective because:

        1. a resetting of the respiratory centre may reduce daytime PaCO2;

        2. a better internal milieu (pH, PaO2, PaCO2) may improve peripheral muscle function;

        3. resting the respiratory muscles during the night may increase their daytime strength and
           endurance;

        4. a reduction in the number of nocturnal arousals may improve the quality of sleep.
           Nevertheless, none of these mechanisms has been proven and currently there is no
           evidence that noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) should be given to
           stable patients with COPD. While several randomised controlled trials (RCT's) on NIPPV
           have been published with different outcomes, a recent meta-analysis did not show
           beneficial effects on blood gasses, lung function, respiratory muscle function and
           walking distance.

      In contrast several uncontrolled studies did show clear benefits from NIPPV on gas-exchange,
      dyspnoea and quality of life. Possible reasons for these conflicting outcomes are differences
      in:

        1. selection of patients,

        2. adequacy of ventilatory support,

        3. length of ventilatory support. Interestingly, it seems that studies with a positive
           outcome included mainly patients with hypercapnia, suggesting this as an important
           selection criterion.

      The hypothesis is that long term NIPPV in hypercapnic patients with COPD may improve the
      effects of rehabilitation at home regarding health status, ADL function, dyspnoea and
      exercise tolerance. Secondly, we like to elucidate the exact mechanisms why NIPPV might be
      effective in this group of patients.

      Comparison: patients who receive noninvasive ventilation during the night while following a
      pulmonary rehabilitation program with patients who only follow a rehabilitation program
      without receiving the noninvasive ventilation.
    
  