
    
      This study is conducted in National Cheng Kung University Hospital, a tertiary health care
      center in Tainan, Taiwan. All participants give written informed consent before enrollment.
      After panendoscopy to confirm enrollment eligibility and reflux esophagitis in Los Angeles A
      or B, all patients are evenly randomized into a DEX group (receiving 8-week dexlansoprazole
      60 mg per day) or double-dose PPI group (receiving 8-week lansoprazole 30 mg twice daily).
      The enrolled patients are randomized by two series of sealed envelopes containing a
      prescheduled group code; one series for the overweight patients and the other for the obese
      patients. In each series of the sealed envelopes, the number of the group code will be equal
      within every 10 sealed envelopes.

      In each patient, the demographic factors and the genotype of S-mephenytoin 4'-hydroxylase
      (CYP2C19) will be checked and defined as poor metabolizer (PM), homologous (HomoEM) or
      heterologous extensive metabolizer (HeteroEM). Each patient is treated continuously with
      dexlansoprazole 60 mg per day or lansoprazole 30 mg twice daily for eight weeks. During this
      8-week study period, each patient is requested to record their daily clinical symptoms of
      reflux esophagitis on a special sheet, including the severity of acid regurgitation (AR,
      score 0: free from symptoms; score 1: attack episodes < 5 times per day; score 2: 6-10 times
      per day; score 3: more than 10 episodes per day), heartburn (HB, score 0: absence of
      symptoms; score 1: tolerable events not interfering with daily work; score 2: intolerable
      events interfering with daily work, but not needing medication to relieve the symptoms; score
      3: complaints interfering with the completion of daily work, or causing the patient to wake
      up during the night with cough, or combined with any other non-specific complaints). The
      patients are scheduled to return to clinics for drug refills, and to hand back daily symptom
      records at the end of the fourth and eighth week of treatment.

      The cumulative proportions of patients with sustained symptomatic response (SSR), defined as
      free from acid regurgitation and heartburn for the last seven days, are recorded during the
      8-week study period for each study group. All of the patients starting the treatment are
      included for the intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis of the rate of SSR. If patients have
      obvious symptoms despite continuous PPI usage and have an unscheduled visit to load up on
      additional PPIs during the study, the case is then dropped from the per-protocol (PP)
      analysis. In addition, patients lost to follow-up are excluded from the PP analysis to
      determine the rate of SSR. Besides comparing the difference of the rate of SSR between the
      two study groups, the study also determined whether patients with different CYP2C19 genotypes
      have differences in the cumulative rates of SSR after therapy between the two study groups.
    
  