
    
      Approximately 100 million people are infected with Wuchereria bancrofti, a
      mosquito-transmitted nemotade parasite that causes deforming lymphatic filariasis in the
      tropics. Improved therapies and diagnostic methods have led to new thinking about lymphatic
      filariasis and the realization that it should be possible to interrupt transmission and
      eliminate the major public health problem by repeated, annual cycles of mass treatment with
      new single dose combination drug regimens. The Egyptian Ministry of Health is about to
      institute annual mass therapy with Albendazole (ALB) and diethylcarbamazine (DEC) in all
      filariasis endemic villages in the country with the aim of eliminating filariasis. This study
      comprises 4 different activities involving human subjects: These are Village studies of
      filariasis prevalence and intensity, school studies of antibody prevalence, A treatment trial
      with an assessment of infectivity of humans with mosquito feeding before and after treatment.
      Pre-control evaluations of villages will be performed in year 1. Mass treatment will be
      conducted annually by the MOH, beginning late in year one or early in year 2. Timing of
      annual follow-up evaluations in years 2-4 will be coordinated with the MOH so that specimens
      are collected at least 6 months after mass treatment but prior to the next distribution of
      medication. It is anticipated that the third follow-up collection will be completed by the
      end of year 4. A final set of follow-up specimens will be collected in year 5 if time
      permits. The treatment trial will compare effects of diethylcarbamzine (6 mg/kg) and
      albendazole (400 mg) given as a single dose, 7 consecutive daily doses, or once weekly for 4
      weeks. Antibody prevalence in young children (school studies), 200-300/school; infection
      prevalence studies (village studies sampling humans and mosquitoes), 100 houses (approx. 500
      people) per village; treatment trial, n = 60 (20 per treatment group). The project will
      attempt to measure effects of mass therapy with tools developed in prior studies. It is
      anticipated that infection prevalence rates and infection intensities will decrease following
      mass therapy. A successful program should lead to elimination of filariasis over time.
    
  