
    
      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that combining a RET inhibitor such as lenvatinib with endocrine therapy may
      potentiate anti-tumor effects in ER+ breast cancers in the clinic. Given that RET inhibition
      is the primary mechanism of action of lenvatinib, we further hypothesize that RET expression
      in the breast tumor may be a biomarker that predicts for better response to the combination
      of a RET inhibitor and endocrine therapy in both a neoadjuvant (Part A) and a metastatic
      (Part B) setting.

      Primary Objectives

        1. To confirm the dose of lenvatinib that can be safely combined with letrozole in the
           lead-in Phase Ib part of the study.

        2. Part A (For patients with non-metastatic breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant treatment)
           : To determine the overall clinical response (measured by ultrasound) and pathological
           complete response rate after 2 weeks of neoadjuvant single agent lenvatinib followed by
           12 weeks of letrozole combined with lenvatinib and compare with historical controls
           treated with single agent letrozole.

        3. Part B (For patients with metastatic breast cancer and who have tumor lesion that can be
           serially biopsied safely): to determine the clinical response (measured by RECIST
           criteria) after 2 weeks of single agent lenvatinib followed by continuous dual therapy
           of lenvatinib and letrozole, until time of progression or intolerability.

      Secondary Objectives

        1. To evaluate the overall biological effects (Ki67 changes, histological response,
           apoptosis, RET and downstream targets such as AKT and ERK) of 2 weeks of single agent
           lenvatinib, and of letrozole + lenvatinib, in ER positive breast cancer, respectively.

        2. To identify biological predictors for treatment response to letrozole + lenvatinib in ER
           positive breast cancer using pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenetics, genomics and proteomics
           strategies.

        3. To compare the following parameters between RET positive versus RET negative, ER
           positive breast cancer:

             -  Part A :

      i. Clinical response (measured by ultrasound) and biological effects of 2 weeks of single
      agent lenvatinib, ii. Clinical response (measured by ultrasound) and biological effects after
      2 weeks of single agent lenvatinib followed by 12 weeks of letrozole combined with lenvatinib

      -Part B : i. Clinical response measured by RECIST criteria after 2 weeks of single agent
      lenvatinib followed by letrozole combined with lenvatinib ii. Progression-free and overall
      survival with letrozole combined with lenvatinib
    
  