
    
      Background: Veterans smoke at a higher rate (30%) than the U.S. adult population (21%), and
      veterans with PTSD have even higher rates of smoking (53-66%). Evidence has shown that any
      tobacco dependence treatment strategy must be integrated in the health care system because
      consistent and effective delivery of tobacco cessation requires coordinated interventions.
      Persistent tobacco users typically cycle through multiple periods of relapse and remission.
      Veterans with PTSD (279,256 in 2005) who are treated for smoking cessation may need more
      comprehensive aid to be successful. Failure to appreciate the chronic nature of tobacco
      dependence may impede comprehensive and consistent treatment. Care management using
      telehealth has been shown to improve access to care while reducing costs for veterans with
      chronic diseases and has the potential to coordinate smoking cessation with care for other
      chronic diseases. Nurses have successfully managed chronic diseases using telehealth by
      focusing on increasing self-management, positive behaviors and knowledge. Nurses are vital to
      increasing the level of support in the community through education and motivation and by
      responding to medical events in order to improve veterans' health.

      Objectives: The study is designed to determine if adding motivational counseling and care
      management using the PTSD Health Buddy to usual care improves smoking quit rates of veterans
      with PTSD. Specific Aims are to compare: 1) self-reported quit attempts, progression through
      the stages of change, and quit rates, 2) patient perception of care coordination, and 3)
      changes in PTSD symptoms in veteran smokers with PTSD who receive a nurse-driven telephonic
      motivational counseling intervention triggered by responses to stage-based smoking cessation
      questions in addition to usual care to those who receive usual care only.
    
  