
    
      Recurrence rate of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC)after resection is as high as
      65.0%-83.7%.The recurrence of HCC is the most important factor affecting prognosis.
      Reasonable and effective treatment of recurrent lesion can significantly improve the
      long-term treatment efficacy of HCC. Resection is the preferred treatment for recurrent HCC.
      Although liver surgery has been progressing in recent years, the alteration of anatomical
      structure after the first operation, the reduction of liver volume, and the mostly
      multi-centered origin recurrent lesions, lead to low surgical resection rate, difficult
      operation, high risk, multiple complications, and high recurrence rate of resection surgery.
      Salvage liver transplantation is difficult to apply widely due to donor shortages and other
      problems.

      Local ablation, represented by radiofrequency ablation (RFA), is the third major treatment
      for liver cancer after surgical resection and transcatheter arterial chemoembolization
      (TACE). Many studies， by us and domestic and foreign scholars， have shown that the long-term
      efficacy of RFA in the treatment of small HCC is close to that of surgical resection, with a
      5-year survival rate of 50%-60%. Therefore，RFA has been recommended as a frontline treatment
      for small HCC by many international guidelines. The recurrent lesion is usually detected when
      it's small and is the best indication for RFA. Our previous study showed that for recurrent
      small HCC(≤5cm), RFA has the efficacy equivalent to re-excision, with the advantages of small
      trauma, quick recovery, low cost, and high quality of life.

      With the development of radiotherapy equipment and the precision imaging technology,
      especially the emergence of stereotactic radiotherapy (SBRT), the status of radiotherapy in
      the treatment of HCC is increasing. SBRT is defined as the use of external irradiation
      technology, which is divided into several fractions, and the high dose of radiotherapy is
      accurately delivered into the tumor. As a result, tumor is subjected to high dose and the
      normal tissue around the tumor is exposed to relatively low dose. Compared with conventional
      fractionated radiotherapy (CRT), SBRT possessed fewer segmentation times (1 to 6 F), higher
      fractional doses (5 to 20 Gy), and steeper gradients at the edge of the target region, so it
      has stronger biological effect. Meanwhile, SBRT can also protect the normal organs better,
      especially for the radiotherapy of smaller tumors. Multiple clinical studies and
      meta-analyses have shown that SBRT is superior to traditional CRT in the treatment of HCC,
      and the side effects are lower in the acute phase. SBRT has become a mainstream technology
      for HCC, and has been recommended as a routine local treatment for HCC by National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines and NCI radiotherapy guidelines.

      Both RFA and SBRT have been recommended by the NCCN guidelines as a routine local treatment
      for liver cancer. They are also widely used in the treatment of liver cancer, and their
      therapeutic efficacy and safety have been widely approved. However, which treatment of
      recurrent small HCC is superior is still unknown.This project is to conduct a prospective,
      open, randomized, controlled clinical study of RFA versus SBRT for the treatment of recurrent
      small HCC(1-2 lesions, Sum of diameter≤ 5.0 cm). The primary end point is the 2-year local
      progression-free survival. Secondary end points include 1-, 2-, 3- progression-free survival,
      overall survival rate, local control rate, and rate of complications.. Stratified analysis
      will also be performed according to Sum of tumor diameter (≤2.0 cm; 2.1-5.0 cm). The results
      of these study will help to further improve the long-term treatment efficacy of HCC and
      establish a rational and effective treatment model for HCC.

      Patients enrolled in this clinical trail received either SBRT or RFA depending on the
      randomization allocation.

      As for SBRT group, the treatment follows the protocol below.Immobilization: Patients are
      immobilized with vacuum bags or styrofoam in the supine position, with the arms raised above
      the head. 4 dimensional computed tomography (4DCT) scanning: Simple breathing training is
      conducted before simulation, so that the patient can keep breathing quietly and evenly. A
      plastic box with reflective marker is placed on the patient's anterior abdominal surface
      where the respiratory amplitude is relatively large, approximately midway between the xiphoid
      and the umbilicus. The movement of the marker is recorded by an infrared camera, which is
      converted into breathing curve by computer software. After the breathing curve becomes
      stable, the CT data of different respiratory phases is collected by 4DCT in axial cine mode.
      CT scanning region: From 3-4 cm above the diaphragm to the 4th lumbar vertebra. The
      intravenous contrast is administered during CT scanning and the slice thickness is 3.0 mm.
      After 4DCT scanning, images are sorted into 10 phases by the software. Each respiratory cycle
      is divided into 10 respiratory phases. Delineation of the target volumes and organs at risk:
      Gross tumor volume (GTV) and organs at risk (OARs) are contoured on the 20% CT image
      (mid-exhalation). Then the GTV is registered to the other respiratory phases of 4DCT scan by
      a physicist using Atlas-based Auto-segmentation (ABAS, Electa CMS), and the target volumes
      are modified and confirmed by a radiation oncologist using the standard window/level
      settings. GTV is defined as the intrahepatic lesion on images. Internal target volume (ITV)
      is defined as the combined volume of GTVs on 10 respiratory phases. Planning target volume
      (PTV) is generated by adding a 6-mm margin to the ITV. OARs include liver, kidney, stomach,
      small intestine, and spinal cord. Normal liver volume is defined as the entire liver minus
      GTV. Treatment planning: The plan of volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) is designed on
      the 20% CT image using an optimization algorithm based on a combination of radiobiological
      and physical cost functions. Monte Carlo algorithm (MC) is performed in the optimization
      process and a single arc is conducted. Dosimetric evaluation: For PTV, 95% ≥95%, max < 110%,
      min >90%. For OARs, dose mean dose to normal liver (MDTNL) < 13 Gy, 15 Gy of liver < 35%;
      dose mean of kidneys <6 Gy, D0.5cc of esophagus < 21 Gy; D0.5cc of stomach < 21 Gy; D0.5cc of
      small intestine < 21 Gy; D0.5cc of colon < 24 Gy; D0.5cc of heart < 30 Gy; D0.5cc of ribs <
      39 Gy; Dose max of spinal cord < 18 Gy. The planning is evaluated according to the dose
      volume histogram (DVH) and the dose distribution of each layer.

      As for RFA group, contrast-enhanced ultrasonography (CEUS) was carried out for all patients
      before treatment.RFA is carried out under intravenous anesthesia/epidural anesthesia/general
      anesthesia, with CT or B-ultrasound guidance, through percutaneous or laparoscopic means as
      far as possible. The ablation range requires complete coverage of the tumor, and has a
      certain "safe margin". CT/MRI/sonography will be performed 1 month after RFA. If residual
      tumor was found after treatment, RFA will be carried out again. If there are still residual
      tumor after two or more RFA treatments, the RFA treatment will be determined to be a failure
      and stopped. After the local progression of the tumor, surgical treatment or other treatment
      methods are considered according to the specific condition.

      This study is expected to complete enrollment in 2 years and to follow up for 2 years. The
      primary analysis is performed in the intention-to-treat population. Kaplan-Meier curves will
      be used to describe the patient's local recurrence-free survival, and the corresponding
      statistical dates are calculated, such as median local progression-free survival (LPFS) and
      bilateral 95% confidential interval(CI). The secondary analysis used hypothesis test and
      two-sided 95% CIs to compare the time of first local recurrence. Kaplan-Meier curves will
      also be used to describe the patient's disease progression, and calculated the corresponding
      statistical data, such as the median overall survival(OS) and bilateral 95% CIs. Safety
      assessments will be also performed by comparing adverse events in the two groups of patients.
    
  