
    
      Pseudofolliculitis barbae (PFB) is an acneiform eruption of the bearded area usually seen in
      dark-skinned individuals with thick, tightly curled hair. Typically, the hair shafts curve
      back directly into adjacent skin or the shaft penetrates through the follicular epithelium
      into the superficial dermis. The subsequent foreign body inflammatory reaction leads to
      discomfort, pigment alteration, infection, scarring and a potential decreased ability to
      shave. PFB continues to be a significant problem in the military with tremendous cost to the
      US Government, both in direct treatment of the condition as well as indirectly due to the
      loss of man-hours in personnel training, clinic visits, and ultimately, administrative
      separation.

      Chemical depilatories, topical corticosteroids, topical retinoids, topical antibiotics, and
      eflornithine hydrochloride cream are helpful in the management of PFB. Growing a beard is
      usually curative; however in the military a clean shaven face is required. Since 1984, the US
      Navy has not allowed the wearing of beards, noting that facial hair may interfere with the
      proper fitting of protective gear used against biochemical warfare agents, or in the case of
      oxygen mask or breathing apparatus. In refractory cases, permanent laser hair removal with
      the long-pulse Nd:YAG has been shown to decrease the severity of PFB in dark skinned
      individuals. This wavelength is safe, effective, and due to its increased penetration, allows
      for increased ratio of hair bulb to epidermal heating in patients with Fitzpatrick skin type
      IV through VI.

      Traditional 1064nm laser fluences (defined here as 22-40 J/cm2) for a normal bearded subject
      produce significant discomfort. Blistering and subsequent pigmentary changes have been
      reported in patients with type V-VI skin.7 Patients often require topical anesthesia with
      prolonged application times, ranging from 45 to 90 minutes. Treatments are usually scheduled
      every four to six weeks and in the military, these are conducted by trained physicians at
      major treatment facilities. Theoretically, the aim of the 1064nm laser treatment is long
      lasting or permanent hair reduction via conductive thermal diffusion causing lethal damage to
      the hair bulb and bulge area from the melanosome-containing hair shaft and matrix. However,
      in patients treated at the highest possible fluence eventually become symptomatic within 12
      to 18 months of their final treatment.

      The purpose of this study was to determine if PFB could be mitigated with a weekly treatment
      protocol. We evaluated a1064nm Nd:YAG laser using a fluence of 12J/cm2 in patients with PFB
      and Fitzpatrick skin types IV, V and VI.
    
  