
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the safest and most tolerable dose and schedule of lenalidomide to combine
      with etoposide, prednisone, vincristine sulfate (Oncovin), cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin
      hydrochloride (hydroxydaunorubicin hydrochloride) (EPOCH) chemotherapy in adult T-cell
      leukemia-lymphoma (ATL/ATLL).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To determine if lenalidomide and EPOCH
      activity results in significant improvement in remission rates and duration of remissions as
      compared to historical controls.

      III. To determine if lenalidomide and EPOCH activity correlates with T-cell receptor (TCR)
      pathway gene mutational spectrum.

      IV. To determine effects of lenalidomide and EPOCH on human T-cell leukemia virus type 1
      (HTLV-1) proviral deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and ribonucleic acid (RNA) loads.

      V. To determine effects of lenalidomide and EPOCH on HTLV-1 clonality.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lenalidomide.

      INDUCTION THERAPY: Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-14 of
      21 day cycles or days 1-21 or 1-28 of 28 day cycles. Patients also receive doxorubicin
      hydrochloride intravenously (IV) continuously on days 1-4, vincristine sulfate IV
      continuously on days 1-4, etoposide IV continuously on days 1-4, prednisone PO on days 1-5,
      and cyclophosphamide IV over 1-4 hours on day 5. Treatment repeats every 21 or 28 days for up
      to 4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients with complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or stable
      disease (SD) may receive up to 2 additional cycles of lenalidomide, doxorubicin
      hydrochloride, vincristine sulfate, etoposide, prednisone, and cyclophosphamide at the
      discretion of the investigator and/or up to an additional 2 years of lenalidomide in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 2 years.
    
  