
    
      Alpha(2)-adrenergic receptors (alpha(2)-AR) are cell surface receptors for catecholamines
      that bind to the G(i)/G(0) family of G proteins. Alpha(2)-ARs are widely distributed in the
      central and peripheral nervous system, and are known to play an important role in the
      regulation of catecholamine release. This mechanism and the broad distribution of these
      receptors explain their role in a wide variety of physiological functions. Alpha(2)-AR
      mediate central hypotensive, sedative, anesthetic, and analgesic responses to alpha(2)-AR
      agonists. However, cardiovascular and other responses to the alpha(2)-AR agonists are subject
      to interindividual variation in the human population. Such variability may be explained by
      genetic variation in the structure of the receptors themselves, the cognate G proteins, the
      transductional effectors, or the downstream intracellular targets. Molecular and
      pharmacological research has defined three alpha(2)-ARs subtypes designated alpha(2)(A),
      alpha(2)(B), and alpha(2)(C). All three alpha(2)-AR subtypes are involved in the regulation
      of blood pressure, and these receptors also modulate sedation, analgesia, regulation of
      insulin release, renal function, cognition and behavior. Biochemical research has identified
      three human genes that uniquely encode these alpha(2)-ARs. Recently, in preclinical studies
      polymorphisms of all three alpha(2)-AR subtypes have been described. The three polymorphisms
      are each relatively abundant, and two appear to be functional in vitro. However, in humans
      the in vivo physiological effect of these polymorphisms is unknown.

      This study will elucidate the potential functional role of the three alpha(2)-AR subtypes in
      humans by comparing the behavioral, biochemical, psychophysiological, and autonomic function
      effects of the well-established alpha(2)-AR agonists and antagonists, clonidine and
      yohimbine, respectively, in individuals selected for particular alpha(2)-AR genotypes. Based
      on preclinical studies the following hypotheses will be tested: 1) subjects homozygous or
      heterozygous for the alpha(2)(A)-AR Asn251Lys substitution will show a potentiation of
      clonidine-induced effects, relative to subjects who have the Asn251/Asn251 genotype, and a
      reduction of yohimbine-induced effects, 2) subjects homozygous or heterozygous for a
      alpha(2)(B)-AR three glutamic acid deletion (residues 301-303) will show reduced effects of
      the alpha(2)-AR agonist clonidine and possibly a potentiation of effects of yohimbine, and 3)
      we will evaluate whether altered responses in either direction occur in subjects homozygous
      and heterozygous for an in-frame deletion of a alpha(2)(C)-AR homologous repeat occurring at
      codons 322-325 relative to subjects without this deletion allele.
    
  