
    
      This is a First-Time-in-Human (FTIH), Phase 1 study to determine the MTD, recommended Phase 2
      dose (RP2D), safety, tolerability, pharmacodynamics, and pharmacokinetics of AZD4785. The
      study will be conducted in two parts: a dose-escalation phase (Part A)and an expansion phase
      (Part B). A third group of up to 20 patients with other tumour types and/or a potential
      different schedule may be added based on the results seen in Parts A and B and any other
      emerging data.

      AZD4785 will be given as an IV infusion over 1 hour, initially in 3 loading doses during the
      first week and then weekly thereafter. The loading doses will be given on Days 1, 3, and 5 of
      the first week and weekly thereafter on Days 8, 15, and 22 of 28 Day cycles. In subsequent
      cycles AZD4785 will be administered on Days 1, 8, 15, and 22 until disease progression,
      intolerable toxicity, or discontinuation criteria have been met.

      Once the MTD is established, a dose expansion cohort may be included in Part A, with up to 6
      additional patients to explore the PK, safety, tolerability, and preliminary anti-tumour
      activity of the AZD4785 MTD for confirmation of the RP2D. Thereafter, Part B expansion phase
      will continue to explore PK parameters, safety, tolerability, and preliminary anti-tumour
      activity of the AZD4785 RP2D as monotherapy in patients with NSCLC. Approximately 20 patients
      with NSCLC (2 groups of approximately 10 patients each) with NSCLC will be enrolled to Part
      B. Group 1 patients will have an option to provide tumour biopsies and Group 2 will be
      required (mandatory) to provide paired tumour biopsies. Overall up to 12 patients in Part B
      may provide paired tumour biopsies. A third group of up to 20 patients with other tumour
      types and/or a potential different schedule may be added based on the results seen in Parts A
      and B and any other emerging data and may also provide biopsies. Up to 12 patients in Part B
      may provide paired biopsies.
    
  