
    
      Evaluation of response to systemic therapy is dependant on clinical and radiographic changes
      assessed prior to and after several cycles of systemic therapy. The response rate for lung
      cancer to systemic therapy ranges from 30 - 85%, depending on histology and other clinical
      factors, but difficult to predict in individual patients. Spermine-spermidine acetyl
      transferase (SSAT1) activity is up-regulated in many cancers and may be a marker of response
      to therapy. Metabolism of acetyl amantadine (AA) is reflective of SSAT1 activity. In order to
      determine if change in SSAT1 activity is predictive of response to systemic chemotherapy, we
      propose the following pilot clinical trial. A total of 20 volunteer patients - 10 patients
      with adenocarcinoma of the lung and 10 patients with small-cell histology will be included.
      Eligibility includes patients with adenocarcinoma and small-cell lung cancer who are at AJCC
      stage III or IV at diagnosis. Volunteers will be informed that this study is examining the
      possibility that we can detect a therapeutic response by a change in their excretion of AA
      before it can be detected by conventional patient assessment methods. The chemotherapy
      regimen will be selected by the treating physician and will not be influenced by
      participation in this clinical trial. The usual treatment regimen for the entities described
      above is a platinum-based doublet, often cis-platin with etoposide or gemcitabine
      administered for 4 to 6 cycles. The therapeutic response rates with these drug regimens is
      about 40% for adenocarcinoma and 70% for small-cell carcinoma. Clinical response is usually
      assessed between the second and third cycles of chemotherapy.

      Biological Sampling Details

      Patient volunteers will be asked to fast overnight prior to the day of their first scheduled
      chemotherapy and to ingest an oral dose of 200 mg of amantadine hydrochloride (HCl) in the
      morning within an hour of arriving in clinic. The following biological specimens will be
      collected: blood (2 x 10 ml) at 2 and 4 hours after amantadine ingestion, saliva (2 x 5ml)
      immediately after the blood samples, and a total urine specimen between the time of the 2
      blood samples. Patient will be instructed to empty the bladder immediately before the first
      blood sample and then collect the total urine produced until the end of the second blood
      sample (4 hours). Subsequently, the patient will be allowed lunch (if they so choose) prior
      to their scheduled chemotherapy.

      The sampling protocol will be repeated 3 weeks later with the second cycle of chemotherapy.

      Data to be collected: tumour type (histology), stage of cancer, age, sex, weight, height,
      smoking history, concurrent medications, systemic chemotherapy treatment prescribed and
      history of recent alcohol intake. Data will be used for correlation and to determine the
      relationship of plasma, salivary or urinary AA to the particular cancer diagnosis and
      response to treatment.

      Primary Endpoints:

      Documentation of acetylamantadine metabolite excretion/secretion.

      Response to therapy (complete response, partial response, stable disease, progressive
      disease).

      Time to disease recurrence or progression.
    
  