
    
      Patients with advanced illness often report feeling of depression and anxiety, struggling
      with loss of autonomy and relationships, a sense of hopelessness, and lack of meaning and
      purpose in life. These feelings have been described as "existential distress", and are
      associated with poor outcomes including decreased medication adherence, decreased quality of
      life, increased desire for hastened death, and increased rates of suicide. Existential
      distress, estimated to occur in up to 19% of patients with cancer nearing the end-of-life,
      has been identified as the primary reason why individuals pursue medical assistance in dying
      (MAiD), highlighting the impact existential and psychological suffering has on patients at
      the end-of-life.

      There are few options for treating psychological or existential suffering in a palliative
      care (PC) population. Pharmacological approaches may reduce symptoms of depression and
      anxiety, but evidence to support the efficacy of antidepressants and anxiolytics is
      underwhelming. Antidepressant and anxiolytic medications may also take some time to show
      efficacy, and can cause serious side effects such as falls and confusion. The delayed
      effectiveness and potential for side effects can be substantial deterrents for many patients.
      Psychotherapeutic interventions can be used to reduce psychological suffering in patients
      with advanced illness, but results from randomized controlled trials have shown limited
      efficacy. Psychotherapy can be time consuming and slow to work, which is not ideal for
      patients with limited life expectancy. Given the burden of existential distress among
      patients followed by PC providers, there is a need to develop scalable, brief, and rapidly
      effective therapeutic approaches that can reduce existential distress in patients nearing the
      end-of-life.

      Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) is a Health-Canada- and FDA-approved safe
      and non-invasive brain stimulation intervention used to treat major depression,
      post-traumatic stress disorder, and other mood and anxiety disorders where medication has
      been ineffective. The technique uses trains of powerful, focused magnetic pulses, applied via
      a handheld inductor placed against the scalp, to induce changes in the activity of frontal
      lobe circuits responsible for regulating cognition and emotion. The most common stimulation
      protocols target the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), using high-frequency (10-20 Hz)
      to the left DLPFC or low-frequency (1 Hz) to the right DLPFC, or both. With therapeutic rTMS,
      multiple sessions of treatment are delivered daily over 20-30 visits, to achieve durable
      symptomatic improvements. Clinical studies have shown rTMS can achieve a response (>50%
      symptom reduction) in half of patients and sustained remission rates in approximately 1/3 of
      patients whose depression has been refractory to 2 or more medications.

      rTMS is generally well-tolerated with very few complications; about 95% of patients are able
      to complete a full course of treatment. However, there are obvious barriers to using
      traditional rTMS in the terminal population. First, the need to come to an rTMS clinic for a
      60-minute session daily for 4-6 weeks is too great a time commitment for most patients
      nearing the end-of-life. Second, rTMS was only recently approved for public funding in many
      Canadian provinces, limiting the availability of rTMS to research settings and private
      clinics until now. Third, rTMS devices have been historically costly and difficult to
      transport, making it unfeasible for inpatient PC facilities to purchase an rTMS device or
      share one with a psychiatric clinic nearby. All of these factors have changed in the past
      couple years. New protocols of patterned rTMS have shortened treatment sessions yet preserve
      efficacy. Other "accelerated rTMS" protocols have given up to 10 sessions per day and shown
      symptom remission in just 2-5 days. The cost of these devices has also decreased dramatically
      in recent years (~$25,000 CAN), while the portability and availability have also improved, to
      the point that it is now feasible to use them in palliative settings.

      The current body of literature presented above has studied the effectiveness of rTMS in
      patients with treatment-refractory depression and other mental illness. Essentially, the
      current treatment protocols have been designed to be effective in populations who are the
      most difficult to treat clinically. As such, there is no evidence as to whether or not
      patients with clinically less severe psychological distress (depression and anxiety), would
      require the same intensity and duration of treatment to achieve a clinically relevant
      therapeutic effect.

      Objectives

      Among patients with advanced illness followed by a PC provider:

        1. Identify the lowest and range of therapeutic rTMS dose to relieve psychological
           distress, including an analysis of clinical predictors of response.

        2. Test the feasibility and preliminary efficacy of accelerated rTMS for the treatment of
           psychological distress including: 1) ease of recruitment; 2) completion of follow-up; 3)
           effect size and variance estimates of treatment for primary and secondary outcomes; and
           4) patient satisfaction with treatment.

      Trial Design

      The study is a phase 2a dose-finding open-label clinical trial, followed by a phase 2b
      prospective, sham-control or sham-crossover study, depending on the therapeutic dose
      identified in phase 2a.

      Intervention and Control

      The rTMS intervention will be performed in a dedicated rTMS patient room on an inpatient PC
      unit, where the patient can remain in their bed seated upwards at a 45 degree angle, or
      seated comfortably in a chair.

      The stimulation intensity for the treatment will be determined by measuring the resting and
      active motor threshold (rMT and aMT) using single pulse TMS over the motor cortex using
      standard techniques as in previous trials. Investigators will use left-sided intermittent
      theta burst stimulation (iTBS) because it appears to achieve greater reductions in depressive
      symptoms and suicidal thoughts. The trained team member will locate the left DLPFC using the
      BeamF3 technique, which does not require neuroimaging and achieves comparably accurate
      positioning. For the phase 2a open-label dose-finding study, this region will be stimulated
      intermittently at 3 TMS pulses every 200 milliseconds for 2 seconds (i.e. 30 stimulations).
      This procedure is repeated every 10 seconds for 3 minutes during which 600 total pulses are
      delivered. Participants will receive up to 8 3-minutes sessions daily at 45 minute intervals
      for 5 days (consecutively or in a seven-day window if need be).

      The results of this dose-finding study will inform the appropriate therapeutic dose to be
      provided to treatment-group participants in the phase 2b feasibility and preliminary efficacy
      trial. For example, if the dose-finding study demonstrates patients have a clinical response
      after just 3 days of treatment or 24 total doses, this will be the new treatment protocol for
      the phase 2b feasibility study.

      For the sham intervention in the phase 2b feasibility and preliminary efficacy trial, the
      active coil will be replaced by a "sham" coil, which produces similar sound and scalp
      sensations as the active coils, but delivers no effective cortical stimulation.

      Should the results of the dose-finding study demonstrate a low dose and minimal time is
      required to achieve therapeutic effect (e.g. 15 sessions over 3 days), the investigators will
      proceed with a sham-crossover study in which each patient will receive either the treatment
      or sham intervention first, followed by a 4-day washout period, after which they will receive
      either the treatment or sham intervention (whichever they did not receive the first round).
      Each patient thus serves as their own control. Alternatively, should the results demonstrate
      a high dose and time commitment (e.g. 40 sessions over 5 days) is required to achieve
      therapeutic effect, investigators will proceed with a sham-control design in which each
      patient will be randomized to receive either rTMS only or the sham control only. This
      decision is based on the rationale that it would be too cumbersome to ask patients to
      dedicate a minimum of 2 full weeks (5 days of treatment or sham, followed by a 4 day washout
      period, followed by another 5 days of treatment or sham) to this study, given these
      individuals are experiencing advanced illness.

      Sample Size

      To facilitate dose-finding in the phase 2a open-label trial, investigators will enroll
      patients until a clear threshold for therapeutic effect is identified, up to a maximum of 15
      patients.

      For the phase 2b feasibility and efficacy trial, investigators will aim to recruit 25
      patients for the sham-crossover design, or 40 patients (n=20 treatment and n=20 control) for
      the sham-control design.

      Recruitment

      Each patient admitted to the PC unit will automatically be screened for eligibility by a
      research staff member and the treating PCU physician. Research staff will look at each newly
      admitted patient's Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) score in the medical chart. A
      score of 7 or greater on the Depression, Anxiety or Well-being subscale of the ESAS will
      trigger research staff to approach the patient's physician to ensure the patient has an
      expected >1 month to live and is capable (physically and cognitively) of participating in the
      study. Both prospective participants and their physician will complete a screening
      questionnaire to ensure no contraindications to rTMS treatment.

      For the phase 2b feasibility and preliminary efficacy trial, controls will be recruited in
      the same manner.

      Allocation and Blinding

      Investigators will use a random sequence generator for clinical trials. Information about
      allocation sequence will only be available to the trained research staff member who is
      administering the rTMS.

      During the phase 2b feasibility and preliminary efficacy clinical trial, participants will be
      randomized to treatment versus sham (either order of treatment vs. sham is randomized in a
      sham-crossover, or the receipt of treatment or sham is randomized in a sham-control design).
      Participants will not be made aware of their randomization status and treatment allocation
      (i.e. participant blinding).

      Study investigators will also be blinded to intervention allocation. The only individual who
      will have knowledge of the participant's intervention allocation is the trained rTMS operator
      who will be delivering the intervention.

      Statistical Methods

      Analysis of study results for the dose-finding study will be descriptive and correlational.
      Investigators will use descriptive statistics to examine the characteristics of participants
      who had a positive response to rTMS/ responded the quickest compared to the characteristics
      of participants who did not respond to rTMS treatment/had a slower response. We will also use
      descriptive measures (mean, median and respective confidence estimates) to evaluate the dose
      when 50% of participants, for example, experienced an improvement in symptoms.

      Main analyses for the feasibility outcomes in both the dose-finding and phase 2b trial study
      will include calculation of outcomes using descriptive statistics with 95% confidence
      intervals. As the main aim is one of estimation rather than hypothesis testing, variance
      estimates and effect sizes with 95% confidence intervals will be calculated for primary and
      secondary efficacy measures in favour of significance testing.

      Analysis for the phase 2b trial specifically will adopt an intention to treat approach.
      Assessment for a crossover effect should we use a sham-crossover design will employ a
      statistical analysis comparing the change in symptoms from before to after treatment in each
      patient over the sham period versus the active period. Assessment for a between-groups
      difference will be done should a sham-control design be employed.
    
  