
    
      The study was originally intended to be Phase I/Phase II but it was terminated early because
      of toxicity of treatment and therefore never moved to the Phase II portion of the study.

      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicity of dose-dense and
           dose-intense capecitabine in combination with alternating full-dose irinotecan
           hydrochloride and oxaliplatin in patients with metastatic or locally advanced
           unresectable solid tumors. (phase I)

        -  Characterize the safety of the MTD in patients ≥ 65 years of age treated with this
           regimen. (phase I)

        -  Characterize the pharmacokinetics of this regimen in patients ≥ 65 years of age. (phase
           I)

        -  Characterize the functional status of patients ≥ 65 years of age at baseline and after
           study treatment, in terms of performance status, independence in activities,
           comorbidities, risk of malnutrition, and underlying depression. (phase I)

        -  Characterize the neurological status of all patients, in terms of muscle strength and
           sensation, at baseline and after study treatment. (phase I)

        -  Determine the clinical antitumor response in patients treated with this regimen. (phase
           I)

        -  Determine whether the addition of bevacizumab to dose-intense capecitabine in
           combination with alternating full-dose irinotecan hydrochloride and oxaliplatin as
           first-line treatment leads to an improved response rate in patients with metastatic
           colorectal cancer compared to that of published results of fluoropyrimidine/oxaliplatin,
           fluoropyrimidine/irinotecan/bevacizumab, and fluoropyrimidine/irinotecan regimens.
           (phase II)

        -  Determine the toxicity of bevacizumab in combination with this regimen in patients with
           metastatic colorectal cancer. (phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study of capecitabine followed by a
      phase II study.

        -  Phase I (all solid tumor patients): Patients receive oral capecitabine twice daily on
           days 1-7 and 15-21. Patients also receive irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 90 minutes on
           days 1 and 15 during course 1 and all subsequent odd-numbered courses and oxaliplatin IV
           over 2 hours on days 1 and 15 during course 2 and all subsequent even-numbered courses.
           Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of capecitabine (during both
           odd- and even-numbered courses) until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined.
           The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients (with
           at least 1 patient < 65 years of age) experience dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6
           patients are treated at the MTD.

        -  Phase II (colorectal cancer patients): Patients receive capecitabine (at the MTD
           determined in phase I) in combination with irinotecan hydrochloride (during odd-numbered
           courses) and oxaliplatin (during even-numbered courses) as in phase I. Patients also
           receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 15 of each course.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  