
    
      Fever is an frequently observed during acute illnesses, particularly infectious diseases. The
      hemodynamic consequences of fever have been extensively studied. Fever leads to an
      acceleration of heart rate (approximately 8.5 bpm per degree celsius) and to a moderate drop
      in blood pressure. Cardiac output increases in the context of heat stress as a result of
      complex physiological adaptations, including heart rate and systolic function increase while
      preload and after load decrease.

      However, there are no studies on the specific consequences of fever on heart sounds. The
      question is important since auscultation of a heart murmur in a febrile patient suggests the
      diagnosis of endocarditis. In endocarditis, the heart murmur, which is present in 85% of
      cases, is due to the mutilation of heart valves, which requires urgent diagnostic and
      therapeutic management. Suspicion of endocarditis requires emergency cardiac ultrasonography.
      However, the proportion of patients with actual endocarditis among patients with heart murmur
      and fever is low. This could arise from the fact that fever itself may increase or trigger a
      heart murmur. Indeed, any increase in cardiac output may generate audible turbulence when
      blood is pumped across a heart valve.

      Functional or inorganic murmurs are murmurs triggered by changes in cardiac output or blood
      viscosity, as opposed to organic murmurs reflecting an anatomical abnormality in the heart.
      Certain characteristics of the murmur and the context of occurrence can guide the clinical
      toward one of these two situations, but distinguishing functional from organic murmurs is
      most often difficult.

      The impact of fever on cardiac murmurs has not been experimentally demonstrated. This is the
      aim of the FeMur study.

      For this purpose, heart sounds of 15 patients will be recorded during a febrile ilness and
      after resolution of fever using an electronic stethoscope and analyzed using a computer
      application. The average intensity of heart murmurs will be compared between the two periods
      in order to determine the impact of fever.
    
  