
    
      Aim The aim of the study is to deliver a digital video-based worksite exercise intervention
      in China and conduct outcome and process evaluation. The objectives are: [1] to examine the
      effect of a video-based intervention on physical activity (PA) and weekday sitting hours
      (individual level); [2] to examine the effect of a video-based intervention on individual
      work performance (individual level); [3] to conduct a process evaluation of the intervention
      implementation (individual and cluster level).

      Design This is a 2-arm cluster-randomised wait-list control trial, with outcomes assessed in
      two groups: intervention and wait-list control (objectives 1 and 2).

      Clusters (sites) will be randomly allocated to groups at 1:1 ratio using computer-generated
      random number sequence.

      Setting 2 sites of a major organisation in China (one in Beijing, one in Guangzhou), with a
      total of 490 employees.

      Data Collection Data will be collected through online questionnaires emailed to all employee
      participants (Time 1 = T1). Employees in both groups will complete a second online
      questionnaire (Time 2 = T2). For the intervention group T2 will be immediately
      post-intervention, for the wait-list control group this will be just prior to receiving the
      intervention.

      Sample size At an individual level, the estimated sample size is a minimum 72 for
      intervention group and 72 for control group, alpha 0.05, beta 0.2 and power 0.8.

      Intervention This digital intervention consists of a series of six video clips demonstrating
      Qigong exercises designed to be undertaken at set exercise break times during the working
      day. The intervention includes a specially designed logo and selected images to be used on
      promotional posters and a dedicated 'Move-It' webpage. The six promotional videos are
      designed to be posted in sequence, one every two weeks, on the Move-It website. A Move-It
      icon on each employee's desktop computer screen will be scheduled to pop up twice a day as a
      prompt to interrupt sitting. The intervention is designed to be completed within 12 weeks.

      Measures Self-report measures of PA, work performance and weekday sitting hours are taken at
      T1 (baseline) and T2 (12 week follow-up).

      Data analysis Intervention outcome data will be analysed using the Statistical Package for
      the Social Sciences (IBM SPSS) Version 24.

      Outcomes will be compared between the pre- and post-intervention time points. Intracluster
      correlations and estimated effects sizes will be presented for each outcome. Data from both
      clusters will be included in all analyses, and analysis is by intention-to-treat.

      Process evaluation Will take place at the end of the intervention (intervention site only).
      This will include up to 6 focus groups (up to n=35) with employees (both participants and
      non-participants), organisational committee members and senior management.

      These will be aligned with the RE-AIM framework to explore intervention reach, effectiveness,
      adoption, implementation and maintenance.
    
  