
    
      CRS is an inflammatory disease of the paranasal sinuses that is difficult to treat. Current
      treatment strategies rely upon medical treatment with the long-term daily use of a topical
      corticosteroid as its foundation. Once medical therapy becomes ineffective at controlling CRS
      and its resultant symptoms, surgical treatment is offered. Following surgery, patients must
      again continue with medical treatment to control the inflammation present in CRS. Previously,
      topical steroids could be applied using only a commercially prepared applicator that is
      effective at treating no more than the front of the nose and parts of the paranasal sinuses.
      However, relatively new nasal saline irrigation devices have made it possible to treat all of
      the paranasal sinuses. Corticosteroid medication can be added directly to the saline
      irrigation. In an operated patient the sinus openings have been greatly enlarged which then
      allows the irrigation to more effectively reach all of the paranasal sinuses. Therefore,
      irrigation with a corticosteroid solution allows for better delivery of the corticosteroid
      medication to treat the mucosal inflammation that is widely present. More effective treatment
      of the paranasal sinus inflammation thereby leads to improved control of inflammation and to
      the alleviation of patient symptoms such as chronic facial and dental pain, headache,
      obstructed nasal breathing, loss of smell and discharge from the nose. As of yet, with this
      method of treatment it has not been determined whether there is significant systemic
      absorption and a resultant suppression of the HPA axis.

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        1. a single 0.5 mg dose of budesonide will result in acute but recoverable suppression of
           pituitary adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) secretion with a resultant transient
           decrease in adrenal cortisol production; and that

        2. the long term use of budesonide, 0.5 mg twice daily (BID), will result in a gradual and
           cumulative suppression of the HPA axis to the extent that significant hypocortisolism
           will be present when budesonide irrigation is discontinued necessitating replacement
           glucocorticoid therapy.

      Specific Aim of Project This study will determine if there is acute recoverable and long-term
      suppression of the HPA axis when budesonide irrigations are used in patients with CRS
      following endoscopic sinus surgery. This important information is currently not available in
      the literature.
    
  