
    
      The commercial use of the Zip device has demonstrated applicability and acceptance in many
      medical specialties, including laceration closure in the Emergency Department setting.
      However, while clinical studies have demonstrated quantitative performance benefits of the
      device in orthopedic, dermatology, cardiac and cardiology specialties, no quantitative
      studies have been conducted in the Emergency Department setting with the device with which
      emergency medicine physicians may make quantitative, informed treatment choices. The Sponsor
      (ZipLine Medical) and the study doctor (investigator) have furthermore identified the
      pediatric patient population presenting for laceration repair in the Emergency Department as
      a group that may uniquely benefit from the use of the Zip device.

      Standard care for wounds of this type require cleaning the wound, anesthetizing the wound and
      closing the wound with sutures that typically require subsequent removal at a later date. The
      Zip device is non-invasive and therefore requires no injected anesthesia or sedation for
      wound closure. In addition, the referenced clinical studies have demonstrated at least a 3
      times speed advantage over sutures. The Zip device ease of use and consistency of outcomes
      enables less skilled or experienced caregivers to perform fast, efficient and excellent wound
      closure, which can improve department and staff efficiency, patient throughput and overall
      patient satisfaction. Finally, the Zip device may be removed by the patient or parent at
      home, eliminating a return-to-clinic visit for removal.

      ZipLine Medical believes that the demonstrated benefits of the Zip device will be more
      pronounced with the specified pediatric population due to reduced procedure time, elimination
      of injected anesthesia and elimination of a return visit for suture removal. ZipLine Medical
      believes that this will reduce fear and anxiety in pediatric patients. Furthermore, ZipLine
      Medical believes that the Zip device can improve Emergency Department efficiency and patient
      throughput, reduce overall healthcare cost and improve overall patient (and parent)
      satisfaction.
    
  