
    
      1. Identification and validation of response-predictive genes. The normalized pre-treatment
           microarray data of the training set is retrieved from SMD for statistical analysis. The
           supervised analysis SAM (Significance Analysis of Microarrays, two class unpaired) is
           performed to identify genes whose expression is significantly different between
           responders and non-responders. Then a Leave-one-out cross-validated gene-expression
           predictor for the 2 response classes is devised by the PAM (Predication Analysis of
           Microarrays) method based on nearest shrunken centroids. The unsupervised clustering of
           the independent test set is performed using the predictive genes and the prediction
           accuracy is calculated. Quantitative real-time PCR is performed as further validation
           using the un-amplified RNA samples and Taqman gene expression assays (Applied
           Biosciences).

        2. Gene expression changes correlated with TPO mimetic treatment and pathway analysis.

      2.1. Hypothesis: The transcriptional profile of patients who respond to TPO agonists is
      different than those who do not respond.

      Plan: The expression data of pre-treatment as well as the 1-week and 1-month after initiation
      of treatment samples is retrieved from SMD. The two class paired SAM analysis is performed to
      compare pre-treatment samples with samples collected at either 1-week or 1-month after
      initiation of treatment in responders and non-responders. The two class unpaired SAM analysis
      is also used to compare post-treatment samples of responders and non-responders at the same
      time point. The significant genes (q value<0.05, fold change>2.5) are subsequently analyzed
      by IPA (Ingenuity Pathway Analysis) system to be transformed into a set of relevant networks
      based on the extensive records maintained in the Ingenuity Pathway Knowledge Base. The
      statistically significant networks, molecular and cellular functions, top canonical pathways
      and toxicity lists associated with each pair of dataset will be recognized through this
      analysis. Hypothesis on non-response to TPO mimetics can be generated based on the different
      functional subsets of significant genes. Genes involved in important pathways identified by
      IPA analysis will be validated by QRT-PCR as in our recent publication on oxidative stress
      pathways in ITP4. Our goal is to develop biomarkers which predict likelihood of response to
      therapy and identify pathways associated with resistance to therapy which could be targeted.

      2.2 Hypothesis: Since available TPO agonists have different mechanisms of action, there may
      be differences in responders and non-responders between the different drugs.

      Plan: We recognize that TPO agonists have different mechanisms of action which could affect
      downstream signaling pathways and transcriptional responses. For this reason in addition to
      evaluating the TPO agonists as a group in 2.1 above, patients will also be analyzed by type
      of agonist. The conclusions of this type of analysis will be limited by the numbers of
      individuals treated with a particular drug but could be useful for hypothesis generation and
      confirmation in a larger cohort.
    
  