
    
      Failure to wean is one of the most feared complications of mechanical ventilation. Prolonged
      mechanical ventilation occurs in 5-20% of all patients requiring MV in an intensive care
      unit. The published experience in the Cleveland Clinic in-hospital-weaning unit (ReSCU,
      Respiratory Special Care Unit) on long-term mechanical ventilation (>14 days) is that on
      average, 60% of the patients achieve complete ventilator independence.

      The identification of factors that predict liberation from mechanical ventilation should
      improve outcomes and allocation of resources. Several attempts have been done to develop
      models to identify patients who will wean from prolonged MV; most rely on multiple
      measurements and their predictive ability is uncertain. Given the complexity of medical
      problems and the heterogeneity of the patients with prolonged MV, it is not unexpected that
      in order to achieve a good prediction, multiple variables are needed to encompass the whole
      population and relevant factors associated with the failure to wean.

      Heart rate variability (HRV) is obtained from the measurement of the interval between
      successive heart beats; its analysis has been used extensively in cardiovascular disease. HRV
      is interpreted as a manifestation of the neurohumoral and autonomic system influence over the
      heart. Some researchers think that HRV relates to overall variability and is a manifestation
      of health in a complex biological system. Interpretation apart, multiple studies have
      demonstrated that the loss of variability reflects a poor prognosis overall. This phenomenon
      is seen not only in the heart, but also in breathing patterns, blood pressure, leukocyte
      count, electroencephalogram, gait, and recently in temperature. Limitations in interpretation
      and difficulty in acquisition (ventilator influence, respiratory rate influence, arrhythmias,
      medication) make HRV less practical in the mechanically ventilated population.

      Surface temperature is not usually measured in clinical practice; it reflects skin
      thermoregulatory properties (where the autonomic system has a fundamental role). Recently, a
      novel marker to describe biological variability in body temperature has been studied. The
      temperature curve complexity (TCC) was used to predict mortality in critically ill patients.
      Its performance was comparable to that of scores like APACHE and SOFA, this has been
      described with HRV, hence suggesting a relation between TCC and HRV. Although no prior study
      has related TCC or HRV alone or to prolonged mechanical ventilation outcomes, there is reason
      to suspect that variability is decreased in ventilator-dependent patients.

      In summary, the analysis of HRV and TCC has provided prognostic information in critically ill
      patients. A relation between HRV and TCC is expected but has not been described. Given the
      multiple influences of MV on HRV, TCC may be a better indicator of of variability in patients
      on MV. Our primary hypothesis is that the analysis of HRV and TCC will predict failure to
      wean from prolonged MV. Our secondary aims are: to identify the relationship between HRV and
      TCC, to describe the TCC in patients with prolonged MV, and to describe the changes in HRV
      and TCC in patients with successful and failed weaning.

      This is an observational study in which measurements of HRV and TCC will be done in patients
      admitted to the ReSCU and compared to the ability to wean from mechanical ventilation.
    
  