
    
      Principal study aim: To document the impact of the next generation of Watchman LAAC device on
      key aspects of the implant procedure

      Study Rationale: As an interventional procedure it is important that progressive steps are
      made to make the procedure safer, simpler, faster and more cost-effective. This study will
      document the impact of introducing the next generation of LAAC device, the Watchman FLX, into
      a clinical service. It is anticipated that the increased versatility of the Watchman FLX will
      lead to fewer repositionings and redeployments, shortening procedure time and reducing the
      mean number of devices opened per case.

      Patients to be enrolled: Consecutive patients implanted with the Watchman FLX. All patients
      will meet current United Kingdom guidelines for LAAC, i.e. have atrial fibrillation, a high
      risk of thromboembolic stroke (CHA2DS2VASc score >2) and contraindications to long-term oral
      anticoagulation.

      Study design: This is a prospective single-centre observational case-controlled study to be
      conducted at the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, United Kingdom

      Outcomes: Data collected will include patient demographics, left atrial appendage (LAA)
      dimensions and anatomical description, total procedure duration, device implant time (from
      introduction of Access sheath to cable release), number of devices opened/ used, number of
      repositions and redeployments, final position, presence of residual leak, acute
      complications, peri- and post-procedure antiplatelet and anticoagulant use and 6 week
      transesophageal echo findings. There will be a particular focus on the need for repositioning
      and redeployment and how that is undertaken (e.g. advancement of device distally into the
      LAA).

      Timelines: For 20 patients in each group, 7 months from first patient enrolled to final
      patient undergoing 6 week transesophageal echo (TEE) followup will be required.
    
  