
    
      Restoring upper limb function is rated among the highest priorities for individuals with
      tetraplegia. Re-establishing active grasp and pinch strength to the hand can be accomplished
      by tendon transfer procedures in which the tendon of a strong proximal muscle is surgically
      re-attached to the tendon of a paralyzed muscle. A common procedure to restore lateral (key)
      pinch is to transfer the distal tendon of one of the three elbow flexor muscles, the
      brachioradialis (Br) to the tendon of the paralyzed thumb flexor, the flexor pollicis longus
      (FPL). Recovery of functional pinch depends on how well the patient learns to activate the Br
      to flex the thumb through its new distal attachment, and also to control flexion at the elbow
      through its proximal attachment. The investigators' previous work shows that Br to FPL
      recipients do not activate the transferred Br fully and may not reach optimal functional
      status on their own or with traditional therapies. The investigators propose that
      participation in a postoperative task-based training program will drive cortical changes that
      impact functional (pinch) ability.

      Recent studies of individuals with cervical SCI show substantial cortical reorganization can
      occur after the injury, but neural substrates of motor learning after tendon transfer have
      not been studied. For these patients, very little is known about what functional brain
      changes accompany improved performance in response to additional intervention. The Br to FPL
      transfer alters the central feedback from the periphery and may permit new or adaptive neural
      pathways that can achieve greater functional use of the tendon transfer. Neuroimaging
      techniques, such as functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have become important tools
      for understanding plasticity in the neuromuscular system and for assessing the neural
      underpinnings of successful novel interventions. The objective of the proposed study is to
      identify the neural pattern that is associated with the best functional outcomes (highest
      pinch force) after Br to FPL transfer. The investigators will use fMRI and functional
      performance measures to find neural predictors and correlates of muscle re-education. That
      is, the investigators expect that successful postoperative muscle re-education will depend on
      increased cortical drive to the transferred Br in combination with new synergists, and this
      will be reflected in the neural imaging results.

      The purpose of the study is to evaluate neural activity from Br to FPL transfer recipients
      after conventional therapy and in response to an additional task-based training home program
      that aims to improve voluntary activation of the transferred Br in functional pinch tasks.
      The 10-week training program is under evaluation in RRD Pilot (B0583P) study and includes
      producing pinch force in different upper limb postures, biofeedback from a pinch dynamometer,
      and practicing selected pinch tasks. The investigators anticipate that increases in the
      amplitude and distribution of fMRI blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) responses in
      sensorimotor cortices will underlie improved motor control post-surgically and following
      successful intervention to promote motor relearning.

      Specific Aims

        1. Define the cortical representation of pre-training pinch function in SCI patients. The
           investigators will quantify the pattern (location, volume and intensity) of cortical
           activation associated with voluntary pinch in individuals who are one-year post Br to
           FPL tendon transfer surgery and a conventional therapy program. The investigators
           hypothesize (H1) greater volume and intensity of brain activation will correlate to
           better pinch function measured by pinch strength and the magnitude Br activation in
           pinch. Secondary analyses will determine if the location of the brain activation varies
           with pinch function (force) and specificity relative to voluntary elbow flexion.

        2. Evaluate the cortical response to the task-based home therapy program. Correlates of
           task-based adaptation from pre- to post-training will be assessed using fMRI. H2:
           Greater activation (intensity and volume) in the primary motor cortex (M1) and sensory
           cortex will translate to increased voluntary activation of the transferred Br in pinch
           compared to elbow flexion. Task-based training outcome measures will include isometric
           pinch force magnitude, EMG quantification of Br activation in pinch and elbow flexion.

        3. Determine neural signatures of surgical and training induced motor improvements. H3:
           After directed task-based training, brain activity during voluntary pinch will extend to
           adjacent areas (larger representation, greater activity), in sensorimotor brain areas,
           facilitating the ability to voluntarily increase the transferred Br activation in pinch.
           Secondary analyses will contrast size and activation level of brain changes with pinch
           activation in patients who receive training relative to non-impaired and non-surgical
           participants.

      The postoperative therapy protocols after tendon transfer procedures are not well defined,
      inconsistently applied, and lack evidence for their effectiveness. The study proposed here
      will investigate cortical change to assess outcome dependent plasticity. Thus, it may be
      possible to predict why some individuals do not re-train the transferred muscle as well as
      others. Establishing this relationship can lead to understanding the mechanisms of successful
      interventions and may identify brain based dynamics that could become the focus of future
      treatments (e.g. biofeedback, brain stimulation, etc.).
    
  