
    
      Patient's perception of mechanical heart valve sounds: psychoacoustics and quality of life

      Background: Approximately 90.000 mechanical prosthetic heart valves are implanted every year
      all over the world. They generate a clicking sound at closure, which can be a major problem
      for some patients. About 12% of them all experience annoyance, concentration disturbance,
      sleeping disorders and social embarrassment. All those factors could affect patients' quality
      of life.

      Aim: to compare the sound pressure levels (SPLs) from three of the most frequently implanted
      mechanical heart valve prostheses, in order to determine whether there was any significant
      difference between the intensities of the valve sounds.

      Material and Methods: We intended to include 150 patients with an implanted mechanical heart
      valve (ATS Medical, Medtronic-Hall or St. Jude Medical) in the aortic position between 3
      months and 4 years before the analysis. For logistical reasons, the actual number of the
      patients included was 84. The total conducted valve sound was measured (by a method designed
      by the authors) for each patient. The measures took place in a bioacoustical laboratory built
      with a sound-insulated chamber with a very low background noise, designed for the purposes of
      the study. The measures were performed in German patients followed by "The Heart Centre" in
      Bad Oeynhausen (Herz- und Diabeteszentrum Nordrhein Westfalen, University of Bochum), where
      the mentioned laboratory is constructed. The sound analysis of the present study was
      conducted in a specially designed soundproof bioacoustic laboratory, which isolates the
      outside sound and vibration from the environment indoors. Inside the laboratory, heavy
      soundinsulated curtains were placed between the patient and the investigator chambers. The
      total background noise inside the patient chamber was 19 dB(A), and this was reduced further
      to 9 dB(A) by using a 250 Hz high-pass filter. The sounds were recorded with the patient in
      the supine position, and without clothes covering the chest. The valve closing sounds were
      recorded using a microphone (Brüel and Kjær 4179) placed 5 cm above the patient's chest. This
      sound was then preamplified (Brüel and Kjær 2660), amplified (Brüel and Kjær 2610) and 250 Hz
      high-pass filtered (Krohn-Hite 3944) (see Fig. 1). All valve sounds were recorded by the same
      experienced investigator and stored on an instrumentation recorder (TEAC 510) for later
      off-line analysis. The data acquisition time for each patient was approximately 10 min.

      The patients were asked to fuldill a quality of life questionnaire (SF-36), which will be
      assessed in a future study regarding psychoacoustics for mechanical heart valve sounds.

      Perspectives: The results obtained from this analysis will contribute to expand knowledge
      concerning the sound produced by these three different types of mechanical heart valve
      prosthesis. The study can add one important parameter in the choice of the implanted valve:
      patient's pleasantness. It will assess some of the most sold mechanical heart valve worldwide
      and the final results can contribute to elucidate which type, among those valves, that should
      be chosen to a specific patient.
    
  