
    
      In the United States, approximately 1 in every 100 newborns is diagnosed with congenital
      heart disease (CHD). Many of these newborns (25%-35%) will require either corrective or
      palliative open heart surgery. As recently as the 1960's, only 20% of newborns with critical
      CHD survived to adulthood. Today, thanks to better diagnostic technologies and methods
      (including prenatal diagnosis), advances in surgery, and improved postoperative care, early
      survival is over 90%. However, with improved early outcomes has come the sobering recognition
      that there is an ongoing risk of late mortality, as well as significant morbidity for these
      children. In particular, neurodevelopmental disability is now recognized as the most common
      complication of critical CHD (i.e. those patients requiring cardiac surgery in infancy) and
      has the most negative impact on quality of life, academic performance and opportunity for
      independence as an adult.

      The altered fetal hemodynamics secondary to CHD lead to decreased blood flow and/or oxygen
      delivery to the fetal brain. In turn, this impairment in blood flow and oxygenation results
      in impaired brain growth and altered structural and cellular maturation, particularly of the
      white matter. Fetal MRI studies have shown that during the third trimester, normally a time
      of rapid brain growth and development, brains of infants with CHD fail to grow at the same
      rate as the brains of fetuses without CHD. This growth delay results in microcephaly,
      immature cellular elements of the white matter and decreased cortical folding at birth. It
      has been demonstrated that brain immaturity at birth is a primary major risk factor
      underlying the hypoxic-ischemic white matter brain injury and subsequent neurodevelopmental
      disability seen in over 50% of infants following surgery for CHD. In addition, there is
      increasing evidence in the CHD population that even late pre-term birth (prior to 39 weeks
      GA) is associated with increased mortality, increased peri-operative morbidity, and worse
      neurodevelopmental outcomes.

      Progesterone is an essential hormone in the occurrence and maintenance of pregnancy.
      Progesterone administration has also been shown to be neuroprotective in a variety of
      clinical situations, including traumatic brain injury (TBI). Sex steroid hormones, including
      progesterone, are critically involved in axonal myelination, forming the basis of white
      matter connectivity in the central nervous system (CNS). Progesterone and its metabolites not
      only promote the viability and regeneration of neurons, but also act on myelinating glial
      cell oligodendrocytes in the CNS and play an important role in the formation of myelin
      sheaths. Progesterone has also been shown to increase myelination and enhance maturation of
      immature oligodendrocytes progenitor cells to mature oligodendrocytes, which are more
      resistant to hypoxic/ischemic injury. Therapeutic administration of progesterone has also
      been demonstrated to prevent preterm birth. Thus, there are two potential mechanisms by which
      pre-natal progesterone therapy may improve neurodevelopmental outcomes in neonates with CHD:
      1) a direct neuroprotective effect, and 2) decreasing the occurrence of pre-term birth.

      Study Objectives

      Primary: Develop preliminary evidence to support a multi-institutional study to determine
      whether, in women carrying fetuses (maternal-fetal dyad) with CHD, prophylactic vaginal
      natural progesterone therapy is neuroprotective, and compared to placebo improves
      neurodevelopmental outcomes at 18 months of age.

      Secondary: Develop preliminary evidence to support a multi-institutional study to determine
      whether, in women carrying fetuses (maternal-fetal dyad) with CHD, prophylactic vaginal
      natural progesterone therapy is neuroprotective, and compared to placebo:

        1. improves fetal brain growth and maturation,

        2. increases myelination during fetal brain development,

        3. reduces pre-operative brain white matter injury, and

        4. reduces post-operative white matter injury.
    
  