
    
      Type 1 diabetes gather multiple metabolic pathologies secondary to a deficiency in insulin
      secretion or insulin action, characterized by chronic hyperglycaemia. Diagnosis is based on
      fasting glycaemia above 1.26 g/l or above 2 g/l any time of the day.

      Currently, it is recommend initial therapeutic education additionally to insulin therapy, in
      the type 1 diabetes care. Initial therapeutic education's role is to develop 3 specific
      skills : self-care skills, safety skills and adaptation skills. This approach gives to the
      patient the abilities to monitor himself, to handle emergency situations and to modify his
      lifestyle to treat his disease correctly.

      In the serious game, the patient will directly evolve in a virtual environment, with places
      reflecting his real life such as paediatric diabetology centre, hospital, home, school. He
      will have to complete quests with his own virtual avatar, that reflect situations his disease
      can confront him to. Each quest ends with a questionnaire.

      The principal objective of this research is to evaluation the contribution of a serious game
      (DIVE) in the reinforcement of knowledge acquired during therapeutic education of type 1
      diabetes paediatric patients.

      This research is designed in two arms, gathering 100 patients, each arm has 50 patients. Both
      arms benefit initial therapeutic education, except the experimental group which is added a
      serious game .

      To measure the impact of the serious game,investigators will compare HbA1c dosage between
      groups (with HPLC technique), 3 months after diagnosis; but also the number of hypo or
      hyperglycaemia in the month before M3 final consultation. They will also evaluate self-care
      skills and safety skills with role-plays at the end of hospitalisation and 3 months later.
      Technical gestures will also be evaluated by referent nurses.

      Evaluation of the patient's well-being will take place with two types of questionnaire,
      WHO-Five and DOQLY during M3 final consultation.

      This research will bring essential information on the development of video games in other
      paediatric chronic diseases, as a first step in the development of the use of video games in
      therapeutic care of type 1 diabetes.
    
  