
    
      Introduction: Bilateral-bimodal hearing, cochlear implant on one ear and hearing aid on the
      other ear (CI/HA) may benefit from bilateral-binaural effects as a result of using two
      hearing systems, and a bimodal effect as a result of using two modes of stimulation, namely
      acoustic via a HA and electrical via a CI. The two modes of stimulation complement each other
      and may overcome the limitation of electric hearing alone. However, alongside the expected
      benefits of having two hearing systems in bilateral bimodal hearing, there are several
      inherent mismatches in combing two different stimulation methods, which may negatively impact
      the processing of the binaural cues. These mismatches include mismatch in the incoming speech
      signal timing; mismatch in pitch balance between two devices, mismatch in the frequency range
      conferred, and mismatch in the frequency range conveyed to a specific location in the cochlea
      by the cochlear implant and to a different location in the contra-lateral cochlea by the
      hearing aid.

      Aim: To determine whether bimodal listening with a hearing aid programmed using a dedicated
      bimodal fitting formula, which aligns the frequency response, loudness growth functions, and
      automatic gain control (AGC) characteristics between the cochlear implant speech processor
      and the hearing aid brings additional benefit over bimodal listening with the subject's
      clinical hearing instrument via the use of using a comprehensive battery of speech perception
      tests aimed at different aspects of binaural hearing as well as the contribution of the
      unique bimodal complementary effect. A secondary goal is to identify the tests that are best
      suited to predicting and evaluating bimodal benefit.

      Method: The study will include 20 Hebrew and 20 Arabic speakers' adult bilateral-bimodal
      users that their audiometric thresholds in the non implanted ear will be no worse than 75 dB
      HL at 250 and 85 dB HL at 500 Hz, who use their hearing aids for at least 75% of their waking
      hours. The added benefit of the hearing aid programmed using a dedicated bimodal fitting
      formula will be evaluated using six task-specific tests designed to sensitively assess the
      bilateral-binaural and bimodal complementary effects using roving speech and noise and
      different types of background noises (maskers), pitch-related task and subjective
      questionnaire. Participants will be tested twice in quick succession, at two-weekly
      intervals, in establishing a baseline score with their clinical HAs. Then participants will
      be tested again twice in quick succession, at two-weekly intervals following three month
      experience with the HA fitted with the bimodal fitting formula. All tests will be
      administered the CI/HA listening condition.

      Data analysis: Speech perception test results and self-rating questionnaire scores will be
      analyzed by repeated measure analysis of variance. The difference between the two moods of
      bimodal listening (clinical HA versus HA fitted by the bimodal formula) will be evaluated.
      Correlation between audiological variables aided and unaided hearing thresholds in the
      non-implanted ear and the bilateral-bimodal benefit will be examined as well.
    
  