
    
      Inborn Errors of Metabolism (IEM) are a large group of congenital metabolic disorders,
      resulting from the absence or abnormality of an enzyme or its cofactor and leading to either
      accumulation or deficiency of a specific metabolite. More than 800 IEM have been described in
      the literature, with a widely accepted classification focusing on the main substrate which is
      affected.

      Clinical phenotypes of IEM are broad and often non-specific, mimicking more common
      conditions, and the onset of symptoms can occur at any age, from fetus to adult. Peroxisomal
      and lysosomal storage disorders, for example, often have characteristic clinical features and
      permanent, progressive symptoms that are independent of triggering events (e.g. anemia,
      thrombocytopenia, and hepatomegaly in a child of Ashkenazi-Jewish ancestry is suggestive of
      Gaucher disease) 6. More common findings include hypoketotic hypoglycemia, lactic acidosis,
      metabolic acidosis, ketosis, hyperammonemia, or other metabolic acidosis in combination with
      hyperammonemia.

      The goal of treatment for participants with IEM are the prevention of further accumulation of
      harmful substances, correction of metabolic abnormalities, and elimination of toxic
      metabolites. Most participants suffering for rare metabolic diseases start with very severe
      phenotypes and with rapid progression of the disease that often leads to irreversible damage
      of their organs. A quick diagnosis is necessary for urgent treatment.

      Biomarkers serve as measurable indicators of normal biological or pathological processes.
      They are typically directly linked to genetic variants in specific genes and can predict,
      diagnose, monitor and assess the severity of a disease.

      CENTOGENE has an outstanding experience regarding the investigation and development of
      biomarkers for IEM. Given the large amount of participants CENTOGENE is facing and
      diagnosing, it has a big repertoire of samples to use for the biomarker characterization.
      This led for example to the identification of Lyso-Gb1 as a novel biomarker for Gaucher
      disease orLyso-SM509 for Niemann-Pick Disease. The established workflows and gained knowledge
      for the biomarker development at CENTOGENE will enhance the search for new biomarkers of
      other IEM.

      It is the goal of this study to identify, validate, and monitor biochemical markers from
      affected participants for Inborn Errors of Metabolism.
    
  