
    
      Technological innovations such as Short Message Service (SMS) text messages reminders are one
      strategy that may be used to increase adherence to the Gardasil dosing schedule. Although the
      literature in this area is in its infancy, several studies have demonstrated that SMS text
      reminders are an effective strategy for reducing nonattendance with medical appointments.
      Further, SMS text message reminders have been shown to be popular with patients and more
      cost-effective than paper or telephone-based reminder strategies. The investigators believe
      SMS text message reminders can be used as a feasible and cost-effective strategy to increase
      adherence to the Gardasil vaccine schedule, thus reducing risk of cervical cancer.

      Women who are enrolled will be randomly assigned to one of 2 study groups (Usual Care v. SMS
      Text Message group). For women in the SMS Text Message group, text message reminders will be
      sent once per day for each of the seven days prior to the scheduled date for each of their
      follow up vaccinations. Participants follow the usual practices for scheduling their follow
      up visit(s) for vaccination at the clinic. Participants in both the Usual Care group and the
      SMS Text Message group will receive the standard reminder from the clinic for their scheduled
      appointment(s) (phone call, letter, etc, as appropriate). At enrollment, the participant will
      answer questions regarding social and demographic history, cell phone use patterns, attitudes
      and acceptance of HPV vaccine, gynecologic and sexual history.

      All participants will be sent a packet of self-report measures to complete regarding
      attitudes toward HPV vaccination at the completion of the study. Participants in the SMS Text
      Message group will also receive rating scales to assess acceptability of text message
      reminders and preference for text message reminders over telephone reminders.
    
  