
    
      Contrast bath(CB) is a thermal modality. It is usually performed by keeping hands in hot and
      cold water for certain periods of time. CB is a mostly advised intervention in complex
      regional pain syndrome (CRPS) altough there is no certain evidence The investigators will
      study on stroke patients. Change in sympathetic skin response after the contrast bath will be
      evaluated.

      Stroke patients who admitted to the inpatient rehabilitation programme in Istanbul Physical
      Medicine and Rehabilitation Training and Research Hospital were evaluated for this study.
      Patients who had CRPS after stroke were included in the study (CRPS group). Also patients who
      had not CRPS and had similar age, gender and stroke duration with CRPS group were included in
      control group. Stroke patients with pacemaker, polyneuropathy, neglect, sensory or motor
      aphasia, peripheral nerve injury, hand surgery and reynauld disease were excluded from the
      study.

      Age, gender, dominant arm, comorbidities, stroke side, aetiology and duration were recorded.
      Brunnstrom stages were used to evaluate arm and hand. Spasticity of upper extremity was assed
      by modified aschworth scale.

      In CRPS group, CRPS severity scale was performed to evaluate the CRPS severity. This scale
      includes sensorial, autonomic and motor function. Also, neuropathic pain was assesed by
      Douleur Neuropathique 4 (DN4) Questionnaire and visual analog scale(VAS).

      Contrast bath was performed to patients' plegic side . There were two baths , one include hot
      water and other had cold degrees. Patients hold their plegic hands in hot water for 4
      minutes, in cold water for 1 minute after hot water. Hot and cold bath were repeated four
      times.

      Sympathetic skin response (SSR) was measured before the contrast bath and 30 minutes after
      the contrast bath finished. SSR was recorded from plegic side and contralateral side. The
      active electrode was placed at the palm of the hand and the reference electrode at dorsum of
      the hand to record the median nerve SSR. The latency and the amplitude of SSR was measured.
    
  