
    
      OBJECTIVES: Phase I: I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of oral topotecan combined
      with a fixed dose of paclitaxel in patients with advanced non-small lung cancer (NSCLC) and
      other advanced solid tumors. II. Determine the response rate of NSCLC patients treated at the
      MTD of oral topotecan combined with intravenous paclitaxel. III. Determine the dose limiting
      toxicities of this drug combination in this patient population. Phase II: IV. Determine the
      toxicities of this regimen at its MTD in patients with NSCLC. V. Determine time to response,
      response duration, survival, time to progression, and rate of stable disease of patients with
      NSCLC treated with this regimen at the MTD. VI. Assess changes in well-being of patients with
      NSCLC treated with this regimen at the MTD.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose escalation study of topotecan. Patients receive oral topotecan on
      days 1-5 and paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment continues every 21 days in the
      absence of unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive
      escalating doses of topotecan until the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD
      is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose
      limiting toxicities. Once the MTD is determined, additional patients with non-small cell lung
      cancer are accrued to receive treatment with topotecan and paclitaxel at the recommended
      phase II dose. Quality of life is assessed in the phase II portion of the study at baseline,
      before each treatment course, and at the end of the study. Patients are followed at 3 weeks.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-24 patients will be accrued for the phase I dose escalation
      portion of this study. A total of 14-40 additional non-small cell lung cancer patients will
      be accrued to the phase II portion of this study.
    
  