
    
      Investigators propose a randomized controlled trial of combination phentermine topiramate ER
      versus placebo given orally for 10-15 days.

      At visit 1 subjects had a brief interview, body measurements, and completed 4 questionnaires
      to rule out any gastrointestinal or significant psychological distress.

      At visit 2 subjects did a satiation/nutrient drink test. They drank a nutrient drink until
      they reached the maximum volume that could be tolerated, symptoms were recorded and blood
      samples taken at 4 times. They were randomized to one of the arms, and received a 5 day
      supply of study medication or placebo. The dosing of the study drug was phentermine 3.75 mg /
      topiramate 23 mg days 1-5.

      At visit 3 subjects returned to pick up a nine day supply of study medication or placebo. The
      dosing of the study drug was increased to phentermine 7.5 mg / topiramate 46 mg days 6-14.

      At visit 4 subjects underwent imaging to measure the volume of their stomach with an external
      camera that revolved around abdomen while they were lying on a table. Stomach volume was
      checked during fasting, starting 10 min after an intravenous injection of a radioactive
      material. The subjects ingested more of the liquid nutrient drink and 2 more images were
      obtained over 30 minutes. On the same day, subjects participated in an all you can eat meal,
      starting 4 hours after the ingestion of the liquid nutrient drink.

      At visit 5 subjects repeated the satiation/nutrient drink test. They drank a nutrient drink
      until they reached the maximum volume that could be tolerated, symptoms were recorded and
      blood samples taken at 4 times.

      At visit 6 subjects took part in a gastric emptying by scintigraphy test. Subjects were given
      a scrambled egg breakfast with toast and a glass of milk. The eggs and milk contained a small
      amount of radioactive substance. At the completion of the meal, subjects stood in front of a
      special camera and pictures were taken at specific intervals.
    
  