
    
      The primary hypothesis of this study is that in our study population, compared to re-infusion
      of residual CPB blood, re-infusion of only the red cell component of residual CPB blood,
      causes a lesser defect in clotting, leading to decreased hemorrhage and less post-operative
      blood loss.

      The secondary objectives of this project are to document the effects on the clotting system
      of pump blood re-infusion by means of in laboratory testing. This work has not been done and
      is of crucial importance to future optimization of the use of pump blood. We expect to detect
      and quantify with significant accuracy any increased bleeding risk with our hemostatic
      profiling. This information will be invaluable in planning the safe introduction of residual
      CPB blood re-infusion smaller children and those with increase risk of postoperative blood
      loss. Furthermore, we will determine whether or not any of the potentially beneficial effects
      to the clotting system of returning all components of residual CPB blood, such as an increase
      in functioning platelets, or an increase in clotting factors, are realized. This information
      will determine the utility of pursuing means by which these non red cell components of
      residual CPB blood can be safely re-infused.

      Induction of anesthesia, arterial and venous vascular catheter placement, heparin
      administration, cardiopulmonary bypass machine setup and priming, conduct of CPB,
      ultrafiltration of blood during CPB, post-CPB protamine administration and post-CPB blood
      ultrafiltration will all be standardized as per current clinical practice.

      Residual CPB blood will be processed and re-infused according to group allocation.

      Intravascular volume in the form of crystalloid, and blood products will be administered over
      and above the study residual blood product infusion as required according to protocol.

      Subjects will have blood sampled for hemoglobin concentration immediately after induction of
      anesthesia and again 24 hours following their surgery.

      Arterial blood will be sampled from the patient for a hemostatic profile, outlined in the
      adjacent text box, after separation from CPB and prior to initiation of residual CPB blood
      product re-infusion. A second sample will be obtained when re-infusion of residual CPB blood
      product is complete. In addition, a hemostatic profile will be run directly on a sample of
      the residual CPB blood product.

      Subject demographic data, surgical diagnosis and procedures, CPB data, all medication, blood
      product and intravenous fluid administration, total volume of study fluid administered, blood
      lost during surgery to sponges and suction and 24 hour mediastinal drainage will be recorded
      for all subjects. Any cases of incomplete re-infusion of study blood product will be noted as
      will the reason for the occurrence.
    
  