
    
      In older adults dizziness is a common condition which is associated with repeated falls, fear
      of falling, depression, anxiety and ultimately loss of independence during activities of
      daily living. The main objective of this research was to compare the effects of balance
      training with and without Gaze Stabilization exercises on clinical outcomes in elderly
      patient with chronic dizziness.Total 64 participants after referral from neurologist were
      recruited in this study. These participants were randomly assigned into two groups i.e. Group
      A (Gaze group) and Group B (control group) with 32 participants in each group by sealed
      envelope method. Gaze group performed balance exercises with gaze stability exercises. Gaze
      stability exercises are further classified as adaptation and substitution exercises.
      Adaptation exercises support long term changes with a purpose of decreasing symptoms and
      maintain postural stability. On the other hand the substitution exercises improving central
      preprogrammed movement of eyes. Basically gaze stability exercises are defined as habituation
      exercises which reduce the symptoms of provoking stimulus by continuous exposure to it
      whereas, group B performed balance exercises with saccade eye exercises.Balance training
      includes both static and dynamic balance exercises, aimed to improved balance and postural
      stability with gradually increasing to challenging task. Exercises in balance training
      included a) single leg balance on firm surface b) heel stand c) marching on firm surface d)
      toe stand e) tandem walk f) forward and backward walking from normal base of support to
      weekly progression and training from eyes open to eye close from stable to unstable surface.
      Berg Balance Scale, Disability Handicapped inventory and Activity Specific Balance Confidence
      Scale were used to measure outcome variables.
    
  