
    
      Clofarabine is a new chemotherapy drug that is designed to interfere with the growth and
      development of cancer cells.

      If you are found to be eligible, you will be randomly assigned (as in the roll of dice) to
      one of 2 treatment groups. Participants in Group 1 will take a lower dose of clofarabine than
      Participants in Group 2. You have an equal chance of being assigned to either of the 2
      treatment groups. Neither you nor your study doctor can choose your assignment. Later (after
      the first 40 patients), the assignment will favor the better treatment arm until one arm is
      selected as the significantly better one, or until 80 patients are treated in total. When you
      have been assigned to a treatment group, you will receive clofarabine as tablets once a day
      for 5 days in a row. This will be repeated every 4-8 weeks. Each 4-8 week period is
      considered 1 cycle of treatment.

      Original patients who are still on study (original patients who received or are still
      receiving 30 mg/m2) have already been reduced to lower doses on subsequent courses or had
      treatment discontinued/completed. These patients will be asked to sign a new informed consent
      document to be made aware of the new developments in this study.

      Each dose of clofarabine should be taken with 4 ounces of water in the morning, on an empty
      stomach. You must not eat or drink anything besides water from midnight the night before you
      take the study drug until 1 hour after taking the morning dose. You should take clofarabine
      every morning at about the same time. If vomiting occurs within 15 minutes of taking
      clofarabine, the dose may be repeated. If vomiting occurs more than 15 minutes after taking
      clofarabine, the dose cannot be replaced or made up.

      Coffee and other caffeinated liquids cannot be taken before dosing and for 1 hour after
      dosing.

      All clofarabine doses should be taken either in the outpatient or inpatient setting by
      qualified and trained site personnel or given with appropriate instructions to you and/or
      your care provider to take at home. At the start of each cycle, you will receive enough
      clofarabine for 1 cycle of therapy. You should store the clofarabine in its original
      container at room temperature. You should keep the container closed when not in use, and out
      of the reach of children.

      After each cycle of therapy, you will not receive the next cycle of chemotherapy until your
      blood counts have recovered and any possible side effects have gone away (for around 4 to 8
      weeks). You must stay in Houston for the first treatment cycle (about 4 to 8 weeks) and will
      be required to return to Houston before receiving each additional cycle of chemotherapy (up
      to 6 days each cycle).

      Before every treatment cycle, your doctor will perform a physical exam, including measurement
      of your weight and vital signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).
      You will be asked about the level of your daily activities and how you are feeling. You will
      have blood samples (about 1-2 teaspoons) collected for routine lab tests 1-2 times a week for
      the first cycle, then every 2-4 weeks while on therapy. Repeat bone marrow samples will be
      collected every 1-3 cycles. However, if you complete the study before the third cycle, the
      bone marrow may be taken then. You may choose to have check-up visits and blood tests with
      your local doctor.

      If you show a response and do not experience any severe side effects, you can receive up to a
      total of 12 cycles of therapy. During each cycle, clofarabine will be given the same way as
      during the first cycle. However, the dose of clofarabine may be lowered during later cycles
      to decrease the risk of side effects that may have occurred in previous cycles. If the
      disease gets worse or you experience any intolerable side effects, you will be taken off the
      study and your doctor will discuss other treatment options with you.

      This is an investigational study. Clofarabine given by vein is approved by the FDA for
      treatment of pediatric acute lymphoblastic leukemia. Its use in this study is experimental.
      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  