
    
      ***Background

      Improving cancer patients' quality of life has been increasing subject of research for
      several years. Especially, the patients and their families who are needed to deal with
      specific care on diverse aspects, such as social, spiritual, existential, psychological
      aspect should be provided integrated program.

      Multidimensional characteristics of the health partnership program were addressed in National
      Cancer Center (NCC) for exercise, diet, and posttraumatic growth based on transtheoretical
      (TTM) model, social cognitive theory, health behavioral model, and coaching strategies. This
      program points out the importance of behavioral approaches in managing their healthy life
      according to improve patterns of three areas (exercise, diet, and posttraumatic growth).

      Strategies that investigators mentioned above can lead those three areas to be effective.

      To objective of this study is to support cancer patients to cope with exercise, diet, and
      posttraumatic growth through tailored program (the health partnership program), and then
      evaluate the efficacy of the health partnership program.

      From evidence extracted from a literature review, contents of the program was elaborated, and
      tailored from the TTM model. The curriculum is currently being reviewed and validated by
      expert group of oncologists, nurse, psychologist and health education scientists.

      ***Method

      To determine the efficacy of the program (the health partnership program), a randomized
      controlled trial will be conducted:

      After excluding patients with other causes (anemia, thyroid disease, co morbidities etc), 248
      patients will be recruited based on statistical assumption of alpha (0.05), beta (0.20=power
      80%), and dropout rate (15%).

      First, patients will be stratified according to their age, sex (male vs. female), cancer
      types (stomach cancer, Breast cancer, cervical cancer, colorectal (except rectal cancer)
      cancer, and lung cancer), and then allocated to an intervention or control group.

      When intervention group participates in the tailored program (the health partnership
      program), they can receive various information which is related to health management and
      improving quality of life.

      The health partnership program consists of 16 time's tele-coaching, a self leadership
      workshop, and providing health materials (manuals, workbook, and booklet). Especially, those
      will be dealt with managing three areas; exercise, diet, and posttraumatic growth based on
      the transtheoretical model (TTM), social cognitive theory, health behavioral model, and
      coaching strategies.

      Cancer patients who are participated in the tailored program will be received tailored
      feedbacks that enhance participants of the next level of the program.

      On the other hand, the control group could not participate in the health partnership program.
      The control group could only be treated by usual care and a health education workshop with a
      health booklet. However, the control group can participate in the health partnership program
      after 12 month.

      Data will be collected before randomization, after intervention, and after a follow-up of 3,
      6, and 12 months.
    
  