
    
      This is a substudy of the study entitled "Assessing a Multi-Disciplinary Lifestyle Medicine
      Intervention Following Stroke," specifically looking at the effects of lifestyle change on
      brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). BDNF has emerged as a key facilitator of
      neuroplasticity to improve motor learning and rehabilitation after stroke. Aerobic exercise
      has been shown to increase levels of BDNF in multiple parts of the central nervous system and
      therefore may facilitate neuroplasticity and motor recovery. While BDNF levels appear to be
      increased for up to 1 hour following a bout of aerobic exercise, it is unclear whether
      regular aerobic exercise over weeks to months can increase baseline BDNF levels in humans
      following stroke.

      An single nucleotide polymorphism exists on the BDNF gene in 30-50% of the human population
      that results in an amino acid change from valine (val) to methionine (met) at position 66
      (val66met) of the precursor peptide proBDNF. The presence of the met allele results in a 25%
      reduction in activity-dependent secretion of BDNF in the CNS.

      The Wellness in Rehabilitation program at the VA Palo Alto Health Care System is a lifestyle
      medicine intervention for patients following stroke. It is a 12-week program involving weekly
      meetings that include exercise (particularly aerobic exercise), nutrition, stress management,
      education, and group support. Participants are encouraged to perform healthy lifestyle
      behaviors (i.e. exercise) daily at home, and a health coach calls each patient weekly to
      support the behavior change process.

      Participants in the Wellness in Rehabilitation program who elect to participate in the
      research study will have blood drawn at baseline, week 6, and week 12. Blood draws will be
      performed in the morning prior to exercise, and week 6 will additionally include a blood draw
      within 30 minutes of completing a bout of aerobic exercise. Following completion of the
      study, plasma BDNF levels (measured as nanograms per milliliter) will then be measured at all
      4 time points (baseline, week 6 pre-exercise, week 6 post-exercise, and week 12). In
      addition, BDNF genotype will be measured using the baseline sample. Participants will also
      complete bike or treadmill exercise testing at baseline and week 12 to determine pre- and
      post-program cardiovascular fitness levels (measured as VO2 max and estimated metabolic
      equivalents), and will also complete a 6-minute walk test. They will be asked to record their
      exercise daily and will additionally complete the Physical Activity Scale for Individuals
      with Physical Disabilities at baseline and week 12 time points.
    
  