
    
      Preoperative chemoradiation (CRT) with fluoropyrimidine (5-fluorouracil or capecitabine) is
      now regarded as a standard treatment option in patients with locally advanced resectable
      rectal cancer and pathologic response rates and tumor regression grades after preoperative
      CRT have been proved to be important prognostic factors for survival outcomes.

      Several studies of preoperative CRT with fluoropyrimidines plus other agents, such as
      oxaliplatin, irinotecan, cetuximab, and bevacizumab, have been performed to improve
      pathologic response rates; however, they have failed to show improved results compared to
      those with fluoropyrimidine alone.

      Thus fluoropyrimidine alone is a standard chemotherapeutic strategy in patients with locally
      advanced resectable rectal cancer who will be treated with preoperative CRT at present.

      Temozolomide is an oral alkylating agent, and has been proved to be effective in patients
      with glioblastoma or high grade anaplastic glioma when administered with concurrent
      radiotherapy either as adjuvant or recurrent settings.

      Temozolomide has been known to deplete O6-methylguanine DNA methyltransferase (MGMT), which
      is one of the DNA repair enzymes, and recent studies have shown that MGMT gene silencing
      (lower expression by immunohistochemistry or hypermethylation by methylation-specific PCR)
      played a predictive marker of better responses to CRT with temozolomide in patient with
      glioblastoma and high grade anaplastic glioma.

      Silencing of MGMT by promoter hypermethylation has been known to involve colorectal
      carcinogenesis pathway by the association with KRAS mutation and low-CIMP (CpG island
      methylation phenotype), and microsatellite instability. There have been suggestions that MGMT
      promoter hypermethylation played a role as a predictive factor of low recurrence in
      colorectal cancer patients with adjuvant oral fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy after curative
      surgery, and also as a predictive factor for treatment response from temozolomide in patients
      with metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Therefore, combination chemotherapy of temozolomide plus capecitabine for rectal cancer
      patients when treated with preoperative CRT is worthy of investigated especially in those
      harbouring silenced MGMT gene as following reasons;

        1. the role of temozolomide has been well established,

        2. MGMT gene silencing is associated with colorectal carcinogenesis and might act as a
           predictive biomarker; and

        3. the addition of temozolomide can be synergistic during preoperative CRT with
           capecitabine for rectal cancer patients.

      Investigator have performed a phase I study of preoperative CRT with temozolomide plus
      capecitabine in patient with locally advanced rectal cancer, and the results of this study
      has been published The recommended dose of temozolomide was determined as 75 mg/m2 once daily
      when combined with standard preoperative CRT with capecitabine, there was no grade 4 adverse
      events and the treatment was generally well tolerated. MGMT hypermethylation was found in 72%
      of rectal cancer patients (16/22), and the pathologic complete responses rates were 37.5%
      (6/16) in patient harbouring hypermethylated MGMT versus 16.7% in those with unmethylated
      MGMT.

      On the basis of prior trial results, Investigator concluded that preoperative CRT with
      temozolomide plus capecitabine is well tolerated without any notable adverse event, and is
      worthy of investigation especially in those harbouring MGMT gene silencing.

      Investigator planned a prospective, biomarker-stratified, randomised phase II study of
      preoperative CRT with temozolomide plus capecitabine in patients with locally advanced rectal
      cancer to demonstrate the addition of temozolomide in the conventional preoperative CRT might
      enhance the pathologic responses in those harbouring hypermethylated MGMT.
    
  