
    
      Aim and objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to test the following hypotheses:

      i) Patients with early stage chronic kidney disease (CKD) exhibit diffuse LV fibrosis
      manifest by prolonged native myocardial T1 times and expansion of the extracellular volume
      (ECV) measured on MRI with a graded relationship to eGFR (stage of CKD), independent of blood
      pressure and arterial stiffness.

      The secondary research objectives are to test the following hypotheses:

      i) Prolonged native myocardial T1 times are associated with impaired diastolic function,
      altered arterial-ventricular interaction and impaired effort tolerance.

      ii) Prolonged T1 times correlate with increases in serum biomarkers of collagen turnover
      associated with myocardial fibrosis that could be used to risk stratify individuals and
      enable targeted, personalized clinical care.

      iii) Renal transplantation results in a regression of myocardial fibrosis as measured by T1
      mapping.

      DESIGN:

      A cross-sectional analysis of 40 patients in each stage 2-5 CKD will be undertaken. These
      individuals will only be studied once (at baseline). In addition to this, at least 20
      patients will be studied who are about to undergo a kidney transplant. These individuals will
      be studied at baseline (around the time of surgery), at 6 weeks post-operatively, and then 1
      year post-operatively to assess the effect on renal transplantation on myocardial fibrosis.

      SUBJECTS:

      Patients will be recruited from the clinics run by University Hospitals Birmingham NHS
      Foundation Trust (UHB) with stages 2, 3, 4 and 5 CKD defined using eGFR calculated with the
      4-variable 'Modification of Diet in Renal Disease' (MDRD) equation, with a minimum of two
      consecutive tests at least 90 days apart. Forty patients will be recruited per group of CKD.
      All study subjects will undergo a cardiac MRI scan, a cardiopulmonary exercise tests with
      stress echocardiogram, a 24-hour ECG holter monitor, and blood tests.

      CONTROLS:

      Forty healthy control subjects and forty hypertensive control subjects will be studied. All
      patients will undergo the identical research protocol to the CKD subjects, except they will
      not have a stress echocardiogram or an ECG holter monitor.
    
  