
    
      The prevalence of intracranial aneurysms in the adult population is estimated to be around 2
      %. Most remain asymptomatic, but there is a risk of rupture of 1.2 % per year, and this risk
      increases in line with the diameter of the aneurysm. If rupture occurs, subarachnoid
      hemorrhage and its associated acute complications are responsible for high mortality (between
      30 and 67 %) and morbidity (between 15 and 30 %).

      Coil embolization of intracranial aneurysms has made remarkable technological progress since
      the International Subarachnoid Aneurysm Trial (ISAT) data were released in 2005. However,
      wide-necked aneurysms remain a great challenge to be treated via the endovascular means, as
      they are associated with a significantly greater incidence of adverse events when compared
      with narrow-necked ones.

      Acutely ruptured wide-necked intracranial aneurysms pose technical challenges to the treating
      physician; thus, multiple endovascular techniques have been described to treat these lesions,
      including balloon-assisted coil placement, double microcatheter technique, and microcatheter
      assisted coil placement. However, the use of these techniques can sometimes be limited, owing
      to the lack of permanent support for the coil mass inside the aneurysm sac, which may lead to
      coil prolapse or migration after the procedure, especially for wide-necked aneurysms
      (dome-to-neck ratio is less than 1) or tiny aneurysms (3 mm). Therefore, surgical clipping is
      preferred for acutely ruptured wide-necked intracranial aneurysms in most institutions.
      Surgery, however, may also be challenging in some of these lesions, since clips may slip, and
      surgical access may be limited because of the swelling of the brain in the acute setting of a
      subarachnoid hemorrhage.

      Flow diverters are new implantable medical devices that make possible to embolize wide-necked
      aneurysms without the use of coils; the efficacy results published to date are encouraging in
      terms of complete occlusion in the medium-term, thereby confirming the innovative nature of
      the flow diversion technique that we aim to evaluate without the use of coils.
    
  