
    
      Background:

      Low levels of physical activity are common in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary
      disease (COPD), and a sedentary lifestyle is associated with poor outcomes including
      increased mortality, frequent hospitalizations, and poor health-related quality of life.
      Individuals with COPD who undergo a facility-based, exercise-focused pulmonary rehabilitation
      program experience significant improvements in health related quality of life, dyspnea, and
      exercise tolerance as well as reduced rates of hospitalization. Unfortunately, only a small
      percent of individuals with COPD who could benefit from pulmonary rehabilitation have access
      to and participate in such programs. Moreover, the benefits of short-term pulmonary
      rehabilitation programs tend to diminish rapidly after the program ends. Rural veterans are
      less likely to have access to facility-based pulmonary rehabilitation than urban veterans.
      Health related quality of life in rural veterans with COPD is significantly worse than for
      veterans with COPD who live in urban areas.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study was to assess the efficacy of an Internet-mediated,
      pedometer-based intervention designed to increase walking and health related quality of life
      for Veterans with COPD. The specific aims of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) with a
      wait list control were: 1) To test the effectiveness of an automated internet-mediated
      walking program for veterans with COPD with a primary outcome of improvement in health
      related quality of life at four months and at one year; 2) to estimate the effect of the
      internet-mediated walking program for veterans with COPD on all cause days of hospitalization
      over one year following randomization; and 3) to compare intervention reach, participation
      and satisfaction outcomes between rural and urban veterans among those randomized to the
      intervention arm.

      Methods:

      Participants were followed for 12 months to investigate the efficacy of the intervention in
      assisting patients with initiating and maintaining a regular walking program and improving
      health related quality of life. Eligible and consented patients wore a pedometer to obtain
      one week of baseline data and then were randomized on a 2:1 ratio to Taking Healthy Steps or
      to a wait list control. The intervention arm received iterative step-count feedback;
      individualized step-count goals, motivational and informational messages, and access to an
      online community. Wait list controls were notified that they were enrolled, but that their
      intervention would start in one year; however, they kept the pedometer and had access to a
      static webpage. Both groups completed on-line survey assessments at baseline, 4, and 12
      months, and were asked to report adverse events on a regular basis. The primary outcome was
      changes in health related quality of life, as measured using the St George's Respiratory
      Questionnaire (SGRQ), a disease-specific instrument in patients with COPD. Secondary outcomes
      included days of hospitalization during the one-year intervention period, changes in average
      daily steps as measured using the study pedometer, self-reported dyspnea, intervention reach,
      and adverse event rates. The analysis was conducted based [on the original randomized
      treatment assignment regardless of participation (an intent-to-treat analysis) and included
      both a complete case analysis as well as an all case analysis using a linear mixed-effects
      model. Between-group differences in change scores (4 months or 12 months) were estimated
      after adjusting for baseline values of the outcome variables.

      Status:

      This study is completed. Data analysis and manuscript preparation continue.
    
  