
    
      Non-specific low back pain is the first cause of years lived with a disability in the world
      (Disease GBD, Lancet 2017). The network of biological, psychological and social contributors
      to chronic low back pain is complex. Within this network, physical and mental deconditioning
      are a key point and a privileged therapeutic target of multidisciplinary training programs.

      Physical exercise improves pain and function in people with chronic low back pain (Hayden et
      al., 2005). Nevertheless, its benefits decrease if it is not practiced regularly (Taimela et
      al., 2000). The pleasure doing physical exercises and the possibility of integrating them
      into daily life are important factors of adherence (McArthur et al., 2014). Gardening meets
      well the expectations of the physical treatment of chronic low back pain as it involves
      exercises aiming to increase spinal flexibility, strength and endurance of spine and lower
      limbs muscles, proprioception. Gardening is associated with the notion of pleasure and can be
      practiced in a group thus promoting the social bond. Moreover, therapeutic horticulture is
      suitable for the long term and can even be practiced in urban environment. Painful sensations
      are modulated by the affective and emotional state (Sullivan et al., 2001). Within the
      neuromatrix of pain, the cortex plays an important role in encoding pain and associated
      emotions (Vogt, 2005). Several studies suggest an impact on several physiological parameters
      of an "experience of nature", even on a short time (Franco et al., 2017, Hansen et al.,
      2017). A randomized controlled trial compared in 38 healthy volunteers, the effect of a
      90-minute walk in nature (forest) and in urban setting (city), on the activation of the
      anterior cingulate cortex (specifically its subgenual part) assessed using variation in blood
      perfusion on MRI, and on rumination, assessed using a self-administered questionnaire
      (Bratman et al., 2015). The authors showed that neural activation in the subgenual prefrontal
      cortex and rumination scores were lower in the group of healthy volunteers exposed to nature
      (Bratman et al., 2015). Little is known about the impact of a "nature experience" on chronic
      low back pain. A non-randomized controlled study has shown that adding 7 sessions of
      therapeutic horticulture to a standardized pain management program improved health status,
      anxiety and coping strategies in patients with chronic pain (Verra et al., 2012).

      By its nature and physical component, therapeutic horticulture could constitute a
      non-pharmacological accurate intervention in people with chronic low back pain, targeting
      both the neurobiological and physical aspects of deconditioning syndrome. Therapeutic
      horticulture was introduced in October 2017 in the multidisciplinary training program
      dedicated to chronic low back pain in our department. However, its effects have not yet been
      evaluated.
    
  