
    
      Study background The investigators prospectively evaluated the use of afatinib as 3rd or 4th
      line treatment after progression to one line of first-generation EGFR-TKI therapy and at
      least one line of systemic chemotherapy under this CUP. All patients had documented EGFR
      activating mutations before the start of afatinib. Determination of EGFR mutation analysis of
      all patients was described previously. Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor biopsies before
      starting 1st TKI therapy were retrieved. Briefly, tumor enrichment was performed by
      micro-dissection under light microscopy. Genomic DNA was extracted using QIAmp DNA FFPE
      Tissue kit (Qiagen, Hilden, Germany), followed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
      amplification of EGFR exons 18 to 21 using intron-based primers and sequenced in both forward
      and reverse directions.

      Study population Patients who had EGFR-mutated metastatic NSCLC with prior documented
      objective response to first-generation TKI (gefitinib or erlotinib) for 6 months and prior
      treatment of at least 1 line of systemic chemotherapy were eligible to join the CUP offered
      by Boehringer-Ingelheim Pharma GmbH, Ingelheim, Germany. Patients who had received
      anti-vascular endothelial growth factor antagonist but not anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody in
      their previous courses of treatment, either alone or in combination with systemic
      chemotherapy were allowed to join this CUP. They all had baseline computed tomography scan of
      the brain, thorax and abdomen with at least 1 evaluable lesion and adequate serum
      hematological, hepatic and renal function as defined by LUX-Lung1 study.

      Treatment The treating physicians then decided the starting dose of afatinib of either 50 mg,
      40 mg or 30 mg once daily continuously. After commencement of afatinib, they had regular
      clinical follow up every 2 weeks for 4 weeks then every 4 weeks until permanent
      discontinuation of afatinib or death. They also had regular imaging with CT scan every 8-10
      weeks for tumor response evaluation by Response Evaluation Criteria for Solid Tumors (RECIST)
      version 1.1 [16]. Treatment interruption was needed for those who developed grade >= 3
      adverse event until it was returned to grade 1 or less. Then afatinib could be resumed but at
      a one lower dose level. Those who received afatinib 30 mg daily as the initial starting dose
      would discontinue afatinib permanently if they developed grade >=3 events.

      Assessment of efficacy and treatment-related toxicities All treatment-related toxicities were
      collected and graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      version 4.0. Objective response (OR) included complete response and partial response while
      disease control (DC) included complete response, partial response and stable disease
      according to RECIST 1.1. Survival outcomes included progression-free survival (PFS, defined
      as time from start of afatinib to first of date of objectively determined progressive disease
      or death from any cause) and overall survival (OS, time from start of afatinib to date of
      death from any cause). Time to progression (TTP) started from the date of afatinib
      commencement to the date of objectively determined progressive disease. All these parameters
      in those who received afatinib in this study were compared to a historical cohort of patients
      who received erlotinib after prior failure to gefitinib and at least one line of systemic
      chemotherapy. All patients in the historical cohort received erlotinib at 150 mg once daily,
      with the same treatment response evaluation, survival and toxicity assessment as for those
      who received afatinib.

      Statistical analysis Mann-Whitney U was used for comparison of non-parametric variables and
      chi-square tests were performed for discrete variables. Kaplan-Meier methods with log-rank
      tests were employed for comparison of survival outcomes and Cox proportional hazard models
      were used for prognostic factors for PFS after afatinib or erlotinib in univariate and
      multivariate analyses, with afatinib versus erlotinib, age, sex, performance status, smoking
      status, histology, TTP for 1st TKI therapy, time interval between 1st TKI and afatinib or
      erlotinib, TTP for all lines of prior chemotherapy, time interval between last chemotherapy
      and afatinib or erlotinib as covariates. All statistical analyses were performed by
      Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 20.
    
  