
    
      Approximately 21 percent of children, 12-17 years old are diagnosed with DSM IV disorders,
      with 11 percent exhibiting severe impairment and 5 percent severe emotional difficulties. By
      18 years, 1-5 percent of children are diagnosed with bipolar disorder and up to 20 percent of
      children with depression. As greater numbers of children and adolescents have been diagnosed
      with these disorders in the last 10 years, the use of psychotropic drugs in the pediatric
      populations has increased. Many of the drugs prescribed are the newer antipsychotic drugs
      olanzapine, risperidone, and quetiapine, referred to as atypical antipsychotics. Compared to
      the older drugs, such as haldol and thorazine, atypical antipsychotics boast an improved
      safety profile, with fewer side effects such as tardive dyskinesia, extrapyramidal symptoms
      and hyperprolactinemia. This advantage has led to providers prescribing antipsychotic more
      frequently not only for psychotic conditions, but also for other behavioral problems, eg.,
      oppositional defiant disorder, mood disorders, and autism spectrum disorders. In many ways,
      these medicines are life saving. They protect children from the fate of psychosis, unchecked
      rage and agitation, allowing the them a chance to grow up more normally.

      Our study will provide preliminary evidence for the feasibility of using metformin as an
      adjunct for weight management in two vulnerable pediatric populations. We will apply for
      external funding for a large scale randomized clinical trial that will test efficacy of
      metformin in both our study populations with appropriate comparison groups. In addition,
      results from our exploratory analysis of patient characteristics eg., insulin level, eating
      behaviors) that may affect response to treatment will provide a basis to generate further
      hypothesis for mechanism of action.

      Primary objective: Describe and compare the pattern of changes in weight trajectory in the
      (PIW) and (OME) group.

      Secondary Objective: To conduct a preliminary investigation of factors(Baseline BMI,
      adherence, presence of gastrointestinal side effects, HOMA-IR, eating patterns) that
      influence the response to metformin.
    
  