
    
      In this study, women age 13-45 years with mild to moderate VWD and menorrhagia will be
      enrolled at their hemophilia treatment centers (HTCs) and provide information on menstrual
      bleeding from their two past monthly cycles to establish baseline bleeding frequency. Only
      women with regular menses, defined as menses every 21-35 days will be enrolled. A total of 60
      subjects will be recruited and enrolled at approximately 25 HTC sites. Following enrollment,
      subjects will be randomized to Group I or Group II for the first five days of the next four
      consecutive menstrual cycles. Those randomized to Group I will be treated with Arm A for
      menstrual bleeding in cycles 1 and 2, followed by Arm B for menstrual bleeding in cycles 3
      and 4. Those randomized to Group II will be treated with Arm B for menstrual bleeding in
      cycles 1 and 2, followed by Arm A for menstrual bleeding in cycles 3 and 4.

      Subjects randomized to Group I will receive Arm A rVWF 40 IU/kg intravenously (IV) infusion
      on day 1 of each of two menstrual cycles, Cycles 1 and 2. They will then be crossed over to
      Arm B, TA 650 mg 2 tablets orally (po) three times daily on days 1-5 of each of two menstrual
      cycles, Cycles 3 and 4. Subjects randomized to Group II will receive Arm B, TA 650 mg 2
      tablets orally (po) three times daily on days 1-5, for each of two menstrual cycles, Cycles 1
      and 2. They will then be crossed over to Arm A, rVWF 40 IU/kg intravenously (IV) infusion on
      day 1 on each of two menstrual cycles, Cycles 3 and 4. This regimen may be given at the HTC
      clinic or at home by visiting nurse. Baseline laboratory studies will be drawn at screening,
      including Blood Counts: hemoglobin, white count, differential, platelets; Iron Tests: iron,
      total iron binding capacity (TIBC), ferritin; Thyroid Test: thyroid stimulating hormone
      (TSH); and Von Willebrand Tests (VWF and related tests). Before initiating treatment,
      subjects will be trained by the HTC nurse on 1) reading urine pregnancy tests and 2)
      completion of the pictorial blood assessment chart (PBAC), cycle severity score (CSR), and
      cycle length (CL); and 3) completion of patient diary. Following randomization, subjects will
      administer home pregnancy tests prior to the first of each 5-day dosing cycle. On each of the
      four dosing cycles, Cycles 1-4, the PBAC, CSR, and CL will be recorded daily. After
      completion of study drug on cycle 2, the Crossover Study Visit will occur, during which
      subjects will be given a new supply of study drug for the study arm to which they will
      crossed over; subject diaries will be returned and coagulation studies and quality of life
      questionnaires performed. At 10-14 days after completion of study drug in Cycle 4, the End
      Study Visit will occur, during which subject diaries will be returned and quality of life
      questionnaires performed. All study visits will be within +/- 2 days of the scheduled visit.
      Study visits will be every 2 months, at the end of cycle 2 (cross-over) and at the end of
      cycle 4 (end of study) during which treatment diaries will be reviewed for bleeding
      frequency, side effects, and medications. Menstrual bleeding by PBAC, cycle severity, cycle
      duration, and health-related quality-of-life (HRQoL) questionnaires, including Rand Short
      Form 36-Question Health Survey (SF-36), Ruta Menorrhagia Severity Scale, Center for Disease
      Control Health-Related Quality of Life-14 Question Form (CDC-HRQoL14), and Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D) will be assessed at baseline and after cycle 2
      and after cycle 4. The study is innovative in the 1) evaluation of recombinant VWF, a new
      high purity recombinant VWF protein, to reduce menorrhagia, as compared with the current
      non-hormonal standard, tranexamic acid (TA); 2) investigation of the relationship of VWF to
      menstrual bleeding by PBAC score, by assessing VWD parameters: VWF ristocetin co-factor
      (VWF:RCo), VWF antigen (VWF:Ag), FVIII:C, VWF multimers, including high molecular weight
      multimers (HMW) by electrophoresis, and VWF genotype; 3) use of a "home treatment injection"
      for VWD; 4) comparison of two quality of life measures to assess treatment response on each
      study arm, one specific for bleeding disorders and one specific for menstrual disorders.
    
  