
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of clofarabine when administered in combination
           with topotecan hydrochloride, vinorelbine ditartrate, thiotepa, and dexamethasone in
           young patients with relapsed or refractory acute leukemia.

        -  Evaluate the antileukemic potential of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the incidence and severity of treatment-related morbidity and mortality in
           patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Develop a new reinduction treatment regimen that will result in a patient clinical
           response with as little residual disease as possible to permit a bone marrow
           transplantation while in subsequent remission; maintain the response long enough to
           identify an appropriate stem cell donor; and permit the patient to undergo a stem cell
           transplantation free of infections and without vital organ dysfunction.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, prospective, dose-escalation study of clofarabine.

      Patients receive topotecan hydrochloride IV continuously over 120 hours on days 0-4;
      vinorelbine ditartrate over 6-10 minutes on days 0, 7, and 14; thiotepa IV over 4 hours on
      day 2; clofarabine IV over 2 hours on days 3-7; and oral or IV dexamethasone 3 times daily on
      days 3 and 7-13 and then on day 3 only thereafter. Patients also receive filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously once daily beginning on day 8 and continuing until blood counts recover.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of clofarabine until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose at which 2 of 6 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity OR the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 patients experience
      dose-limiting toxicity. At least 6 patients are treated at the MTD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed once a week for 4 weeks, twice a
      month for 6 months, and then once a month for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 23 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  