
    
      Kidney transplantation has emerged as a desired treatment of choice for patients with end
      stage renal disease. Although transplantation has become increasingly successful, there
      continues to be risks associated with it. Prior to performing a kidney transplant patients
      are cross-matched (a test to determine whether or not they have preformed antibodies to the
      donor). Preformed antibodies result from a previous pregnancy, blood or platelet transfusion
      or prior transplant. Performing a transplant in patients who have preformed antibodies
      against the donor generally results in hyperacute rejection (when the immune system attacks
      the new kidney). This hyperacute rejection usually results in kidney loss in a very high
      percentage of patients. Due to these consequences, pre-transplant cross-matching has emerged
      as a standard of care. Although hyperacute kidney loss has now been avoided, a large
      population of highly sensitized patients that has little hope of receiving a transplant has
      been identified.

      A number of groups have studied methods to lower specific antibody levels in a variety of
      clinical settings. The two primary methods used today in transplantation are plasmapheresis
      (the separation of plasma from cells, and the removal of solutes, immune globulins, and
      medications) and administration of immune globulin therapy. Employing either of these
      techniques individually or jointly has substantially reduced acute rejection and improved
      kidney survival in these highly sensitized patients. The immune globulin treatments that have
      been studied have included large variations in dosage as well as differences in immune
      globulin products. The results from these small studies have not identified one therapy,
      product or dosage that could be considered standard of care.

      The kidney transplant work-up also consists of matching ABO blood group between donor and
      recipient. Transplantation against the recipient blood group has resulted in very poor
      outcomes due to antibody mediated rejection (when the immune system attacks the kidney).
      However, due to the shortage of organs available for transplantation, the increasing number
      of patients awaiting a transplant and the favorable outcomes with live donor transplant, some
      transplant programs have developed protocols for transplanting against the recipient ABO
      blood group. These protocols are centered around plasmapheresis and treatment with immune
      globulin. As with the positive cross-match patients stated earlier, the standard of care has
      yet to be identified.

      Dr. Lloyd Ratner, currently at Columbia University and former Chief of Transplant at Thomas
      Jefferson University Hospital and his former colleagues at Johns Hopkins University have
      studied the use of plasmapheresis in combination with Cytomegalovirus Immune Globulin
      Intravenous (CytoGam) to reverse a positive cross match and to transplant organs against ABO
      incompatible blood groups. This has enabled over 20 kidney transplants to be performed with
      patient and graft survival at one year being very similar to our traditional cross match
      negative and ABO compatible patients. These results are generally considered outstanding
      given the fact that antibody mediated rejection historically had a 75 to 100% incidence of
      graft loss.

      The treatment protocol that is used consists of plasmapheresis treatments alternating with
      CytoGam infusions every other day for 3 to 9 treatments prior to transplantation and another
      1-5 treatments after transplant. Plasmapheresis is increasingly performed to treat various
      infectious, immunological, metabolic and inherited diseases. In this procedure, plasma and
      cellular components of blood are separated and solutes in plasma, including drugs may be
      removed. Generally, a volume of 1 to 1.5 times the plasma volume is removed and replaced with
      an equivalent volume of crystalloid or colloid. The procedure removes solutes or drugs from
      the blood compartment and the tissue stores remain unaffected except for re-equilibration
      with decreasing plasma concentrations. After each plasmapheresis treatment patients receive
      an infusion of CytoGam which is used to "inactivate" the remaining antibody. However, it is
      not known to what extent subsequent treatments of plasmapheresis remove CytoGam that patients
      received only hours or days prior.

      During the treatment phase with plasmapheresis patients also receive a number of other
      medications such as immunosuppressants for the prevention and treatment of graft rejection,
      antibiotics for prevention and treatment of infection and various other medications for
      related illnesses. The effects that plasmapheresis may have on removal of these medications
      is not known for many of these agents. This information would be helpful for the potential
      need to re-dose or give supplemental doses of medications. This is extremely important for
      the immunosuppressant medications since under-dosing of these agents may result in serious
      negative outcomes. Due to these many unknown aspects it would be useful to know the extent of
      drug removal during plasmapheresis treatments. This would enable more precise dosing and
      ultimately better patient care.
    
  