
    
      Fever (high temperature) is a normal bodily response to an infection, which has shown to have
      a beneficial effect in humans with chickenpox, malaria and rhinovirus infections. In children
      it has been recommended by the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence not to cool
      down the child using drugs or physical methods such as a cooling mat, with the sole aim to
      reducing the child's temperature. However, this recommendation is not aimed at the management
      of critically ill children, to which there is uncertainty around use of cooling interventions
      when considering the advantages of a fever in defending the body against viruses and bacteria
      during critical illness, and weighing that up with the possible negative physiological
      consequences of a high fever e.g. increased metabolic rate.

      Observational studies show that the treatment of fever in critically ill children is
      inconsistent. There is a lack of robust data to guide antipyretic intervention, with
      clinicians usually starting fever management at around 37.5°C. Evidence is emerging that
      fever may be beneficial in critically ill adults. Due to the physiological differences
      between adults and children there is an important need to evaluate whether a different
      approach to fever management in critically ill children may also be beneficial.

      Prior to conducting a large, expensive, randomised clinical trial (RCT) to evaluate whether a
      higher temperature threshold in starting treatments to cool down the child would be
      beneficial, we are conducting three studies to know if it is possible for us to test key
      outcome measures as a result of testing different temperatures thresholds for antipyretic
      management.

      The Fever Observational Study is one of these studies, with the aim of identifying: the
      potential population that would be eligible for the proposed definitive trial, current
      temperature threshold(s) for fever management, and to describe the characteristics of outcome
      measures with the intention of deciding on a main measure to see which treatment method was
      more successful.
    
  