
    
      The research is a collaborative project by HKU and Yan Chai Hospital, with the aim of
      investigating the potential benefits of applying acupressure regularly on frail elderly. The
      study is designed as a prospective randomized control trial with the primary objective to
      investigate if acupressure could help the elderly to improve their general quality of life.

      "Frailty" is a geriatric syndrome of growing importance in the medical field. Although there
      is still a lack of universally accepted clinical definition for frailty, the syndrome is now
      commonly understood as decreased reserves in multiple systems, and lowered resilience to
      negative stress. Frailty could affect the emotional state of the elderly; meanwhile, positive
      affect is protective against the functional and physical decline associated with frailty.
      Since there is limited treatment or medication for frailty. We would like to investigate if
      acupressure could be a possible non-invasive means to improve the general health conditions,
      including the psycho-social well being of the frail elderly.

      The subjects of this study are the frail elderly living in the community dwellings who are
      members of the elderly centers. Our study is a pragmatic research comparing the acupressure
      treatment with care as usual, with the objectives of investigating

        1. if a non invasive, easy to learn acupressure protocol could improve the general quality
           of life of the frail elderly

        2. if there is a positive affect on the relationship between the informal caregiver and the
           elderly through practicing acupressure on the elderly by the caregiver

      We will use the Tilburg Frail Indicator (TFI) as our frailty assessment instrument to
      identify the subjects for this study. The elderly will enroll with their informal caregiver
      as a dyad. Appropriate training (min 4 hours) and certification will be offered to the
      caregivers to ensure that they could practice the designed acupressure protocol on the
      elderly.

      I. Trial Design This is a multicenter, pragmatic randomized control trial (PRCT) with a
      prospective design

      Hypothesis:

      Applying regular acupressure (4 times a week, totally 12 weeks) on frail elderly will improve
      one or more of the following aspects.

        -  Elderly's quality of life

        -  Elderly's psychological functioning

        -  Elderly's psychosocial functioning

        -  Elderly's sleeping quality

        -  Blood pressure/heart rate

        -  Caregiver's stress level

           140 frail elderlies currently served by the Social Centers for the elderly and
           Neighborhood Elderly Centers of the Yan Chai Hospital, Social Services Department
           (YCHSS) and their caregiver will be recruited. All accepted subjects will be in dyad,
           (i.e. 1 frail elderly and 1designated caregiver, who commits to learn and administered
           the acupressure procedure on the frail elderly according to the set protocol). All
           applications will be screened by the social worker in the centre based on the inclusion
           and exclusion criteria. Qualified applicants will be invited for a health assessment
           conducted by registered TCM practitioner in the research team to confirm their
           suitability and invite them to sign the consent form. The consented elderly-caregiver
           dyad will be allocated randomly into treatment group and waiting control group.
           Randomization is done by computer generated number list in block of 4.

      II. Intervention Acupressure Group A 15 minutes structured acupressure protocol with specific
      acupoints and applications technique will be performed on the elderly participants twice a
      week by the research team in YCHSS centers. The caregiver of the elderly will be trained and
      perform the same acupressure protocol on the elderly at 2 additional occasions during the
      week. The total trial period is 12 weeks.

      The acupressure treatment involved 12 steps, and mainly concentrates on the acupoints on
      face, head, neck and shoulder. The treatment is designed to be operated by layman. The
      acupoints chosen are all easy to be located. All the movements/steps selected are well
      established and commonly used in the TCM practices. Any movement that demand professional
      training or involve potential risk (e.g. joint mobilization) is excluded from the protocol.
      The total treatment process will last for approximately 15 mins.

      Waiting Control group:

      No acupressure therapy will be provided during the 1st 12 weeks' of study. The enrolled
      elderly will join a group activity, resembling the other group activities that held in that
      particular center, their caregivers will be requested to spend two 20 minutes sessions per
      week with the elderly doing homework assigned by the activity group and log down the timing
      in the LOG BOOK. This arrangement is to account for the placebo effect of additional social
      interaction time and attention that the treatment group will receive during this period.
      After completing the 1st 12 weeks' participation in the Waiting Control Group, the subject
      dyads in the waiting control group will receive the same training and treatment as the
      treatment group.

      III. Measurement of efficacy and Data analysis Efficacy of the treatments will be measured in
      multi dimensions before and after the treatment for both groups. The measurement taken before
      the intervention will serve as the baseline, and the after treatment measurements will be
      taken (1) within 7days after the 12 weeks intervention and; (2) 3 months after the 12 weeks
      intervention completed. The primary outcomes will be the change in quality of life,
      psychological functioning, psychosocial functioning, sleeping quality and physiological
      aspects of the frail elderly. Secondary outcome will be the change of strain level of their
      caregivers. All instruments employed are international recognized and provide an absolute
      score in measurement.
    
  