
    
      It is an international multicenter disease registry, the principal investigator at each
      center is responsible for competent ethic committee/institutional review board approval and
      for identifying co-investigators, who collect patients' informed consent and insert patients'
      data. Participating patients own their data. Upon acceptance of the informed consent, the
      treating physician transfers data of the case report form (CRF) to a specifically designed
      electronic support (eCRF) and the patients enter data on attacks. Physicians at center
      fill-in the eCRF with data for demography, diagnosis, prophylaxis and associated diseases.
      Plasma levels of C1 inhibitor antigen and function and of C4 antigen document laboratory
      diagnostic criteria. Each patient has a national identifier code. Patients fill-in attack
      reports that encompass duration, severity and treatment of each angioedema episode. C1
      inhibitor coding gene (SERPING1) genotype is entered according to the last Hugo nomenclature.
      Yearly update of information is recommended, patients with follow up above two years are
      moved in a separate area and excluded from analysis. Each patient prospectively fills data on
      attacks. On a specific informed consent, the patient can agree on storing biological material
      (plasma and nucleic acids) for research purposes.

      The data processor is an innovative start-up (Cloud-R s.r.l. Milan, Italy) that manages all
      data according to a specific contract and in compliance with current regulation on sensitive
      data security and processing. The Registry, delivered in the mode of Registry-as-a-Service
      (RaaS), is designed following General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) guidelines, and
      issues regular software and infrastructure enhancements as a part of the normal operational
      mode. The system generates statistics of aggregated anonymized data following the
      participating centers' hierarchy levels and Global Registry governance rules. Patients supply
      data on attacks either on paper support or using a Web form or a mobile application. These
      data will flow into a staging area for physician validation before being considered valid for
      statistics. For each entry the system updates in real-time all the statistics and dashboards.
      The platform has configurable functionalities to support data quality management. It provides
      data format validation, integration to external qualified libraries, alerts, dashboards,
      automatic index calculations, advanced filters and queries, data change log. This open
      architecture, allows integration of the system, via standard API's, to external or
      sub-registries, registries, biobanks and clinical bioinformatics tools, i.e. for specific
      trial studies leveraging a specific cluster of patients already present in the Global
      Registry.

      An independent non-profit foundation (HGRF) made of representatives of patients' associations
      is in charge for funding and delegates all the management to the HAE Global Registry Board
      (HGRB). The HGRB is in charge for operational, assisted by the HAE Global Registry Scientific
      Committee (HGRSC) for topics of competence. No registry member, center, group or board can
      access the entire set of data. All registry members, as single or group, can propose studies
      based on aggregated data by addressing the request to the HGRSC. Analysis and studies of data
      at local centers can occur at any time. Members of HGRB and HGRSC are elected to be
      representative of different cultural and geographic backgrounds. Their offices have a
      two-year term with no more than one consecutive renewal. Angioedema centers can join the
      Registry upon request to the HGRB . The registry quality control system periodically checks
      Registry entries and compliance of eCRF with the source data. For each information, the
      system will grant traceability of time and author.
    
  