
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and toxicity associated with blood-brain barrier disruption
           comprising transfemoral mannitol followed by methotrexate and carboplatin with or
           without trastuzumab (Herceptin®) in women with brain metastasis secondary to breast
           cancer. (Phase I)

        -  Determine if overall survival exceeds 5 months in patients with Human Epidermal growth
           factor Receptor 2(HER2)-positive or HER2-negative disease treated with this regimen.
           (Phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine the overall survival of these patients.

        -  Compare the event-free and overall survival, steroid use, response rates, and time to
           best response in patients with HER2-positive vs HER2-negative disease.

        -  Assess the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Assess the neuropsychological effects of this treatment regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine cerebrospinal fluid levels of trastuzumab before and after blood-brain barrier
           disruption.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I, pilot, dose-finding study of carboplatin followed by
      a phase II, open-label study.

        -  Phase I: Patients undergo osmotic blood-brain barrier disruption (BBBD) comprising
           mannitol by transfemoral catheterization followed by methotrexate intra-arterially (IA)
           over 10 minutes and carboplatin IA over 10 minutes on days 1 and 2. Patients also
           receive sodium thiosulfate IV over 15 minutes at 4 and 8 hours after each dose of
           carboplatin; leucovorin calcium IV or orally every 6 hours on days 3-9; and
           pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 4 or filgrastim (G-CSF) SC beginning on day 4
           and continuing until blood counts recover (7-10 days). Patients with HER-2 positive
           disease receive trastuzumab (Herceptin®) IV over 90 minutes within 48 hours prior to
           BBBD and then weekly for 3 weeks (between BBBD therapy sessions). Treatment repeats
           every 4 weeks for up to 12 months in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive decreasing doses of carboplatin and/or methotrexate if the
      proposed dose is not well tolerated. Dose-limiting toxicity is defined as grade IV
      hematologic toxicity with delay in subsequent treatment courses for 4 weeks OR grade III/IV
      nonhematologic toxicity without recovery in 14 days during the course of treatment.

        -  Phase II: Patients undergo BBBD as in phase I and receive carboplatin and methotrexate
           at the doses determined in phase I. Patients also receive sodium thiosulfate, leucovorin
           calcium, and pegfilgrastim or G-CSF as in phase I. Patients with HER2-positive disease
           also receive trastuzumab as in phase I.

      Neuropsychological assessment is performed at baseline, every 6 months during treatment,
      every 6 months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter. Quality of life is assessed at
      baseline, every 3 months during treatment, at the completion of study treatment, every 6
      months for 1 year, and then annually thereafter.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 78 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  