
    
      A risk stratification in hemodynamically stable patients with acute pulmonary embolism (PE)
      is deemed necessary to guide patient management. Right ventricular dysfunction (RVD),
      identified by echocardiography or computed tomographic angiography (CT), and cardiac
      biomarkers are well recognized risk factors for adverse events in normotensive patients with
      PE. However, neither of them, as a single prognostic criterion, have a sufficient positive
      predictive value (PPV) for PE-related adverse events to guide therapeutic decisions. The
      PEITHO trial showed that, in normotensive patients with RVD and abnormal cardiac troponin,
      death or hemodynamic decompensation occurred significantly less in those treated with
      tenecteplase plus heparin than in those who received heparin plus placebo. However the risk
      of major hemorrhage and stroke was significantly increased in the tecneplase group. These
      results were obtained in a group of patients with an absolute rate of PE-related adverse
      events of about 6%. If the same relative reduction in the risk of PE-related outcomes
      observed in the PEITHO trial could be achieved in a group of patients with a higher absolute
      risk of PE-related events, this might change the risk to benefit ratio of primary reperfusion
      therapy in PE. With the aim to improve the PPV for PE-related adverse events in in
      normotensive patients, a number of scores combining multiple risk-factors have been
      published. In addition, an algorithm for the risk-stratification of patients with PE has been
      proposed by the European society of cardiology. None but one of these scores underwent
      external and prospective validation. Aim of the study The aim of this study is to externally
      and prospectively validate the PPV for PE-related adverse events of the Bova score and
      modified FAST score in a large multicenter cohort. We further will evaluate the potential
      additive prognostic value of the combination of Bova score and lactates, and the prognostic
      performance of RVD diagnosed with echocardiography compared with RVD detected by CT.

      Methods. This will be a multicenter, prospective, observational study. Consecutive patients
      aged 18 years or older with PE and hemodynamic stability (that is, SBP 90 mm Hg or more) will
      be evaluated as a part of usual clinical practice. This study does not dictate diagnostic
      interventions nor affects clinical or therapeutic decisions of the participant centers. For
      each patient, anonymous information will be collected on simplified Pulmonary Embolism
      Severity Index (sPESI), RVD on echocardiography and CT, Troponin I, levels of lactates in the
      arterial blood, and presence of syncope at presentation. RVD will be diagnosed with the
      echocardiography in the presence of one of the following: Right ventricular end-diastolic
      diameter (RVEDD) > 30 mm (parasternal long-axis or short-axis view), Right/left ventricular
      end-diastolic diameter (RVEDD/LVEDD) >0.9 (apical or subcostal 4-chamber view), Right
      ventricular free wall hypokinesis from any view, Tricuspid systolic velocity > 2.6 m/s from
      the apical or subcostal 4-CH view, parasternal short-axis view. RVD diagnosis with the CT
      will require a RV/LV diameter ratio greater than 1.0 on axial CT images. Cardiac troponin
      test will be considered positive in case of levels of troponin higher than higher than the
      cut-off of the manufacturer. Plasma lactate will be assessed in arterial blood samples.
      Values ≥ 2 mmol/L (18 mg/dL) will be considered abnormal. This evaluation should be ideally
      completed within 6 hours from the hospital admission. The primary outcome of the study will
      be adverse events PE-related within 30 days from the hospital admission. In a sensitivity
      analysis we will explore the same outcome at 7 days. PE-relate adverse events will be defined
      as: PE-related death or haemodynamic collapse. PE will be considered the cause of death if
      there will be objective documentation or in case of unexplained death and PE not confidently
      ruled out. Haemodynamic collapse will be defined as one of the following conditions: SBP < 90
      mmHg necessitating catecholamine administration; mechanical ventilation; cardiopulmonary
      resuscitation.

      Secondary outcomes of interest will be all-cause mortality at 30 days; PE-related death at 30
      days; confirmed symptomatic PE recurrence; duration of hospitalization in patients with low
      and intermediate-low risk compared with patients with intermediate-high risk. Recurrent PE
      will be confirmed either by the presence of a new intraluminal filling defect, or by a new
      perfusion scan defect involving > 75% of a lung segment. PE-related adverse events, recurrent
      PE and all-cause mortality should be evaluated, for each participant center, by a physician
      not involved in the study.

      Statistical analysis The three-level of Bova score will be dichotomized (low- and
      intermediate-low-risk versus intermediate-high-risk). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
      curve analysis will be performed to determine the area under the curve (AUC) of the scores
      (absolute points) with regard to study outcomes. Prognostic performance of the scores will be
      evaluated by calculation of sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and
      negative predictive value (NPV), and positive and negative likelihood ratios.

      Sample size Based on previous studies a sample size of about 500 patients should be adequate
      for the purpose of the study. After the first 300 patients an interim analysis will be
      performed to more precisely establish the number of patients needed.
    
  