
    
      Exercise is recommended for the treatment for knee osteoarthritis (OA) with muscle strength
      and aerobic exercise improving physical function. There is evidence supporting quadriceps
      strength for patients with painful knee OA; positive effects on pain; and general fitness.

      Research reviews by suggest exercise as an important aspect of rehabilitation in knee OA.
      However, there is very limited evidence to what type of exercises actually decrease pain and
      improve activity.

      Despite positive evidence regarding exercise, highlighted major issues within the United
      Kingdom with only 5% of people with knee OA achieving the recommended level of activity and
      57% of the population not completing regular exercise. 1% to 4% of total healthcare costs
      account for physical inactivity which cost 8.3 billion in 2009.

      An essential factor of physical inactivity is exercise behaviour. Fear of movement is an
      important aspect of knee OA. Disability is present due to the individual's fear of physical
      movements that would cause pain. Evidence links fear of movement with knee OA and the role of
      exercise in the management of knee OA. Patients with OA experience pain during activity,
      which leads to an expectation that further activity, will cause greater pain therefore
      increasing muscle weakness. It has been indicated that individuals could have negative
      attitudes and beliefs about their knee problems, which could cause a barrier to treatment,
      with socioeconomic, personality and environmental factors being as important as the physical
      characteristics. Other factors such as balance issues and laxity of the knee have been
      associated with activity limitations. However, in a systematic review found weak evidence to
      support pain, distress, and avoidance of activity in participants with knee OA. Understanding
      individual exercise behaviours and habits is essential to improve exercise adherence.
      Non-compliance is common within physiotherapy with patients unwilling to accommodate
      exercises within everyday life. Reasons for this may include type of exercises, dosage, and
      underlying beliefs from the clinicians towards exercise as well as external factors.
      Incorrect prescription of exercises can lead to increased pain, decreased function and
      decreased exercise adherence. This could cause fear of movement whilst completing exercise.
      It has been concluded that in OA there is limited evidence that interventions can improve
      exercise adherence. Therefore, an understanding of non-adherence and the effects of
      kinesiophobia is essential to further develop exercise programmes for patients with OA.
    
  