
    
      Training (T): Patients assigned to the control group will receive verbal advice to exercise
      but will receive no other training following their revascularization and outcome assessments.
      Patients in the intervention group will receive supervised SET in the exercise physiology
      laboratory for one week (3 sessions) following their REVASC and outcome assessments. Patients
      will then receive 11 weeks of community-based structured exercise therapy (CB-SET) with
      training, monitoring, and coaching (TMC) and public health elements at home or in the place
      of their choosing. Patients will be visited by study staff where walking exercise will take
      place (1 visit per month, 3 total community visits). The purpose of the initial supervised
      SET is to educate patients about how to exercise and to address any questions they may have
      (part of the training component of TMC).

      Monitoring (M): Participants will be monitored with a piezoelectric accelerometer over the
      duration of the 12 total weeks to determine total volume of activity. Participants in both
      groups will be asked to wear the monitors continuously for 7 days per week over a 10 hour
      period for each day. This amount of activity monitoring has been successfully used in
      previous studies (minimal user burden, low profile devices). Additionally, participants in
      both groups will be reminded to wear the monitor during any walking sessions they perform
      with intent of exercise. The investigators will determine exercise compliance separately for
      both groups, and participants in the intervention group will be asked to record details about
      the CB-SET sessions in a provided exercise log (as conducted in a pilot studies). Data from
      the piezoelectric accelerometers, which are capable of collecting and storing data for ~6
      weeks, will be downloaded and reset at the community visits (1 per month). Control
      participants will be mailed a new device every 4 weeks (with pre-paid mailers given to
      control participants for return and subsequent download by staff) or will exchange the device
      during optional once per month visits to the exercise laboratory. At these visits, control
      pariticipants will have resting heart rate and blood pressure assessed but no CB-SET program
      will be applied to ensure these participants receive the standard of care regarding home
      exercise (upfront advice to walk). Participants in the intervention group will also be given
      commercially available piezoelectric hip pedometers (Omron), which have an interface to track
      steps, to monitor their own activity. Weekly phone calls (telehealth) will be conducted by
      study staff with specific prompting to gain a better evaluation of how much and how often
      intervention group participants are walking (a feasible process evaluation used in the
      preliminary studies). Questions included to assist in determining treatment fidelity
      (ensuring the intervention is delivered as intended) during phone calls and from the exercise
      log: 1) date and start/end times of walking exercise for each session, 2) number of rest
      stops needed while walking (and reasons for stopping), 3) questions regarding usage of the
      piezoelectric accelerometer (instructions for use given to participants), 4) number of steps
      measured from the hip pedometer, 5) what route the participant chose to use for walking as
      initially defined by the environmental audit (see section below for more details), and 6)
      what barriers or facilitators the participant encountered during the session ("Any problems
      while walking around your neighborhood?"). Additionally, participants will be strongly
      encouraged to walk with family, friends, and pets to increase walking activity. Participants
      in both groups will receive a smartphone with an application called Daynamica, which will
      allow users to indicate and store the location where they complete their community-based
      activities and to annotate specific exercise sessions or other physical activity episodes.
      Participants in the control group will receive monthly phone calls only to assess the
      occurrence of any adverse events and to schedule the optional in-hospital visit.

      Coaching (C): The investigators will employ an operational coaching model that will provide
      training guidance and help addressing local barriers to exercise training in the community
      setting as well as promoting or reinforcing facilitators for each individual participant in
      the CB-SET intervention group. This will include: 1) educational print materials and 2)
      environmental auditing. Educational materials developed by Vascular Cures will include
      informational outreach activities that have been cited as strategies to promote walking by
      the Task Force Community Preventive Services. Additionally, in providing control participants
      with the accelerometers, the investigators are in essence providing them "attention", in
      addition to the monthly phone calls and optional in-hospital "check-ups" with controls. This
      attention-control design is meant to provide definitive findings that the substantive aspects
      of the CB-SET program are efficacious and not the result of simply increased contact time
      with intervention group participants.
    
  