
    
      Two chronic health conditions are treated with oral appliances during sleep. One condition is
      temporomandibular disorder (TMD); a musculoskeletal disorder characterized by pain in the
      masseter muscle and temporomandibular joint. TMD pain is treated with a stabilization splint
      which operates by limiting abnormal muscle activity. The other condition is obstructive sleep
      apnea (OSA). Mild to moderate OSA is treated with a mandibular advancement splint (MAS) which
      holds the mandible in a protruded position to increase the pharyngeal airway space and reduce
      upper airway collapsibility.

      The comorbidity of the two conditions is high. Approximately one in four patients with
      clinically diagnosed TMD has OSA diagnosed by polysomnogram (PSG). This comorbidity poses a
      problem for management because neither appliance is considered effective in treating both
      conditions. In fact, mandible advancement is assumed to worsen TMD pain. However this
      assumption is not well supported by scientific evidence, with some studies finding that
      mandibular advancement actually reduces TMD pain, albeit after a transient increase in TMD
      pain in some patients. Furthermore, anecdotal evidence suggests that mandibular advancement
      reduces TMD pain. It is believed that by maintaining an open airway with the oral appliance,
      patients no longer have to clench their teeth in an effort to prevent the airway from
      collapsing during sleep.

      The overall objective of this study is to characterize the temporal nature of TMD pain in
      adults with comorbid TMD/OSA treated with MAS therapy. It is the first study to monitor
      adherence to MAS therapy objectively in this study population, using a microsensor embedded
      in the MAS.

      Recruitment and MAS therapy will be conducted at Lane and Associates Family Dentistry; a
      group of 27 dental practices located throughout the Triangle and Triad region of North
      Carolina. Advantages of using Lane & Associates are: large influx of new dental patients
      every month, fast recruitment, well-established protocols for screening for TMD and OSA and
      for referral of patients to sleep physicians for evaluation and PSG, standardized protocols
      for oral appliance therapy, and a Dental Sleep Medicine director who is highly experienced
      also in the management of TMD. The study coordinator is a dental hygienist in the University
      of North Carolina (UNC) School of Dentistry Dental Sleep Clinic who works in the School's
      Dental Sleep Medicine practice. She will travel to the Lane & Associates offices to assist in
      clinical and administrative activities and will manage all data collection for the 12
      subjects. The Dental Sleep Clinic at the UNC School of Dentistry is not considered adequate
      to serve as the study site because it currently operates only one day a week and accepts
      referrals for only patients without TMD pain.

      In the pre-enrollment phase, patients at Lane and Associates Family Dentistry will complete a
      standard TMD screening questionnaire. Those screening positive will be clinically examined
      against Research Diagnostic Criteria for TMD to confirm Group II: Masticatory Muscle
      Disorders, 1A: Myalgia. They will also be screened for OSA using the validated STOP-BANG
      questionnaire. Those at high risk will be referred for evaluation by a sleep physician and a
      diagnostic PSG, as is the standard of care at Lane and Associates. If the PSG reveals mild to
      moderate OSA (apnea-hypopnea index (AHI) ≥5 and <30), the patient is a candidate for oral
      appliance therapy, pending confirmation of the sleep physician, and thus eligible to enroll
      in the study.

      Subjects will be consented and assessed for demographics, medical history, and medication
      use. Impressions of the upper and lower dental arches will be recorded, poured in dental
      stone and sent to the lab. A George Gauge will record a protrusive bite registration with the
      jaw advanced 60% from the most retruded position. The custom-made MAS will be fitted with a
      micro-recorder (Braebon DentiTrac Monitor) to assess adherence. The investigators define
      adherence as use of the splint 4 hours/night for ≥70% of nights as is standard practice for
      continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy. Home sleep test (HST): Subjects will
      complete a series (from 2 to 5) two-night home sleep tests (HSTs) using the portable AccuSom
      device by NovaSom, which collects sleep parameters of AHI, minimum oxygen saturation, and
      snoring indices. Novosom arranges shipment of the device and offers 24-hour technical support
      during the sleep test. Sleep data are uploaded wirelessly from the recorder to an online
      portal for statistical analysis.

      Following a baseline home sleep test (HST), 12 participants will enter the study wearing a
      MAS during sleep that protrudes the mandible to 60% of its maximal advancement. This
      approximates the minimum amount of jaw advancement that is expected to be efficacious. A HST
      will be repeated at the end of Week #4. If that HST shows that the MAS is not efficacious
      (i.e. has not reduced baseline apnea hypopnea index (AHI) by ≥50% or the AHI is ≥10**), and
      if TMD pain is not worse, the mandible will be advanced to 70% and the participant will
      repeat the HST at the end of Week #8. Once efficacy is achieved, there is no need for further
      HSTs. If efficacy is not achieved at the end of Week #8 and if TMD pain is not worse, the
      mandible will be advanced to 75% and the participant will repeat the HST at the end of Week
      #12. If efficacy is not yet achieved and if TMD pain is not worse, the mandibular will be
      further advanced to 80% and the participant will undergo a final HST at the end of Week #16.
      Once a HST indicates that the MAS is efficacious in reducing the AHI, the participant will
      maintain that level of advancement. The minimum number of HSTs for any one participant is 2
      (baseline and 4-week follow-up) and the maximum number is 5.
    
  