
    
      This is a multi-center, randomized controlled trial to evaluate whether vaginal estrogen is
      an effective treatment for asymptomatic microscopic hematuria. Postmenopausal women with
      asymptomatic microscopic hematuria will be recruited from the two urogynecology clinics that
      serve as the clinic sites for the Mount Auburn Hospital/Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center
      Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery fellowship.

      Participants are eligible if they are postmenopausal, defined by amenorrhea for at least one
      year or a bilateral oophorectomy at least one year prior, and have three or more red blood
      cells per high powered field visible in a properly collected urine specimen without evidence
      of infection. In addition, participants must have a negative cystoscopy and computed
      tomography urogram (or magnetic resonance urography if history of renal insufficiency or
      contrast allergy) within the past three years. Exclusion criteria include any of the
      following: current or past thromboembolic disorder or cerebrovascular accident, intolerance
      to previous estrogen replacement therapy or hormone replacement therapy, estrogen dependent
      neoplasm within the past five years (unless supporting documentation from patient's
      oncologist is obtained), estrogen replacement therapy or hormone replacement therapy within
      the past three months or selective estrogen receptor modulators within eight weeks of
      enrollment, urinary tract infection, urinary calculi, urinary tract malignancy, vaginal
      bleeding of unknown origin, urethral caruncle, history of recurrent urinary tract infections
      in the last one year, and stage two or greater pelvic organ prolapse.

      Participants will be randomized to either an estradiol-releasing vaginal ring (Estring;
      Pfizer, New York, NY) or expectant management in a ratio of 1:1 using computer-generated
      block randomization stratified by enrollment site.

      Estring is a silicone vaginal ring, 5.5 cm in diameter, containing 2 mg of 17-estradiol,
      which is released at a rate of 7.5 g daily. The Estring was chosen as the vehicle for vaginal
      estrogen secondary to its ease of administration, higher patient preference, acceptability,
      and compliance.

      After eligibility is confirmed and written, informed consent is obtained, participants will
      be randomized to one of the two study arms. Participants randomized to the use of vaginal
      estrogen will have the vaginal ring placed by one of the investigators. Participants in both
      study arms will complete the short form of the Urogenital Distress Inventory (UDI-6) and the
      Incontinence Impact Questionnaire (IIQ-7).

      Participants in the vaginal estrogen arm will be called at two, four and eight weeks to
      ensure that the Estring is still in place and follow-up appointments will be scheduled as
      needed if there is any question as to whether the ring is still in place.

      At the 12-week visit all participants will provide a urine sample for urinalysis to assess
      whether the microscopic hematuria is present. All participants also will be asked to complete
      the UDI-6 and IIQ-7 and vaginal mucosal atrophy will be assessed as described above. Women in
      the vaginal estrogen arm will have the Estring removed and a new Estring will be placed by
      one of the investigators; participants also will be asked if the ring was removed or fell out
      during the past 12 weeks. All participants will be asked whether any of the following, (which
      could be a side effect from vaginal estrogen use) occurred in the previous 12 weeks:
      dyspareunia for subject or partner, vaginal bleeding, non-physiologic discharge, vaginal
      ulceration and vaginal irritation.

      participants will be followed for 24 weeks to determine if more than 12 weeks are needed for
      resolution.

      At the 24-week visit, all participants will provide a urine sample for urinalysis to assess
      whether the microscopic hematuria is present. All participants also will be asked to complete
      the UDI-6 and IIQ-7 and vaginal mucosal atrophy will be assessed as described above. We will
      ask all participants whether any of the following, which could be a side effect from vaginal
      estrogen use, occurred in the previous 12 weeks: dyspareunia for subject or their partner,
      vaginal bleeding, non-physiologic discharge, vaginal ulceration and vaginal irritation. One
      of the investigators will remove the Estring from all women in the vaginal estrogen arm.

      At the 24 week visit investigators will offer women in the expectant management arm with
      persistent microscopic hematuria the opportunity to try the Estring.
    
  