
    
      This was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, paired study that
      evaluated the effectiveness of S-Caine Peel in providing local dermal anesthesia for
      non-ablative facial laser resurfacing. Patients received a concurrent application of S Caine
      Peel and placebo for 30 minutes (±2 minutes).

      Patients who presented to the study site for a non-ablative facial laser resurfacing and who
      met study entry criteria were invited to participate in the study. At the screening visit,
      the study, including potential risks and benefits, was clearly explained to each patient, and
      written informed consent was obtained. A medical history was obtained including skin type,
      demographic data, prior and current medical disorders, and the use of concomitant
      medications. A brief physical examination was performed including taking basic vital signs
      and examining the skin at the study drug application site. If applicable, a urine pregnancy
      test was performed. The screening visit could occur on the same day as the procedure visit.

      At the procedure visit, patients were randomized to receive a 30-minute (±2 minute)
      application of S Caine Peel either on the right or left treatment area and to receive a
      concurrent 30-minute (±2 minutes) application of placebo on the alternate treatment area. The
      point of reference was always the patient's right and left. S-Caine Peel and placebo were
      dispensed to cover the treatment area with a uniform thickness of approximately 1 mm. Study
      drug was applied to the right treatment area first, then concurrently to the left treatment
      area. Similarly, the study drug was removed first from the right treatment area and then from
      the left treatment area. Following removal of the study drugs, the investigator or physician
      subinvestigator evaluated each study drug application site for erythema, edema, blanching or
      other skin reactions. The right treatment area was evaluated first, followed by the left
      treatment area.

      After the skin evaluations, the laser procedure was performed on the right treatment area,
      followed by patient and investigator efficacy evaluations for the right treatment area. The
      laser procedure was then performed on the left treatment area, followed by patient and
      investigator efficacy evaluations for the left treatment area.
    
  