
    
      Your disease responded well to treatment with imatinib mesylate. It is in complete
      cytogenetic remission. This means that the Philadelphia chromosome (Ph), a change in genetic
      material that is believed to lead to leukemia, is no longer detectable (by the standard
      chromosome analysis) in your bone marrow and blood cells. A molecular remission, which is
      what researchers want you to achieve, means a greater reduction or a complete elimination of
      the Ph.

      The small amounts of disease can be detected using a technique called polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR). This is a very powerful test that can detect very small amounts of disease
      that can still be present in the bone marrow and/or blood cells.

      PR1 is an experimental vaccine made from a protein that is found in large amounts in leukemia
      cells in CML.

      Imatinib mesylate (which you are already receiving as standard therapy) is designed to bind
      to certain proteins on the tumor cells, which may prevent the cells from growing.

      Interferon is a drug that was used as standard therapy for patients with CML before imatinib
      mesylate was available. It can help the immune system to function more effectively (causing
      leukemia cells to show more PR1), which may make leukemia cells a better target to be killed.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will have a
      complete physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs (blood pressure, heart
      rate, temperature, and breathing rate). You will have your complete medical history recorded.
      You will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) for routine tests. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative blood (about 1 teaspoon) or urine pregnancy test. You will also
      have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) to see if you have the necessary protein (called
      HLA-A2) needed for the vaccine to recognize your cells. You will also have additional blood
      drawn (about 1 tablespoon) to test (using the PCR test) the levels of leukemia in your blood.
      You will have a bone marrow aspiration. To collect a bone marrow aspiration, an area of the
      hip or chest bone is numbed with anesthetic, and a small amount of bone marrow and bone is
      withdrawn through a large needle. You will have a chromosome test done on the number of
      chromosomes in your bone marrow (collected from your bone marrow aspiration). You will not
      have an additional procedure performed on you for this test. For this test, all of your
      chromosomes in 20 cells in your bone marrow will be counted to see if there may be any
      unhealthy changes (such as the Ph) present as well as how many may be present.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive PR1 through a
      small needle just under your skin (subcutaneous injection). Imatinib mesylate will continue
      to be given to you by mouth at the dose that you are taking now as part of your standard
      therapy. PR1 will be mixed with a substance called Montanide ISA 51 VG, which is a regular
      procedure that will help your immune system respond to PR1.

      You will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of a coin) to one of 2 treatment groups.
      Participants in one group will receive a subcutaneous injection of interferon with each PR1
      vaccination. Participants in the other group will receive PR1 vaccination without interferon.

      Regardless of what group you are assigned to, you will also receive, with each PR1
      vaccination, a growth hormone called GM-CSF. The purpose of GM-CSF is to boost your immune
      system (in response to the PR1 vaccine) to help kill your leukemia. It is given as a
      subcutaneous injection in your arms or your thighs.

      All participants will receive a total of 4 doses of the PR1 vaccine. The first 3 vaccinations
      are given every 3 weeks, and the last vaccination is given 18 weeks after the start of
      therapy in this study. You will receive all of these vaccinations at M. D. Anderson.

      Every time you come in for an injection of PR1, you will have a physical exam, including
      measurement of your vital signs. You will have blood drawn (about 2 tablespoons) for routine
      tests, and you will have blood drawn (about 1 tablespoon) for the PCR test. After you receive
      the last vaccination, you will continue having the PCR test every 3 months to test the level
      of leukemia in your blood and to see if your disease is responding to the vaccine. You will
      have a bone marrow aspiration at 1 month and 6 months after the last vaccination. To measure
      the response of your immune system to PR1, blood will be drawn (about 2 tablespoons each)
      before the first vaccination, at Weeks 6, 18, 22 and 6 months after treatment.

      You will be taken off this study if intolerable side effects occur or your disease progresses
      (comes out of remission).

      This is an investigational study. PR1 mixed with Montanide ISA-51 VG is authorized by the FDA
      for use in research only. Interferon and GM-CSF are FDA-approved and commercially available.
      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  