
    
      We estimate the sample size of this study based on the cerebral blood flow velocity data of
      Kempley's study that showed 7.2 ± 3.5 and 10.7 ± 2.4 cm/s for the MCAs in 13 preterm and 8
      full-term infants, respectively. As the power is set at 0.8 and the α level is at 0.05, at
      least 17 subjects were required for each group. This study will include 20 full-term and 20
      VLBW preterm infants who are born at the National Taiwan University Hospital (NTUH) and the
      Mackay Memorial Hospital (MMH), Taipei, Taiwan. Written informed consent will be obtained
      from the parents before participation in this study.

      Cranial Doppler ultrasound and the NNE-C examinations will be performed within 5 days after
      birth on full-term infants and at post-menstrual age (PMA) of 40 weeks (± 1 week) on preterm
      infants in the baby room. If the examination time occurs after hospital discharge, assessment
      will be conducted in the baby room at NTUH or in the ultrasound examination room at MMH. The
      examinations will be performed when the babies show stable vital signs in daily activities.
      The NNE-C examination will be administered one hour prior to feeding to minimize distress.
      The NNE-C examination will be performed immediately after the ultrasound assessment. The two
      examinations will be performed by different examiners who were blind to each other's results.
      During brain Doppler ultrasound examination, each infant will be placed on the back in a baby
      crib or an incubator with his/her head in midline. Infant's behavioral state will be kept in
      the behavioral state of 1 (quiet sleep), 2 (active sleep), or 3 (drowsy) on Brazelton's
      classification to eliminate the impact on cerebral blood flow velocity.

      Hemodynamic parameters will include PSV, EDV, RI, and PI from bilateral ACAs and MCAs as
      obtained by the pulse wave color Doppler. The ACA will be approached through the anterior
      fontanel on the sagittal plane and its blood flow velocity will be determined at the proximal
      part. The MCA will be approached under the transverse plane by placing the transducer on the
      temporal bone below the zygomatic arch. The flow velocity measurements will be obtained by
      Fourier transform analysis from homogeneous blood flow wave patterns over at least 3 cardiac
      cycles with good clear signals. Those signals that show complete and similar waveforms in the
      adjacent cycles and have high magnitudes with visible margin recognized from the background
      noise will be selected. The RI and PI are the ratio between the different velocities with the
      formulas: RI = (PSV-EDV) / PSV, PI = (PSV-EDV) / mean velocity. The whole ultrasound
      examination will take about 10 minutes.
    
  