
    
      This is a multi-center randomized phase III clinical trial, the Inhibitor Prevention Trial,
      in which consecutive hemostatic agents will be compared using adaptive design to prevent
      inhibitors in patients with severe hemophilia A. This adaptive design is necessary as
      randomized trials in rare diseases are otherwise not possible. This adaptive design is
      necessary as randomized trials in rare diseases are otherwise not possible. The INHIBIT
      Clinical Trials Platform includes two linked trials, the Inhibitor Prevention Trial
      (Prevention Trial) and the Inhibitor Eradication Trial (Eradication Trial) that will be
      conducted at up to 41 U.S. hemophilia treatment centers (HTCs) affiliated with universities.
      The Inhibitor Prevention Trial is a 48-week randomized phase III trial, in which 66
      previously untreated patients (PUPs) with severe hemophilia A will be enrolled. Subjects will
      include children from 4 months of age up to 4 years of age who have not been previously
      treated with clotting factor. Once enrolled, subjects who meet all the inclusion and none of
      the exclusion criteria will be randomized to preemptive weekly Eloctate (rFVIIIFc) vs. weekly
      Emicizumab (Hemlibra) to prevent inhibitor formation, defined as anti-FVIII >= 0.6 BU. Blood
      draws will be minimized to 6 timepoints, pre, 4, 12, 24, 36, and 48 weeks, and validated for
      small volumes, 3.8 cc (¾ tsp) each. The Inhibitor Prevention Trial is considered greater than
      minimal risk as study drug is given before the first bleed and special inhibitor studies are
      obtained. (NB: The Inhibitor Prevention Trial (PRO19040140) is linked to the Inhibitor
      Eradication Trial (PRO19070080), as part of the INHIBIT Clinical Trials Platform, with both
      trials will be conducted efficiently in the same hemophilia treatment centers (HTCs), with
      the same MDs, coordinators, visit frequency, blood sampling, and assays.
    
  