
    
      Design: The effect of oat protein extract will be assessed in one-month feeding studies of
      forty healthy men and women with raised serum cholesterol levels. Two breads will be
      prepared, one control and one providing 45 g/d barley protein to be fed for one month each in
      a randomized crossover design.

      Diets: The diets will be the subjects' usual diets which appropriately will be NCEP Step 2
      diets for patients treated without medications with this degree of hyperlipidemia. Those who
      are not on an NCEP Step 2 diet will be instructed accordingly. During the first phase, the
      two one-week recorded diets for each patient will be photocopied and returned to the patient
      to be used as the dietary model for the subsequent period. We have found that this approach
      is effective in stabilizing the diets in our soy protein studies. Supplements: Will be breads
      with test and control supplements providing the identical daily energy intake. The increase
      in protein in the barley supplements will be matched by the use of protein from milk protein
      (casein). Similarly the increased polyunsaturated, monounsaturated and saturated fatty acids
      in the test supplement will be matched by addition of an appropriate blend of oils in the
      control. Baked goods will be prepared at our clinic and a seven-day supply will be provided
      to each participant at the beginning of each week. The exact formulation of the supplements
      will involve product development, palatability testing and chemical analysis of the
      prototypes in the initial phase of the study. Compliance: compliance will be assessed from
      completed weekly diet records where supplement intake is recorded daily. These records will
      be reviewed by a dietitian with the subject at the end of the week. In addition, uneaten
      supplements will be returned, weighed and noted on the menu plans by the dietitian. Diet
      records will also be assessed to ensure the predetermined diet plan is followed according to
      the phase one recorded diet.
    
  