
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The development of asthma requires exposure to inciting agents such as allergens and
      environmental pollutants, as well as the presence of host or genetic factors. Understanding
      the genetics of bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR) and allergy will delineate mechanisms
      that are important in the pathogenesis and therapy of asthma. While both genetic and
      environmental factors and their interactions are felt to be important, their precise role is
      not fully understood.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The probands are from the 'asthma' center Beatrixoord in Haren, The Netherlands which was
      started in 1962. In collaboration with Dr Dirkje Postma of Holland, data are available on
      approximately 1200 patients who were first studied in 1963-1970 using the same protocol.
      Family studies of the children and grandchildren of these original probands are underway. At
      this time, 85 complete families have been characterized and clinical data and DNA are
      available for analysis in Baltimore. Families are being ascertained so that the investigators
      can test the fit of genetic models through segregation analyses. The major aim of the study
      is to identify major genes for bronchial hyperresponsiveness (BHR) and asthma by linkage with
      highly polymorphic DNA markers. Since allergy is commonly associated with asthma, a second
      goal of the study is to identify major genes for atopy using similar linkage studies.
      Allergic factors under study include skin test reactivity to common allergens, serum total
      and specific IgE levels, and blood eosinophilia. Complex segregation analysis will be
      performed separately for asthma, BHR and allergy. The most parsimonious model from the
      segregation analysis will be used for linkage analysis. Initially, candidate regions of the
      genome will be evaluated. Then, a systematic search of the genome will be performed using
      highly polymorphic informative makers. When a linkage is detected, candidate genes in that
      specific area will be studied.

      The study was renewed in FY 1999 and in FY 2004 to: further characterize asthma and closely
      related phenotypes; perform genetic modeling (complex segregation analysis) using one and two
      locus models as well as bivariate segregation analysis; complete the genome wide screen; fine
      map regions of interest and identify candidate genes, perform linkage disequilibrium and
      haplotype sharing analyses; and perform case control analysis of susceptibility and severity
      candidate genes for asthma.
    
  