
    
      Anticipated Impact on Veterans' Healthcare - Teledermatology has the potential to have a
      significant impact on veterans' healthcare. There is an unmet demand for Dermatology services
      distributed throughout a nation-wide patient base. Decentralization of care through the
      expansion of Community Based Outpatient Centers (CBOCs) adds to the demand for these
      services. Dermatologic care typically resides only at the largest medical centers within a
      Veterans Integrated Service Network (VISN). Teledermatology is one means of meeting the
      demand for Dermatology services by delivering dermatologic care to those sites that are
      geographically removed from the Dermatology Consult Service.

      Project Background - For the majority of ambulatory skin conditions encountered in Primary
      Care and Dermatology Clinics the impact those conditions have on patients' quality of life is
      of principal importance. Commonly encountered skin diseases frequently result in discomfort
      or pain, pruritis, emotional concerns, embarrassment, anxiety, and interfere with activities
      of daily living, work activities, or interpersonal relations. To date, no data exist that
      compares quality of life outcomes - the fundamental metric to assess in an ambulatory
      dermatology population - between patients undergoing store and forward teledermatology
      consultations with patients managed by the conventional consult processes. Existing data does
      indicate that teledermatology is a reliable and accurate method of diagnosing skin disease.

      Research Objectives - The purpose of this study was to compare store and forward
      teledermatology with a conventional clinic-based dermatology consultation process. Our
      primary objective was to determine whether the mean change in patient quality of life, as
      rated by the composite score and subscale scores of a skin-specific quality of life index
      (Skindex-16), differed between the time of randomization and 9 months for patients evaluated
      by store and forward teledermatology compared to conventional consult methods. Secondary
      objectives included (a) assessing quality of life between time of randomization and 3 months,
      (b) assessing time to initial definitive evaluation for patients using each modality, (c)
      evaluating clinical course using serial digital imaging, (d) comparing the costs and
      cost-effectiveness of store and forward teledermatology with conventional consult methods.

      Project Methods - The study was a parallel-group, superiority, randomized clinical trial that
      compared store and forward teledermatology with a conventional clinic-based consult process.
      Patients were randomized using a simple randomization scheme stratified by site to one of the
      two consult modalities. Eligible patients included those being referred from the remote sites
      of primary care to the medical center-based sites of dermatology services. Skindex-16 was
      administered at baseline, 3 months, and 9 months. Time to initial definitive evaluation,
      calculated based on the need for and timing of a clinic-based visit was measured for both
      groups. Using digital images, clinical course was assessed on a 5 point scale by an expert
      panel of three dermatologists. Categories included resolved, improved, unchanged not
      clinically relevant, unchanged clinically relevant, and worse. Health care utilities were
      measured using time trade-off data and the Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI2). We compared
      the costs of teledermatology with conventional consult methods by estimating the average cost
      per patient over the 9 month study period. Effectiveness was assessed using health care
      utilities and time to initial definitive evaluation. Costs were estimated from the VA
      perspective.
    
  