
    
      284 student athletes will be enrolled in this two-arm quasi-experimental study. The
      participants will be boys and girls, aged 13 to 16 years who compete in any sport.
      Participants will be recruited and enrolled through partnerships with their school physical
      education and/or sport programs. Participants will complete baseline questionnaires assessing
      demographics, history of sport participation, and psychological variables related to doping
      prevention including knowledge, doping self-regulatory efficacy, motivation, attitudes,
      intentions, perceived norms, doping refusal, substance use behaviours, and doping related
      protective behaviours (e.g., checking the list of ingredients on medications). Participants
      will then be assigned to either an intervention group (n = 142; the doping videogame the
      investigators are developing) or a comparison group (n = 142). The comparison group will be
      given printed educational materials about doping education, developed by an accredited source
      (e.g., UNESCO). Assignment to the intervention or comparison group will be conducted at the
      level of the school to reduce the potential for contamination that could occur if
      intervention and comparison students were interacting in their school environment and sharing
      information they learned from the game. Participants from the intervention group will play
      five, 60-minute sessions over the course of one month (5 hours of total gameplay). Before the
      gameplay sessions begin, the Project Director and research assistants will orient the
      intervention group participants to the use of the intervention videogame. Players will be
      given a tutorial on an iPad demonstrating the mechanics of the game and how to use the iPad.
      Each player will have their own dedicated iPad that they will use during each game play
      session (this will be provided by the research team). Shortly after the last gameplay session
      is completed, participants from both groups will be asked to complete a questionnaire
      assessing the same psychological variables assessed at baseline as well as their gameplay
      experience. The psychological variables will also be assessed at three, six, and 12 month
      follow-ups.
    
  