
    
      Two research assistants will conduct the study. Experimenter A assists with recruitment of
      subjects, sets up the test environment and performs the trunk release. Experimenter B acts as
      the primary data collector and will be kept blind to the purpose of the study.

      The randomized allocation indicates if the subject is in the intervention or control group.
      Experimenter A sets up the study hospital bed fitted with a visco-elastic foam mattress, a
      fitted sheet, a flat sheet and the torso pressure-sensing mat. For standardization, the mat
      is aligned with markers set on the bed frame. Subjects will wear hospital pajamas over
      undergarments. Experimenter B records height, weight, age and gender. Subject is seated in a
      chair and is instructed in the spirometry maneuver. Once the subject is comfortable with the
      maneuver, Experimenter A asks the subject to lie supine with their body centered on the bed
      and with their hands resting on their abdomen. Experimenter A reminds the subject to remain
      completely immobile for the duration of data collection. Experimenter B takes a baseline
      measure of discomfort as per protocol. Experimenter A places the subject in the High Fowler's
      position by raising the foot of the bed to its highest position, 50 degrees, and the head of
      the bed to its highest position, 60 degrees. Experimenter A sets the timer for 8 minutes as
      per pressure mapping protocol. For more stable values, a "settling time" of 8 minutes is
      required to factor in creep of the pressure mapping sensors and mattress. Experimenter A aims
      the laser beam to the top of the scapulae where the subject's shoulder meets the mattress
      surface. Experimenter B initiates a FSA file with the subject's number, takes a pressure
      reading once 8 minutes is up, measures the trunk displacement, obtains spirometry readings as
      per protocol, and takes a measure of discomfort. Experimenter B leaves the room, Experimenter
      A sets the timer for 5 minutes and opens the allocation envelope.

      The Principal Investigator will conduct random spot checks to ensure consistency in set-up.
    
  