
    
      Nitisinone (Orfadin) is used in the treatment of hereditary tyrosinemia type 1(HT-1), an
      inborn error of metabolism. The clinical study that forms the basis for licensing of
      nitisinone in the treatment of HT-1 used twice daily dosing. This became the recommended
      dosing frequency of nitisinone stated in the Summary of Product Characteristics. Later on,
      when the half-life became know (around 50 hours in adults), many physicians started to use
      once daily dosing. The suitability of once daily dosing and especially of switching patients
      from twice to once daily dosing has not been documented. The aim with this study is therefore
      to investigate the effect on nitisinone serum concentrations (Cmax and Cmin) and possible
      clinical consequences of a lower dosing frequency.

      This one-way crossover study consists of three periods; Screening period, Treatment period 1
      and Treatment period 2. The study starts with a screening period (Visit 1-1b) that may be up
      to 6 weeks long. This is followed by two treatment periods of at least 4 weeks each. During
      Treatment period 1 (Visits 2-3), the patient will take Orfadin twice daily. During Treatment
      period 2 (Visits 4-5), the patient will take Orfadin once daily. The dose of nitisinone in
      the study will be the same as the one prescribed at completed screening visit. Dose will be
      1-2 mg/kg body weight. The total treatment period will be at least 8 weeks.

      At least 20 patients with a minimum of 3 patients in each of the following age groups will be
      included; infants (< 2 years), children (2-<12 years), adolescents (12-<18 years) and adults
      (≥18 years).

      Determination of succinylacetone (SA) in blood (serum/plasma) and/or urine will be performed
      both locally and at a central Good Laboratory Practice certified laboratory (Dry Blood Spot
      sample). The purpose of the local sample is to provide the investigator with more or less
      immediate results to determine if a dose adjustment is needed before the patient enters
      either of the two treatment periods. Results from samples analyzed at the central laboratory,
      including determination of nitisinone, will be used in the evaluation of pharmacokinetics,
      efficacy and safety during the two treatment periods.
    
  