
    
      During 3 months in a the geographic area of Clermont-Ferrand (France), new e-bike buyers and
      renters are invited to take part in VELONAPS study before starting to use their e-bike. The
      sample is constituted of willing participants who plan to use their e-bike, at least in part,
      for work-related and commuter trips. Each participant will be followed during 4 months, with
      4 study points.

      At T0, subjects are invited for the baseline visit including a medical interview and physical
      examination (with anthropometric measurements), and a physical stress test evaluating aerobic
      fitness (submaximal step-test). Online questionnaires are provided to measure physical
      activity and sedentary patterns (RPAQ), motivations and barriers to physical activity (EMAPS
      and BPAQ), perceived health and quality of life (SF-12), perceived exertion for common
      physical efforts (Borg scale).

      At T1 and T2 (respectively one and two months after having started e-bike use), the
      questionnaire measuring physical activity and sedentary patterns of the past month is
      requested again.

      At T4 (final study point, after 4 months of e-bike use), subjects are invited for the
      follow-up visit including anthropometric measurements and a physical stress test evaluating
      aerobic fitness. Online questionnaires are provided to measure the same dimensions than at
      the T0 study point.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to compare the physical activity level at T0 and the one
      at T4.

      Secondary endpoints are the modifications (comparisons between T0 and T4) in :

        -  sedentary levels.

        -  the percent of individuals meeting the physical activity guidelines.

        -  motivations and barriers to physical activity.

        -  perceived health and quality of life.

        -  perceived exertion for common physical efforts.

        -  anthropometric measurements (BMI and waist size). Subgroup analyses will identify either
           consistency of, of large differences, in the magnitude of e-bike use effect among
           different categories of participants: by age, by sex, by initial physical condition, and
           by initial total physical activity level.
    
  