
    
      This study is a Prospective Randomized Controlled Trial with an aim to determine if a
      standardized discharge prescription provides effective analgesia while reducing the number of
      unused opioid pills in the community.

      All patients presenting to TWH during the recruitment phase for elective ambulatory hand and
      arm surgery will be asked to participate in the study. Patients will be given information
      about the study in the pre-operative surgical clinic by the surgeon assessing them. If
      agreeable, patients will then be approached for recruitment by a research assistant.

      Patients would be randomized to either standardized prescription arm versus control arm
      (usual prescriptions administered by physician).

      The standardized prescription will consist of an opioid prescription for Oxycodone 5mg PO
      q4-6h PRN. Alternatively, if the patient has an allergy or other contraindication to
      Oxycodone, Hydromorphone 1mg PO q4-6h PRN or Tylenol #3 1-2 tablets PO q4h PRN will be given.
      The number of tablets prescribed will depend on the extent of surgical trauma, as per a
      previously conducted study. As part of the standardized prescription group, patients will
      receive a handout (encouraging them to use non-opioid analgesics along with the opioid
      prescription to minimize their narcotic consumption).

      Participants will be asked a series of questions via telephone consultation or in the
      pre-operative waiting area about their current opioid use, as well as their risk for narcotic
      abuse using the opioid risk tool (ORT). Participants will also be asked to fill out
      questionnaires assessing components of neuropathic pain (DN-4), any elements of anxiety or
      depression (HADS), and any tendencies for catastrophizing (PCS).

      At the time of discharge participants will then be provided with either the standardized
      prescription or the usual discharge prescription by the surgeon.

      Patients will be called after discharge from hospital on post-discharge weeks 1, 6, and 12 by
      either clinical investigators or research assistants. Patients will be asked standardized
      questions about their pain with the goal of assessing our primary endpoint of number of
      opioid pills used as compared to number prescribed. Patients will be attempted to be reached
      by telephone up to 3 times during the 7 day period following each pre-defined time point
      (i.e. 1, 6 and 12 weeks).

      Subsequently the proportion of unused opioid pills will be calculated for each group.
    
  