
    
      1. Research background;Currently, hyperlipidemia in Chinese adults is 40.40%, and is an
           independent risk factor for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease and diabetes, as well
           as increasing the risk of tumor.Hyperlipidemia and intestinal flora are closely related
           and interact with each other. Intervention of intestinal flora may be one of the ways to
           treat hyperlipidemia.

        2. Research objective: to observe the changes of intestinal flora in obese patients with
           hyperlipidemia who have indications of lipase absorption inhibitor orlistat and
           cholesterol absorption inhibitor ezeomab and analyze the related influencing factors.

        3. Research methods and procedures; 3.1 on the basis of community people, on the basis of
           the baseline survey, choosing a new diagnosis of overweight patients with
           hyperlipidemia, to carry out the treatment of sexual lifestyle intervention therapy on
           the basis of oral respectively in accordance with the wheat cloth folding, orlistat
           capsules for 12 weeks intervention and consistent use of foundation treatment in
           patients with hyperlipidemia and case-control study.

      3.2 on the basis of the indications and voluntary choice of newly diagnosed patients with
      hyperlipidemia, overweight in the treatment of sexual lifestyle intervention therapy on the
      basis of, to carry out the drug intervention therapy for 12 weeks, oral respectively
      according to the fold of wheat and cloth (10 mg, 1 time/day), orlistat capsules (120 mg, 2-3
      times/day) to intervene with consistent use of foundation treatment in patients with
      hyperlipidemia control study.

      3.3 telephone follow-up and outpatient follow-up were adopted.All subjects were closely
      followed up to observe the changes of the patient's condition and whether there were adverse
      reactions.At the end of 12 weeks of the experiment, blood was drawn on an empty stomach in
      the morning, and fasting was started after dinner the day before the experiment. The duration
      of fasting was not less than 8-10 hours, and drinking water was allowed.Three blood samples
      were collected.

      3.4 experiment for the first time in the morning on the day of gathering patients out of
      fresh 10 g, solid manure into the sterile collection box of oil fecal DNA protection
      (liquid), the stool specimens in the laboratory is divided into four, then immediately put -
      80 ℃ low temperature refrigerator or liquid nitrogen preservation, stay late in intestinal
      flora DNA extraction.real 4, participants accept blood fat, this is one of the clinical
      routine physical examination project, orlistat capsules of non-prescription drugs is losing
      weight, but the existing studies show that after the application of the drug can bring
      benefit of blood sugar, blood lipid, body weight, and in accordance with the folding mab are
      clinical commonly used drugs, both has the effect of reducing blood fat, reducing blood fat,
      bring to significant cardiovascular benefits, and compared with statins, there is no evidence
      that these drugs can increase the risk of new diabetes.

      Subjects can learn about their health conditions in terms of blood lipids through testing.
      The relevant information obtained from subjects can be used for clinical diagnosis and
      treatment of hyperlipidemia and contribute to the prevention and treatment of
      hyperlipidemia.In this study, relevant samples were stored in the endocrine and metabolic
      diseases laboratory of west China hospital.The researcher promises that the samples will only
      be used for this study, and will not disclose the samples, patients' clinical information and
      other data to irrelevant personnel in this study.Clinical data collection (demographic data,
      measured blood pressure, height, weight, etc.), blood lipids, and intestinal flora monitoring
      were all undertaken by researchers.The registration fee incurred on the day of inspection
      shall be borne by the researcher, and the meal fee and transportation fee incurred on the day
      shall be subsidized to a certain extent (RMB fifty). The financial burden of the subject will
      not be increased during the whole experiment.

      5. Alternative methods of diagnosis and treatment. According to the 2016 Chinese adult
      guidelines for the prevention and treatment of dysmatosis in Chinese adults (revised version
      in 2016), subjects may choose other kinds of appropriate drugs, such as statins, betins,
      niacin, bile acid chelating agents, etc., at their own expense.
    
  