
    
      Disability caused by stroke has a detrimental impact on patients with social and physical
      consequences of stroke being equally devastating. Yet there are only few studies done in
      South Asia that explore holistically the cumulative impact of disability and quality of life
      on stroke survivors.

      In Pakistan majority of stroke patients are cared by close family members and no inpatient
      rehabilitation services are available in Pakistan for stroke survivors. The amount of support
      from government is scarce and private systems are largely unregulated therefore the
      psychosocial problems in Pakistani stroke survivors are different from those experienced by
      stroke survivors in developed countries. It is proposed that the quality of life of stroke
      survivors in Pakistan will be worse as compared to stroke survivors in developed countries.
      However, due to existence of considerable family support even in absence of good government
      and environmental support systems we cannot be certain about this assumption. Since care
      givers provide all medical and social services to chronic stroke victims their quality of
      life and stress level also plays an important role in the care given to the stroke survivors.

      We propose to conduct a cross-sectional study, in order to assess the quality of life in
      stroke survivors and its important predictors in Karachi. The domains which will be studied
      includes physical; in terms of severity of disability, which affects the person after stroke,
      social functioning; which includes the role of primary care giver and social support given to
      the stroke survivors, mental health; in which depression affects the life of stroke survivor
      badly after stroke.

      Also to explore the perspective of the primary care giver for those important factors which
      affect the quality of life focus group discussions will be conducted in the study. This is a
      mixed methods observational analytical study.
    
  