
    
      Currently, limited studies exist in the literature regarding the use of iPACK for analgesia
      in total knee arthroplasty. Specific studies on the addition of iPACK to ACB or LIA
      demonstrate clinically significant reductions in pain scores for patients undergoing total
      knee arthroplasty. However, no studies currently examine the use of iPACK in the setting of
      patients receiving both ACB and LIA, as a fully optimized regional anesthesia "bundle" for
      postoperative analgesia in total knee arthroplasty. As such, this study aims to determine
      whether the addition of the iPACK block, in combination with ACB and LIA, will improve
      analgesia compared to what is provided by ACB and LIA alone.

      Rationale for study:

      The IPACK block, based on limited existing literature, seems to provide superior analgesia
      with minimal complications following total knee arthroplasty.

      This study aims to determine whether the IPACK block provides additional analgesia (in
      combination with ACB + LIA) for total knee arthroplasty surgeries. The study will examine how
      much additional analgesia IPACK provides in the context of an already-optimized regional
      anesthesia pathway for total knee arthroplasty, which uses ACB + LIA, both modalities that
      have reasonable existing evidence.

      Determining the effectiveness of IPACK in addition to the already validated multimodal
      analgesia including ACB and LIA for improving postoperative pain may further improve clinical
      outcomes in patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty. This may reduce postoperative opioid
      requirements and its side effects, increase patient satisfaction, and decrease morbidity and
      mortality associated with a prolonged hospital stay.

      The demand for total knee arthroplasty is predicted to increase in the upcoming years owing
      to an aging population and increased prevalence of osteoarthritis worldwide. The growing
      number generates multiple issues to the healthcare system, mainly the additional pressure to
      decrease the already unsustainable high healthcare costs. The role of iPACK as an additional
      component of pain management may be the key to providing a safe and cost-effective healthcare
      service to patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty.

      Study Question Does the addition of the iPACK block, in combination with ACB and LIA, improve
      postoperative analgesia and clinical outcomes compared to ACB and LIA alone in patients
      undergoing total knee arthroplasty?

      Hypothesis:

      Investigators hypothesize that the addition of this newly described, motor-sparing iPACK
      block will significantly improve analgesia and clinical outcomes in patients undergoing total
      knee arthroplasty.

      Study Design :

      To determine the effectiveness of the iPACK block as a component of multimodal analgesia for
      patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty, this study will be a prospective double blinded
      randomized controlled trial where the patients will be randomized to 2 groups:

      Group A will receive perioperative ACB, LIA, and sham IPACK block. Group B will receive
      perioperative ACB, LIA, and real IPACK block.

      In addition, all patients will receive a standard spinal anesthetic as per our institutional
      protocol, along with procedural IV sedation at the discretion of the attending
      anesthesiologist. Local infiltration analgesia will be administered by the orthopaedic
      surgeon as per standard practice. ACB and iPACK block will be performed by the
      anesthesiologist immediately preoperatively under ultrasound guidance as follows:

      All patients in the study will receive ACB, performed by an experienced anesthesiologist, as
      conventionally described, using full aseptic technique, in-plane ultrasound guidance,
      identification of the superficial femoral artery, sartorius muscle and adductor canal. Local
      anesthetic (0.25% bupivacaine + 2.5mcg/mL epinephrine + 50mcg/mL preservative-free
      dexamethasone x 15mL) will be infiltrated with real-time ultrasound visualization, needle
      approach lateral to medial, with incremental injection, intermittent aspiration, and
      confirmation of adequate local anesthetic spread.

      Patients in group A will receive a sham iPACK block while those in group B will receive a
      real iPACK block. Both sham and real iPACK blocks will be performed by an experienced
      anesthesiologist, blinded to the intervention. Real and sham iPACK blocks will be performed
      as conventionally described with ultrasound guidance (initial approach 1 finger breadth above
      the patella, if this approach fails, subsequent attempt at level of femoral
      condyles/bicondylar approach). All sham and real iPACK blocks will be done with full aseptic
      technique, in-plane ultrasound guidance, identification of popliteal artery/vessels, femur,
      and sciatic nerve. Normal saline x 20mL (Group A), or local anesthetic x 20mL (Group B -
      0.25% bupivacaine + 2.5mcg/mL epinephrine + 50mcg/mL preservative-free dexamethasone), will
      be infiltrated with real-time ultrasound visualization, needle approach medial to lateral,
      with incremental injection, intermittent aspiration, and confirmation of adequate local
      anesthetic spread.

      The study personnel, including research team, anesthesiologists, surgeons, physiotherapists,
      recovery room and ward nurses, as well as patients will be blinded to the group allocation.
      Anesthesia assistants not involved in study data collection or patient care will prepare the
      sham or real local anesthetic injectate solution for iPACK block. Syringes will be prepared
      immediately after randomization and before block placement and provided to the blinded
      anesthesiologist. Pain scores and opioid consumption, length of stay, and other data will be
      collected and assessed in person by a member of the research team or patient care team who is
      blinded to study interventions.

      Study procedure:

      Participating orthopaedic surgeons will identify eligible patients and introduce them to the
      study and research team at Alberta Hip and Knee Clinic (AHKC). Research staff will follow
      recruitment procedure and seek informed consent from patients at AHKC. Participation in this
      study will remain completely voluntary without any pressure from investigators. Patients'
      questions will be answered at recruitment session. Upon recruitment, patients will be asked
      to complete Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) and Knee
      Society Scoring (KSS).

      Study participants will be assigned study identification and get randomized in to two
      treatment arms.

      The statistician who run randomization would only know study identifications and stay blinded
      to patients' treatment arms. Hospital data will be used to know Length of Stay (LOS) and
      opioid consumption at hospital. A physiotherapist will perform Timed Up and Go test and Range
      of Motion (ROM) Pre and post-operatively at Peter Lougheed Hospital. Pain score will be
      recorded using Visual analogue scale 4 hours postoperatively and at discharge. Emergency room
      visit or 30-day readmission will be accessed through Alberta Bone and Joint Health Institute
      (ABJHI) data repository. "Unanticipated complications of iPACK block" and "technical
      difficulties with performing the iPACK block" will be recorded by the study anesthesiologist.
    
  