
    
      Research statement:This study is a multi-centre RCT. The purpose of the RCT is to evaluate
      the efficacy of a moderate intensity (80% symptom threshold heart rate (HR), Borg Rating of
      Perceived exertion (RPE) 12-16) sub-symptom aerobic exercise prescription compared to a
      conservative low level aerobic exercise group (60% HR, Borg RPE 7-11) on time to medical
      clearance to return to play in adolescents (aged 13-19) with suggested physiological
      Post-Concussion Disorder (P-PCD).

      Secondary objectives are to 1) Measure the adherence patterns of youth who are prescribed a
      specific aerobic home exercise programs. 2) Monitor longitudinal symptom reduction on the
      Sport Concussion Assessment Tool 5 (SCAT5) (week 0 and medical clearance) 3) Track
      longitudinal changes in patient-reported outcomes (symptoms) through the use of the Pediatric
      Quality of Life (PedsQL) questionnaire. 4) Evaluate the association between cognitive
      activity and time to receive medical clearance to return to sport.

      Methods: A multisite RCT will be conducted at the Pan Am Concussion Program, Winnipeg,
      Manitoba and the Sport Injury Prevention Research Centre/Acute Sport Concussion Clinic, Sport
      Medicine Centre, Faculty of Kinesiology, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta. Adolescents
      (n=136, 68 from each study site, ages 13-19 years) who are diagnosed with a sport-related
      concussion and have ongoing symptoms for more than 10 days but less than 30 days will be
      recruited for study participation. Participants will be randomized via permuted block to
      either a moderate intensity (80%) or a low intensity (60%) aerobic exercise intervention.
      Both groups will be instructed to perform their respective home aerobic exercise program the
      beginning the day after completing their first treadmill test. Participants will be
      instructed to exercise at their prescribed intensity for a maximum of 30 minutes a day, 4-5
      days a week. In the unlikely event in which participants feel unable to continue their home
      exercise program they will be asked to postpone the exercise until the next day. Participants
      will undergo diagnostic treadmill tests every two weeks, which will be used to determine
      increases in exercise tolerance and serve as a parameter of physiological recovery. The
      treadmill tests will also be used to set a new threshold heart rate for a person to continue
      to exercise at for the following two weeks or until receiving medical clearance to initiate
      the return to play protocol. The treadmill test is made to represent the most similar form of
      exercise to mimic an adolescent's respective sport.

      Participants will also be asked to fill out the SCAT5 symptom scores before and after
      treadmill testing along with the PedsQl questionnaire. Self-reported physical and cognitive
      activity will be tracked with daily exercise logs, these will be used in conjunction with
      Actigraph accelerometers and heart rate monitors which will serve as objective tools to track
      the quantification of physical activity.

      Data safety and monitoring: The study team at the University of Manitoba have performed over
      200 treadmill tests in a pediatric concussed population with no challenges regarding safety
      or tolerability. The study staff will be qualified to perform exercise stress tests in a safe
      manner based on standards of practice imposed by the University of Calgary and Canadian
      Society for Exercise Physiology. All study practices will be conducted under the supervision
      of a physician and exercise physiologist who are trained at a minimum level of cardio
      pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) level C and trained to use an automated external defibrillator
      (AED). All study personnel will know the location and how to use the on-site AED's. Monthly
      teleconferences will be held between the research team at the University of Manitoba and
      University of Calgary regarding, safety, logistics and proper manners in which to conduct
      exercise tests. Between both sites we will establish a data safety and monitoring committee
      to ensure the safety of all patients. This independent group of experts will monitor patient
      safety and treatment efficacy during the ongoing RCT and report their findings to the primary
      investigators. The committee's role will be to periodically review and evaluate the data
      collected thus far for any concerns related to patient safety or study conduct. If needed,
      they will also provide recommendations about the continuation, modification, or termination
      of the RCT.
    
  