
    
      IPF has become the focus of study in the area of pulmonary fibrosis, accounting for over 25%
      of all interstitial lung diseases (ILD) 1 and over 60% of all idiopathic interstitial
      pneumonia (IIP). The past 20 years have observed the remarkable tendency of increase of IPF
      incidence, accompanied by only 2-3 years of medium survival after diagnosis and 30-50% of
      5-year survival2. Due to limited diagnosis method at early stage of the disease, the patients
      are most likely diagnosed only when they reach middle or late stage. Other issue is lack of
      effective treatment, except for lung transplantation. Most of the deaths are caused by acute
      exacerbation, which is defined by clinicians as acute exacerbation of IPF (AE-IPF) and
      characterized by the rapid deterioration during relatively stable period of IPF (Stable-IPF).
      Exacerbation may occur at all stages of IPF development (see the below figure) and is
      accompanied by hazardous and quick development, high mortality and very poor prognosis.

      The incidence and mortality of AE-IPF varies in different studies. Kubo etc. reported that
      acute exacerbation occurs within 3 years in around 57% of IPF patients, with the mortality of
      53%. Study by Kim etc. show that the mortality of AE-IPF reaches 78%. Study by Song
      etc.demonstrated that the incidence of acute exacerbation of IPF is 35.4%, with over 50% of
      in-hospital morality, 56% of 1-year mortality and 18.4% of 3-year mortality. Other studies
      showed that 1-year post-exacerbation mortality is nearly 100%. Data based on the 178
      in-hospital IPF patients in the investigators' department during the latest 4 years showed
      that 58% (102/178) of those patients experienced acute exacerbation at certain stage of
      disease, with 70 deaths occurred. Among those deaths, 56 cases (83%) were caused by acute
      exacerbation. It is clear that the high incidence and mortality of AE-IPF is the most
      essential factors impacting the survival and quality of life of IPF patients, therefore lead
      to the poor prognosis of IPF.

      Hypothesis and key scientific questions Based on analysis above, the investigators propose
      the following hypothesis: certain level of immunological imbalance exists in those relatively
      stable IPF patients, making them susceptible to infection by various pathogens. Once
      infected, especially by viruses (e.g. common cold related viruses), AE-IPF can be quickly
      triggered, leading to ARDS-like reaction. To validate this hypothesis, four key scientific
      questions need to be answered by studies with scrupulous design: 1) what are the
      characteristic changes of immunological function in IPF/AE-IPF patients so as to make the
      patients more susceptible to common cold viruses? 2) What kind of pathogens, especially those
      common cold viruses, are the key triggering factors during the development of AE-IPF? 3) What
      kind of inflammatory cascade reaction occurs in AE-IPF leading to ARDS-like prompt
      development of pulmonary inflammation? Key research direction and scientific rationale In
      order to address the key scientific questions above, the investigators will conduct
      comprehensive studies based on detailed screen and analysis of large amount of clinical
      cases, integrated research methods in such areas as immunology, molecular, cytology and
      animal model, as well as high throughput data collection and big data analysis: 1) Extensive
      screening and identification of those pathogens closely related with AE-IPF; 2) Comprehensive
      analysis of the change of immunology function, focusing on the pathological-physiological
      alteration in virus induced immunologic imbalance in IPF, as well as the characteristic
      changes in relevant cytological signal transduction, so as to identify important AE-IPF
      bio-markers and explain the pathological molecular mechanism and network of ARDS-like
      inflammatory cascade reaction, which will be significant efforts in terms of prevention of
      AE-IPF, reduction of mortality, improvement of quality of life, delaying of disease
      progression and increase of survival.

      Similar clinical deterioration like AE-IPF will also occur in almost all the other types of
      pulmonary fibrosis, especially connective tissue disease-ILD (CTD-ILD), nonspecific
      interstitial pneumonia (NSIP), drug induced ILD, fibrotic allergic pneumonia and cryptogenic
      organizing pneumonia (COP) etc. Therefore, this program will also provide insight into the
      basic research and clinical management of acute exacerbation of other interstitial lung
      diseases, which is one common problem extensively exists in the area of interstitial lung
      disease and the key factor in terms of improving patients' quality of life and survival.
    
  