
    
      The investigators previous research has demonstrated that proteoglycan 4 (PRG4) may be a
      biomarker for identification of severity in COPD. PRG4 was more sensitive and specific than
      CRP for confirming COPD severity and acute exacerbation frequency. It was related to the
      1-year force vital capacity decline in COPD patients. The past study found that Prg4 is an
      immunomodulatory factor regulating parathyroid hormone actions on hematopoietic cells in
      mice. Previous report showed that voluntary wheel running and fluid flow shear stress that
      promote the expression of the Prg4 and association with pulmonary inflammation. COPD patients
      are characterized by a progressive decrease of lung function that is associated with
      increased in the airway and systemic inflammation. Pulmonary recovery (PR) is able to
      decrease acute exacerbation, maintain pulmonary function, increase exercise tolerance and
      improve quality of life in COPD patients, but it is unknown the mechanism of PRG4. The
      current study aimed to study in the pulmonary inflammation and the effectiveness of pulmonary
      recovery in COPD Patients：The mechanism of PRG 4.

        1. Proteoglycan 4 is correlated with pulmonary inflammation and decline of pulmonary
           function in the different phenotype of COPD.

           1-1 Classification of characteristic、the severity of disease、pulmonary functional
           test、exercise capacity and blood sample collection for routine analysis.

           1-2 Human blood bio-bank and molecular analysis: PRG4、IL-6、IL-8、TNFα、CRP& IL-10.

           1-3 To investigate whether daily physical activity、hypoxia and hyperinflation were
           associated with airway inflammation and PRG4 in COPD patients.

        2. The mechanism of PRG 4 in the effectiveness of PR on the AECOPD. 2-1 The PR program: The
           combination effect of negative pressure ventilation and exercise training program on
           acute exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD).

           2-2 To examine the efficacy of PR on cytokines and PRG4 protein. 2-3 Correlation between
           PR effects and PRG4：PR is correlation with PRG4、clinical progression、exercise
           tolerance、PFT change and SpO2 during exercise.

        3. In vitro cell culture research models 3-1 Pulmonary inflammatory model
           establishment：Human primary epithelium cell culture and Beas-2B for IL-1β、TNFα、LPS、IL-10
           and H2O2 effects.

           3-2 Purification of peripheral blood monocyte cells：Primary culture to evaluate
           pulmonary inflammation and treatment effects.

           3-3 Hypoxia experiments：To test whether hypoxia induces regulation of PRG4 protein or
           different cytokines in epithelial cells.

           3-4 Inhibit PRG4：To prove the mechanism of PRG4 under the hypoxia model by PRG4 siRNA。

        4. In vivo animal research models 4-1 Smoke-COPD mice models establishment： 4-2 To
           determinate the effects of exercise training in COPD mine. 4-3 To investigate on PRG4
           protein in pulmonary inflammation and the effectiveness of exercise training in the
           tissue and serum of mice.
    
  