
    
      Introduction:

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a lung disease characterized by chronic
      obstruction of lung airflow that interferes with normal breathing and is not fully
      reversible. In Italy the disease frequency is growing, our last estimate by National Health
      Service in the year 2014 shows more than 6 cases on 100 people (6% of the population).

      Materials and methods:

        -  Sample selection: 40 partecipants were enrolled in the Internal Medicine Department of
           S. Giovanni Calibita Fatebenefratelli Hospital in Rome

        -  Data collection: anamnesis (sex, age, GOLD classification, active pathologies, length of
           stay in hospital); Nutritional Risk Screening [NRS 2002]; food Intake: as pergentage of
           ingesta in the last meal; (MMRC) dyspnea scale.

        -  Anthropometry parameters: height , body weight, arm circumference, triceps skin fold
           thickness and Body Mass index was calculated [BMI = weight (Kg) / (stature (m))²]

        -  Body Composition: bioimpedance analysis (fat free mass, fat mass, phase angle, fat free
           mass index [height-normalized index of FFM, which is calculated by dividing FFM (in kg)
           by height (in m2) ]).

        -  Blood tests: albumin (g/dL), transferrin (mg/dL), prealbumin (mg/dL), lymphocytes /mm3,
           Retinol-binding protein (mg/dL), PCR (mg/L), NLR (neutrophil-lymphocyte ratio)

        -  Functional examinations: handgrip

        -  Diaphragm ultrasound performed during quiet respiration. The right diaphragm is analyzed
           through the liver window. The transducer is placed in the anterior subcostal region
           between the mid clavicular and anterior axillary lines. The ultrasound beam should reach
           the posterior part of the diaphragm. In the B mode view, the diaphragm is identified as
           an echogenic line between the interface of the lung and liver or spleen. Then, M mode is
           performed to record diaphragmatic excursion during respiration.

      Statistics Demographic and clinical features were summarized with the descriptive statistic
      (mean, standard deviation, median, interquartile range) for continuous variables and with
      absolute frequencies and percentage for categorical variables. We used Chi-Square Tests or
      Fisher's Exact Test (if n < 5) for comparison of percentages. We used the Pearson or Sperman
      correlation to evaluate the relationship between the continuous variables.

      Ethical approval and consent to participate All procedures performed in studies involving
      human participants were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional and the
      national research committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments
      or comparable ethical standards.
    
  