
    
      The goals of that submission will be to conduct a clinical trial of n-3 long-chain
      polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFAs) to prevent smoking relapse in post-partum women who
      quit smoking during pregnancy. For this proposal, the investigators will develop, test, and
      refine our recruitment strategy, and collect data demonstrating our ability to successfully
      recruit post-partum women who are former smokers. The investigators will collect side effect,
      tolerability, and adherence data regarding our intervention. Finally, the investigators hope
      to gather preliminary effect size data to allow more formal estimated of sample size. The
      investigators hypothesize those post-partum former smokers randomized to n-3 LCPUFA
      supplementation will be less likely to relapse and have less nicotine cravings compared to
      women allocated to placebo. As a secondary analysis the investigators will compare the
      differences in smoking point prevalence at 6 and 12 weeks between n-3 LCPUFA and placebo. The
      investigators intend to use this preliminary data to inform a future randomized,
      double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of n-3 LCPUFA supplementation to prevent smoking
      relapse in post-partum women.

      Our specific aims are:

      SA1: To successfully recruit and randomize 90 post-partum, former smokers into a clinical
      trial of n-3 LCPUFA supplementation.

      SA2: To assess the tolerability of 4 gm/day n-3 LCPUFA supplementation in post-partum, former
      smokers over a 12-week period

      SA3: To determine the effect of 4 grams/day n-3 LCPUFA supplementation for 12-weeks on
      smoking relapse rates and self-reported nicotine cravings

      Background and Rationale Cigarette smoking is the most preventable cause of cancer and is
      estimated to account for 1 in 5 cancer related deaths. It is estimated that almost 11% of
      American women report smoking during pregnancy with higher smoking rates in younger women
      with lower educational levels. Rates of quitting smoking during pregnancy have been reported
      to ranging from 35-75%. Regrettably, the rates of smoking relapse are particularly high in
      the post-partum period with an estimated 67% of women eventually relapsing.

      The post-partum period represents an ideal opportunity to promote smoking cessations given
      that: 1) many women have stopped smoking during pregnancy, motivated to improve fetal
      outcomes; and, 2) smoking relapse appears at a very discrete time-point, giving an optimal
      time to deliver an intervention. Unfortunately, the post-partum period also offers some
      unique challenges. First, the most effective strategy to prevent relapse appears to be
      prolonged pharmacotherapy. Given the safety concerns and lack of efficacy of these agents in
      pregnancy, most women who quit smoking have done so without the use of pharmacologic agents
      as these agents are not routinely recommended nor utilized in clinical practice. There is no
      evidence to support the efficacy of behavioral interventions to prevent relapse in
      non-pregnant adults and to date, prior studies of behavior interventions in the post-partum
      period have been largely null at preventing relapses. Finally, all current FDA-approved
      smoking cessations pharmacologic therapies are excreted into breast milk and manufactures
      recommend stopping breast-feeding if the agents are to be used. The identification of safe
      and effective adjuvant therapies to promote help maintain smoking abstinence in post-partum
      women and are safe to use while breastfeeding could make an important contribution to smoking
      cessation efforts and cancer prevention.

      n-3 LCPUFAs have anti-inflammatory effects and are possibly cardio-protective. Emerging data
      is beginning to suggest that n-3 LCUFA relative deficiencies could have a role in behaviors
      that are relevant to addiction. In animal models, n-3 PUFA deficiencies result in structural
      changes in nervous tissue which impacts dopaminergic and serotonergic systems and correction
      of these deficiencies can reverse these changes. In particular, n-3 PUFA deficiency can
      result in hypofunctioning of the dopamine mesocortico-limbic pathways which underlie reward
      and dependence. Nicotine results in an elevation of dopamine in the nucleus accumbens, a
      process which is associated with the pleasurable sensations related to nicotine use. As such,
      it has been hypothesized that correcting the hypofunctioning dopaminergic system through n-3
      LCPUFA supplementation might reduce the symptoms of withdrawal associated with smoking
      cessation and reduce nicotine cravings.

      Research Design and Methods

      This study is a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study of 4 grams/day n-3 LCPUFA
      supplementation versus placebo for 12-weeks. The study will recruit post-partum women with a
      recent history of stopping smoking while pregnant. The primary outcomes will include time to
      smoking relapse and change in self-reported nicotine cravings. The secondary outcome will be
      point prevalence abstinence at 6- and 12-weeks. We will also collect safety and tolerability
      data.

      Subjects will be instructed to stop any over-the-counter supplementations. The study will
      include 3 in-person visits

      Baseline visit (Week 0) This visit will occur within 6-weeks of delivery. The investigators
      will review inclusion and exclusion criteria and obtain informed consent. Subjects will
      complete the Fagerström Tolerance Questionnaire, the Minnesota Withdrawal Symptom Checklist,
      Beck Depression Inventory, and completes a detailed interview on tobacco use habits including
      recording prior cigarettes per day smoked. Research interventions will include expired CO
      level and blood collection for red blood cell phospholipid membrane and nicotine metabolites
      (serum cotinine).

      At the baseline visits participants will receive their randomization schedule. Participants
      allocated to fish oil supplementation will be instructed to take four OmegaGenics® EPA-DHA
      1000 capsules each containing 710 mg of EPA and 290 mg DHA daily; this will provide a total
      daily dose of 2840 mg EPA plus 1160 mg DHA for a total daily dose of fish oil of 4 grams.
      There will be dispensed a 6 week supply (70 capsules) Patients will take tablets with protein
      meal to enhance bioavailability. In addition, subjects will be asked to refrigerate the
      capsules, as the investigators have found in our prior studies that this step helps to
      virtually eliminate fishy taste or eructation. The investigators will use oleic acid as our
      placebo. The reason for the use of oleic acid is several-fold. First, oleic acid (olive oil)
      capsules have a similar texture, size, color, and consistency to fish oil capsules. Oleic
      acid has been used as a placebo in several prior studies and is well tolerated.(1-3)

      Week 6 and 12 In-Person Visits The investigators are planning two in-person CRC visits over
      the course of the study. Study procedures associated with these visits will include smoking
      habits interview, Fagerström Tolerance Questionnaire, the Minnesota Withdrawal Symptom
      Checklist, Beck Depression Inventory, expired CO level, blood markers of intervention
      compliance, and plasma cotinine levels. The investigators will conduct pill counts and
      interview subjects for any signs of adverse events.

      Weeks 3 and 9 Telephone Encounters Participants will be contacted in Weeks 3 and 9 via
      telephone to assess for 1) medication compliance, 2) medication side effects, and 3)
      self-reported tobacco use

      Laboratory Assays End-Expired CO levels The investigators will use the Smokerlyzer ED50 CO
      meter (Bedfont Instruments) to assess end-expired carbon monoxide.

      Serum Cotinine Serum cotinine will be measured using an isotope dilution-high performance
      liquid chromatography/ atmospheric pressure chemical ionization tandem mass spectrometry
      using a commercially available testing center.

      Determination of RBC Phospholipid Fatty Acid Analysis Lipids will be extracted using the
      method of Folch-Lees. Fatty acid methyl esters are identified by comparing the retention
      times to those of known standards. Inclusion of the internal standard, dipentadecanoyl
      phosphatidylcholine (C15:0), permits quantitation of phospholipid amount in the sample.

      Sample Size Justification and Statistical Analysis Plan General Approach This study will
      provide feasibility data regarding the recruitment strategy, the acceptability of n-3 LCPUFAs
      supplementation in post-partum women, and preliminary data on effect size for power
      estimation. The study power is based the primary outcome of smoking relapse

      Statistical analysis plan For the primary outcome the investigators will compare the
      time-to-relapse and the change in the Fagerström Tolerance Questionnaire. Secondary outcomes
      include point prevalence abstinence at 12-weeks biochemically confirmed by end-expired carbon
      monoxide. The investigators will use Cox proportional hazards models to compare the
      differences in relapse between study arms. The investigators will compare the change outcome
      at 12-weeks between arms using logistic regression using repeated measured ANOVA.

      Sample size estimation and power analysis The investigators will recruit 90 participants with
      an expected drop-out rate of 20%. This should result in an analytic sample of 70. In this
      study the investigators will randomize 45 post-partum women to n-3 LCPUFA supplements and 45
      to control therapies. The investigators estimate a 50% relapse rate in controls by 12-weeks.
      The investigators will be able to detect true hazard ratios (relative risks) of failure for
      control subjects relative to experimental subjects of 0.478 with probability (power) 0.80.
      The Type I error probability associated with this test of the null hypothesis that the
      experimental and control survival curves are equal is 0.05. The Fagerström Tolerance
      Questionnaire is on a 10-point Likert scale. Estimating a baseline score of 7.3 ± 1.6 the
      investigators have 80% power to detect a difference of 1 SD between the study arms
    
  