
    
      Each year, about 50 million women living in malaria endemic regions become pregnant, more
      than half in sub-Saharan Africa. In areas of relatively stable transmission, where acquired
      immunity to Plasmodium falciparum limits infection and prevents severe disease in adults,
      women in their first and second pregnancy are the most vulnerable subjects, due to a higher
      risk of severe anaemia and a low birth weight (LBW) outcome, a leading cause of child
      mortality and poor growth and development.

      Malaria in pregnancy and its adverse consequences can be prevented with suppressive
      antimalarial treatment or chemoprophylaxis. Weekly chloroquine (CQ) had been the basis for
      prevention for many years, but its application became limited over time, partly because of
      difficulties in coverage and compliance throughout pregnancy and partly because of increased
      parasite resistance to CQ in endemic areas. A new strategy for prevention based on
      insecticide-treated bed nets (ITNs) and use of intermittent preventive treatment in pregnancy
      (IPTp) was thus formulated, with IPTp being based on the administration of treatment doses of
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (1500/75 mg; SP) to all pregnant women at pre-defined intervals and
      regardless of malaria infection. WHO elaborated new recommendations, based on the
      administration of SP two or three times at scheduled antenatal visits at least one month
      apart from the second trimester onwards. Evidence of the efficacy of IPTp with SP for
      preventing malaria infection and improving birth weight was reported from East Africa and
      West Africa.

      However, the IPTp strategy assumes that most pregnant women attend antenatal clinics (ANC) at
      least twice during their pregnancy and at a time when SP can be administered under direct
      observation. Unfortunately, it appeared soon that late attendance to ANC and weak health
      services limit the effectiveness of this strategy; coverage with two or more SP doses varied
      widely (24-68%) and was well behind the goal of 80% proposed by the Roll Back Malaria
      Partnership. New approaches to increase IPTp coverage were urgently needed.

      This study, conceived in 2002 and carried out between 2004 and 2006, had therefore two
      different components: on one side, it investigated whether promoting regular and early
      antenatal attendance of pregnant women through community based health education would
      increase coverage and uptake of IPTp; on the other side, it investigated the effectiveness of
      IPTp-SP compared with weekly CQ, in order to provide additional evidence to the Burkinabé
      Ministry of Health for an impending policy change.
    
  