
    
      AS is an inflammatory disease of unknown etiology, characterized by marked inflammation in
      the spinal joints and adjacent structures, leading to progressive and ascending bone fusion
      in the spine. Although peripheral joint involvement is less, hip and shoulder joints are kept
      in 1/3 of the cases. Inflammatory lesions can also be seen in extraarticular organs such as
      eyes and heart. Due to joint involvement, limitations in lung capacity, and other
      extra-articular involvements, physical performance may decrease in AS patients. Both spinal
      and peripheral joint involvements and pain caused by chronic inflammatory process can lead
      patients to a more sedentary lifestyle. Therefore, evaluation of physical performance is
      important in patients with AS. Although there are some methods based on classical observation
      in evaluating physical performance, Cardiopulmonary Exercise Test (KPET), where objective
      data about aerobic capacity can be obtained, has been used frequently in scientific studies
      in recent years. The data such as oxygen consumption, cardiac parameters and speed of the
      patient on the treadmill in KPET are analyzed numerically; objective performance values such
      as maximum oxygen use (VO2max), maximum heart rate, and maximum rate can be achieved. It is
      possible to evaluate all the individuals to whom these tests are applied according to the
      normal value ranges in the world more clearly in terms of their physical performance and to
      reshape the exercise program especially according to the missing parameter. For this reason,
      these methods are preferred primarily in physical performance evaluation in centers with
      sufficient facilities.

      In the literature, although subjective tests and data on physical performance decrease,
      studies showing clear numerical data are needed. Therefore, in our study; We aim to evaluate
      the physical performance of patients by applying KPET in our patients with AS diagnosis.
      Thus, investigators aim to reveal the physical exercise capacity that may be decreased in
      this patient group with objective numerical data. In addition, patients data will compare
      with the control group of similar physical characteristics and age.
    
  