
    
      COVID-19 is a rapidly evolving pandemic with approximately 5% of all patients requiring
      admission to an intensive care unit. In critically ill patients infected with COVID-19, acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is found in 40%, 11.9% required continuous renal
      replacement therapy (RRT), and 13.4% had vasodilatory shock.

      Currently, supportive treatment is the mainstay treatment, with fluid administration and
      vasopressors for haemodynamic support and lung-protective ventilation in patients with severe
      respiratory failure.3 Targeted drugs, antiviral therapies, and vaccines are still currently
      being developed, but there is currently insufficient evidence to recommend any drug over
      another.

      Dysregulation of vasomotor tone and alteration of microcirculatory function are common in
      patients infected with COVID-19. The underlying pathophysiology and contributing factors are
      unknown. The association with subsequent organ dysfunction and outcome is also unclear.

      Circulating bio-adrenomedullin regulates vascular tone and endothelial permeability during
      sepsis, and has been shown to associate with 28-day mortality, vasopressor requirement, RRT,
      and positive fluid balance. Proenkephalin is a biomarker of glomerular function, and was
      shown to elevate in patients with acute kidney injury (AKI), especially in those with
      persistent AKI, and major adverse kidney events. Dipeptidyl peptidase 3 (DPP-3) is a
      myocardial depressant factor, which is involved in angiotensin II cleavage. High DPP-3 levels
      were associated with severe organ dysfunction and short-term mortality. In critically ill
      patients, COVID-19 has been reported to be associated with cardiovascular dysfunction and
      high mortality.

      The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) may be linked to the pathogenesis of
      COVID-19. The coronavirus receptor utilizes angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) to enter
      target cells. Endogenous angiotensin II is hypothesized to prevent binding of coronavirus to
      ACE2, causing internalization and downregulation of ACE2, and causing lysosome-mediated
      destruction of ACE2. There are no human studies in COVID-19 patients to confirm this
      hypothesis yet.

      There is very little knowledge of underlying pathogenesis in patients with COVID-19 and
      vasodilatory shock. Therefore, the investigators aim to investigate serial changes of
      relevant biomarkers in this population to give further understanding of this disease and to
      investigate the association with clinically important outcomes. The data will serve to
      develop strategies for individualized management of this high-risk group.
    
  