
    
      This is a single centre phase I/II study which will be conducted in two stages. The ability
      of AMD3100 to augment the antileukemic effect of chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation
      in patients with MDS or with AML in first or subsequent relapse, second or greater remission
      or primary induction failure will be assessed.

      The primary objective in Stage 1 is to determine an acceptably safe dose, utilizing the
      continual reassessment method (CRM).The CRM is a model-based statistical procedure for
      conducting phase I clinical trials that assigns doses to successive cohorts of patients based
      on the doses given and outcomes observed (toxicity or no toxicity) of all previous patients.
      In this sense, the method is "outcome-adaptive." The CRM relies on a simple Bayesian model
      for the probability of toxicity as a function of dose. As the dose-toxicity data in the trial
      accumulate the Bayesian model "learns" about the relationship between dose and probability of
      toxicity. Numerous computer simulation studies (and the references therein) have shown that
      the CRM has greatly superior properties compared to conventional "3+3" algorithms. This is
      due to the facts that conventional algorithms are not model-based, they only use data from
      the most recent 6 patients, and they tend to stop the trial very early, with the consequences
      that they are very likely to give very unreliable estimates of the toxicity probability at
      each dose and provide an unreliable recommended maximum tolerated dose (MTD).

      Under the particular version of the CRM being used in this trial, following treatment of the
      first cohort of three patients at the initial dose level 80 µg/kg, the following decisions
      are possible:

        -  If 0 of the first 3 patients (#1, 2 and 3) experience toxicity, then the method will
           escalate and the second cohort of patients (#4, 5 and 6) will be treated at the second
           dose level, 160 µg/kg.

        -  If either 1 or 2 of the first 3 patients experience toxicity, then the method will stay
           at the starting dose, so the second cohort will be treated at the lowest dose level, 80
           µg/kg.

        -  If all 3 of the first 3 patients experience toxicity, then the posterior probability
           that the lowest dose is unacceptably toxic will be 0.951, and since this exceeds the
           decision cut-off 0.90 in the protocol the phase I trial will be terminated with the
           conclusion that the lowest dose level 80 µg/kg is excessively toxic.

      If the trial continues, for all successive cohorts after the first, since the decision of
      which dose to assign utilizes all of the dose-toxicity data from all patients treated
      previously, there are too many possibilities to enumerate. For example, there are 12 possible
      outcomes for the second cohort, and this number increases exponentially as the trial
      progresses. However, at any point in the trial, the estimated probability of toxicity at each
      dose based on the most recent data may easily be estimated and this information made
      available to the investigators. Additional safety provisions are that the middle dose of 160
      µg/kg may not be skipped when initially escalating from 80 µg/kg, and the trial will be
      terminated early with no dose chosen if the lowest dose is excessively toxic.

      The primary objective in Stage 2 is to determine progression free survival post-allogeneic
      transplant, in terms of time to treatment failure and survival. Stage 1 will include both
      prognostic subgroups CR and not in complete remission (NCR). In Stage 2, different monitoring
      rules will be used in CR and NCR subgroups to reflect their very different historical failure
      rates. Additionally, all patients treated at the dose selected in Stage 1 will be counted as
      members of the Stage 2 sample.
    
  