
    
      The investigators intend to study the development of tendinopathy in elite athletes
      (badminton and handball players) that enter a phase of relative overloading of their tendons.
      This will be done in a large cohort of elite athletes from whom the investigators have
      obtained essential data and tests. A percentage of these elite athletes will develop overuse
      symptoms, and in those, the investigators will perform investigations that will try to
      identify the initial pathological changes in tendinopathy.

      Participants are included as soon as possible after diagnosis of either Achilles or patellar
      tendinopathy because the investigators wish to investigate the early changes in tendinopathy.
      The hypothesis is, that at the early development of tendinopathy there will be a mismatch
      between matrix protein anabolic and catabolic pathways, and will be associated with a
      secondary upregulation of inflammatory and apoptotic markers in the tendon and result in
      hypervascularization and hypermetabolism.

      Recruiting participants will be done in collaboration with TEAM DANMARK (the Danish sport
      elite sports organization) together with The Danish Badminton, Handball and Volleyball
      Associations). Furthermore, the investigators will establish contact with all relevant
      coaches and medical teams of these associations mentioned above. Information leaflets will
      repeatedly be sent about the project. Elite athletes can contact the chief physician of TEAM
      DANMARK directly through email or telephone. In comparison, a control group of healthy
      athletes is already recruited in the former project of recreational athletes.

      Recruitment to the project will focus onset of exercise pain, and every participant will be
      examined by the chief physician of TEAM DANMARK if the participant has tendinopathy or not.
      Once included the participant will undergo following procedures as soon as possible after
      diagnosis is given:

        -  A questionnaire regarding training history and ongoing symptoms

        -  Ultrasound scanning of patellar or Achilles tendons (bilateral)

        -  Blood samples

        -  MRI of the tendon that can identify any diseased area.

      Participants with tendinopathy will be physically reevaluated after 3, 6 and 12 months with
      regards to symptoms, the activity of daily life, blood samples, questionnaires VISA-A/P and
      ultrasound measurements. Furthermore, the unaffected side will also be used as a comparison.
      Moreover, participants will receive initial guidance about load reduction by the Chief
      Physician.

      It is expected that the results of this study will provide insight into the events leading up
      to a developing tendinopathy. This study will add important information to understand the
      pathophysiology and provide information on the timing of the phases as well. Information and
      results from the study will give insight into better treatment options that are more specific
      and earlier intervention in elite athletes. Furthermore, this study will investigate and
      address the question of why some elite athletes develop tendinopathies, and others do not
      when the training volume is equally raised.
    
  