
    
      This study was conducted in a large psychiatric center that has 10 residential rehabilitation
      units. Residents were allowed to walk for 20 min during 6-7 pm every day, and each unit could
      accommodate approximately 50 residents. In this study, patients on the schizophrenia spectrum
      were invited to receive screening for metabolic syndrome. A total of 108 patients agreed to
      undergo the screening, and forty-seven patients were confirmed to have metabolic syndrome.
      Patients with metabolic syndrome or BMIs > 25 kg/m2 were invited to participate in the
      research. In total, sixty-two patients satisfied the inclusion criteria, and 22 patients
      consented to participate in the experiment.

      Each participant was assigned one number from 1 to 22 by the first author. The second author
      enrolled participants. They were randomized to either Baduanjin program group or routine care
      group in a 1:1 ratio using blocked randomization having a block size of 4 by the fourth
      author. Patients in the experimental group (EG) participated in the Baduanjin intervention in
      a privacy setting", which involved 60-min sessions 3 times per week, 1 h after dinner between
      6 and 7 pm; the entire program continued for 12 weeks. The control group (CG) received
      routine care and was required to walk during 6-7 pm. The outcome indicators for this
      intervention program involved the risk factors for metabolic syndrome, BW, and BMI.

      When schizophrenia becomes chronic, patients experience lack of motivation. This exercise
      program aimed to increase patient participation and control their BW through Baduanjin
      program. The entire program continued for 3 months (mid-September to mid-December 2014), and
      the intervention was performed for 60 min 3 times per week; particular attention was paid to
      the disease characteristics of the patients with chronic schizophrenia and to preventing
      excessive fatigue. Every session began with a 20-min warm-up, followed by 20 min of Baduanjin
      program, and ended with a cool-down session. The participants were instructed, with the
      assistance of a video, to practice Baduanjin program in a group by two authors who are
      experienced in the psychiatric nurses and had been trained in this program. While these
      participants practiced the Baduanjin program, the CG participants walked for 15-20 min in
      their wards.
    
  