
    
      Background Cigarette smoking is associated with decreased survival and decreased efficacy of
      cancer therapy in those with smoking related malignancies. There is limited of study of
      smoking cessation for cancer patients being treated in regions with high tobacco use such as
      Kentucky. There is little study of cessation implementation in the community cancer treatment
      setting where the majority of cancer patients receive their cancer therapy. Most smokers have
      significant exposure to information and personal experience with tobacco treatments which, in
      some cases, leads to profound preferences. The effect of incorporating these patient
      preferences into tobacco treatment planning has not been studied or quantified.

      Study Design Phase II therapeutic clinical trial.

      Setting University of Kentucky Markey Cancer Center (MCC) and its affiliate research network
      of Community Cancer Centers (MCCRN)

      Methods Ninety-three subjects will be selected. All subjects will be active smoking oncology
      patients with a diagnosis of smoking related malignancy who are beginning a new course of
      therapy. In conjunction with their treating clinician, all subjects will be counseled and
      then select one of 12 cessation strategies. This will include a choice of continuous
      pharmacologic agent (veranicline, bupropion or transdermal nicotine patch), counseling
      strategy (11 session high intensity motivational based counseling or single session low
      intensity counseling), and whether or not to use as needed nicotine (gum, lozenges or spray).

      Data Analysis All subjects will be followed for six months. The primary endpoint will be a
      carbon monoxide monitoring confirmed negative seven-day point prevalence report of cessation
      at eight weeks. Data will then be analyzed and compared with a completed randomized clinical
      trial of the same treatment strategies in the same population of subjects where the cessation
      strategy was assigned (historical control). The proportion of subjects that have quit at week
      eight will be compared to the historical control proportion (namely, whether Ho:p=po vs Ha:
      p>po). This will be assessed using a z-score for a binomial proportion which will test
      whether the underlying proportion quitting at eight weeks (p) differs from the control
      proportion (po ranging from 0.215 to 0.26) estimated from our recently completed randomized
      trial of these same 12 cessation strategies.
    
  