
    
      1. PURPOSE Rheumatic diseases, being part of the auto-immune diseases, are rare
           inflammatory diseases which usually occur from an unknown reason. Various factors alone
           or in combination can trigger the disease, including pathogens, medications and stress,
           but the most prominent factor is the genetic background. These diseases are chronic,
           characterized by periods of flares and regression, and patients are often treated by
           various drugs. In routine check-up visits in the rheumatology clinic, patients are
           giving blood regularly in order to monitor the levels of cytokines and antibodies.
           However, the factors being assessed in the routine lab are limited, and the
           investigators believe there are much more proteins that can be studied in our research
           lab. Genomic studies of DNA and RNA isolated from blood of rheumatic patients are rarely
           being performed, and if they are - only at diagnosis. Combining both protein and genetic
           profiles of patients at diagnosis and follow up can be extremely useful both for basic
           and clinical research in helping us to understand the tendency to develop a disease, as
           well as disease progression and response to therapy. A rheumatoid bio-bank is the basis
           of establishing many studies leading us a step forward towards personalized medicine.

        2. DNA/ RNA resource DNA and RNA will be isolated from blood, synovial fluid or from skin
           tissue biopsies, related to the rheumatologic disease, derived from patients and normal
           donors who consent to participate in the rheumatologic Bio-Bank program. The DNA/RNA
           will be extracted, measured and stored in the bio-bank freezers. Blood samples will be
           drawn by a physician or accredited nurse, synovial fluid samples and skin biopsies will
           be collected by physicians only.

        3. Patient recruitment: Obtaining Informed Consent

           General Principle:

           Tissues will only be taken from adult patients who gave consent by means of a signed
           informed consent form.

           All patients above the age of 18, referred to the Rheumatology clinic or Internal
           Medicine E Department at the Meir Medical Center, for investigation or treatment of
           suspected rheumatic disease, will be candidates to participate in the repository.
           Patients at their primary diagnosis or follow up will be eligible for this study.
           Recruitment of patients and obtaining informed consent will be done by physicians only.
           No tissue for DNA/RNA isolation will be taken from patients prior to obtaining their
           written consent or from those who do not consent.

           Number of sample in the bio-bank: 500 for each year

        4. Identifying Patients Entitled for Sample Collection 4.1 - General responsibility: The
           bio bank manager, Dr. Yair Levy, will hold responsibility for appropriate storage and
           privacy protection of samples, and will be in charge of the bio bank staff.

           4.2- Privacy protection and access to patient's information: To protect patient's
           privacy identification, a serial code will be generated for each sample. The serial code
           will replace patient's identifying stickers and along the bio bank processing, samples
           will only be recognized by bio bank serial codes. The samples are stored in locked
           freezers or in freezers located in locked rooms accessible to bio bank staff only. The
           protocol for sample coding: Names and ID numbers of all consented patients will be saved
           at the bio bank in a separate database that is not connected to the bio bank sample
           tracking system. On sample reception to the bio bank, the serial code and the correlated
           patient's identifying number will be recorded on a special secure computer file within
           the bio bank records. Access to this file will be restricted only to the bio bank
           coordinator or its manager. All paper documents containing data about patients or
           samples (e.g. a copy of patients informed consent form) will be kept in locked cabinets.

           4.3 - Coordinating sample collection: The nurse will draw blood according to physician's
           orders and the attached bio bank forms. Synovial fluid aspirates will be taken solely by
           physicians and only if medically indicated.

           4.4 - Skin biopsies - The bio bank coordinator will be informed on a weekly basis of all
           planned skin biopsies at the Dermatology clinic at Meir Medical Center. The biopsy will
           be performed as clinically needed and with no modification due to banking requirement.
           All removed tissues will be sent to the pathology lab and processing for banking will
           begin only after confirmation that adequate tissue is available for the pathology
           processing. Tissues that eventually will be diagnosed other than rheumatic related
           disease will be banked and may serve for studies of that specific process or as
           controls.

        5. Participant's rights 5.1 Benefits and risks to participants The impact of human genetics
           research on human beings is vast. DNA samples taken from patients and volunteers may
           carry information regarding genetic disorders, inheritance pattern and also about the
           human nature. The focus of the rheumatologic Bio-bank is on rheumatoid diseases
           pathogenesis, therapies and immune response during illness and recovery. Samples stored
           at the Bio-Bank may be subject to any genetic study of rheumatoid diseases regarding the
           biology, pathogenesis, prognosis, complications or patient's response to the disease or
           therapy. The benefit outcome from genetic studies to the individual participant may be
           detection of clinically significant genomic markers which may have implications for
           patient's appropriate treatment, and follow-up. The risks might include bad mental
           influence according to one's genetic aberration detected.

           5.2 Withdrawal of participance Participants who want to withdraw their consent must
           inform the Bio-bank their request in a written letter. Following the acceptance of
           participant letter, the use of his samples will be immediately stopped and all available
           DNA samples from this participant will be discarded. In case that a DNA sample from this
           participant had already been utilized for a specific study, the Bio-bank manager will
           inform participant request to that study PI which must stop using that sample.

           5.3 Patents rights Participants won't have patent rights or spiritual asset derived from
           studies that use their samples.

           5.4 Participant's compensation Bio-bank donation will be voluntary only. No compensation
           will be paid to participants.

        6. Timing for Sample Collection and Processing Preferably, the first sample collection
           should be collected at diagnosis. From patients presented during weekends and holidays
           the consent will be obtained at admission but samples will be taken early in morning on
           the first regular working day. It is important that first samples be collected prior to
           the first drug administration or at least as close to the beginning of therapy as it is
           possible. By no means will the treatment be delayed for any reason related to this
           protocol.

      Pre-set regular follow-up time points and major clinical events (flare, relapse, and
      remission) will serve as important milestones. Samples will be drawn simultaneously with the
      routine clinical tests as ordered by the treating physician. By no means will sample be taken
      if not otherwise indicated and ordered by the treating physician. All samples should be
      transported to the laboratory immediately after they had been drawn. Processing should begin
      as close to the time it was drawn as is possible. Sample Handling protocols 7.1 Sample
      collection: Blood samples are taken only from participants who have previously consented and
      authorized the use of their samples for research purposes. Blood will be drawn by any
      employees certified in taking blood at the Meir Medical Center; synovial fluid will be drawn
      by physicians only. Blood and synovial fluid will be drawn to lavender and gold top vials
      with EDTA at a maximum of 20 ml for blood and 30 ml for synovial fluid.

      7.2 Blood Processing: Blood samples will be separated to serum and cellular fraction by
      centrifugation, and kept at -80c until used. White blood cells (WBC) will be collected
      following red blood cells hemolysis, and stored at -80c. Proteins will be assessed directly
      from the sera fraction while DNA/RNA will be extracted from WBC.

      8. Utilization of frozen sample A. Appreciation for usage of frozen sample

      All researchers working at Meir or in any other recognized research institution are
      potentially eligible for samples use from this protocol. No personal identifying data will be
      given. A summary of relevant clinical data on the donor of each sample will be enclosed,
      without any personal data such as name, ID number, hospital record number, address or
      telephone number. A sample will be eligible for utilization only after the completion of all
      the following conditions:

        1. A written confirmation from the Internal Review Board (IRB) and the head of researcher's
           institute, approving the specific project / experiment, for which samples are required.

        2. The PI of the suggest experiment will present a detailed protocol of the suggested
           experiment. The protocol should include the rationale and the expected benefit from the
           experiment, clear and detailed inclusion and exclusion criteria and detailed laboratory
           protocol.

        3. The PI of the suggest experiment will provide a written document listing all samples
           received for his/her research, confirming his/her obligation and responsibility to
           follow all ethical roles as detailed by Israeli law and Meir's IRB. The PI of the
           suggest experiment will not transfer samples to a third party without permission from
           the Bio-bank manager and the Meir's IRB.

        4. The transported samples must be unidentified. Only the Israeli Bio-bank manager will be
           able to decode the samples information in case it will be needed.

        5. The Meir IRB will review all the above documentation and will approve utilizing samples
           from the Bio Bank.

      B. Protocol of tissue usage

      Following the completion of all required conditions as mentioned in paragraph A, the PI of
      the project or experiment should fill out a tissue request form and submit it to the Bio
      Bank. PI of the Bio Bank project is responsible to verify that all required conditions were
      fulfilled. The following protocol is to follow:

        1. The bio bank coordinator will confirm with the PI who applied for samples when his
           laboratory team will be ready for picking up samples.

        2. Samples will be always dispatched frozen in sealed boxed with dry ice. Samples will be
           marked with a printed sticker of bio bank barcode of that sample. A detailed summary of
           the clinical follow up of all patients who donated samples for this project will be
           attached identified by bio bank barcode only. Names, ID numbers of any other identifying
           details will not be provided.

      C. Utilizing samples priorities and the role for long term banking

        1. In case concomitant projects are interested in identical samples: Projects that runs by
           investigators from Meir Medical Center will be prioritized over projects from other
           institutes.

        2. RNA and DNA will be preferably reserved for large scale studies. International
           collaborations are welcomed to utilized samples for studies within the scope of this
           protocol.

        3. Samples will be saved as identified samples (as described in 4.2) for 20 years from the
           end of collection. After 20 years samples will be destroyed unless extending storage
           duration will approved by Helsinki Committee.
    
  