
    
      Diabetes control, assessed on the level of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c), improves
      complications such as microangiopathy. To reduce cardiovascular disease, better global
      management including an individualized care pathway is required. Inadequate care results in a
      high rate of re-hospitalizations during the year (approximately 15 to 20% of all diabetic
      patients).

      So far, the only contribution of telemedicine in the context of diabetes has been the
      teletransmission of data from electronic monitoring logs, including insulin doses and
      capillary blood glucose measurements, to platforms accessible to healthcare teams (physicians
      and non-medical staff). Remote monitoring according to these methods can lead to asynchronous
      therapeutic proposals whose effectiveness on HbA1c levels has already been demonstrated and
      the contribution of telemonitoring has also already been validated on the improvement of
      certain cardiovascular risk factors.

      However, this experimental approach remains limited to insulin-treated diabetic patients with
      sufficient capacity and motivation to use connected devices. It only considers one component
      of the care required by patients with diabetes.

      Until now, telemedicine has not proposed a global approach to the therapeutic accompaniment
      of diabetic patients. Thus, recurrent hospitalizations for acute metabolic events
      (ketoacidosis, severe hypoglycemia) or complications related to diabetes (severe foot wounds,
      cardiovascular accidents, visual or renal alterations) are frequently observed.

      The ambition of our project is therefore to demonstrate the feasibility of setting up an
      individualized care pathway that can be supported by a multidisciplinary tele-medical network
      on a regional level. This pathway will include a basic program and a follow-up which can be
      adapted and revised through regular use of collaborative tele-expertise.
    
  