
    
      Evidence from the Sleep Heart Health Study suggests that nocturnal arousals from sleep impact
      heart rate variability and sleep disorders associated with frequent nocturnal arousals,
      including restless legs syndrome (RLS), increase the risks of developing cardiovascular
      disease. The majority of RLS patients, once asleep, exhibit frequent periodic limb movements
      (PLMs), which cause electroencephalographic (EEG) arousals and sleep fragmentation resulting
      in poor quality of sleep and daytime consequences. PLMs are also reported to increase heart
      rate.The precise nature of the relationship between PLMs and their impact on heart rate and
      blood pressure is not clear. This may relate to the fact that PLMs are scored as either
      present or absent and without accounting for the differences in intensity of muscle activity
      during individual PLMs and intensity of associated arousals. In fact PLMs have been reported
      to vary from barely visible to very intense changes in the anterior tibialis electromyogram
      (EMG). This study will evaluate the effects of gabapentin encarbil (GEn) on intensity of
      cortical arousals associated with PLMs using a newly developed computer assisted scoring
      system which allows for scaling microarousals in the EEG. The anterior tibialis EMG
      intensity, continuous blood pressure and heart rate will be measured.

      The study design is a phase IV single center, single blind, placebo run-in fixed dose single
      group study in twenty subjects with moderate to severe restless leg syndrome. It includes a
      one- three week screening washout period, one week of placebo run-in and four- week treatment
      period with GEn 600 mg once daily. Subjects will be instructed to take their study medication
      once daily with food in the evening at approximately 5 PM. If the dose is not taken at the
      recommended time, the next dose should be taken the following day at the regularly scheduled
      time (about 5 PM the next evening). Subjects will be blinded to treatment (placebo versus
      active drug).

      Polysomnography (PSG) will be obtained for two nights of baseline at the end of placebo
      run-in and at the end of four weeks of treatment with gabapentin encarbil 600 mg. Medical
      history and cardiovascular risk factors will be assessed at Screening. RLS disease history,
      previous/current RLS therapy, augmentation history and evidence of sleep disturbance will be
      obtained.Severity of RLS will be determined using the International Restless Legs Syndrome
      (IRLS) scale. The Berlin questionnaire will be used to identify the risk (low to high) of
      sleep disordered breathing. The Beck Depression Inventory (BDI-II) will be administered to
      identify depression and its severity at Screening. Electrocardiogram (ECG), clinical
      laboratory test and urine pregnancy test will be conducted at Screening to determine
      eligibility. Also to determine eligibility, subjective evidence of sleep disturbance will be
      assessed per daily sleep diary at Visit 2. A physical exam will be performed at the beginning
      of the Placebo Run-in Period.

      The visit schedule includes: Screening; Scheduled Tests/Exams; Placebo administration visit;
      Baseline PSG visits; Baseline Visit; End of treatment PSG visits; Adverse Event Evaluation
      (for all subjects);Unscheduled clinical evaluation visit; and End of Study Visit.

      Primary outcome will involve change from baseline (end of run-in period) in cortical arousal
      intensity associated with PLMs for subjects treated with Gen 600 mg QD for 4 weeks. PSG
      studies will be recorded for 8 hours using standard techniques described by R&K. Cortical EEG
      arousals will be scored using wavelet analysis of C3/A2 and C4/A1 EEG signals. Arousals
      scored in NREM sleep will be assigned a score from 0-9. This arousal scaling is entirely
      subjective. Wavelet analysis will be performed on each of the scaled arousals using wavelet
      features that correlate with arousal intensity. The arousal intensity will be measured using
      Wavelet Transform which is superior for analyzing signals such as EEG.

      Beat to beat heart rate measurement will identify the highest value in the interval 2-12
      seconds preceding each arousal which will be used as a baseline heart rate. The highest heart
      rate in the interval between arousal and at 8 seconds after its end, and the difference from
      baseline will represent the change in heart rate associated with the arousal.

      Blood pressure changes will be identified using the same technique as the heart rate changes.
      Continuous blood pressure will be monitored using Somnotouch RESP. Using the 2-12 seconds
      preceding each arousal, any identified change between onset of arousal and at 8 seconds after
      its end will represent the change in blood pressure.

      PLM intensity will be derived by measuring the highest anterior tibialis EMG amplitude during
      the 2-12 seconds prior to arousal onset and comparing to maximum EMG amplitude during PLMs
      with or without associated arousal.

      The Rechtschaffen and Kales (R&K) standard PSG parameters include: TST (total sleep time),
      WASO (wake after sleep onset), LPS10 (latency to persistent sleep), SE (sleep efficiency),
      Awakenings Index (number of awakenings per hour of sleep), AI (arousals index), sleep stage
      percentages, PLMI (periodic limb movements per hour), and PLMAI (periodic limb movements
      associated with arousal per hour).

      The secondary subjective efficacy endpoints are: 1) the mean change from Baseline to the end
      of the Treatment Period in International Restless Legs Syndrome (IRLS) Rating Scale total
      score, (2) proportion of responders ("much"/ "very much" improved) on the investigator-rated
      Clinical Global Impression-Improvement (CGI-I) scale, and proportion of responders
      ("moderately better" to "a great deal better") on the Patient Global Impression of Change
      (PGIC) scale (4) the mean change from baseline to the end of the Treatment Period in PSQ, SSQ
      items, RLSQoL, RLS-NDI and ESS scores

      The IRLSSG has developed and validated a 10-item scale for assessing the severity of RLS. The
      IRLS Rating scale will be assessed at the screening visit, the placebo initiation visit, the
      baseline visit and end of study visit (and at the ET visit for subjects who withdraw
      prematurely). The investigator-rated CGI-I will be recorded at Baseline (end of placebo
      administration) and at the end of the Treatment Period and at the ET visit, if applicable.

      The PSQ is a self-rated questionnaire which assesses sleep quality and sleep disturbances
      over a one month time interval. The RLSQoL is an 18-item scale that assesses the impact of
      RLS on daily life, emotional wellbeing, social life, and work life. The ESS is an assessment
      used to measure average longtime sleepiness whereby subjects self-rate questions on how
      likely they are to fall asleep in eight different situations. The PSQ, RLSQoL and ESS will be
      recorded at Baseline and at the end of the Treatment Period and at the ET visit, if
      applicable.

      The SSQ is a daily sleep diary where subjects record their sleep activities and report the
      quality of their sleep over the past 24 hours on an 11 point numeric rating scale ranging
      from 0 ("very poor") to 10 ("excellent"). The RLS-NDI measures the impacts of RLS on next day
      functioning. The impacts include activities of daily living (i.e., work, household chores),
      cognitive functioning (i.e., concentration, forgetfulness, mental tiredness, alertness),
      emotional functioning (i.e., irritability, depressed mood), physical functioning (i.e.,
      physical tiredness, active leisure activities), energy, daytime sleepiness, and social
      functioning (i.e., relationships, social activities/situations). The final measure consists
      of 14 items assessed "today" and rated on a numeric rating scale. Subjects will be instructed
      to complete the daily diary and the RLS-NDI over the 7 days preceding Visit 4 (PSG 2 visit)
      and Visit 7 (PSG 4 visit).

      The following safety assessments will be performed during this study:

      Physical examination, including height as with other screening only measurements; Weight
      measurements;Vital sign measurements, including blood pressure and pulse rate;Pregnancy
      testing; AE reporting;ECG (for screening only); Laboratory safety tests (at screening)

      The primary efficacy endpoint is the reduction from placebo-baseline in cortical arousal
      intensity associated with PLMs after treatment with GEn. A sample size of 20 subjects is
      estimated by a priori power analysis (G*Power 3.1.9.2) to achieve 92% power for a 2-sided 5%
      paired t-test with an effect size of 0.80. The primary efficacy analysis will be performed on
      the per-protocol population who completed the study taking 600 mg GEn/day of the study drug.
      For subjects who prematurely withdraw from the study, EOS PSG will be acquired provided they
      received at least 2 weeks of treatment with GEn. All data for primary and secondary endpoints
      will be analyzed using a paired t-test. 95% confidence intervals will be provided for the
      true mean treatment difference. Descriptive statistics will be reported for the primary and
      secondary endpoints by placebo-baseline visit and treatment group. To further evaluate
      treatment effects, the association between the changes from baseline in primary objective and
      secondary subjective endpoints will be evaluated using Pearson correlation coefficients.
      Safety and tolerability analyses will focus primarily on frequency of treatment emergent
      adverse events.
    
  