
    
      In order to eliminate new pediatric HIV infections, save maternal lives, and simplify
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) implementation in settings with generalized HIV epidemics,
      current World Health Organization (WHO) guidance recommends lifelong triple ART for all
      pregnant and breastfeeding women (Option B+). However, despite the promise of Option B+ to
      remove logistical barriers and to promote maternal health through life-long ART, this
      strategy brings challenges. Key amongst these challenges are adherence to ART and continuous
      retention in HIV care, especially for women who do not require ART for their own health.
      Barriers to adherence and retention in care for prevention of mother-to-child transmission
      (PMTCT) have been identified at the individual, interpersonal, community, and health facility
      levels; yet specific barriers in the context of Option B+ are not well understood. The
      investigators' study will be conducted at 20 health facilities and associated communities in
      Nyanza Province, Kenya where Mother to Child Transmission (MTCT) rates prior to Option B+
      roll-out remained near 10%, despite the wide availability of PMTCT services. As Option B+ is
      scaled up in Kenya, it is essential to identify effective methods to ensure long-term
      adherence and retention in care for mother-baby pairs, throughout pregnancy, breastfeeding,
      and beyond. Building on the investigating team's prior research experience in this setting,
      the investigators propose to gain understanding of and address potential barriers at the
      individual, community, and health facility levels through formative research with
      HIV-positive pregnant and postpartum women, their male partners, and health care providers.
      This information will be used to refine two proposed interventions that are highly likely to
      maximize ART adherence and retention in care among HIV-infected pregnant women and
      HIV-exposed infants. These interventions will be rigorously tested in rural Kenya, using a
      cluster randomized 2x2 factorial design. The evidence-based interventions to be tested will
      include 1) community Mentor Mothers (cMM) who will provide support for ART adherence and
      retention in care for HIV-positive women in the community and 2) individually tailored,
      theory based mobile phone text messages to help retain women and infants in HIV care. The
      investigators' overall goal is to determine which intervention (or combination of
      interventions) maximizes ART adherence and retention in care in the context of Option B+ and
      thus improves maternal and infant health outcomes. The investigators' primary outcomes will
      include ART adherence at 12 months postpartum and retention in care, measured by a documented
      HIV care visit within 90 days prior to 12 months postpartum. Secondary outcomes will include
      MTCT at 6 weeks, 12 months and 18 months; as well as maternal viral loads and CD4 counts.
      Results from this study will inform the scale-up of Option B+ in Kenya by identifying
      effective interventions and combinations of interventions that can reduce barriers and
      increase facilitators of optimal ART adherence and retention in care with the aims of
      reaching the elimination of mother to child transmission of HIV and significantly improving
      maternal health.
    
  