
    
      Purpose: To perform longitudinal studies of clinical outcomes and personal perspectives
      following utilization of PGT.

      Background: Preimplantation Genetic Testing (PGT) is a commercially available adjunct to in
      vitro fertilization (IVF) and is now performed in over 40% of treatment cycles in the United
      Sates (Society for Assisted Reproductive Technology Annual Report, 2018). Several clinical
      genetics entities offer PGT services, including Genomic Prediction Clinical Laboratory (CLIA#
      31D2152380, CAP# 8488628). It is common practice to perform interviews with, and record
      reviews of patients following clinical interventions. Results may provide instrumental
      information for the scientific and medical community to improve clinical care. We would like
      to review medical records in order to recruit patients to participate in longitudinal studies
      of clinical outcomes and personal perspectives following utilization of PGT.

      Study Design and Methods: Patients indicating willingness to participate in research during
      informed consent to perform PGT will be eligible for inclusion. Patients who opted out of
      participating in research during informed consent to perform PGT will be ineligible for
      inclusion. Clinical PGT consent forms will be reviewed to identify patients that indicated
      willingness to participate in research. Eligible patients will be counseled on the study and
      consented for participation by a licensed genetic counselor. A total of 10,000 patients will
      be recruited. Following patient recruitment and informed consent, patient records and results
      of patient interviews may be used for publication in peer-reviewed scientific journals,
      presentation at scientific conferences or company meetings. As it is in standard practice,
      all external communication of results will maintain de-identification of all protected health
      information of all subjects (HIPAA guidelines). A licensed genetic counselor will conduct a
      recorded interview. Patient PGT, family history, and ethnicity data and information may be
      included in cohort analyses.
    
  