
    
      Background: Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a neurodevelopmental disorder
      characterized by symptoms of inattention and/or hyperactivity/impulsivity that are persistent
      across situations and time. ADHD in adulthood, with an estimated prevalence of 2 - 3 %, is
      associated with challenges that may have severe consequences on their daily life functioning.
      Still, the availability of evidence-based psychological interventions is limited.
      Interventions delivered over the Internet is promising, because it may increase the
      availability of effective psychological interventions for a larger group of adults with ADHD.
      However, studies show that lack of sustained adherence is a challenge in self-guided internet
      interventions. Digital reminders may help increase adherence and engagement in these
      interventions.

      Objectives: The overall aim of this study is to investigate adherence and effects of a
      self-guided Internet-delivered intervention for adults with an ADHD diagnosis. More detailed,
      we will examine whether the use of reminders will increase adherence and engagement in the
      intervention, and consequently how this affect intervention effects.

      Methods: The study uses a micro-randomized design. A total of 100 participants with an ADHD
      diagnosis will be included. Primary measure is adherence (completed modules) and participant
      feedback regarding self-reported engagement. Secondary clinical outcomes: inattention and
      hyperactivity/impulsivity measured by two subscales from the Adult ADHD Self-Rating Scale
      (ASRS); quality of life measured by Adult ADHD Quality of Life Measure (AAQol); stress
      measured by the Perceived Stress Scale (PSS); cognitive functioning measured with the
      Perceived Deficit Questionnaire (PDQ-5), and self-compassion measured by the Self
      compassion-Scale - short form (SCS-SF). We will use quantitative statistical procedures and
      qualitative methods to analyze the data.

      Discussion: The results from the study will contribute to the growing research on
      Internet-delivered interventions. The expected results may have a major impact on further
      development of treatment options for adults with ADHD. Moreover, investigating ways to
      increase adherence in online self-guided programs could be of great value when implementing
      such intervention into routine care.
    
  