
    
      Introduction:

      Autism associates impairments in social relationships and specific competencies linked to
      restricted interests. These interests usually focus on mathematics, drawings or foreign
      language learning and are very significant in the autobiographies of persons with autism
      without intellectual deficiency. It's seem to be a basement of their self-identity. The
      personal identity relies on both the self representations and the sense of self. This sense
      of self supports the self continuity through time which links the present feelings, the
      autobiographical memories and the future personals projects. The personal identity depends on
      the memory of life events called "autobiographical memory."

      Objectives:

      The research aims at clarifying the impact of autism on personal identity in adulthood. Two
      studies will be made in order to compare adults with autistic spectrum disorders without
      intellectual deficiency and controls. In the first study (Study A), the investigators will
      ask subjects to tell autobiographical memories and to specify their characteristics by
      answering focused questions. In the second study (Study B), the investigators will ask
      subjects to say the self statements which define them. Then, subjects will have to tell and
      to specify the characteristics of the autobiographical memories linked to these self
      statements.

      Expected Results:

      The first study will inform the investigators on the sense of self and self continuity
      through time. The investigators predict that it would be difficult for subjects with autism
      spectrum disorders to give details of their life events. The focused questions should make
      easier the recollection of the memories. The investigators hypothesize that the memories
      linked to the typically autistic restricted interests would be more detailed.

      The second study will inform the investigators on the memories linked to self
      representations. The investigators predict that these memories would be, in autism, less
      detailed and less important for identity. The investigators also hypothesize that the
      memories linked to the restricted interests would be more detailed and important for the
      self.

      Autobiographical memory and socialization are deeply interconnected. So, the investigators
      think that this research will help them to elaborate news therapies focused on
      autobiographical memory improvement. Finally, the investigators want to reduce the social
      disability in autism.
    
  