
    
      There are two cohorts: Cohort A is for patients ≥ 16 years of age and Cohort B is for
      patients 3 - 15 years of age. Cohort A is closed to enrollment but this study will open to
      Cohort B patients. This phase II open label study will evaluate adults and children with
      NF1and plexiform neurofibromas treated with cabozantinib (XL184). This study will enroll
      subjects who either meet clinical diagnostic criteria or have an identified pathogenetic NF1
      mutation. Subjects on study must have clinically significant plexiform neurofibroma defined
      as potentially life-threatening, impinging on vital structures or significantly impairing the
      quality of life from pain or other symptoms. Patients must not have lesions suspicious for
      malignant tumors such as MPNSTs (malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors) and suspicious
      tumors must be proven negative by histopathology prior to enrollment on study. Since Cohort A
      is closed to accrual, this study will be open to Cohort B, patients 3 - 15 years of age that
      meet eligibility criteria.

      For Cohort A, the study will be a Simon two-stage study design. It will be a single-arm
      open-label study of cabozantinib and the primary endpoint is the ORR to cabozantinib at 1
      year. In the first stage, 9 evaluable subjects will be accrued. If there is at least 1
      response, accrual will continue to the second stage and an additional 8 evaluable subjects
      will be enrolled. To allow for 25% unevaluable subjects, a maximum of 24 subjects will be
      enrolled. Radiographic response will be evaluated as the primary endpoint with 20% volumetric
      MRI response of the target lesion being the threshold criteria for tumor response. A target
      lesion will be selected at time of enrollment and tumor evaluations will occur serially while
      on study.

      For Cohort B, a minimum of 17 evaluable subjects will be enrolled. To allow for up to 25%
      unevaluable subjects, a minimum of 24 subjects will be enrolled. Based on preliminary
      response data and minimal toxicity in Cohort A, a 2-stage design is not felt to be necessary
      for Cohort B.

      In Cohort A, all subjects will start cabozantinib at 40 mg. The published MTD for
      Cabozantinib is 140 mg and the current recommended dose in Phase 3 clinical trials for
      subjects with medullary thyroid cancer is 100 mg. Doses of 40 mg and 60 mg continue to show
      efficacy in on-going phase 2 and phase 3 trials with reduced toxicity. Subjects who tolerate
      40 mg for 2 cycles will escalate to 60 mg. The rationale for this is that the majority of
      subjects who develop toxicity do so after >2 weeks on drug as cabozantinib has a long
      half-life. Subjects who experience dose-limiting toxicity at 40 mg will dose reduce to 20 mg
      when their toxicities resolve. Subjects without toxicity at 40mg will increase to 60mg.
      Subjects who experience toxicity at 60 mg will dose reduce to 40 mg. This dosing schema is
      designed to maximize safety and tolerability in this new population of patients.

      In Cohort B, subjects will start at 30 mg/m2/day dosing. Dose will be escalated at cycle 3 if
      tolerated to 40 mg/m2. Subjects who experience DLT at 40 mg/m2/day will dose reduce to 30
      mg/m2/day. Subjects who experience DLT at 30 mg/m2/day will dose reduce to 23 mg/m2day.
      Actual dosing will be based on the dosing nomogram.

      Dosing will be continuous, with 28 days defined as a cycle and each cycle reporting period is
      day 1 to day 28. In the absence of progressive disease or dose limiting toxicity (DLT),
      subjects may continue on therapy for a total of 12 total cycles. Subjects who have a
      radiographic response (20% or greater reduction in tumor volume) on therapy at the end of 12
      cycles can continue on therapy for up to an additional year. The maximum duration for
      treatment under this study design is 24 cycles. However, subjects who do not achieve at least
      15% reduction in index tumor volume after 8 cycles (~8 months) will be considered treatment
      failures and taken off study. Subjects entered on the trial will be carefully monitored for
      the development of cabozantinib associated toxicities, and target modifications and
      interruptions will be performed.

      The investigational nature and objectives of this trial, the procedures and treatment
      involved, the risks, discomforts, and benefits, and potential alternatives therapies will be
      carefully explained to the subject and/or subject's parent(s) or guardian, if subject is a
      child,by the site Principal Investigator or designated associate investigator. When
      appropriate, pediatric patients will be included in all discussions. A signed informed
      consent document will be obtained prior to determining eligibility and entry criteria to this
      trial. Subjects entered on this trial will be treated with therapeutic intent and response to
      therapy will be closely monitored. This protocol involves greater than minimal risk but
      presents the potential for direct benefit to individual subjects

      Schedule of study evaluations are summarized below:

      Pre-Study:

        -  Medical history, physical exam with vital signs, blood pressure, and pulse oximetry

        -  Performance status to assess your ability to perform everyday tasks

        -  Laboratory tests including blood and urine tests for routine safety tests

        -  Urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing age

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG) to monitor the electrical activity of the heart

        -  MRI of neurofibromas

        -  Completion of health-related questionnaires on quality of life, pain assessment, and PN
           symptom checklist (upon study entry)

        -  Research blood draws ( 2 tablespoons) to evaluate the tumor's response to treatment and
           the action of cabozantinib in the body over a period of time (Upon study entry on Cycle
           1 Day 1, predose and 4-hours post dose)

      During Study Treatment:

      End of Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24 or Early
      Termination (additional visit that is not within the specified times mentioned.)

        -  Medical History

        -  Physical exam with vital signs, blood pressure and pulse oximetry

        -  Performance Status

        -  Review of Subject Diary

        -  Urine pregnancy test for females of childbearing age at end of cycles 2, 4, 6, 8, 10,
           12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, 24

        -  Electrocardiogram (EKG) to monitor the electrical activity of the heart at end of cycles
           1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 16, 20, 24

      End of Cycles 1 - 24, or Early Termination

        -  Laboratory tests including blood and urine tests for routine safety tests

      End of Cycles 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, or Early Termination

        -  MRI of neurofibromas

        -  Completion of health-related questionnaires on quality of life, pain assessment, and PN
           symptom checklist

      Cycles 1, 2, 3, 4

        -  Research blood draws ( 2 tablespoons) to evaluate the tumor's response to treatment and
           the action of cabozantinib in the body over a period of time

      Phone Calls will be made at the end of cycles 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, and 23 to assess drug
      compliance and toxicity

      The protocol PI and clinical coordinator will review the subject eligibility, study progress,
      safety issues, protocol deviations and adverse events. A Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB)
      and a medical monitor has been established for the purpose of ensuring data compliance and
      regular monitoring of this trial. The medical monitor is a qualified physician and is not
      associated with this particular protocol. The medical monitor is specifically required to
      review all unanticipated problems involving risk to subjects or others, serious adverse
      events and deaths associated with the protocol and provide an unbiased written report of the
      event.

      An early stopping rule will be invoked for both cohorts to potentially prevent accrual of
      subjects onto the study in the event that Cabozantinib is associated with a higher than
      acceptable rate of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) requiring removal from study (set at 10% or
      higher) during the first 2 cycles. Toxicity will be continuously monitored. If at any time >2
      of the first 10 subjects or 4 or more of the first 15 total subjects are removed for DLT,
      then accrual will be stopped until the DSMB reviews safety and efficacy data for the study
      and recommends termination or despite the DLT (because of the benefit:risk assessment or
      other reasoning) recommends reopening recruitment. Boundaries for DSMB for consideration of
      terminating each cohort (both cohort A and B) would be the same.

      The sample size for this trial is based on the safety and feasibility factors. The data
      needed is based on risk versus benefit. For feasibility, we expect at least efficacy of a 25%
      response rate. For safety reasons, subjects who do not achieve at least a 15% reduction in
      tumor volume will not be continued beyond 8 courses, as the likelihood of achieving a
      response (20% reduction in tumor volume) by 12 months is minimal. These subjects will be
      discontinued from the trial and counted in an "Intent to Treat" analysis as evaluable and as
      failures.

      All analyses for outcome results will be based on evaluable subjects. Definitions of
      evaluable include: 1.) Evaluation for toxicity (subject who received at least one dose of
      study drug and removed from treatment for toxicity are evaluable. Any subject who completed
      one full cycle of therapy is evaluable for toxicity); 2.)Evaluation for response (subjects
      who have completed at least two cycles of therapy and have had their first follow-up MRI
      evaluation. Subjects who did not respond and are later found to have a target tumor other
      than a plexiform neurofibroma (e.g. malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor) are not
      evaluable for response).
    
  