
    
      Clearance of hepatitis B virus surface antigen (HBsAg) is considered to be the ultimate
      therapeutic goal for hepatitis B patients, for it is related with low incidence of fibrosis
      and liver cancer. The investigators' previous study show that nucleoside （acid）analogues
      (NAs) treated, non-cirrhosis hepatitis B patients switched to /or combined with pegylated
      interferon (Peg IFN)α-2b could obtain a higher HBsAg clearance rate. Hence, the
      investigators' hypothesis is that treatment of NAs plus Peg IFNα-2b for those NAs treated,
      low level of HBsAg, hepatitis B related compensatory cirrhosis patients result in higher
      HBsAg clearance rate and reduce the risk of liver cancer.

      The investigators plan to enroll about 84 hepatitis B related compensatory cirrhosis
      patients, who have received NAs treatment more than 1 year with the level of HBsAg
      <1000IU/ml. These participants will be devided into 2 groups according to their wishes. Group
      A will receive the treatment of NAs (patients previously treated with telbivudine will be
      changed to entecavir) plus Peg IFNα-2b （180ug per week, the dose will be changed to 135ug or
      90ug per week during the treatment if patients could not tolerate the side effects of Peg
      IFNα-2b）. Peg IFNα-2b treatment will be performed until HBsAg <0.05IU/ml, with a maximum
      duration of 48 weeks. Group B will be treated with NAs as before enrollment. The participants
      in both groups will be followed up for 96 weeks.

      The primary endpoint is to compare the clearance rate of HBsAg between two groups. The
      secondary endpoint includes: (1) comparing the incidence of liver cancer during the 96 weeks
      follow-up, (2) comparing adverse side effects, such as ascites, gastrointestinal bleeding,
      encephalopathy, hepatorenal syndrome between the 2 groups. (3) comparing the virological and
      biochemical responses between the 2 groups.
    
  