
    
      This study will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled out-patient study conducted
      in multiple centers in the United States (US). Up to 700 healthy male and female adult
      subjects 18 to 55 years of age (inclusive), who have been previously vaccinated or subjects
      who are naïve to smallpox vaccine will be enrolled. Subjects will be randomized to 1 of 8
      treatment groups with 100 (or 50 placebo) subjects per group in which they will receive
      either ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine (1 of 3 dose levels) or placebo on Study Days 0 and 28.
      All personnel associated with the trial will be blinded as to treatment, with the exception
      of the study pharmacist who prepares the treatment for administration to each subject. There
      are 2 control groups in this study. A comparison of adverse events and other safety
      assessments between placebo and ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine will be performed. In addition
      to serving as a control for safety, the previously vaccinated subjects receiving placebo will
      serve as a control for antibody and T-cell responses in persons with preexisting immunity who
      receive ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine. Safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity data for 110
      subjects undergoing primary immunization with graded doses of ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine
      will be available following completion of Acambis protocol H-249-001, an ongoing phase I
      clinical trial. The doses levels in this study may be changed following the availability of
      results from protocol H-249-001. Statistical analysis will focus on comparisons among the
      dose levels of ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine and comparisons of ACAM3000 MVA Smallpox Vaccine
      to placebo, as appropriate. A separate analysis will be performed for previously vaccinated
      and naïve subjects. Descriptive statistics will be used to compare demographic and baseline
      clinical data between stratum.
    
  