
    
      During these episodes of respiratory insufficiency, the management is based on ventilatory
      replacement by generally invasive mechanical ventilation. This allows correction of hematosis
      disorders but can lead to complications either directly (respiratory infections) or
      indirectly (neuromuscular complications and/or complications related to prolonged bed rest
      requiring prolonged re-education). Although mechanical ventilation makes it possible to
      improve the objective parameters and contributes considerably to improving the prognosis of
      these patients, it is nevertheless, despite the progress made, often associated with patient
      breathlessness due to respiratory pathology and difficulties in optimizing the interaction
      between the individual and the machine.

      Resuscitation will also be associated with amyotrophy due to bed rest, inflammation, reduced
      metabolic possibilities, especially anabolic ones, and the use of certain treatments
      (corticosteroids, curares). This muscle loss rapidly affects the diaphragm, then secondarily
      the peripheral muscles in the context of resuscitation neuromyopathy. On the other hand,
      complications affecting the entire musculoskeletal system will quickly cause the
      resuscitation patient to suffer from cardiorespiratory desadaptation, reducing the capacity
      for exertion on discharge and ultimately resulting in dyspnea on exertion.

      In patients surviving the initial condition, dyspnea persists and may be reoccurring months
      or even years later, despite initial rehabilitation. It is strongly associated with anxiety
      and even fear of death and contributes to the development of post-traumatic stress disorder.
      This persistent feeling of respiratory discomfort, which limits the patient's autonomy in his
      or her daily activities, seems to be able to reduce quality of life. Moreover, the
      perpetuation of this dyspnea could promote a spiral of deconditioning leading to a
      progressive deterioration of the cardio-respiratory system, justifying new hospitalizations.

      In patients with chronic respiratory insufficiency, exercise rehabilitation supervised by
      physiotherapists allows, in addition to improving autonomy, a significant reduction in
      dyspnea, thus increasing the quality of life of these patients.

      Our objective is to evaluate the effect of post-resuscitation respiratory rehabilitation for
      SARS-Cov-2 in improving dyspnea. Secondly, we will seek to evaluate the correlation between
      quality of life and post-resuscitation dyspnea.

      Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)
    
  