
    
      Background

      High heart rate (HR) represent per se a risk factor for cardiovascular mortality and heart
      failure (HF) progression, despite optimal HF therapy. Beta-blockers remain the therapy of
      choice in all patients with systolic HF, but they may worsen atrioventricular (AV) conduction
      and increase right ventricular (RV) pacing percentage. Several studies have demonstrated
      detrimental effects of RV pacing on cardiac function. Percent RV pacing > 40-50% is an
      independent predictor of death and hospitalization for HF in implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillator(ICD) patients, particularly in those with preexistent left
      ventricular dysfunction.1,2 Cumulative RV pacing > 2% and ejection fraction (EF) < 40% are
      independent predictors for Ventricular Tachycardia(VT)/Ventricular Fibrillation (VF)
      occurrence in ICD patients.3 Therefore reduction of cumulative RV pacing as far as possible
      should be achieved in ICD patients. Ivabradine is a specific inhibitor of the If current of
      the sinus node, that induces a selective and dose dependent HR reduction; it is a pure HR
      lowering agent without effects on AV conduction or contractility.4 In HF patients implanted
      with an ICD ivabradine could act as an heart rate control drug in combination with a
      beta-blocker without increase right ventricular (RV) pacing percentage and may be an option
      to reduce left-ventricular dysfunction progression and ventricular arrhythmias burden and
      appropriate ICD therapy.

      Aim

      The aim of this prospective, randomized and controlled trial is to evaluate the use of the
      ivabradine in combination to a low-dose of beta-blocker (bisoprolol) versus up-titration of
      beta-blocker (bisoprolol) to obtain heart rate (HR) control with reduction in RV pacing in
      single-chamber or dual chambers ICD recipients HF patients with moderate to severe left
      ventricular dysfunction (FE ≤ 40%) and an heart rate ≥70 bpm in sinus rhythm over a 12-months
      follow up.

      Besides we want to assess if the combination of ivabradine to a low-dose of beta-blocker
      (bisoprolol) versus titration of beta-blocker (bisoprolol) may determine a lower degree of
      left ventricular dysfunction progression, the reduction of ventricular arrhythmias burden and
      ICD appropriate therapy occurrence and the improvement of quality of life in ICD heart
      failure patients.

      Endpoints of the study

      Primary endpoints:

      Right ventricular pacing percentage increase > 50% or Cardiovascular death or Heart failure
      decompensation or Crossover due to worsening heart failure.

      Secondary endpoints:

      Ejection fraction decrease < 5% and Left Ventricular End-Systolic Volume decrease <15%.

      Ventricular arrhythmias and ICD appropriate therapy reduction. Heart rate variability
      improvement NYHA Classification improvement Minnesota Living With Heart Failure Questionnaire
      (MLHFQ) total score reduction.

      Right ventricular pacing percentage. Composite endpoint: cardiovascular death and
      hospitalization due to worsening heart failure.

      Crossover rate due to worsening heart failure

      Study protocol:

      Baseline assessment:

      Clinical visit: demographic data, risk factors for cardiovascular disease, primary cause of
      heart failure, NYHA class, comorbidities, echocardiographic parameters, drug therapy,
      cardiovascular hospitalizations in the last year.

      Rest ECG (for assessment of rest heart rate, presence of sinus rhythm or device-induced
      rhythm, QRS duration); Blood pressure measurement; Electronic device control (for assessment
      of right ventricular stimulation percentage; electrical parameters and arrhythmias diagnostic
      data); Echocardiogram (for assessment of left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic
      volumes, left ventricular ejection fraction); MLHFQ

      Assignment of consecutive patients to treatment with ivabradine plus beta-blocker(bisoprolol)
      or beta-blocker (bisoprolol) titration. Mean Heart Rate Target is 55-70 bpm for both groups.

      Ivabradine will be administered at a dose of 5 mg twice daily in addition to a low dose of
      beta-blocker (bisoprolol 1,25 or 2,5 mg). After four weeks of treatment ivabradine will be
      eventually lowered up to 2,5 mg twice daily in the presence of side effects (phosphenes,
      diplopia, headache or dizziness).

      Beta blocker Bisoprolol will be up-titrated biweekly starting from the initial dose of
      1,25-2,5 mg daily up to the max dose of 10 mg daily or to the maximum tolerated dose.

      Patients are controlled in office follow-up visits after 3, 6 and 12 months, in addition to a
      Remote Monitoring program for clinical data and trend reviewing at least every 15 days or as
      soon as possible whenever a Remote Monitoring alert notification is received. Besides every
      15 days patients will receive a telephone contact in order to evaluate their clinical state
      and to uptitrate the beta blocker therapy based on mean heart rate detected trough remote
      control of the ICD.

      Three months in-office follow-up:

      Clinical visit: symptoms, NYHA class, drug therapy, cardiovascular hospitalizations in the
      last three months.

      Rest ECG (for assessment of rest heart rate, presence of sinus rhythm or device-induced
      rhythm, QRS duration); Blood pressure measurement; Echocardiogram (for assessment of left
      ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, left ventricular ejection fraction);
      Electronic device control (for assessment of right ventricular stimulation percentage;
      electrical parameters and arrhythmias diagnostic data) .

      Six months in office follow-up:

      Clinical visit: NYHA class, comorbidities, echocardiographic parameters, drug therapy,
      cardiovascular hospitalizations in the last three months.

      Rest ECG (for assessment of rest heart rate, presence of sinus rhythm or device-induced
      rhythm, QRS duration); Echocardiogram (for assessment of left ventricular end-diastolic and
      end-systolic volumes, left ventricular ejection fraction); Electronic device control (for
      assessment of right ventricular stimulation percentage; electrical parameters and arrhythmias
      diagnostic data).

      MLHFQ

      One year in office follow-up:

      Clinical visit: NYHA class, comorbidities, echocardiographic parameters, drug therapy,
      cardiovascular hospitalizations in the last three months.

      Rest ECG (for assessment of rest heart rate, presence of sinus rhythm or device-induced
      rhythm, QRS duration); Electronic device control (for assessment of right ventricular
      stimulation percentage; electrical parameters and arrhythmias diagnostic data).

      Echocardiogram (for assessment of left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes,
      left ventricular ejection fraction); MLHFQ
    
  