
    
      BCG was developed as a vaccine against tuberculosis (TB), but many studies have now confirmed
      its ability to induce potent protection against other infectious diseases in children. It has
      recently been shown that this may be linked to increased response of the innate immune system
      to several non-specific pathogens after BCG exposure, so called 'innate immune training'.
      This training ability of BCG has been shown for children and young adults. However, to our
      knowledge, no studies on the ability of BCG to induce innate immune training in adults >50
      years of age have been conducted. Immune training in elderly is of interest since with
      increasing age, the immune system gets weaker, and responds less adequately to a number of
      infections, for instance influenza. Thus, if BCG is able to stimulate the innate immune
      system in mature adults as well, it could potentially reduce the risk of serious infections
      in elderly.

      To investigate whether BCG has innate immune training effects in mature adults, a randomized
      pilot study of 40 adults >50 years of age in Guinea-Bissau will be conducted. The Bandim
      Health Project has conducted multiple large-scale RCT's and demographic surveillance. HIV
      negative adults >50 years of age in a recent HIV survey are eligible for the present study.
      They will be checked for clinical signs of TB and an HIV test will be preformed before
      enrolment. Exclusion criteria are BCG vaccination within the last 10 years, illness within
      the last 14 days, clinical signs of active TB, and/or a positive HIV test. Those who are
      overtly ill will be treated or referred to hospital if needed. Those with signs of TB will be
      referred to the TB hospital for further examinations. Those who have become HIV positive
      since they were tested in the survey will receive immediate counselling and be referred to
      the HIV clinic.

      Participants will be randomized to either BCG vaccination or placebo. To test the innate
      immune system blood will be withdraw 3 times: before the intervention, 2 weeks and 3 months
      after the intervention. There is a maximum of 10 ml blood each time, plus 3 ml the first time
      for the Quantiferon. This is a small volume, with a maximum of 33 ml and should not cause any
      problems for participants. Quantiferon results will be used as a baseline to test if
      participants are sensitized to mycobacterium Tuberculosis. In the blood, the innate immune
      training effects of BCG we will investigated by studying how the immune cells respond when
      they are stimulated with bacteria or other pathogens, which can cause serious infections.
      Provided that BCG shows induced innate immune training in adults >50 years of age, a large
      randomized control trial will follow to see if BCG vaccination reduces the number of acute
      infections in adults >50 years of age in Guinea-Bissau.
    
  