
    
      Since the introduction of biologics in rheumatology, as well as treat-to-target (measuring
      disease activity and adapting treatment accordingly) the prognosis of patients has improved
      substantially. Obviously, patient burden due to self-injection or infusion, the risk of
      adverse events and costs demand responsible use of these agents. Multiple studies have shown
      that a large proportion of patients with rheumatoid arthritis with stable low disease
      activity can taper their dose or stop without relapse of disease activity. This can be done
      by using disease activity guided tapering. Drawbacks, however, include increased risk for
      short lived flares, the effort of slowly and carefully tapering, and somewhat more risk of
      radiographic damage due to higher mean disease activity. As most biologics are characterized
      by wide variation in pharmacokinetics between patients, therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM),
      i.e. dose based on serum trough concentration, might be an attractive approach to lower the
      dose quickly while remaining clinical efficacy. Although some data suggest that the minimal
      effective concentration varies between patients, we demonstrated in an earlier study that
      serum adalimumab concentration of 5 mg/L is enough for initial response to adalimumab. In the
      first phase of treatment, drug concentration must be high enough to control immunogenicity.
      To control disease activity after 28 weeks, lower concentrations than 5 mg/L are probably
      sufficient. Since around 70% of the patients have an adalimumab concentration above 5 mg/l,
      we assume that dose reduction to achieve these lower targets (for example direct doubling of
      interval in patients with levels > 10 mg/L) will result in the lowest effective drug dose.
      Our study group illustrated in 2018 that dose reduction by extending the dosing interval with
      50% is non inferior to continuation of standard dose in patients with adalimumab levels >
      8mg/L. In other words, measuring drug concentrations can help clinicians to select
      overexposed patients to reduce the dose of adalimumab without adversely affecting clinical
      efficiency. We posit that therapeutic drug monitoring can attribute to a more efficient dose
      reduction strategy. Since steady state drug concentrations are achieved within 16 weeks of
      treatment, we expect that the dose can be reduced from this point. This is earlier in
      treatment compared to the strategy using disease activity alone, namely after 6 months of
      treatment. Conceptually, such a test can improve disease activity guided dose reduction in
      two ways: 1) flaring caused by empirical tapering (i.e. through trial and error) below the
      minimal effective concentration would be avoided, and 2) patients can be directly given their
      minimum effective dose instead of empirical tapering, thereby saving time and drugs. Our aim
      is to investigate whether the use of drug levels can attribute to a more efficient dose
      reduction strategy of adalimumab in patients with RA. In this study we will compare costs and
      clinical efficiency of two dose reduction strategies: a strategy using drug concentration
      versus a strategy using disease activity scores. We expect that direct medical costs will be
      lower in the 'drug concentration guided' strategy because: 1) overexposed patient can reduce
      the dose more timely and, 2) adalimumab dose can be further reduced after 6 months of
      treatment since we posit that adalimumab concentration of 2 mg/L is sufficient to control
      disease.

      In this multi-centre, randomised, open-label trail we will evaluate whether dose reduction of
      adalimumab using drug concentration can reduce medical costs compared to a strategy using
      disease activity scores. Furthermore we will evaluate the clinical efficiency of these two
      strategies.

      Patients with a good or moderate EULAR response to adalimumab will be randomised to
      adalimumab dose reduction strategy using drug concentration or disease activity scores.
      Patients in the 'drug concentration guided' group will reduce adalimumab dose by prolonging
      the dose-interval using TDM algorithm (a new developed algorithm is used to determine the
      interval prolongation for each patient). The dose reduction will start at week 16 if trough
      drug level is higher than 5mg/L, aiming a drug level of 5mg/L in week 16 until 28 and a drug
      level of 2mg/L from week 28 until week 52. In the initial 16 weeks patients are treated with
      adalimumab at registered dose of 40mg every other week.

      Patients in the 'disease activity guided' group will reduce adalimumab dose at week 28 if
      DAS28-CRP is lower than 2.9. This dose reduction will be attained by extending the dosing
      interval to every 3 weeks in weeks 28 until 40 and to every 4 weeks from week 40 until week
      52.

      Patients who successfully prolonged the dose interval to 40 mg every 4 weeks in the 'disease
      activity guided' group and patients who successfully prolonged their dose-interval and
      achieve a serum concentration of 2.0 mg/L in the 'drug concentration guided' group will be
      approached to participate to the extension phase (week 52-80). After informed consent is
      obtained patients will discontinue adalimumab and they will be followed up to week 80.

      Data regarding disease status, functioning, adalimumab serum concentrations, anti-drug
      antibodies and medical costs will be collected during this study.
    
  