
    
      This prospective cohort study will follow 400 patients undergoing major non-emergent
      abdominal or cardiothoracic surgery at the University of Washington Medical Center. Patients
      65 and older will be recruited following introduction of the study by a health-care provider.
      The provider will give the patient a study pamphlet and letter outlining the study. Patients
      who express interest in the study will meet with a Research Coordinator. The Coordinator will
      describe the study, answer all questions, and have the patient review and provide written
      informed consent. The Mini-cog, a validated brief dementia screen with high sensitivity and
      specificity, will be used to determine if patients have a potential cognitive impairment.
      Participants who recall all 3 words correctly or draw a normal clock will be considered
      cognitively intact and able to provide consent and to participate in the study. Participants
      who are unable to recall any words or who draw an abnormal clock will be ineligible for the
      study and classified as having a potential cognitive impairment.

      Consenting patients will be asked questions about their medical history and health status.
      The Research Coordinator will only ask questions that are relevant to the patient's medical
      care. The 5-item version of the Geriatric Depression Scale will assess patients for active
      depression. This short version has been validated and found to be highly sensitive and
      specific for diagnosing depression. Patients will also be asked to complete the Duke Activity
      Status Index and the Health Assessment Questionnaire. These questions will take 10-15
      minutes.

      Patients will be asked to perform physical tasks. These tasks will include a physical
      performance measure. Patients will only be asked to complete tasks that they are comfortable
      performing. The physical performance measures include 1) a timed 10-ft walk at normal pace,
      2) a timed test of repetitive chair stands, 3) a hierarchial balance task, and 4) testing of
      grip strength. In the timed walk, patients are asked to walk at normal pace for 10 feet. This
      task is completed twice with the average of the times calculated. In the timed test of 5
      repetitive chair stands, patients are asked to fold their arms across their chest and to rise
      from the seated position 5 times as quickly as possible. To assess balance, patients are
      asked to stand with their feet side-by-side, followed by semi-tandem, and tandem and to hold
      each position for 10 seconds. Scores are allotted based upon how far each participant is able
      to progress. To test grip strength, a handheld dynamometer will be used. Using an isometric
      dynamometer, the best score of the 3 squeezes from the dominant hand will be the value
      calculated.

      Patients will be asked to complete the EQ-5D, SF-36 and Health Assessment Questionnaires at 1
      week, 1 month, 3 months and 12 months following their surgery as well as the CNAQ Appetite
      Questionnaire but only at the 1 month, 3 month, and 1 year follow up intervals. The Research
      Coordinator will contact them by phone to complete these questionnaires. If the patient is
      still in the hospital at the University of Washington 1 week following their surgery, the
      Research Coordinator will meet with them to complete the questionnaires.
    
  