
    
      The endovascular method consists of the insertion of catheters (vinyl tubes) into both groin
      arteries. These catheters then allow positioning of artificial tubes or stent graft(s) into
      the diseased blood vessel without the need for major surgery which involves opening the
      chest. The blood vessel problem (thoracic aortic aneurysm/lesion) will be treated using an
      artificial bypass tube (stent graft) that will be placed inside the diseased artery. The
      stent graft(s) that will be used are made of polyester graft fabric sewn to a self-expanding
      nickel-titanium (Nitinol) wire frame and is manufactured by Medtronic AVE, Santa Rosa
      California.

      Aneurysms/lesions can be located in any position along the length of the aorta. This study
      evaluates only aneurysms/lesions that occur in the descending part of the thoracic aorta as
      it traverses the chest and enters the abdominal cavity. The risk of thoracic
      aneurysms/lesions is that they rupture without warning. The risk of rupture increases as the
      aneurysm size increases. Following rupture, almost all patients expire within the first 24
      hours. For this reason treatment of thoracic aneurysms/lesions is recommended by conventional
      surgical means if the patient is a candidate for an operation. The conventional operation
      involves occluding the aorta and replacing the aneurysm with a cloth tube that is sewn to
      replace the diseased part of the aorta. The major surgery and occlusion of the aorta that is
      part of the conventional surgery is directly related to several complications that have been
      reported in the literature. In addition, many patients are too ill for conventional surgery
      due to concomitant illnesses.

      After the procedure, the patient will be followed at regular intervals (pre-discharge, 1
      month, 6 months, 12 months and every year thereafter for life) as part of the evaluation of
      the experimental treatment. During this time, the patient will have several tests performed
      to evaluate the function of the repair. The tests will include clinical examination, x-rays
      of the chest and spiral CT scan. The experimental part is the placement of the TALENT
      Stent-Graft System using the catheter (endovascular) methods. The risk of the experimental
      catheter bypasses is that the procedure may not be successful. In most cases, this would
      require a standard operation to repair the problem. Sometimes there are other risks such as
      injury to the vessels. Small pieces of diseased arteries may be dislodged which may require
      removal. Bleeding may occur from introduction sites, and rarely, infection may develop. If a
      catheter bypass is unsuccessful, there can be added discomfort because the procedure may last
      longer.

      The benefits of the procedure are that the patient might avoid some of of the pain and
      discomfort associated with standard operations. Major surgery is avoided and hospital stay
      may be much shorter. Patients may be able to return to usual daily activities sooner. In
      addition, patients who are too high risk for conventional surgical treatment can have their
      aneurysm treated using the endovascular graft if their anatomy is appropriate
    
  