
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE The usefulness of stress-dose hydrocortisone in cardiac arrest is
      uncertain, especially when its administration starts at 10 hours after the return of
      spontaneous circulation (ROSC) (1). Such delay, probably exceeds the therapeutic window for
      the prevention of detrimental episodes of postresuscitation hypotension (2) through a
      steroid-induced hemodynamic stabilization (3,4).

      In the context of NCT02408939, recent post hoc exploratory analyses in postresuscitation
      shock (n=191) showed an improved early post-ROSC hemodynamic profile in patients treated with
      the vasopressin-steroids-epinephrine (VSE) combination. Pooled data originated from our prior
      VSE 1 and VSE 2 randomized clinical trials (RCTs) (3,4) Recordings of "early post-ROSC
      systolic arterial pressure (SAP) >90" mmHg [i.e. "absence of early postresuscitation
      hypotension" (2)], and "≥1 recorded/analyzed, day-1 mean arterial pressure (MAP) value of
      >80mmHg (2)," were significantly more frequent in VSE patients vs. controls. After
      considering the short vasopressin half-life of 24 min and that the VSE protocol mandates
      vasopressin use solely during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) (3,4), we postulate that
      the more frequent "day-1 MAP>80 mmHg" can be attributed to the MAP-stabilizing effects of
      early stress-dose steroids (3,4). Under this assumption, a mediation analysis of VSE outcome
      benefits through day-1 MAP might further address the knowledge gap of steroids' usefulness in
      cardiac arrest (5).

      METHODS Study Design. Intention-to-treat, retrospective analysis of prospectively collected
      data from two RCTs (3,4). Study participants were hospitalized in intensive or coronary care
      units (ICUs or CCUs) of three tertiary care centers: Evaggelismos General Hospital and 401
      Greek Army Hospital (both in Athens, Greece), and University Hospital of Larissa, Larissa,
      Greece.

      Ethics and Approval. The present analysis of de-identified, previously collected and
      electronically stored patient data (see also Detailed Descriptions of NCT00729794 and
      NCT02408939) is not associated with any clinical intervention, and therefore, the
      investigators have applied for a waiver of informed consent from either the patient or
      his/her next of kin.

      Analysis Endpoints are presented in the dedicated subsection. Patients. The reference study
      population consists of 368 patients (Evaggelismos Hospital, n=288/368=78.2%) with in-hospital
      cardiac arrest, who required epinephrine during CPR according to the 2005 Guidelines for
      Resuscitation (6). During CPR, VSE group patients (n=178) also received vasopressin and
      methylprednisolone and controls (n=190) the respective saline placebos. At 4 hours after CPR,
      there were 211 surviving patients (VSE group, n=115), who were evaluated for
      postresuscitation shock (3,4). One hundred three VSE group patients were then assigned to
      stress-dose hydrocortisone and 88 controls to saline placebo. Of the 103 VSE group patients,
      102 received stress-dose hydrocortisone, whereas 1 did not because of study pharmacist error;
      of the 88 control group patients, 73 actually received saline placebo, whereas 15 received
      open-label stress-dose hydrocortisone by protocol violation and according to the orders of
      their attending physicians (4).

      Multivariable Analysis - Effect Modifiers In addition to variables described in the Outcomes
      subsection, the multivariable analysis will include the following potential effect modifiers:
      Data Source (VSE2 vs. VSE1 study), Study Center (4), group (VSE vs, control), cardiac arrest
      cause (cardiac vs. non-cardiac), area of cardiac arrest occurrence (monitored vs.
      non-monitored), initial cardiac arrest rhythm (shockable vs. non-shockable) atropine use (yes
      vs. no), prescribed total dose of sodium bicarbonate, cardiac arrest occurrence on holiday
      vs. working day; Cardiac arrest occurrence at night (23:00-07:00) vs. morning-to-late evening
      (07:00-23:00), total dose of epinephrine during CPR, and therapeutic hypothermia (use vs. no
      use).

      All analyses will be conducted with SPSS version 22.0 (IBM, Armonk, NY) and the Process
      Procedure for SPSS, release 2.15. Statistical methodology reference: Hayes AF. Part II,
      Mediation Analysis. In: Hayes AF, ed. Introduction to Mediation, Moderation, and Conditional
      Process Analysis. A Regression-based Approach. The Guilford Press, New York. 2013, 3-419.
      85-207.
    
  