
    
      Cardiovascular mortality remains higher among patients treated with peritoneal dialysis as
      compared to patients treated with hemodialysis. Sympathetic hyperactivity is considered a
      significant emerging risk factor for cardiovascular mortality among patients with ESRD
      (End-Stage Renal Disease). Sympathetic activity, via its hemodynamic effects and trophic
      effects, and in interaction with RAAS (Renin Angiotensin Aldosterone System), does play a
      major role in cardiac and vascular remodelling, development of LVH and vascular hypertrophy,
      as well as progression to CHF. Glucose-based dialysate induces hyperinsulinemia and
      hyperleptinemia. We propose that hyperleptinemia induced by glucose-based peritoneal solution
      is a significant contributing factor to sympathetic hyperactivity in ESRD patients treated
      with PD, and could be prevented by non-glucose-based PD solution such as icodextrin-based.

      Adult patients with ESRD starting PD as their first renal replacement therapy modality will
      be studied. Patients will be recruited 1-3 weeks prior to starting PD treatment. At baseline,
      specific studies for microneurography (MSNA), fasting plasma insulin, leptin, catecholamines
      and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) will be performed. EKG will be recorded and digitized for
      further assessment of heart rate variability using power spectral analysis. Extracellular
      fluid volume status will be assessed by bioelectrical impedance. Central vascular volume will
      be assessed from inferior vena cava (IVC) by heart ultrasound. Consequently 24-h ambulatory
      blood pressure monitoring(ABPM)and a 24-h urine collection for urea clearance and creatinine
      clearance will be done.

      All participants into the study will receive a PD treatment for 6 weeks with standard
      glucose-based PD solution Dianeal. The specific studies are repeated at 6 weeks.Then,
      patients will be randomized to one of the two groups (arms). One group will continue with
      Dianeal PD solution for another 12 weeks. The other group will receive Dianeal during the day
      and Extraneal, icodextrin or non-glucose based solution, during the night only, for the next
      12 weeks. The specific studies are repeated at 12 weeks after randomization (18 weeks of PD
      treatment).
    
  