
    
      Background: Ovarian cancer (OC) remains a major health problem in the United Sates (US). In
      2012, there will be an estimated 22,280 cases of epithelial OC (EOC) resulting in 15,500
      deaths. While the median survival of OC patients has improved over the last two decades, the
      vast majority of patients suffer relapse and develop chemo-resistant disease. The overall
      survival of patients suffering from OC has not changed appreciably over the last three
      decades. Despite these dismal statistics, there is a minority of OC patients who are
      long-term (LT) survivors (>10 years). This includes a subset of advanced stage (~15%) and a
      higher proportion of early-stage disease (75%). Unfortunately, there is little genomic or
      biologic characterization of these tumors, or patient-reported outcomes that characterize LT
      survivors. The clinical importance of identifying subsets of patients who may or may not
      benefit from therapy, and understanding the biology of their tumors, is significant both from
      a patient survival and quality of life (QOL) standpoint. The characterization of LT survivors
      of advanced stage OC will potentially identify molecular and clinical pathways that can be
      targeted to help women who have shorter survivals. Further, careful characterization of these
      patients, including their initial and longitudinal health-related QOL reports, their response
      to treatments, and their tumors will provide significant measures of prognostic factors.
      Accurate identification of women with high-grade, early stage OC who will recur will allow
      for tailoring therapy to only those who will benefit. Thus, the systematic molecular and
      patient-reported outcomes evaluation of LT survivors of OC (both early and advanced stage)
      will yield data, which can significantly impact the management of OC patients.

      Overall Aim: To characterize the genomic, biologic, and biobehavioral basis for LT survivors
      of EOC. We hypothesize that LT survivors of OC have distinct features that distinguish them
      from short-term (ST) survivors.

      Specific Aims

        1. To characterize the genomic, biologic, and immunologic features of tumors from LT versus
           ST survivors of advanced stage EOC. We propose to evaluate the genomic features (copy
           number variation, miRNA and methylation patterns) in LT (>7 years) versus ST survivors
           (<2 years). In addition, all cases will be evaluated for tumor infiltrating lymphocytes
           (TILs). Correlations between TILs and genomic parameters will be examined along with the
           identification of genomic/immune signatures that predict for LT survival. This aim
           leverages ongoing funded projects characterizing the transcriptome of advanced stage OC
           using GOG trials.

        2. To validate a genomic signature that predicts for recurrence of early-stage, high-grade
           EOC. This aim will leverage an ongoing DOD grant (DOD#OC110628; Birrer, PI) generating a
           genomic signature (transcriptome) that distinguishes recurrent from non-recurrent
           early-stage, high-grade EOC.

        3. To determine the extent to which health-related QOL measures, additional
           patient-reported outcomes (PROs), and key CTCAE criteria predict LT ovarian cancer
           survival.

        4. To examine as an exploratory aim, the potential relationship between health-related QOL,
           PROs, and key CTCAE criteria with genomic features predicting disease recurrence.

      Proposed Consortium: We propose utilizing the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) infrastructure
      as the basis for the consortium, supplemented by the addition of research sites,
      administrative structure, advisory boards, and biostatistical support. We consider this to be
      a major advantage for this proposal in that the de novo creation of a consortium will not be
      necessary. GOG is the world's leading clinical trial organization focused on the prevention,
      diagnosis, and treatment of gynecologic cancers. GOG includes over 391 medical institutions
      participating in GOG clinical trials. As such, these institutions are familiar with all GOG
      procedures including the accurate collection of clinical and QOL data and the procuring and
      processing of tissue specimens. GOG institutions have extensive infrastructure in place to
      conduct large-scale clinical research and will serve as an established network of key sites
      for this project.
    
  