
    
      A significant number of veterans of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan are affected by
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) yet relatively few are receiving evidence-based
      treatments (Tanielian, Jaycox, Schell, Marshall, Burnham, Eibner, et al. 2008). The limited
      reach of effective treatments for PTSD into the veteran population is at least partially due
      to the perceived stigma by service members for seeking help in traditional specialty mental
      health clinics (Hoge, Castro, Messer, McGurk, Cotting, & Koffman, 2004). A comprehensive
      approach to PTSD treatment in a veteran population should provide alternative sources for
      accessing effective psychotherapy treatments. This study builds upon a pilot study conducted
      at Brooke Army Medical Center and the Wilford Hall Medical Center (now the Wilford Hall
      Ambulatory Surgical Center) (C.2009.022, IRBNet 363516). Using the treatment protocol
      developed and found to be effective as part of this pilot, the purpose of study is to conduct
      a randomized clinical trial comparing a brief (four 30-minute sessions delivered over 6
      weeks) cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) protocol designed specifically for use by
      behavioral health consultants working in an integrated primary care setting to a minimal
      contact 6-week control. Up to 75 Service Members with deployment-related PTSD symptoms will
      be consented, enrolled, and treated until treatment has been completed for 60. The primary
      outcome measure is PTSD symptom relief.

      OBJECTIVES/SPECIFIC AIMS/RESEARCH QUESTIONS:

        1. Will Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation Enduring Freedom/Operation New Dawn (OIF/OEF/OND)
           veterans with PTSD symptoms accept an offer of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT)
           treatment in the primary care setting versus a referral to specialty care?

        2. Will a brief (four 30-minute appointments) CBT protocol designed for use by behavioral
           health consultants working in primary care significantly reduce PTSD symptom severity in
           OIF/OEF/OND veterans in comparison to a minimal contact condition?

        3. Are there characteristics of patients at pre-treatment, e.g., demographic variables,
           level of co-morbid depression, that predict a relatively better or worse response to
           PTSD treatment in primary care?
    
  