
    
      Aim To evaluate the effects of opioid sparing care pathways compared to conventional
      opioid-based treatment for pain relief, opioid consumption, recovery after surgery,
      self-efficacy and health economy in patients undergoing obesity surgery. The aim will be
      investigated by a prospective, randomized, non-blinded, non-commercial single site study (Nov
      2018-Dec 2022), approved by the Swedish Medicines Agency (EudraCT 2017003830-97) and the
      ethical review board (DNR 1006-17).

      Hypothesis

      1. An opioid-free care pathway provides non-inferior pain relief as the conventional care
      with opioids during the post-operative phase.

      Primary outcomes "No difference in pain (NRS pain (0-10) between opioid-free intervention
      compared to conventional postoperative treatment (control group) during the post-operative
      phase until discharge to the surgical ward.

      Secondary outcome "An opioid-free treatment provides improved combined outcomes (composite
      score) consisting of 1) General Self-Efficacy Scale, 2) Postop Quality of Recovery Scale
      (PostopQRS), hospital rehospitalization or death compared to conventional treatment after
      three months.

      "An opioid-free treatment improves recovery after surgery measured with the PostopQRS
      compared with conventional postoperative therapy (20 min, 40 min), during hospitalization (24
      hours, 48 hours) and afterward (14 days, 30 days, three months, six months, 12 months and 24
      months).

      "An opioid-free treatment results in reduced opioid consumption during the post-operative
      care period compared with conventional treatment.

      "An opioid-free treatment provides similar care time compared with conventional therapy
      during hospitalization.

      "An opioid-free treatment improves self-efficacy, measured with the General Self-Efficacy
      Scale compared to conventional treatment at three months, six months, 12 months, 24 months.

      "An opioid-free treatment provides increased quality of life measured with the RAND-36 as
      well as EQ5D compared to conventional therapy during hospitalization (3 months, six months,
      12 months, 24 months).

      "An opioid-free treatment provides increased patient experience and satisfaction, measured
      with the PPE-15 and PostopQRS compared to conventional therapy during hospitalization (2
      weeks, three months, six months)

      "Mapping the long-term prescription and usage pattern of analgesic drugs between the
      intervention group and conventional group.
    
  