
    
      Aging in humans is a well-established primary risk factor for many disabling diseases and
      conditions, among them diabetes, cardiovascular disease, Alzheimer's disease and cancer. In
      fact, the risk of death from these causes is dramatically accelerated (100-1000 fold) between
      the ages of 35 and 85 years. For this reason, there is a need for the development of new
      interventions to improve and maintain health into old age - to improve "healthspan".

      Several mechanisms have been shown to delay the aging process, resulting in improved
      healthspan in animal models, including mammals. These include caloric restriction, alteration
      in GH/IGF1 pathways, as well as use of several drugs such as resveratrol (SIRT1 activator)
      and rapamycin (mTOR inhibitor). At Einstein, the investigators have been working to discover
      pathways associated with exceptional longevity. The investigators propose the study of drugs
      already in common clinical use (and FDA approved) for a possible alternative purpose -healthy
      aging. The investigators goal is to identify additional mechanisms involved in aging, the
      delay of aging and the prevention of age-related diseases. In this proposal, the
      investigators explore the possibility of a commonly used drug, metformin, to reverse relevant
      aspects of the physiology and biology of aging.

      Metformin is an FDA approved drug in common use in the US since the 1990s. It is the
      first-line drug of choice for prevention and treatment of type 2 diabetes (T2DM). The effect
      of metformin on aging has been extensively studied, and has been associated with longevity in
      many rodent models. Metformin also extends the lifespan of nematodes, suggesting an
      evolutionarily conserved mechanism. A recent high impact study demonstrated that metformin
      reduces oxidative stress and inflammation and extends both lifespan and health span in a
      mouse model .

      If indeed metformin is an "anti-aging" drug, its administration should be associated with
      less age-related disease in general, rather than the decreased incidence of a single
      age-related disease. This notion led investigators to further study whether anti-aging
      effects can be demonstrated in the type 2 diabetes population. Notably, in the United Kingdom
      Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) metformin, compared with other anti-diabetes drugs,
      demonstrated a decreased risk of cardiovascular disease. This has been suggested in other
      studies and meta-analyses and remains an active area of research.

      In addition, numerous epidemiologic studies have shown an association of metformin use with a
      decreased risk of cancer, as well as decreased cancer mortality. There is also evidence from
      studies performed both in-vitro and in-vivo of metformin's role in attenuating tumorigenesis.
      The mechanisms proposed relate to its effects on reducing insulin levels, improved insulin
      action, decreased IGF-1 signaling (central to mammalian longevity), as well as activation of
      AMP-kinase. In fact, metformin's potential protective effect against cancer has been gaining
      much attention, with over 100 ongoing studies registered on the Clinical Trials.gov website.

      To characterize pathways associated with increased lifespan and healthspan, the investigators
      plan to compile a repository of muscle and adipose biopsy samples obtained from young healthy
      subjects and older adults before and after treatment with potential anti-aging drugs. RNA-Seq
      analysis will be used to identify a unique biological "fingerprint" for aging in these
      tissues by comparing changes in gene expression in older adults post-drug therapy to the
      profiles of young healthy subjects. This overall approach is supported by a grant from the
      Glenn Foundation for the Study of the Biology of Human Aging.

      The investigators believe that if metformin changes the biology of aging in tissues to a
      younger profile, it supports the notion that this drug may have more widespread use - as an
      "anti-aging" drug.
    
  