
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and
      dexamethasone when used in combination.

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of
      venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and dexamethasone when used in combination.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. II. To obtain a preliminary estimate of the
      anti-light chain amyloidosis (AL) activity as assessed by incidence of complete hematologic
      response (CR) and overall hematologic response (partial response [PR], very good partial
      response [VGPR], and CR).

      III. To estimate the organ-specific response rates using standard criteria. IV. To estimate
      progression free survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate expression of BCL-2, BCL-XL, and MCL-1 on the surface of plasma cells of
      patients with AL.

      II. To describe the immune profile in the peripheral blood of patients with AL before and
      during treatment with venetoclax, MLN9708 (ixazomib citrate), and dexamethasone at multiple
      time points.

      III. To estimate hematologic response rates using mass spectrometry to detect persistence of
      a monoclonal protein in the serum and urine.

      IV. To characterize the genotype of the CD138+ plasma cell in patients with AL and t(11;14)
      and compare findings to those of patients with multiple myeloma and t(11;14) as reported in
      prior studies.

      V. To determine presence of minimal residual disease by Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) in
      patients achieving a hematologic CR.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of venetoclax and ixazomib citrate.

      Patients receive venetoclax orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, ixazomib citrate PO on
      days 1, 8 and 15, and dexamethasone PO on days 1, 8, 15 and 22. Cycles repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every month for 1
      year, then every month thereafter.
    
  