
    
      1. Introduction.

           The prevalence of Hepatitis C determined by serological test to detect antibodies
           against the hepatitis C virus (HCV) is around 1.4% in Mexico, being slightly higher in
           the north (2.0%) than in the south (1.5%). ) and the entities of the center (1.1%) of
           the country. However, there are high risk groups where the prevalence is much higher,
           for example, among intravenous drug users such as heroin, it is estimated that
           prevalence of hepatitis C is as high as 11.7%, with an interval ranging from 2.7 to
           39.1% .

           Recently, the Global Prevalence study of HCV - Polaris Observatory at American
           Association for de the Study of Liver (AASLD), has documented that the prevalence in
           Mexico determined by viral load quantification (which is the most specific study) ranges
           from 0.0 to 0.6%, being higher in the North, than in the Center and in the South of the
           country.

           Although it is classically considered that chronic hepatitis C infection (CHC) is
           usually asymptomatic, there are studies that show that up to two thirds of patients may
           present some type of extrahepatic manifestation. The most frequent extrahepatic
           manifestation is type II mixed cryoglobulinemia (MCG-II) and clinically the most common
           presentation is leukocytoclastic vasculitis (LCV) with palpable purpura that affects the
           lower extremities. It is estimated that up to 80% of MCG-II cases are due to CHC. The
           prevalence of CHC infection has been reported in higher numbers in patients with LCV
           than in the general population. A multinational study in 2009, found that the prevalence
           of anti-HCV antibodies specifically in patients consulting for "autoimmune diseases" was
           as high as 8.7%, compared to healthy subjects (general population) where it was 0.4%. In
           this study, the diagnosis of CHC with determination of viral load or genotype was not
           confirmed.

           In another study, conducted in Brazil, which included 367 patients with rheumatological
           diseases, the prevalence of CHC, confirmed with viral load determination, was 1.9%, also
           higher than that reported in the open population in that country. The difference
           remarkable in the prevalences reported by serological tests and by viral load,
           particularly in patients with autoimmune diseases, can be explained because patients
           with autoimmune diseases have autoantibodies that can generate cross reactions and
           result in false positives, for this reason, in the presence of a positive result in
           these tests, must always be confirmed with the gold standard that is the quantification
           of viral load.

        2. Research question.

           Will the prevalence of hepatitis C determined by quantitative viral load be higher in
           patients who consult as first-line for vasculitis, a possible extrahepatic manifestation
           of HCV, compared to that reported in the general Mexican population?

        3. Approach of the problem.

           Previous studies in other countries show that the prevalence of HCV infection is higher
           in patients with autoimmune clinical manifestations, specifically vasculitis, since this
           may be extrahepatic manifestation of HCV, compared to the general population.

           In Mexico, the prevalence of HCV in the population of patients with "vasculitis" has
           never been evaluated.

           Since the timely detection of chronic HCV infection requires a high degree of suspicion
           based on the patient's risk factors, and since their symptoms are totally nonspecific,
           and knowing that vasculitis associated with MCG-II is the most extrahepatic
           manifestation common of HCV, the investigators consider relevant to perform an HCV
           screening in this group of patients.

        4. Justification.

           At present, HCV infection is curable with high effectiveness, achieving the sustained
           viral response in more than 95% of cases with the new direct antiviral agents. Early
           diagnosis depends on the patient having access to an effective treatment and that
           achieving a virological cure achieves a favorable prognosis for function and life.

        5. Hypothesis.

           If vasculitis is an extrahepatic manifestation of HCV, then the prevalence of chronic
           HCV infection in this group of patients will be higher than the prevalence reported in
           the general population.

        6. Objectives.

           General: To know the real prevalence of hepatitis C determined by quantitative viral
           load in patients who consult for the first intention to a rheumatology department for
           "vasculitis and with a positive result in the serological HCV screening test".

           Specific(1): To describe the clinical characteristics of hepatic and extrahepatic
           manifestations of patients with "vasculitis" detected with Hepatitis C.

           Specific (2): To determine the real prevalence of hepatitis C determined by quantitative
           viral load in patients who consult for other rheumatological conditions (non-vasculitis)
           with a positive result in the serological HCV screening test.

        7. Material and methods.

             1. Type and design of the study: Observational study, case series, descriptive and
                analytical.

             2. Inclusion criteria: Patients who first attend to a Rheumatology department, to be
                evaluated for diagnosis of "vasculitis under study" or "vasculitis of origin to be
                determined" or "rheumatological condition for study".

             3. Exclusion criteria: Patients who do not wish to participate in the study.

             4. Elimination criteria: Patients who do not have a complete clinical file.

             5. Population and sample size:

                Population: All patients who first attend to a Rheumatology department, to be
                evaluated for diagnosis of "vasculitis under study" or "vasculitis of origin to be
                determined" or "rheumatological condition for study".

                Sample size: Assuming a prevalence of between 5 to 10%, in this specific
                population, a total of 1000 patients need to be evaluated, to find between 50 to
                100 patients with chronic HCV infection.

             6. Data collection and Procedures: The investigators will obtain the informed consent
                from patients; demographic, clinical, biochemical data of the clinical file will be
                collected. A quick test will be taken in the office for HCV detection, if it is
                negative, it is recorded in the data collection form and the patient will be
                discharged from this clinical study to continue the usual care in Rheumatology. If
                this test is positive, the patient will be given a request for viral load and
                genotype and an appointment will be made for follow-up of the case in the Liver
                Clinic.

        8. Relevance and expectations

      This will be the first study in Mexico to characterize a population that suffers from
      vasculitis, the most common extrahepatic manifestation related to MCG-II in patients with
      HCV, and other rheumatological conditions, as potential extrahepatic manifestations of CHC.

      This study will allow to know the prevalence in this special group of patients, in addition
      to the research purposes that fall within this prevalence study, patients will have access to
      a detection and treatment program in a timely manner.
    
  