
    
      1. Treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome with tenecteplase, a dose escalation
           pilot study: phase I

        2. The study sample size will be 20 patients. The 20 patients will be divided into 4 groups
           with 5 patients in each group or cohort. The first cohort will received 0.1mg/kg of
           tenecteplase as a bolus via peripheral IV as described by the package insert and will be
           closely monitored for safety and efficacy. If there are no adverse events associated
           with tenecteplase, the second cohort of patients will be enrolled and will receive 0.2
           mg/kg of tenecteplase IV bolus. If there are no safety issues, we will proceed with the
           next cohort at 0.3 mg/kg with a final cohort of patients receiving 0.4 mg/kg of
           tenecteplase IV bolus. Advancement of dose will occur if safety is not in question in
           the previous cohort.

        3. Tenecteplase will be given as a bolus via peripheral IV as described by package insert.

        4. Treatment will be initiated after informed consent is obtained and only >12 hrs after
           any subcutaneous Heparin has been stopped and >12 hrs after placement of a pulmonary
           artery catheter, central line or arterial line. Only patients meeting criteria for ARDS
           (see inclusion criteria) will be considered for the study.

        5. Pretreatment assessment: We will obtain informed consent, demographic data, physical
           examination and medical history, vital signs, PT, PTT, INR, ABG, hemoglobin hematocrit,
           liver enzymes, cardiac enzymes, creatinine, fibrinogen, fibrin split products,
           platelets, urine pregnancy test, EKG, chest x-ray, cardiac profile from Swan-Ganz
           catheter and ventilator settings before treatment begins.

        6. Assessment during treatment: Blood samples will be taken every 6 hours for 24 hours and
           analyzes for PT, PTT, INR, fibrinogen, fibrin split products, platelets, hemoglobin, and
           hematocrit. Arterial blood gas samples will be taken at hour 1, 2, 3, and every six
           hours until 24 hours post-injection. Cardiac profile, vital signs and ventilator
           settings will be monitored at hour 1, 2, 3, and every six hours until 24 hours
           post-infusion. Adverse events will be monitored every hour for 24 hours.

        7. Follow-up assessment: 72 hours post treatment physical exam, vital signs, weight,
           adverse events, cardiac profile, ventilator settings, PT, PTT, INR, fibrinogen, fibrin
           split products, platelets, ABG, hemoglobin and hematocrit, liver enzymes, cardiac
           enzymes, creatinine, EKG and chest x-ray will be obtained. Thirty days post treatment
           physical exam, vital signs, weight, mortality, adverse events will be followed.

        8. Patients will be monitored for signs of clinical bleeding.
    
  