
    
      EMBRACE is a multi-centre pilot study for 100 patients with EGFR negative NSCLC undergoing
      first line platinum based chemotherapy. It is a prospective randomised (1:1) 2-arm controlled
      study. A nested mechanism study will be performed in a sub group of patients willing to have
      muscle biopsies.

      Patients will be randomised to the exercise intervention or the control arm. All patients
      will undergo standard chemotherapy with gemcitabine and carboplatin (or equivalent) for 12
      weeks. Patients randomised to the intervention arm will undergo concurrent exercise training
      during their 12 weeks of chemotherapy treatment. Patients randomised to the control arm will
      undergo chemotherapy only. During the 12 weeks of the study, assessments will be performed on
      all patients (including CPET tests and HRQL questionnaires). The exercise training sessions
      and study assessments will not affect timing of delivery of chemotherapy. Patients who
      decline randomisation will be offered entry into an observational study.

      The follow-up phase will commence when patients have completed 12 weeks of chemotherapy, or
      sooner for patients who stop chemotherapy early due to progressive disease or toxicity.
      During the follow-up phase data will be for survival and to follow any AEs related to study
      procedures. AEs not related to study procedures will not require follow up. Ongoing
      chemotherapy after week 12 will be as per investigator and patient choice, and may include
      further induction cycles, maintenance chemotherapy, or observation.

      In a subgroup of willing patients muscle biopsies will be performed at baseline, during
      chemotherapy, and after completion of chemotherapy.

      TRIAL OUTCOME MEASURES

      The primary outcome variables for this feasibility and tolerability study will be adherence
      to the exercise training program, and adverse events.

      The secondary outcome variables will be response to chemotherapy, fitness levels as measured
      by Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing (CPET), Time to get up and go test (TUG), grip strength,
      bioimpedance, CT measures of cancer cachexia, and Montreal score, cancer related symptoms,
      HRQL, and activity levels.

      The exploratory outcome variables will be overall survival, toxicity, and biomarkers of
      stress and cellular energetics.
    
  