
    
      Public health organizations, third party payers, consumer watchdog groups, health care
      quality organizations, and patients are increasingly scrutinizing patient safety in
      hospitals. Surgical site infection (SSI) rates are one of the key quality measures by which
      hospitals are evaluated. Centers for Disease Control (CDC) guidelines provide specific
      recommendations, weighted by evidence, to prevent SSI. These include the following category
      1A recommendations (Strongly recommended for implementation and supported by well-designed
      experimental, clinical, or epidemiological studies).

        -  Do not remove hair preoperatively unless the hair at or around the incision site will
           interfere with the operation

        -  If hair is removed, remove immediately before the operation, preferably with electric
           clippers.

      However, a recent systematic review of randomized clinical trials concluded there was no
      difference in SSI among patients that had hair removed prior to surgery and those that did
      not. Furthermore, trials involving hair removal were largely underpowered and of marginal
      quality. If hair is going to be removed, previous studies have shown hair removal with
      clippers or depilatory creams to result in fewer SSI than shaving with a razor. However, the
      need for trials comparing SSI rates with and without hair removal was stressed in the recent
      systematic review. No prospective, randomized clinical trial evaluating no hair removal vs.
      hair removal by clipping, the two hair removing modalities preferred by CDC SSI prevention
      guidelines, has ever been reported. This study aims to assess whether hair removal via
      clipping is non-inferior to no hair removal in a cohort of patients undergoing general
      surgical procedures at a community hospital.

      A non-inferiority study design will be used based upon the following rationale. CDC
      guidelines recommend not removing hair preoperatively unless the hair will interfere with the
      operation. However, there is no published evidence that clipping hair results in more SSI
      than no hair removal. Clipping hair is often preferred from a surgical perspective. This may
      be because of historical practice patterns, personal comfort level, and the either real or
      perceived interference of unremoved hair with performing the operation. Therefore, assessing
      whether clipping is non-inferior to no hair removal will provide helpful information
      regarding the appropriateness of the current CDC recommendation to not remove hair
      preoperatively unless the hair will interfere with the operation.

      Patients will be assessed for enrollment after a decision has been made for elective
      (non-emergent) operative intervention. Patients will undergo our institution's current
      preoperative procedural standard of care. Patients will be specifically instructed to not
      shave themselves prior to the procedure. The day of the procedure patients will undergo our
      institution's standard preoperative skin preparation, which currently includes povidone based
      skin antiseptic. Preoperative antibiotics will be administered according to our institutional
      standards of care for their particular operation.

      Randomization will be assigned the day of surgery in the preoperative area. Patients will be
      randomized 1:1 to either undergo clipping or no hair removal. Enrolled patients will then
      undergo the type of hair removal appropriate for their study arm. Clipping patients will
      undergo hair removal on the day of surgery by a member of the preoperative nursing staff,
      immediately prior to the scheduled operation. Any patient that undergoes unanticipated hair
      removal, (either additional hair removal in patients that were clipped or any hair removal in
      patients that were not clipped) will be noted as a protocol deviation and the event recorded.
      Patients will undergo their surgical procedure according to standard surgical care.

      Patients will be scheduled for a follow-up wound assessment with a trained study nurse. This
      assessment will take place by an independent assessor whom is blinded (as best able given
      study interventions) to the study group the patient was in.

      Additionally, if patients are seen for wound problems by their surgeon, primary physicians,
      or other physicians we will attempt to have them evaluated by one of the trained nurses at
      that visit as well. If patients do not keep their follow-up appointment, they will be called
      and asked a standardized set of questions related to the wound. Finally, in the event
      patients are seen for wound problems at other facilities, or in other departments (i.e.
      urgent care, emergency room, etc), they will be encouraged to make a follow-up appointment
      within a few days to be reassessed, at which time the study nurse can assess their status as
      well. The patients' electronic medical records will be updated to reflect their study
      involvement, and to alert providers to contact the study coordinator with wound related
      questions if seen in another department.
    
  