
    
      The purpose of this multi-site RCT is to determine the effectiveness of the MAC group
      intervention on reducing psychotic disorder symptomatology (primary outcome) as well as
      promoting quality of life, critical skills for recovery and decreasing mental health service
      utilization (secondary outcomes) for transitional aged youth (16-25 years old) experiencing
      early psychosis. This study is being run at five southern Ontario Early Psychosis
      Intervention (EPI) sites with Prevention and Early Intervention Program for Psychoses (PEPP)
      at London Health Sciences Centre (LHSC) being the lead site. Three of the larger sites
      (located in London, Kitchener-Waterloo, and Hamilton Ontario) are following the RCT design,
      while the two smaller sites (located in Chatham-Kent and Sarnia, Ontario) are participating
      in a pre-post design.

      For the three RCT sites we aim to recruit 20-24 participants, and for the pre-post sites we
      aim to recruit 10 participants (total n=92 participants). Participants at the RCT sites will
      be randomized into Group-A (n = 12; immediate treatment intervention group) or Group-B (n =
      12; delayed treatment intervention group). Group-A will receive the MAC intervention at the
      onset of the study, while Group-B will receive treatment as usual (TAU). Group-B will have
      the option of receiving the MAC intervention approximately 6 months after the onset of the
      study. At all times during this study, participants who are receiving the MAC intervention
      will also be able to continue receiving TAU. Both groups will be assessed with a battery of
      quantitative measures at baseline (T1), three months later (i.e., immediately post-MAC
      intervention) (T2), and again three months post-MAC intervention (T3). The measures include
      interview assessments of psychotic disorder symptoms, and self-report measures of affect,
      self-esteem, quality of life, coping strategies, assertiveness, social functioning,
      mindfulness and cognitive skills. In addition, healthcare utilization records for the 6
      months preceding MAC intervention onset and for the 6 month duration of the study (3 month
      MAC intervention + 3 month post-MAC intervention follow-up period) will be collected.
      Researchers conducting symptom assessment interviews and data analysis will be blinded to the
      group membership of participants. For the two pre-post sites, all 10 participants will
      receive the MAC intervention immediately. All 10 participants will complete T1, T2, and T3
      assessments and their healthcare utilization records will also be collected.

      Based on the pilot study at PEPP-LHSC, and based on previous findings of Mindfulness Based
      Interventions for psychoses in the literature, we are expecting that participation in the MAC
      intervention will result in improvement in the following areas: psychotic symptomology
      (including affective symptoms), mindfulness skills, quality of life, measures of recovery
      (self-esteem, perceived recovery), perceived coping, assertiveness, social functioning,
      cognitive skills, and a reduction in healthcare service utilization (e.g., emergency room
      visits, inpatient admissions/length of hospitalization).
    
  