
    
      Aim:

        1. To conduct a multi-centre randomised controlled trial to assess the effect of 3
           different dose regimens of fludrocortisone on shock reversal in septic shock patients
           treated with hydrocortisone.

        2. To assess the temporal changes in endocrine inflammatory and gene expression markers in
           septic shock patients.

      Hypotheses:

      In patients with septic shock treated with hydrocortisone,

        1. The addition of fludrocortisone to hydrocortisone results in improved vascular
           responsiveness to vasopressors as compared to hydrocortisone alone

        2. The improvement of vascular responsiveness with fludrocortisone is in a dose dependent
           manner

        3. Enterally administered fludrocortisone results in adequate plasma level

        4. Patients who have early reversal of shock have higher concentrations of, angiotensin II
           and angiotensin II-receptor expression and reduced angiotensin converting enzyme 2 (ACE
           2) concentrations at baseline and throughout the course of their illness

        5. Patients who have early reversal of shock have higher concentrations of plasma free
           cortisol, aldosterone and glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor expression at
           baseline and throughout the course of their illness.

        6. Patients who demonstrate evidence of both greater angiotensin II and glucocorticoid
           receptor expression will have earlier shock reversal than those who have an increase in
           expression of either of these receptors.

        7. There is a different temporal change in the plasma concentrations and receptor
           expression profiles in early shock reversal patients vs. delayed shock reversal
           patients.

           300 patients will be recruited and randomised to enteral doses of 50mcg fludrocortisone
           Q24H, Q12H, Q6H or to the control arm of the study. The study will enrol patients
           admitted to a participating intensive care unit and who meet all the inclusion criteria
           and no exclusion criteria. Patients in a fludrocortisone arm will receive enteral
           fludrocortisone for a maximum of 7 days or until sustained shock reversal or until
           discharge from ICU whichever is earlier.

           Blood samples acquired will be analysed for:

             -  Endocrine - Cortisol, free cortisol, aldosterone and metabolites

             -  Inflammatory - Cytokine profiles, markers of vasoplegia

             -  Gene Expression - Whole genome RNA sequencing and single cell sequencing

             -  To assess the plasma levels following enteral administration of fludrocortisone in
                all patients enrolled to undertake detailed analysis of fludrocortisone kinetics in
                a subgroup of 30 patients enrolled (10 patients in each dosing group).

           For all patients, data will be collected at baseline and daily whilst in the ICU for up
           to 8 days. Patients will be followed up to time of discharge from hospital or day 28 if
           they are still in hospital, whichever occurs first
    
  