
    
      OA, the most common form of arthritis, occurs in about 21 million Americans. Of all the
      weight-bearing joints, the knee is most commonly affected by OA. Knee OA leads to physical
      changes to the entire joint structure, including cartilage, neighboring bone, and ligaments.
      Such structural changes to the knee alter joint function during movement, resulting in pain.
      The pain typically leads to less physical activity, leading to weight gain, followed by
      impaired physical function and disability.

      Excessive body weight adds to the compressive forces on the knee joint and is a risk factor
      for OA. While there is no cure for OA, weight loss is the best nonpharmacologic way to slow
      OA progression. The amount of weight loss necessary to alter OA progression is unknown. The
      purpose of this study is to compare the effects of significant dietary restriction, exercise,
      and a combination of both in reducing knee inflammation and compressive forces in obese and
      overweight adults with knee OA. The study will also examine how diet and exercise affect
      everyday function and pain levels, as well as the extent of weight loss necessary for slowing
      OA disease progression.

      This study will last 18 months. Four, 2-hour screening visits will include various
      questionnaires, physical exams, physical performance tests, x-rays, and blood and urine
      collection. Half of the participants will also undergo additional x-rays, magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI), and a CT scan. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to one of three
      intervention groups:

        -  Group 1 participants will follow a calorie-restricted diet

        -  Group 2 participants will follow an exercise regimen

        -  Group 3 participants will follow a calorie-restricted diet and an exercise regimen

      Group 1 and 3 participants will aim to lose at least 10% of their body weight and drop to the
      next lower body mass index (BMI) class level; Group 2 participants will aim to maintain their
      weight. Group 1 and 3 participants will follow the prescribed diet, which will include
      traditional healthy food and up to two meal replacement supplements. Initially, the diet will
      be set to result in an overall loss of 800 to 1000 calories per day. Body weight will be
      monitored during weekly nutritional education and behavioral sessions. For the first 6
      months, Group 1 and 3 participants will attend one individual session and three group
      sessions per month. During Months 7 through 18, participants will attend group sessions once
      every two weeks and individual sessions once every 3 months. Throughout the study,
      participants will record food and beverage intake in daily logs that will be collected
      monthly.

      Group 2 and 3 participants will partake in three, 60-minute exercise sessions per week for
      the duration of the study. The exercise sessions will incorporate aerobic exercise and
      resistance training. Participants will also be encouraged to exercise at home. Body weight
      will be monitored monthly.

      Follow-up evaluations for all participants will occur at Months 6 and 18, during which most
      of the screening procedures will be repeated. The Month 6 follow-up will include two study
      visits, and the Month 18 follow-up will include three study visits. Group 2 participants will
      be offered dietary counseling at the end of the study.
    
  