
    
      Given the current high incidence of osteoporosis, reducing the risk of osteoporosis
      development is essential. Recent estimates, based on the 2010 US Census, indicate that
      approximately 10.3 million people age 50 and older have osteoporosis. By 2030 the prevalence
      of osteoporosis for women 50 years and older is projected to reach 13.6 million.
      Postmenopausal osteoporosis is characterized not only by hypoestrogenism, but also by
      increased production of reactive oxygen species, oxidative stress, and inflammatory response.
      Current first line strategies are treatment of osteoporosis with pharmacologic approaches.
      Complementary recommendations include the maintenance of calcium (Ca2+) and vitamin D (VitD)
      intake to meet the current recommendations. Although the anti-resorptive therapies are
      effective they are also associated with an array of negative side effects, which reduce
      patient compliance to use of the therapy.

      Non-pharmacologic options to reducing the risk of bone loss are becoming more attractive to
      many postmenopausal women. The phenolics and bioavailable conjugated metabolites found in
      dried plums are proposed to modulate the inflammatory signaling pathways and have the
      potential to influence bone formation and bone resorption, thus modulating the risk of bone
      loss. The investigators are conducting a 52 week dose ranging randomized controlled trial
      that builds upon previous rodent and human work and addresses the experimental design
      limitations of the previous work, to assess bone outcomes with clinical (BMD) and mechanistic
      (bone geometry, bone metabolism markers, and inflammation markers) techniques. Additionally,
      this study will include a detailed assessment of the phenolics in the dried plums to explore
      the relationship between these compounds and bone outcomes.

      Participants will participate in a 1-2 week screening period followed by a 1-2 week baseline
      period. At the end of baseline randomization to 1 of 3 groups will occur (Ca2+ and VitD only;
      50g Dried Plums/day and Ca2+ and VitD; 100g Dried Plums/day and Ca2+ and VitD). Dried plums
      and Calcium/Vitamin D supplements will be provided to participants for the duration of the
      intervention. At the beginning of the 52 week intervention participants will begin
      consumption of dried plums and will be given a run in period where the number of dried plums
      consumed per day increases slowly to minimize the side effects felt by the participants. The
      dried plums will be consumed as snacks in the morning, midday, and in the evening.
      Participants will visit the laboratory for testing every 4 weeks during the 52 week
      intervention, with more testing occurring during weeks 12, 24, 36, and 52 than the other
      testing periods.

      At testing period visits participants will be asked to complete some or all of the following:
      body weight measurement; blood sampling; 24-hour urine collection; stool sample collection;
      DXA scan; peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) scan; completion of health,
      physical activity, and nutrition questionnaires; completion of supplement/symptom, diet, and
      physical activity logs.

      A total of 300 participants will be enrolled and screed with an expected randomization of 79
      participants per group. The investigators anticipate a 20% drop-out rate between baseline and
      week 52, thus will anticipate having a final sample size of 63 participants per group
      complete the study. This sample size provides over 80% power to detect differences with the
      primary BMD, bone geometry, and bone strength variables.
    
  