
    
      Investigators will link and relate clinical data to a multiple "omics" analysis in patients
      developing persistent chronic symptoms (defined as pain that persists 3 months or more),
      after an episode of acute LBP. The development of persistent chronic pain will be assessed at
      3 months after the acute episode.

      "OMIC" biomarkers investigated will be genetics, epigenetics, glycomics and activomic.

      Genetics through genome wide association studies (GWAS) has already obtained important
      results in pain research; however concerning low back pain, there is not yet suitable
      genotype-phenotype correlations helpful to stratify patients.

      Epigenetic regulation is a universal tool that higher organisms use to adapt to changes in
      the environment. While environmental factors, such as diet influence enzymatic processes only
      while they are directly present, their prolonged effects can be achieved through the cell
      memory of epigenetic marks. Various elements of the membrane signal transduction system were
      reported to be regulated by epigenetic mechanisms.

      Glycomics is an emerging field that has recently been identified as a priority for the next
      decade by the US National Academies of Science. Many common complex diseases will be
      associated with specific changes in glycan structures. In addition, common genetic
      polymorphisms influencing glycosylation and consequent differences in glycome composition
      could be important diagnostic and prognostic markers. The first studies reporting protein
      glycosylation in large human population samples have been recently published by partners in
      the consortium. Reliable identification of valid associations between specific
      glyco-phenotypes and predisposition for the development or progression of a specific disease
      requires analysis of thousands of patients.

      Activomics: combines data about enzymatic activity of numerous numerous post-translational
      modification proteins in an integrated model which provides dynamic characterization of the
      current state of an organism. In this project information about numerous proteases, kinases,
      phosphatases and glycosidases will be collected and used to complement the existing phenotype
      information.

      "Omics" data will be compared stratifying population according to pain characteristics, pain
      intensity, response to treatment and duration of pain. In a subgroup of patients, "omics"
      data will be compared stratifying population according to pain pathophysiology: discogenic
      pain, spinal stenosis, facet joint pain, sacroiliac joint pain, low back pain with radicular
      pain (radicular pain not predominant) and widespread low back pain.
    
  