
    
      Ovarian stimulation improves the cycle fecundity rate in part by increasing the number of
      follicles available for fertilisation and correcting subtle, unpredictable ovulatory
      dysfunction. Intrauterine insemination is an established treatment for subfertility due to
      cervical factors, male factors, or unexplained etiology. Ovulation induction aims at the
      selection of a single follicle that would be able to reach the pre-ovulatory size and
      rupture. The ovarian sensitivity to FSH (FSH threshold) has to be identified to avoid
      multiple follicular development and hence, the lowest effective dose of FSH should be used in
      treating infertility.

      Treatment in subjects is individualised and is monitored by serum estradiol (E2) measurements
      and ultrasound scans of the ovaries to assess the endometrial thickness. It has been observed
      in earlier studies that in OI for unexplained non-conception, induction of more than one
      follicle did not improve the ongoing pregnancy rate but increased the risk of multiple
      pregnancies. Therefore, to reduce the number of multiple pregnancies, in all IUI cycles for
      unexplained non-conception, monofollicular growth was suggested.

      The 'low-dose step-up' protocol is the most suitable method to establish an appropriate FSH
      threshold, which involves a starting FSH dose of 75 IU/day given for 7 to 14 days. Subsequent
      dose increments of 37.5 IU/day at weekly intervals is determined based on the ovarian
      response, usually when a follicle of diameter ≥10 mm is not seen in the ovaries. Human
      chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) is then injected when the leading follicle is ≥18 mm in
      diameter.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary objective:

        -  To describe the outcome of treatment in a cohort of subjects undergoing OI/IUI therapy
           using Gonal-f

      Secondary objective:

        -  To explore the predictive factors of ovarian response in OI/IUI therapy using a low-dose
           step-up regimen

      This study is planned to enrol 30 female subjects from 1 centre in Taiwan. Each subject can
      receive up to 3 treatment cycles. Before undergoing a controlled ovarian stimulation with
      Gonal-f, a thorough gynaecologic and endocrinologic evaluation of the subject will be
      performed and the subjects will be given the first administration of Gonal-f low dose step up
      regimen for the controlled ovarian stimulation at the baseline visit. The objective of the
      Gonal-f therapy is to develop a single mature graafian follicle from which the ovum will be
      liberated after the administration of hCG. If a subject fails to respond adequately after 4
      weeks of treatment, the cycle will be abandoned and the subject would recommence the
      treatment at a higher starting dose than in the abandoned cycle. If an excessive response is
      obtained, treatment would be stopped and hCG administration will be withheld and in the next
      cycle the treatment would start at a dosage lower than that of the previous cycle. Each
      enrolled subject will be followed up until the confirmation of her pregnancy status.
    
  