
    
      The central goal of the study is to determine whether brief interactions with a therapy dog
      have an immediate impact on children's biological response to stress, prosocial behaviors,
      and self-reported mood in comparison to interactions with a stuffed toy dog. The study uses a
      randomized crossover design with two study arms; all children will receive the both
      interventions during the same session, with the timing of the intervention randomized across
      subject. All outcomes will be assessed during a single study visit. No follow-up data will be
      collected.

      The study uses both between-group and within-subject comparisons. Between groups, the
      investigators predict that children who interact with a therapy dog prior to a psychosocial
      stress task (Arm 1) will show attenuated cortisol response to the stress task (primary
      outcome) and reduced physiological stress (secondary outcomes) compared to children who
      interact with a stuffed toy dog prior to the psychosocial stress task (Arm 2). Conversely,
      children who interact with the therapy dog immediately prior to the in-lab behavior tasks
      (Arm 2) will show higher levels of behavioral carefulness and prosocial behavior (primary
      outcomes) compared to children who interact with the stuffed toy dog prior to the behavior
      tasks (Arm 1).

      Within subjects across both study arms, increases in positive mood and decreases in negative
      mood (secondary outcomes) will be greatest following interaction with the therapy dog
      compared to the stuffed toy dog, after controlling for main effects of study arm. Within
      subjects, physiological markers of stress (secondary outcomes) will be lower during the
      interaction with the therapy dog than during interaction with the stuffed toy dog.

      Investigators will seek additional funds to collect and analyze salivary oxytocin data. The
      hypothesis is that children will show greater increase in oxytocin following interaction with
      the therapy dog in comparison to interaction with the stuffed toy dog.

      This study will also investigate the mechanisms through which child-dog interactions
      influence youth stress responsivity, using coded videotaped data from the subset of children
      in Arm 1 who interact with the therapy dog prior to the psychosocial stress task. It is
      hypothesized that child behaviors observed during the interaction, such as duration and
      frequency of eye gaze, petting and stroking behaviors, and use of positive affect, will be
      inversely correlated with change in cortisol response to stress. Dog behaviors, such as
      duration and frequency of eye gaze and approach behaviors, will be inversely correlated with
      children's change in cortisol response to stress.

      The study will also investigate whether child characteristics moderate the effects of the
      child-dog interaction. Investigators hypothesize that the effects of the therapy dog
      intervention will be stronger among children who currently live with dogs versus non-dog
      owning children and among children with more positive attitudes towards pets. It is also
      expected that the effects of the therapy dog interaction will be weaker among children with
      internalizing problems and for children experiencing higher levels of general stress.
      Investigators will also test whether the effects of the therapy dog intervention vary across
      child gender, race/ethnicity, or socioeconomic status, or child personality.
    
  