
    
      The purpose of this study is to investigate the outcomes of a 60-day trial of Rice Bran
      Arabinoxylan Compound (RBAC) among adults. Specifically, subjects will participate in a
      two-group, randomized intervention that is based on a nutritional supplement made from a
      water soluble extract of rice bran that has been partially hydrolyzed by the action of a
      natural enzyme complex extracted from Shitake mushroom. One group will take 1 gram/day and
      the other group will take 3 gram/day to compare differences in outcomes between the two
      groups. We hypothesize that the 3 gram/day condition will demonstrate faster increases in
      outcomes compared to the 1 gram/day condition. The primary outcomes for this study will be
      Natural Killer (NK) cell activity, cytokines, total bilirubin, creatinine, and liver function
      tests. These outcomes will be compared between those subjects enrolled in the two treatment
      groups before and after 60 days.

      No substantial psychological, medical, or social risks exist to the participants, other than
      minor discomfort associated with the venipuncture. Although all measures to protect
      confidentiality will be put in place, the possibility exists that electronic data could be
      jeopardized. In the remote case that such event occurs, it will be immediately reported to
      the IRB.

      The components of RBAC should be harmless without significant food allergies. No serious,
      untoward side effects have been reported to the company by consumers nor observed during
      previous human studies. If any side effect does occur, the remedy is to discontinue until
      asymptomatic, and then reintroduce at 1/4 dosage, increasing by the same amount every 2 days,
      if uneventful, until full dosage is achieved. Dr. Ali will provide additional follow-up and
      consultation with any subject who experiences an untoward side effect.

      A toxicology search for each component reveals no unique toxicity characteristic of the
      materials. As reported by Daiwa Health Development, the manufacturer of the product,
      thousands of people currently use RBAC (under the trade names BRM4 and PeakImmune 4), and
      Daiwa is unaware of significant toxicities. Daiwa applies the latest scientific methods to
      ensure the value and safety of their raw materials. Daiwa products are manufactured in
      state-of-the-art facilities, under strict quality control and environmental protection
      standards.

      Participants will incur no additional appreciable psychological or social risks by
      participating in this study, although they may undergo psychological and physical discomfort
      sometimes. The process of interviewing during the assessment may cause discomfort. Discomfort
      or fatigue may also be experienced in completing the assessment battery.

      Alternatives to this study for enhancing immune system functioning include prescription
      medications, exercise, dietary modification, and other nutritional supplements. The risks of
      medications can be very significant, including life-threatening, but the risk of taking
      nutritional supplements is not totally understood, since they are not regulated by the US
      Food and Drug Administration. Medications and nutritional supplements, as part of a change in
      lifestyle behaviors, may also prove to be beneficial for immune system functioning, but their
      long-term use has unknown consequences.

      The information obtained in this study will help in determining the efficacy of using a rice
      bran extract nutritional supplement for enhancing immune system outcomes. By participating in
      the study, subjects may experience improved NK cell activity and cytokine functioning. The
      risk of participating in this study is reasonable because of the potential enhancements in
      immune system functioning with improved nutritional status.
    
  