
    
      The investigators are undertaking a prospective multicenter double-blind study of 400 adult
      patients with immune thrombocytopenia from 6 medical centers in China. We adopted three
      different assays that examined platelet function and reactivity. 1) Flow cytometry: Citrate
      anticoagulated whole blood was diluted in PBS to result in 20×10^9/L platelets, and 20 μl was
      aliquoted into polystyrene test tubes. Ten microliters of anti-CD42b-PE was added and
      incubated at room temperature for 10 min. Agonists (TRAP-6 12.5 μMol/L, Collagen 20 μg/mL,
      ADP 2 μM, Epinephrin 20 μM, Arachidonic acid 0.275 mM, Ristocetin 1.5 mg/mL) or PBS were
      added (10 μl each) and incubated again for 10 min. Then mAb PAC-1-FITC or anti-CD62p-FITC (10
      μl each) or the corresponding isotype-matched controls were added. After 15-min incubation in
      the dark, the reaction was stopped with 500 μl PBS. Samples were analyzed on a flow cytometer
      (FACScan, Becton-Dickinson) by measuring 10,000 events in the CD42b-positive fraction. 2)
      Filopodia quantification: Briefly, platelets in Tyrode's buffer were allowed to adhere to VWF
      (9×10^6 cells/coverslip) in the presence of botrocetin (1 μg/mL) and Integrilin (40 μg/mL) at
      37°C. After 15 min, non-adherent platelets were removed by washing and adherent platelets
      were fixed with 4% PFA, stained with TRITC-phalloidin (2 μg/mL) and viewed by epifluorescence
      microscopy for filopodia count. 3) Platelet aggregation: Measured on an automated platelet
      aggregation analyzer.

      Understanding bleeding risk and underlying determinants of bleeding is important in order to
      help recognize patients that will require pharmacologic therapy even at higher platelet
      counts. Previous studies have suggested that low platelet counts, increased patient age, use
      of concurrent medications, and male sex are associated with increased bleeding risk. The
      present investigation will answer whether platelet function predicts the severity of bleeding
      in adult ITP patients. Clinical information of recruited participants includes gender, age,
      platelet count and physical/laboratory examination. Blinding was set between investigators
      who evaluated bleeding risks and those who performed experiments.
    
  