
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate whether trabectedin given as first-line chemotherapy for patients with
           previously untreated advanced or metastatic malignant soft tissue sarcoma prolongs
           progression-free survival as compared to doxorubicin hydrochloride.

        -  To identify and validate biomarkers (including, but not limited to, XPG, BRCA1, RAD51,
           BRCA2, ATM and CHK1) of sensitivity to trabectedin in order to allow the selection of
           patients that benefit most from trabectedin treatment. (Optional translational research)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase IIB study followed by a phase III study. Patients are
      stratified according to institution, age at registration (< 60 years old vs ≥ 60 years old),
      and presence of liver metastases (yes vs no).

        -  Phase IIB (step 1): Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment repeats
                every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive trabectedin IV over 3 hours on day 1. Courses repeat every
                3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm III: Patients receive trabectedin IV continuously over 24 hours on day 1.
                Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

      At the end of step 1, the best regimen of trabectedin will be determined. Patients receiving
      the non-selected trabectedin regimen ("losing arm") are offered to cross over in order to
      receive the selected regimen of trabectedin.

        -  Phase III (step 2): Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive trabectedin IV on day 1 using the preferred regimen
                determined in step 1. Courses repeat every 3 weeks in the absence of disease
                progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment repeats
                every 3 weeks for 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
                toxicity.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30 version 3) at baseline, at 6,
      12, 24, and 36 weeks during study, and at the end of study.

      Tumor tissue block obtained at diagnosis may be analyzed to identify and validate biomarkers
      of sensitivity to trabectedin and for tissue microarrays.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up at 1 month, every 6 or 12 weeks
      until disease progression, and every 12 weeks thereafter.
    
  