
    
      The experience of hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) for hematologic malignancy among
      Adolescents and Young Adults (AYAs) is particularly difficult because age-related
      developmental challenges of identity, relationships, and vocation may add to the burden of
      cancer. Compared to other age-groups, AYAs have poorer psychosocial outcomes including
      increased anxiety and depression and poorer adherence to oral immunosuppressive medications.
      These outcomes may, in turn, predispose AYAs to disease-related morbidity and mortality such
      as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and/or cancer-relapse. A potential barrier to improving
      these experiences may be that AYAs have few opportunities to develop the personal resources
      needed to handle adversity. We have previously developed the "Promoting Resilience in Stress
      Management" (PRISM) intervention for AYAs with serious illness. This manualized, brief
      intervention is delivered in 4, 30-60 minute, one-on-one sessions, followed by a Parent/
      Caregiver/ Spouse/ significant other inclusive meeting. It targets skills in
      stress-management and mindfulness, goal-setting, positive reframing, and meaning-making. All
      of these skills are associated with improved patient well-being in other populations, and
      preliminary findings from a recently closed phase II randomized controlled trial among AYAs
      with newly diagnosed cancer suggest PRISM is associated with improved health-related quality
      of life. This study will build on our prior experience and fill a critical knowledge gap
      regarding PRISM's impact among AYAs receiving HCT. Thus, we will conduct a multi-site
      randomized controlled trial among N=70 AYAs (n=35 PRISM and n=35 usual care; ages 12-24
      years), with the primary trial outcome of patient-reported symptoms of anxiety and
      depression. Secondary outcomes will include the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in
      this population and the impact of the intervention on parent well-being. Exploratory outcomes
      will assess patient adherence to oral chemotherapy. We hypothesize that AYAs who receive
      PRISM will report fewer mixed affective symptoms and demonstrate better adherence, while
      their parents report improved quality of life and psychological distress. We also anticipate
      the intervention will be cost-effective. In sum, this study offers an opportunity to expand
      the body of knowledge regarding methodologically rigorous and evidence-based psychosocial
      interventions and standards of care for AYAs with hematologic malignancies. Ultimately, this
      research has the potential to reduce the burden of cancer in these vulnerable populations.
    
  