
    
      Philadelphia-negative (Ph-negative) Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPN) include polycythemia
      vera (PV), essential thrombocythemia (TE), and primary myelofibrosis (MF). Ph-negative MPN
      are chronic myeloid neoplasms that appear after a malignant transformation of a hematopoietic
      stem cell. There are many clinical manifestations of these diseases, which include
      polyglobulia, thrombocytosis, leukocytosis, cytopenias, extramedullary hematopoiesis (e.g.:
      splenomegaly), increased thrombotic risk and the risk of transformation to acute myeloid
      leukemia (AML). Life expectancy varies from 5-6 years for patients with MF to more than 15
      years for patients with PV and ET.

      There are few therapeutic options for patients with Ph-negative MPN. In general, the
      treatment of these diseases is symptomatic and targeted to the relief of symptoms and control
      of hematological setting using oral chemotherapy agents such as hydroxyurea. Patients with MF
      receive palliative treatment, targeted to the relief of splenomegaly and cytopenias.
      Currently, there are no approved drugs for the treatment of MF.

      In Latin America, there are no epidemiological studies with a great number of Ph-negative MPN
      patients describing the natural history of the disease, patient progress, clinical
      characteristics, standards of care and disease burden. The development of an up-to-date data
      registry of Brazilian patients with Ph-negative MPN allows the comprehension of the
      epidemiology of this disease, with determination of survival, thrombosis incidence,
      transformation to AML, use of disease treatment-related resources, as well as the impact of
      different therapeutic strategies in these parameters. Therefore, the objective of this study
      is to establish a registry of patients with Ph-negative MPN in order to document the disease
      diagnosis and current standards of care, clinical endpoints, and the use of treatment-related
      resources, according to risk classification in each MPN.

      Data will be retrospectively and prospectively collected through an electronic form available
      at an Internet safe website. Each center participating in the study will have a principal
      investigator who will be in charge of the accuracy and quality of the data collected. Each
      principal investigator and staff will receive a login and a password to access the database
      and enroll patients in the registry. An employee from each site will be in charge of
      collecting the data and inserting them in the electronic registry. Patients shall be
      contacted in order to sign an informed consent form. Patient data will be updated every six
      months. There is no limit for the number of patients to be enrolled in the registry, either
      retrospectively or prospectively. The duration of this study is five years. Data collection
      will continue until all sites decide to interrupt the enrollment of new patients.
    
  