
    
      Stroke is the second leading cause of death and one of the main contributors to disability.
      Patients who survive the acute phase of ischemic stroke and those with a transient ischemic
      attack (TIA) are at high risk of subsequent stroke. Importantly, recurrent strokes are
      associated with a higher social and economic impact, higher case fatality, and worse clinical
      outcome than first-ever strokes. The burden of post-stroke complications, residual deficits,
      and inadequate medical and psychosocial care all contribute to long-term disability and
      reduced quality of life in these patients. Furthermore, effects on quality of life and
      long-term functional independence are particularly under-investigated.

      The Department of Neurology of the Medical University Innsbruck undertook the STROKE-CARD
      trial (NCT02156778) between 2014 and 2018 with follow-up until 2019 to evaluate the efficacy
      of the Post-Stroke disease management program STROKE-CARD care. The aim is to evaluate this
      program in a large multicenter cohort and to establish a biobank of stroke and TIA-patients
      for future research and development projects.

      In brief, the pragmatic and easily implementable STROKE-CARD care program reduced
      cardiovascular risk and improved health-related quality of life and functional outcome in
      patients with acute ischemic stroke or TIA in a timeframe of 12 months after the index event.
      To investigate the effects of STROKE-CARD care on a large basis and over a longer period, an
      evaluation of approximately 5,000 patients is warranted.

      Whereas disease management programs typically rely on expert opinion, the STROKE-CARD
      initiative moved from a purely empirical approach to a highly structured, individualized, and
      evidence-based procedure with professional outcome analysis. The STROKE-CARD concept will be
      implemented in clinical practice and can serve as a model for other disease management
      initiatives.

      Acute and short-term management of stroke and TIA has improved tremendously over the past
      years with substantial advances in acute therapy, implementation of comprehensive pathways
      for stroke and TIA, and approval of novel highly effective preventive treatments. As a main
      unmet challenge in stroke medicine, strategies of long-term care have to be developed and
      rigorously tested in order to maintain improved short-term patient outcome in the long run.

      STROKE-CARD care reduced the one-year cumulative absolute risk of CVD and ameliorated the
      patients' health-related quality of life at 12 months (EQ-5D-3L overall utility score,
      P<0.001). These findings were consistent in subgroups according to age, sex, and index event
      and were robust in the per-protocol analysis. Among pre-specified secondary outcomes assessed
      at 12 months, the investigators observed improvements in all individual dimensions of the
      EQ-5D-3L and in one-year functional outcome, that each met the multiplicity-adjusted
      threshold for statistical significance. Only a few previous trials of disease management
      programs in stroke and TIA patients have focused on recurrent CVD or quality of life as
      primary or secondary endpoints and none has considered long-term functional outcome after one
      year. The previous trial was limited to a 12-month follow-up in selected individuals and the
      sustainability of benefits of STROKE-CARD care in a large nationwide cohort over a longer
      follow-up period remains to be determined.

      This study aims to detect post-stroke complications, to estimate the patient's demand for
      nursing services, and support guideline-compliant secondary prevention with full achievement
      of target levels, lifestyle modifications, and in-person outcome assessment at 3 and 12
      months after the index-event, assessment of functional status (impairment), activity
      (disability), and participation (handicap and health-related quality of life). Additionally,
      yearly follow-up telephone interviews for cardiovascular outcome and health parameters will
      be conducted. In case of clinically indicated in-person follow-ups, the interviews will be
      done in person during the clinical visits. After the implementation of STROKE-CARD care, the
      investigators aim to document the quality of post-stroke care and compare outcome parameters
      to historical cohorts and the change over time. Furthermore, the investigators aim to gain a
      large data resource for future research of biomarkers, disease mechanisms, prognosis and
      imaging mechanisms for R&D.

      The main objective is to evaluate the Post-Stroke Disease Management program STROKE-CARD in a
      large multicenter cohort of stroke and TIA-patients and to establish a large clinical
      well-defined cohort. Furthermore, the investigators aim to gain a large data resource for
      future research of biomarkers, disease mechanisms, prognosis and imaging mechanisms for R&D.

      To document and monitor the quality of the Post-Stroke Disease Management program in
      different centers and compare outcomes to the historical cohort, as well as other published
      data. Furthermore, the investigators aim to constantly improve post-stroke care. This
      registry can facilitate to monitor and document the effect on the primary and secondary
      outcomes.

      There will be no formal safety endpoints in this study. No experimental procedures will be
      applied to patients and most of the procedures done are within the clinical routine.
      Potential side effects of optimal secondary stroke prevention are recorded.
    
  