
    
      This study was approved by Ethical Committee of the School of dentistry in Zagreb. Prior to
      the study every participant signed informed consent according to the Helsinki II. All patient
      were recruited from the Department of Oral medicine, School of dentistry in Zagreb.

      Patients were randomized by simple randomization method- flipping a coin (heads -
      acupuncture, tails - clonazepam).

      Inclusion criteria were symptoms of burning in the oral cavity with clinically healthy
      appearance of the oral mucosa. Burning symptoms were continuous throughout the day and lasted
      for more than 6 months. Some of the patients also had hyposalivation and disturbed taste.

      Prior to the either therapy as well as after the therapy (one month after the therapy has
      finished) every participant fulfilled following questionnaires: visual analogue scale (VAS)
      which referred to the severity of burning symptoms, Beck depression inventory (BDI), The
      Leeds assessment of neuropathic symptoms and signs (LANSS) Pain Scale, 36-item short form
      Health Survey (SF-36) total sum score and Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA).

      Arm (I) traditional Chinese acupuncture - performed 3 times during one week for four weeks on
      the points ST 8 (stomach- tou wei), GB 2, TE 21, SI 19 (small intestine- ting gong), SI 18
      (small intestine- quan liao), LI 4 (large intestine-Yuan) on both sides of the body as well
      as GV 20 (Governing vessel-bai hui) and each session lasted half an hour. We used sterile
      acupuncture needles from surgical stainless steel silicone coated with spring handle, the
      dimensiones of the chosen needles were 0.25 in diameter and 30 mm lenght, inserted at the
      depht of the 0.5-1 cun. The elicited response was of the type "de qi" accompanied by redness
      and a feeling of numbness around the needles.

      Arm (II) Clonazepam - patients took clonazepam two times a day (0.5 mg) in the morning and
      after two weeks one tablet (0.5 mg) in the morning and another tablet (0.5 mg) in the evening
      during the next two weeks.

      Statistical analysis was performed by use of Student t test and Pearson's correlation test. P
      values lower than 0.05 were considered significant.
    
  