
    
      This is a phase IIIb multicenter, open-label; single arm study to evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of pasireotide LAR 40 mg and 60 mg in patients with inadequately controlled acromegaly
      with maximal doses of first generation somatostatin analogues. The study will enroll
      inadequately controlled patients by high doses of first-generation somatostatin analogues
      given for at least 3 months.

      Patients will be categorized into two groups. Group 1 consists of patients treated with
      octreotide LAR 30 mg from countries where octreotide LAR 40mg is approved for the treatment
      of acromegaly at the time of screening. These patients will start a 3-months run-in phase to
      receive 40mg octreotide before being considered eligible to enter the core treatment phase.
      After 3 months of treatment have been completed, and prior to the fourth injection a mean GH
      and IGF-1 will be assessed. Patients who are achieving biochemical control will be considered
      a screen failure and they will not qualify for the core phase of the study. They will
      continue treatment with octreotide LAR 40 mg outside the frame of this study.

      Group 2 consists of patients treated with octreotide LAR 30 mg from countries where
      octreotide 40mg is NOT yet approved at the time of screening. This group also includes
      patients already treated with octreotide LAR 40 mg or lanreotide ATG 120 mg. Patients should
      have been treated with the first generation SSAs for at least 3 months prior to screening.
      Eligible patients can directly enter the core treatment phase of the study. A run-in phase is
      not required for this patient population.

      In the core treatment phase patients will start treatment with pasireotide LAR 40 mg every 4
      weeks. At week 12, the mean GH value and IGF-1value will be assessed. Patients who have not
      achieved biochemical control by week 12 and do not have any tolerability issues with
      pasireotide LAR 40 mg will have the dose increased to 60 mg. Patients who have achieved
      biochemical control by week 12 will maintain a dose of pasireotide LAR 40 mg. A mean GH value
      and IGF-1 value will be assessed every 12 weeks until Visit 777. At weeks 16 and 28, the
      investigator will be able to adjust the dose based on the achievement of biochemical control
      and drug tolerability. If tolerability issues occur, the dose can be decreased in 20 mg. Once
      the tolerability issue resolves, the patients should return to the dose previously received.
      Patients will be treated for a total of 36 weeks during the core phase. During this period
      any concomitant medication for the treatment of acromegaly is prohibited. Patients are
      required to complete a core phase completion visit 4 weeks after the last dose of pasireotide
      LAR is administered. Patients who discontinue from the core phase are also required to
      complete the core phase completion visit 4 weeks after receiving the last pasireotide LAR
      dose.

      Patients who have completed all visits of core phase and have completed all the assessments
      at the core phase completion visit (Visit 777) can move into the extension phase. The core
      phase completion visit performed at Visit 777, will also be the first visit (Visit 18) of the
      extension phase. At Visit 18, the patients will receive the same dose of pasireotide LAR that
      they received at week 32 (Visit 17). At week 40 (Visit 19), the investigator will decide the
      treatment regimen and the pasireotide LAR dose based on the achievement of biochemical
      control at Visit 777. Patients achieving biochemical control at the end of the core phase
      will continue pasireotide LAR monotherapy at the same dose of the core phase. Patients who
      are uncontrolled at the end of the core phase will continue pasireotide LAR 60 mg and they
      will be allowed to receive concomitant treatment with medications used to treat acromegaly
      based on the investigator's clinical judgment. GH and IGF-1 levels will be assessed every 12
      weeks until week 72. At weeks 52 and 64, the investigator will be able to adjust the dose of
      pasireotide LAR and the regimen of the concomitant medication used to acromegaly based on the
      patients achievement of biochemical control and drug tolerability. Patients will be treated
      for a total of 32 weeks in the extension phase and receive the last dose of study treatment
      at week 68 (Visit 26). Patients are required to complete an extension phase completion visit
      (Visit 778) 4 weeks after the last dose of pasireotide LAR is administered. Patients who
      prematurely discontinue from the extension phase are also required to complete the extension
      phase completion visit (Visit 778) 4 weeks after receiving the last dose of pasireotide LAR.

      After discontinuation from the study or completion of study treatment either at the core
      phase or extension phase of the study, all patients will be followed for safety for 12 weeks
      (84 days) after the last study drug administration. This visit can be performed by phone, a
      study visit for follow-up is not mandatory.
    
  