
    
      Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is the major cause of hepatic failure worldwide.
      Although the clinical course of HBV infection varies widely, the prognosis of decompensated
      liver cirrhosis is quite poor and the 5-year survival rate has been estimated to be only
      14-35% without treatment. While the ultimate treatment of decompensated cirrhosis is
      orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), several studies have suggested that anti-viral
      therapy can also improve the clinical outcomes in this group of patients.

      Entecavir (ETV) is a potent cyclopentyl guanosine nucleoside inhibitor of the HBV polymerase.
      It has a higher anti-viral potency and a lower resistance rate compared to lamivudine (LAM),
      telbivudine or adefovir, when used for nucleoside/nucleotide-naïve patients. ETV has been
      shown to be effective in patients with both hepatitis B envelope antigen (HBeAg)-positive and
      HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B, and compensated liver disease. As for patients with
      decompensated cirrhosis, the investigators recently reported that ETV can not only induce
      virological response but also improve underlying hepatic function, and thereby can reduce the
      need for OLT. The cumulative OLT-free survival at 1 year and 2 years was 87.1% and 83%,
      respectively with ETV treatment.

      Despite this dramatic benefit from ETV treatment, a recent study reported that ETV may induce
      lactic acidosis in patients with severe hepatic and/or renal function impairment. Lange et
      al. reported that 5 of 16 patients with severely impaired liver function developed lactic
      acidosis during ETV treatment. Of note, all the five patients who developed lactic acidosis
      had MELD scores over 20, and no increased serum lactate concentrations were observed in other
      11 patients whose MELD scores were below 18. The Child-Pugh score correlated insufficiently
      with a risk of lactic acidosis. This result is not contradictory to our previous study, since
      the investigators did not analyze the incidence of lactic acidosis and the MELD score of the
      studied patients was relatively low (mean value: 11.5)in our study.

      Lactic acidosis has been reported occasionally in association with nucleoside/nucleotide
      reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). NRTIs can induce lactic acidosis via interactions
      with the mitochondrial DNA polymerase. Until now, most reported cases were human
      immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected subjects treated with several nucleoside inhibitors of
      the HIV reverse transcriptase. Risk factors include didanosine, stavudine, a combination of
      the two, female gender, age over 40 years, lower CD4 counts, and shorter duration of therapy
      (less than 12 months). As for non-HIV-infected cases, there was only one case report of fatal
      lactic acidosis during combination therapy with adefovir and entecavir prior to the report of
      Lange et al. Interestingly, in vitro inhibition of mitochondrial DNA polymerase was shown for
      lamivudine, adefovir and tenofovir, but not for entecavir.

      Lactate levels in the blood result from the balance between production and clearance. In
      normal physiologic conditions, lactate is produced primarily from skeletal muscle, skin,
      brain, intestine and red blood cells. In severe illness, it can be produced in many other
      tissues including lung, leukocytes, liver, or intestine. Lactate clearance occurs principally
      in the liver (60%), kidney (30%), heart and skeletal muscles. For these reasons, though
      lactic acidosis is typically present in shock states in which oxygen delivery is insufficient
      to meet cellular demand, elevated blood levels can also result from chronic liver disease and
      renal impairment. In addition, many other conditions have been reported in association with
      lactic acidosis even without ongoing evidence of hypoxia or ischemia. Examples are
      malignancy-related metabolic shifts, systemic inflammatory response, hepatic failure, and
      various drugs including acetaminophen, NRTIs, metformin, propofol, thiamine deficiency, total
      parenteral nutrition, and even lactulose. Therefore, in critically ill patients with
      cirrhosis or hepatic failure, lactic acidosis can result from various causes or in
      combination, in addition to the NRTIs. First of all, liver failure per se is associated with
      decreased lactate clearance, which is further aggravated in sepsis or renal failure. The
      liver can also be a source of lactate production and many medications other than NRTIs can
      precipitate lactic acidosis. For these reasons, it is not still conclusive whether ETV
      treatment itself is a direct cause of lactic acidosis in critically ill patients with
      cirrhosis or hepatic failure, since there was no control group in the study of Lange et al. A
      similar scenario was observed in a study performed in HIV-infected patients, in which
      mitochondrial-to-nuclear DNA ratio was compared among non-HIV-infected controls, HIV-infected
      individuals not on NRTIs, and HIV-infected individuals on NRTIs. In this study, HIV alone
      affected the mitochondrial-to-nuclear DNA ratio, and therefore resulted in lactic acidosis.

      Recently, Wong et al. reported the safety and efficacy of ETV in patients with severe acute
      exacerbation compared to LAM. In this study, ETV treatment was associated with increased
      short-term mortality in patients with severe acute exacerbation of chronic hepatitis B but
      achieved better virological response in the long run. Wong et al. assumed that the cause of
      increased short-term mortality in ETV-treated patients is due to not only the strong immune
      response but also lactic acidosis. As such, they suggested that LAM may be initiated first
      and routine switching to ETV after liver function has improved or the adoption of the roadmap
      concept are reasonable treatment strategies. However, drug resistance can be a problem in the
      long term because of the increase of resistance mutation for lamivudine or entecavir later in
      patients who have the history of exposure to lamivudine before entecavir treatment in the
      past or have been treated with lamivudine.

      Thus, the aim of this study is to investigate whether ETV treatment increases the incidence
      of lactic acidosis compared to another NRTI, lamivudine, and/or no NRTI treatment, in
      patients with cirrhosis or hepatic failure whose MELD scores are over 18.
    
  