
    
      Detailed description

      The purpose of this research study is to investigate the safety of an active implantable
      (radiological) medical device OncoSil™, when implanted into patients with pancreatic cancer,
      in conjunction with Standard of Care (SOC) chemotherapy. OncoSil™, is an experimental
      treatment and carries the active treatment "radioactive Phosphorous (32P)" inside inactive
      silicon particles. Once implanted, the OncoSil™ Microparticles will stay in the tumour
      permanently. The purpose of OncoSil™, is to deliver the action of 32P directly into a
      targeted tumour to destroy cancer cells.

      40 Patients will be taking part in a single arm open label research study - which means that
      everyone in the research study will receive the investigational treatment OncoSil™, plus
      their prescribed standard chemotherapy regimen which will be either; FOLFIRINOX (FOLFIRINOX
      is the name of a combination of chemotherapy drugs used to treat advanced cancer of the
      pancreas) or gemcitabine + nab-paclitaxel (Abraxane).

      Endpoints: Primary Endpoint:

      • Safety and Tolerability

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Efficacy

        -  Local Disease Control Rate at 16 weeks

        -  Local Progression Free Survival (LPFS), within the pancreas

        -  Progression Free Survival (PFS), all sites

        -  Overall Survival (OS)

        -  Body weight

        -  Impaired function

        -  Pain Scores

      The screening period will be performed within a 2 week period, followed by a treatment period
      of investigational visits which will occur weekly from Day 0 (Visit 1) until week 12, then 4
      weeks later at week 16, and then at 8-weekly intervals until study participants reach
      documented progression of disease criteria for both LPFS and PFS which marks the end of study
      participation i.e. EOS visit.

      An 8-weekly review of medical records will be used to monitor possible device or late
      radiation related adverse events, and oncology treatments/procedures administered for up to
      12 months post OncoSil™ implantation.

      Overall survival will be conducted via 8-weekly medical record reviews until study
      participant death, or until 104 weeks post the last study participant enrolled.

      Activity (Dose): The intended average absorbed radiation dose per treated tumour is 100 Gy
      (+20%).

      Risks associated with OncoSil™ and/or implantation procedure

      The following adverse events, considered to have a causal relationship with OncoSil™ or
      procedure, were recorded during previous clinical studies:

        -  Procedure-related pain

        -  Abdominal pain and discomfort

        -  Lethargy

        -  Fever

        -  Nausea and vomiting

        -  Abnormal liver function tests
    
  