
    
      This is a phase II single arm, open-label, multicenter study evaluating the efficacy and
      safety of the combination of induction chemoimmunotherapy with bendamustine and rituximab
      followed by maintenance therapy with rituximab and lenalidomide in subjects with CLL or SLL
      who have not received any prior cytotoxic chemotherapy for their disease (i.e., prior
      single-agent rituximab is permitted). The study will be carried out at the University of
      Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center (UWCCC).

      The subject participation will include a screening period, treatment period, and a follow-up
      period. The treatment period will extend from the first dose of study drug treatment (day 1,
      cycle 1 of induction chemoimmunotherapy) until any of the following: completion of the entire
      course of induction and maintenance therapy; progressive disease (PD); an unacceptable
      adverse event (AE); the initiation of alternate anti-neoplastic therapy; or a decision by the
      subject or by the investigator to discontinue treatment; or death. The induction
      chemoimmunotherapy regimen consists of bendamustine and rituximab for 6 cycles, followed by
      initiation of maintenance therapy with rituximab and lenalidomide among subjects achieving an
      objective response to induction therapy (i.e., complete or partial response; stable disease
      with objective evidence of tumor shrinkage). Subjects with objective response after 4 cycles
      of bendamustine + rituximab (BR) are eligible to proceed to maintenance therapy if toxicities
      are limiting further BR induction therapy, or if the treating physician determines that
      further BR induction therapy would be associated with excessive risk for additional
      toxicities.

      To minimize toxicity with induction chemotherapy, we have chosen a dose of bendamustine at 90
      mg/m2/day on days 1 & 2 every 28 days for a total of 6 cycles. Rituximab will be administered
      at a dose of 500 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of each cycle of induction chemoimmunotherapy (375 mg/m2
      cycle 1 only); however, patients at high-risk for cytokine release syndrome may receive
      rituximab on day 2 of induction therapy. In select circumstances in subjects at high risk for
      cytokine release syndrome and/or tumor lysis syndrome, rituximab may be administered as late
      as day 5 of cycle 1 (this alternative dosing of rituximab applies to cycle 1 of induction
      therapy only). Lenalidomide and rituximab maintenance will be initiated 6-12 weeks after the
      6th cycle of chemotherapy, and continued for a total of 24 cycles. Maintenance therapy will
      continue for a maximum of 24 cycles or until unacceptable toxicity or progression of disease.

      Maintenance therapy will begin once there has been adequate hematologic recovery (ANC
      ≥1000/µL and platelets ≥50,000/µL) and other criteria as outlined in Section 7.5 have been
      met. Rituximab will be administered at a dose of 375 mg/m2 IV on day 1 of every odd-numbered
      28 day cycle (cycles 1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,17,19,21,23) for a maximum of 12 doses during the
      maintenance phase. Subjects will receive concurrent lenalidomide 5 mg orally daily on days
      1-21 of cycles 1-24 (28 day cycles). If subjects do not experience adverse effects from
      lenalidomide, dose escalation up to 10 mg orally daily on days 1-21 of each 28 day cycle will
      be allowed at the start of cycle 2 or at the start of any subsequent cycle (see Section 9.2.3
      and 9.2.5 for criteria required to escalate the dose of lenalidomide to 10 mg/day on days
      1-21). Lenalidomide dose escalation is only allowed at the start of a new cycle to a maximum
      dose of 10 mg/day on days 1-21. Subjects entering maintenance with reduced renal function
      (i.e., creatinine clearance ≥40 but <60 mL/min) will start lenalidomide at a dose of 5 mg
      every other day. There is no dose modification of rituximab based on reduced renal function.
      Among subjects without excessive toxicity or evidence of progression, treatment with
      lenalidomide will continue for up to 24 cycles (cycle 1-24) and treatment with rituximab will
      continue for up to 12 doses (administered every odd-numbered cycle during cycles
      1,3,5,7,9,11,13,15,17,19,21,23). If subjects have excessive toxicity from lenalidomide,
      ongoing maintenance therapy with rituximab alone is permitted after lenalidomide is
      discontinued. After completing 24 cycles of maintenance therapy, subjects will then be
      observed for evidence of PD with clinical assessments every 3 months for at least 2 years.
    
  