
    
      Background: Patients with advanced cancer often experience marked anxiety symptoms that are
      associated with poor quality of life, high physical symptom burden, and complications with
      medical treatment. We have demonstrated in prior NCI-funded research that individual
      cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), delivered in-person at a tertiary cancer center, is
      efficacious for treating heightened anxiety in this population. In our randomized-controlled
      trial of 40 patients with incurable solid tumors, we observed significant reductions in
      anxiety symptoms per self-report and blind clinician evaluation, with a large effect size
      underscoring the clinical benefit of the CBT intervention (Cohen's d=0.80). However, timely
      access to CBT, especially for patients in community clinic settings, is severely limited by
      shortened life expectancy, scheduling challenges associated with poor functional status, and
      the lack of trained clinicians and onsite mental health services.

      Objective/Hypothesis: The goals of this study are to assess the feasibility and efficacy of
      delivering CBT for anxiety via mobile application (app) tailored to patients with advanced
      cancer. We will administer the intervention at two cancer centers, hypothesizing that
      patients with advanced cancer who receive CBT via mobile app will report significantly
      greater reductions in anxiety compared to those assigned to a time-matched control group
      using an online health educational program.

      Specific Aims: The primary aims for the proposed project are 1) to adapt our successful CBT
      intervention for use as a self-administered, mobile application to treat anxiety in patients
      with advanced cancer; and, 2) to demonstrate the feasibility, efficacy, and generalizability
      of the CBT mobile app intervention for anxiety compared to an online health education program
      across two cancer centers (one academic and one community).

      Study Design: We will employ sequential mixed qualitative and quantitative methods for
      intervention adaptation and testing. Specifically, we will dedicate year one of the award to
      creating and scripting the CBT mobile app intervention for anxiety, which will include
      multiple electronic features that enhance specificity to patients' individual cancer-related
      concerns. Up to six patients with metastatic cancer will participate in an initial open pilot
      study to explore the usability and acceptability of the prototype application. Data from
      qualitative interviews with these participants will be used to refine and adapt the
      intervention further. In year two, we will enroll and randomly assign patients with anxiety
      and metastatic cancer to receive either the CBT mobile app intervention or an online health
      education program. Patients will self-administer the intervention protocol using a tablet.
      The target enrollment for the randomized-controlled trial is 120 patients (CBT Mobile App
      N=60; Control N=60). Randomization will be stratified by study site and disease severity to
      demonstrate the generalizability of the intervention among patients with diverse malignancies
      in both academic and community cancer care settings.

      Cancer Relevance: According to the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer Report
      (2011), an essential criterion for accreditation as a cancer center is timely patient access
      to screening and referral for treatment of psychological distress. Yet, most academic and
      community cancer clinics lack appropriate resources, staff, and training in evidence-based
      mental health therapies. The proposed project has the potential to address this critical
      unmet need by adapting an efficacious and clinically-meaningful CBT intervention to a
      patient-centered and user-friendly platform that can be accessed at home and while patients
      receive routine oncology care. If successful, our approach could be widely disseminated in a
      cost-effective manner across multiple oncology settings, greatly improving access to mental
      health services, especially for patients with cancer in resource-poor communities.
    
  