
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare progression-free survival (PFS) per Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
      Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 between participants randomized to the triplet combination of encorafenib
      + binimetinib + nivolumab versus the doublet combination of ipilimumab + nivolumab among
      participants with BRAF-V600 mutant melanoma that has metastasized to the brain.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the overall survival (OS) of participants in each treatment arm. II. To
      estimate the objective response rate (ORR) (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and partial
      responses) per RECIST 1.1 in each treatment arm.

      III. To estimate the intracranial response rate (ICRR), defined as confirmed and unconfirmed
      complete and partial response per modified RECIST for brain metastases (mRECIST).

      IV. To evaluate the duration of response, per RECIST 1.1 and the duration of ICRR per
      mRECIST, and per Response Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (RANO)-Brain Metastases (BM) (and
      immunotherapy [i]RANO) in each treatment arm.

      V. To evaluate the toxicity profile of each treatment arm. VI. To evaluate current and
      emerging radiographic response criteria (modified RECIST 1.1, modified RANO-BM and iRANO) by
      a retrospective blinded independent centralized review (BICR) of banked images.

      BANKING OBJECTIVE:

      I. To bank tumor tissue, cerebral spinal fluid (CSF), stool and blood samples for future
      correlative studies.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive encorafenib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28, binimetinib PO
      twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, and nivolumab intravenously (IV) on day 1. Cycles repeat
      every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive nivolumab IV on day 1 of all cycles and ipilimumab IV over 30
      minutes on day 1 of cycles 1-4. Cycles repeat every 21 days for 4 cycles and then every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years, and
      then annually until 3 years after randomization.
    
  