
    
      Surgery:

      If you agree to take part in this study, your surgery will be performed in the same way as it
      would be even if you were not taking part in this study. You will sign a separate consent
      form for surgery. The length of the surgery and the time you are under anesthesia will not be
      changed by taking part in the study.

      During surgery, you will have routine procedures to learn if the disease has spread to other
      areas. If the disease has spread beyond the pancreas, surgical removal will not be possible.

      If there are no signs of spread or other reasons the cancer cannot be removed, the surgeon
      will begin the process of removing the disease.

      Study Drug Administration:

      You will receive gemcitabine by vein during surgery. Gemcitabine will be given through an
      infusion catheter that is placed in your arm or chest in the operating room after you are
      asleep.

      The infusion catheter is a standard-of-care procedure for all participants who are having
      this surgery. You will be asked to sign a separate consent form for the infusion catheter.

      The infusion will take either 50 or 75 minutes, depending upon when you joined the study. The
      first 5 participants will receive gemcitabine over 50 minutes and the rest of the
      participants will receive gemcitabine over 75 minutes.

      Blood and Tissue Collection:

      Up to 8 blood samples (about 1 tablespoon each time) will be drawn over 70-95 minutes for
      pharmacokinetic (PK) testing on the day of surgery. PK testing measures the levels of study
      drug in your blood at different time points. The blood will also be used for biomarker
      testing. Biomarkers are chemical markers found in the blood and tissue that may be related to
      your reaction to the study drug.

      Some of the tumor tissue and normal tissue removed during surgery will be collected to learn
      if gemcitabine is able to enter the tissue cells and for biomarker testing.

      Length of Participation:

      If for any reason during the surgery the surgeon decides that removal of the pancreas is not
      possible, you will not receive gemcitabine and your participation in this study will end.

      Your active participation in this study will be over once you have had surgery and completed
      the follow-up.

      Follow-Up:

      One (1) time each day while you are in the hospital recovering from the surgery and then at
      the time of a routine clinic visit or by phone call at least 1 time a week, for up to 30 days
      after surgery, you will be asked if you have had any side effects.

      This is an investigational study. Gemcitabine is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of pancreatic cancer. Its use during surgery is investigational.

      Up to 40 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  