
    
      BACKGROUND OF THE STUDY:

      The ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) is responsible for almost half of infections
      acquired in intensive care, affecting up to 28% of mechanically ventilated patients with a
      mortality rate ranging from 25 to 50%. The majority of these VAP originate in the sub-glottic
      juice that accumulates just above the endotracheal tube cuff. Many preventive measures exist
      and are applied in this institution, including oropharyngeal aspiration every 4 hours and
      tracheal aspirates every 8 hours. Currently, these aspirates are simply discarded. However, a
      French study evaluating the colonization and infection of the respiratory tract of patients
      with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) has highlighted that the causative agent of
      VAP is selected in more than 2/3 of the cases in tracheal aspirates several days before the
      VAP. This suggest that "microbiological surveillance" of daily aspirates may permit the
      identification of a selected respiratory pathogen later responsible of VAP.

      Parallel to this, the rapid development of genomics has highlighted the role of flora
      (microbiota) and its link with disease (eg, colitis and intestinal microbiota inflammatory).
      This area is also emerging in the field of respiratory tract infections, for example in
      patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. There is no description
      yet of metagenomics changes in respiratory flora of patients intubated with or without VAP,
      neither evaluation of the benefits of such an approach in relation to classical microbiology.
      The investigators believe that studying the respiratory flora of ventilated patients could
      provide clues to better understand the development of VAP.

      METHODOLOGY (plan, inclusion and objectives):

      Prospective study of 300 intubated patients recruited during a period of 2 years, in whom
      tracheal aspirates and oropharyngeal juice collected daily will be analyzed by culture and
      metagenomics, instead of being simply discarded. The results of these analyzes will be used
      only for research purposes (culture and metagenomics in parallel).

      The main objective is to determine whether daily monitoring of oropharyngeal juice and
      tracheal aspirates by culture identifies the selection of a pathogen among the colonizing
      flora, which would be predictive of the onset of VAP in 48-72 hours.

      The secondary objectives are to obtain new knowledge on the kinetics of colonization and
      respiratory infections in intubated patients, compare the advantages and disadvantages of a
      metagenomic approach compared to culture in this context, and study the influence of
      antibiotherapy in this context.
    
  