
    
      Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer mortality in Western countries after
      breast cancer among women and lung cancer among men. About 5.000 new cases are diagnosed each
      year in Austria. This represents an annual incidence of 50-60 per 100.000 inhabitants. In
      patients with colorectal cancer stage III and in certain situations even in stage II adjuvant
      chemotherapy is indicated after R0 resection. Despite recent advances in adjuvant
      chemotherapy 20-30% of these patients still relapse. About 80% of recurrences occur in the
      first three years.

      There is consistent evidence from several observational epidemiologic studies that physical
      activity reduces the risk of developing colon cancer. In recent years several observational
      studies even showed a reduction in relapse rate, colon cancer-specific mortality and overall
      mortality by physical activity in patients with colon and breast cancer. Colon cancer
      survivors who engaged in higher levels of physical activity experienced a 50-60% improvement
      in long-term outcomes compared to inactive patients. Different mechanisms for the protective
      effect of physical activity on colon cancer have been proposed and it is believed that the
      same mechanisms of physical activity are also involved in the improvement of disease outcomes
      in gastrointestinal cancer survivors. Physical activity leads to decrease of inflammation,
      decreased levels of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) and insulin, reduced transit time
      through the gut and increased levels of vitamin D. Factors, that are associated with a
      reduced risk of colon polyps, colon cancer and colon cancer mortality.

      A review on the impact of various exercise programs on fatigue, found good evidence that
      exercise not only decreased levels of fatigue, but also increased quality of life, mood and
      functioning.

      While there is evidence supporting the beneficial effects of exercise programs during
      chemotherapy, the results across studies are not entirely consistent. Additional studies are
      needed to determine the optimal content, intensity, and form of training programs.

      Recently ABCSG has investigated the feasibility of endurance exercise after adjuvant
      chemotherapy in patients with locally advanced colorectal cancer in the investigator's study
      group (ABCSG C07 Exercise - pilot study). Results concerning compliance of patients have been
      considered for sample size estimations and study planning.
    
  