
    
      OBJECTIVE: The present study focuses on evaluating neural activation patterns underlying
      praxis movements in normal controls and in patients with ideomotor apraxia using
      event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). Ideomotor apraxia is a disorder
      affecting patients with stroke and a variety of other brain lesions. The disorder involves
      disturbed timing, sequence, and spatial organization of skilled movements, during the
      execution and probably also preparatory phases. As a consequence, patients suffer from
      incorrect temporal and spatial components to movements as evidenced during pantomime of
      transitive (object/tool related) and intransitive (independent of object/tool use) gestures.
      Thus far, damage to posterior parietal regions and parietofrontal circuits has been
      implicated in significantly contributing to this disorder. However, little is known about the
      mechanism of cortical reorganization following damage, notably during recovery process. We
      hypothesize that recruitment of parallel and contralateral motor pathways compensates for
      reduced communication within parietofrontal circuits which prevents accurate motor
      performance.

      STUDY POPULATION: We will study two groups of participants: one group of patients with
      ideomotor apraxia and one group of healthy subjects.

      DESIGN: We will measure fMRI activation on transitive and intransitive gestures in 10
      patients with ideomotor apraxia during subacute and chronic stage compared to 25 normal
      controls. The design of the behavioral paradigm incorporates a distinct period of planning
      prior to each movement.

      OUTCOME MEASURES: The design of this study allows evaluating any differences in the planning
      and execution phases between patients and controls. Further analysis will examine patterns of
      functional connectivity between activated brain areas, notably their altered interactions in
      ideomotor apraxia. Of special interest is the putative engagement of perilesional or even
      remote brain areas in a neuronal network during attempted recovery from motor deficit.

      It is expected from the study that a better understanding of cortical plasticity compensating
      for motor deficits in ideomotor apraxia can be therapeutically exploited, notably in the
      rehabilitation process.
    
  