
    
      Study setting: a single tertiary hospital, containing 1,000 beds. Intervention: best medical
      care and oral oseltamivir 75 mg twice daily for five days.

      Control: best medical care and oral paracetamol twice daily for five days. Dose adjustments
      of oseltamivir will be made according to manufacturer's instructions. Patients with
      creatinine clearance between 30-60 ml/minute will receive 30 mg twice daily for five days.
      Patients with creatinine clearance 10-30 ml/minute will receive 30 mg, once daily for 5 days.
      Hemodialytic patients will receive 30 mg upon admission, and 30 mg after every session, for 5
      days. Patients on peritoneal dialysis will receive 30 mg once, which suffices for 5 days.
      Patients may withdraw participation from the trial at any time. The attending physician may
      also be informed the treatment arm, and start antiviral treatment if deemed necessary.

      A nasopharyngeal swab for influenza will be obtained upon enrollment. PCR testing will be
      performed in-house. Administration of oseltamivir or paracetamol for patients with negative
      swabs will be stopped, unless the sample was obtained after initiation of the study drug.
      Patients may discontinue or refuse trial medications at any point. The reasons for
      discontinuation will be documented.

      Adverse effects: The investigators will monitor and document daily rate of nausea, vomiting,
      and headache, deterioration in kidney function (defined as an increase in creatinine by >0.3
      mg/dl or by >50% from baseline), and in-hospital delirium.

      Participant timeline and follow-up: After signing informed consent (available in Hebrew,
      Arabic or Russian), study personnel, will interview patients and review electronic medical
      files.

      Patients enrolled will be followed-up daily by study personnel in-hospital, until the first
      of: achieving clinical improvement (defined below), hospital discharge, or 7 days from
      randomization. During the follow-up patients will be assessed for clinical improvement and
      for AE (detailed above). Patients discharged before day 7 will be assumed to have reached
      clinical improvement by that time. Readmissions and deaths by day 30 will be monitored
      through the electronic patient file (Prometheus), providing access to a national registry of
      hospitalizations and updated from the national Health Ministry on deaths.

      Recruitment: during the influenza high-season, ER nurses will fill in a check-box containing
      the SARI criteria items. An electronic report of all cases filling SARI criteria, will be
      sent to study personnel 5 times daily. An investigator will apply inclusion and exclusion
      criteria on candidates, and obtain informed consent from patients or their legal guardians.
      Enrollment will continue until reaching the predefined sample size.

      Randomization and blinding methods: a computer-generated randomizer will be used, to assign
      all patients into block sizes of 8, with a 1:1 randomization rate. Allocation codes will be
      concealed in sealed opaque envelopes that will be opened consecutively by the randomization
      code. The study is open-label. Outcome assessment will be performed blinded to the treatment
      allocation.

      Patients will be assessed once daily, by study personnel, for the clinical course of the
      disease and for AE. Data will be entered into a case report form (CRF). Daily assessment will
      end when patients are released from hospitalization, or at the end of 7 days from admission.
      During hospitalization, medical files will be reviewed for administration of antibiotics,
      respiratory deterioration (defined as new requirement of oxygen supplementation or
      requirement for mechanical ventilation, either invasive or non-invasive). Duration of
      hospitalization, as well as re-hospitalization within one month after enrollment, and 30 days
      mortality, available from the hospital computerized medical records, will be noted.
    
  