
    
      Men and women with stroke have different risk factor profiles. Women tend to develop stroke
      risk factors, subclinical disease, and have vascular events following menopause, presumably
      related to the depletion of estrogen. Men, however, tend to develop vascular disease at a
      younger age. Sex differences in subclinical disease are poorly understood. Identification of
      subclinical disease could lead to more aggressive interventions to prevent stroke and other
      vascular events.

      The objectives of this study are to quantify and compare vascular function in men and women
      by measuring carotid atherosclerosis, endothelial dysfunction, and ankle-brachial index and
      then to determine the effect of age, race-ethnicity, cardiovascular risk factors, biological
      markers and hormonal markers on these vascular measures to determine gender-specific models.
      The aims of this project are to determine if middle-aged men and women at risk for stroke
      have differences in functional and structural vascular assessments, and to develop
      comprehensive vascular health profiles in men and women.

      In this trial, researchers will use a cross-sectional design to study gender differences in
      vascular functions and other vascular risk factors in 150 women and 100 men with 1 or more
      cardiovascular risk factors but without evidence of stroke, heart disease, or peripheral
      vascular disease. Participants will be divided in two age groups: 45 to 54 and 55 to 64 and
      will be followed for two years for vascular outcomes, such as stroke, transient ischemic
      attack or TIA, or acute coronary syndromes.

      Information from this study will help develop a comprehensive gender-specific model of
      subclinical disease, discover novel biological and vascular markers for stroke, and provide
      critical data to be used in future studies aimed at slowing progression of vascular
      dysfunction and preventing stroke.
    
  