
    
      CAD occurs when the arteries that supply blood to the heart become blocked as a result of
      plaque buildup. In severe cases, CAD can cause chest pain, shortness of breath, and heart
      attack. CABG is one treatment option for people with CAD. During a CABG procedure, a healthy
      artery or vein from another part of the body is connected to the blocked coronary artery.
      Blood flow is then routed around the blockage to the heart.

      After a heart attack, some people may have a leak in the mitral valve of the heart. This
      condition is known as ischemic mitral regurgitation (IMR) and is associated with poor health
      outcomes, including worsening heart failure. In people with severe mitral valve leakage, the
      CABG procedure and a mitral valve repair procedure are routinely performed together; however,
      in people with only moderate valve leakage, there is no consensus in the medical community as
      to whether the mitral valve repair procedure is beneficial at the time of CABG. The purpose
      of this study is to determine whether people with moderate mitral valve regurgitation should
      undergo a mitral valve repair procedure in addition to CABG or undergo CABG alone.

      This study will enroll people with CAD who require a CABG procedure and have moderate mitral
      regurgitation. At a baseline study visit, participants will undergo a physical examination;
      blood collection; neurocognitive tests; and questionnaires regarding medical history,
      medication history, and quality of life. In the operating room, participants will be randomly
      assigned to undergo either CABG surgery and the mitral valve repair procedure or only CABG
      surgery. Blood, urine, and tissue samples may be collected from participants after the
      surgery; this is optional and will only be done with prior approval from participants. All
      participants will attend study visits at Months 6, 12, and 24. At each visit, participants
      will take part in a medication history review, a physical examination, an echocardiogram, a
      cardiopulmonary exercise test, neurocognitive tests, and quality of life surveys.
    
  