
    
      Research Plan:

      This is a single-arm, open-label phase II study that examines the response rate of
      pembrolizumab in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) patients who have
      either a mismatch repair deficiency (dMMR) or a biallelic inactivation of CDK12 (CDK12-/-).
      The study will enroll mCRPC patients who have the selected genetic mutation and at least one
      metastatic lesion that is amendable to biopsy. All patients must have progressed on at least
      one prior line of mCRPC therapy, such as abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide. Eligible
      patients will undergo at least 12 weeks (4 cycles) of pembrolizumab (200 mg IV).

      Methodology:

      Patients with either a mismatch repair deficiency or biallelic inactivation of CDK12 in their
      tumor are eligible for this study. If the patient has progressed on at least one prior
      therapy for mCRPC, including abiraterone acetate or enzalutamide, he is eligible to begin
      genetic screening. Patients with these mutations will be identified primarily through
      standard of care genetic testing with either archival tissue or blood. Specimens will be sent
      to VA approved vendors for genetic testing to determine if the patient has the necessary
      mutations to receive the study drug (pembrolizumab). If eligible, the patient will sign the
      Main Treatment ICF and proceed with the screening procedures. Once enrolled the patient will
      undergo a biopsy of a metastatic lesion (baseline biopsy) to identify molecular correlates.
      If the patient does not have any archival tissue or blood to be used to identify genetic
      mutations, the biopsy of a metastatic lesion will be used to both identify genetic mutations
      and to identify molecular correlates.

      When the patient has met all the eligibility criteria, he will receive pembrolizumab.
      Pembrolizumab will be administered at a starting dose of 200 mg intravenously every 3 weeks
      until disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. During the treatment, patients will
      either simultaneously receive a GnRH analogue or undergo a bilateral orchiectomy prior to
      treatment to maintain a castrate level of testosterone ( 50 ng/dl). At progression, patients
      will undergo a second biopsy of the same metastatic lesion of the baseline biopsy. The
      baseline (pre-treatment) and at-progression biopsies will be used for correlative analyses to
      determine the efficacy of pembrolizumab.

      Note: after the testing process is complete, Oncoplex will return any remaining sample back
      to the Department of Pathology at the West LA VA Medical Center. These specimens will be
      stored in Dr. Matthew Rettig's biorepository on site for analysis and future research.

      Results:

      Since this is a new study, the results have not yet been obtained. The primary endpoint of
      this study is to measure the objective response rate, radiographic progression free survival
      at 6 months, and decline in PSA of 50% or more 12 weeks of therapy.

      Clinical Significance:

      There are 230,000 new incidences of prostate cancer and 30,000 deaths from prostate cancer
      per year in the US. It is the second most common cause of death in American men. Importantly,
      prostate cancer is diagnosed in more than 12,000 US Veterans each year, representing nearly
      one third of all cancer diagnoses in Veterans.

      Metastatic prostate cancer is incurable, and its treatment is palliative. However, many
      Veterans with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) progress despite
      experiencing some clinical benefit from hormonal therapy and chemotherapy. As a result, novel
      therapies that provide a robust clinical benefit and have a good safety profile are needed
      for these patients.

      Immunotherapies, such as checkpoint inhibitor, for mCRPC patients that have either a mismatch
      repair deficiency (dMMR) or a biallelic inactivation of CDK12 (CDK12-/-) is an attractive
      therapy, especially since therapies involving checkpoint inhibitors have exhibited
      significant improvements in patients with advanced melanoma, non-small cell lung cancer,
      renal cell carcinoma, and many other cancers. The results of this study will establish the
      ideal subset of mCRPC patients who will benefit from the study drug. Importantly, the
      correlative studies will provide critical insight into the mechanisms of primary and acquired
      resistance that occur despite selection of patients with CDK12-/- or dMMR. This result can
      inform further selection of patients for checkpoint inhibition, as well as identify other
      potential therapies that can be co-administered with pembrolizumab to prevent or overcome
      resistance to checkpoint inhibitors.
    
  