
    
      Based on the need to improve front-line therapy for patients less likely to undergo
      transplant, the promising recent in vitro and clinical work on melphalan and bortezomib, we
      propose a prospective trial with bortezomib added to standard melphalan and prednisone
      therapy for previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma. Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 will be
      given twice weekly for two weeks and will be added to standard melphalan and prednisone on a
      4-week cycle. This three-drug combination will be compared to historical data. We have
      treated 2 patients with relapsed disease following >2 prior regimens including high-dose
      therapy with autologous stem cell support. Each patient received melphalan, prednisone, and
      bortezomib as described below and both had marked declines in M-protein within 2 cycles.
      These responses have been sustained for at least 3 months and treatment was well tolerated.

      Eligible patients will have histologically confirmed Multiple Myeloma (MM) having not
      received prior systemic therapy given with the intent to induce remission, be adults, have
      life expectancy greater than 3 months, adequate performance status, organ and marrow function
      as described in the protocol, not be pregnant, HIV positive, or taking any investigational
      agents. Patients must not have history of allergic reactions to study drugs or similar
      compounds or have uncontrolled intercurrent illness or social situation that would limit
      compliance with study requirements. Patients must also have the ability to give informed
      consent.

      Study drugs will be administered on an inpatient or outpatient basis. Bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 is
      administered intravenously in a 3-5 second bolus on days 1, 4, 8, and 11 of a 28 day cycle.
      Six cycles are planned. On days when both melphalan and bortezomib are given, melphalan is
      given at least one hour prior to bortezomib. Melphalan 6 mg/m2 is administered orally on an
      empty stomach daily on days 1-7 of each cycle. Prednisone 60 mg/m2 is administered orally
      daily on days 1-7 of each cycle. Supportive care measures such as antiemetics and growth
      factors may be given.
    
  