
    
      Main objective

      A compendium of 9 fact sheets along with a related quiz have been developed in order to
      provide overall population current pain-science knowledge. The present study aims at
      analyzing the usefulness of this new tool based on pain neuroscience education (PNE) in
      patients from the Hospital Vall d'Hebron of Barcelona suffering from fibromyalgia, compared
      to a non-education group.

      Secondary objective

      Due to the extended content of the fact sheets, these can be delivered to the patient as a
      reading material or can be used as a support material in a educational presentation.
      Therefore, this study also aims at comparing the usefulness of the new tool based on PNE in
      two different formats: read autonomously by the patient and explained by a pain-science
      expert to the patient.

      This is a tree-arm RCT: TAU group and intervention group with 2 different groups as follows:

      The intervention program is divided in two groups. Both groups will be provided with the PNE
      fact sheets but in different format (read and explained) and will be given one week to
      comprehend the content before to assess their knowledge. Therefore, intervention groups will
      be informed that a quiz about the fact sheets will be delivered to each one in order to asses
      their acquired knowledge.

      There are 9 fact sheets overall. And each fact sheet incorporates two pages relating to one
      main concept. The first of two pages introduces the concept, and the second one quotes
      important ideas that emerge from the main concept. The 9 main concepts and consequent ideas
      presented in the fact sheets are based on current scientific research in pain science and
      have been selected and structured specifically for PNE education for chronic pain patients.
      The fact sheets have been fully developed and designed by Pain Revolution, a pain educator
      network founded by Professor Lorimer Moseley, group leader in Body in Mind Research Group
      from University of South Australia.
    
  