
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of high-dose melphalan when given together with
           yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan and rituximab as a conditioning regimen followed by
           vinorelbine ditartrate- and filgrastim (G-CSF)-mobilized autologous stem cell
           transplantation in elderly patients with relapsed or refractory CD20-positive
           non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Evaluate the feasibility and safety of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the feasibility of stem cell mobilization with vinorelbine ditartrate in
           patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study of high-dose melphalan.

        -  Stem cell harvest and mobilization: Patients receive vinorelbine ditartrate IV on day
           -36 and filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) twice daily on days -33 to -29. Patients
           undergo peripheral blood stem cell harvest on days -29 to -26.

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Patients receive rituximab IV. Within 4 hours after completion of
           rituximab, patients receive indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan (imaging dose) IV over 10
           minutes on day -25. Patients undergo assessment of biodistribution, imaging, and
           dosimetry on days -25, -22, and optionally on day -20. Patients with acceptable
           biodistribution of indium In 111 ibritumomab tiuxetan receive rituximab IV followed by
           yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (therapeutic dose) IV over 10 minutes on day -18.

        -  High-dose chemotherapy: Patients receive high-dose melphalan IV on day -1. Cohorts of
           3-6 patients receive escalating doses of high-dose melphalan until the maximum tolerated
           dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6
           patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT): Patients undergo ASCT on day 0. Patients
           receive G-CSF SC beginning on day 5 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for 100 days.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  