
    
      Patients who underwent COVID-19 testing at VUMC (Vanderbilt University Medical Center) and
      had provided a written informed consent to be contacted in the future for COVID related
      studies will be offered participation in this study. The COVID- 19 has low prevalence in
      ocular fluids (5% of affected patients) but may survive for a long time or replicate in the
      conjunctiva, even in asymptomatic patients. Patients with viral conjunctivitis are more
      likely to have COVID-19 RNA (ribonucleic acid) in tears. The use of Schirmer's strips to
      collect tears for RNA analysis of viruses has been previously validated. VUMC is performing
      RNA analysis on nasopharyngeal (NP) swabs for COVID-19 at several locations. Several patients
      (test positive and test negative) have given consent to be contacted for future research
      purposes and are available in VICTR (Vanderbilt Institute for Clinical and Translational
      Research) Datamark and Recovery databases. The positive tested patients will receive a
      Schirmer's strip in the mail at their home to place in both eyes to test eye fluid and
      receive a tube for saliva while engaging in a zoom session for monitoring of the process.

      Methodology: Patients who underwent COVID-19 testing at VUMC and had provided a written
      informed consent to be contacted in the future for COVID related studies will be offered
      participation in this study. The first test for eye fluid and saliva will occur at home with
      remote monitoring. Participants will be mailed a specimen collection kit, engage in a remote
      session with a study coordinator through a HIPPA (Health Insurance Portability and
      Accountability Act of 1996)-compliant video meeting and collect specimens under supervision
      of the study coordinator. Patients will receive a Schirmer's strip to place in both eyes
      without topical proparacaine, and a tube to collect saliva. The strips are then sent to the
      lab in universal viral transport media. Patients who have positive COVID-19 RNA in tears will
      get repeat Schirmer's test every 4 weeks for 3 months- independent of the nasopharyngeal test
      results. After a 3-month period, they will be offered a clinic visit at VEI (Vanderbilt Eye
      Institute) for full dilated eye exam, fluorescein angiography and aqueous biopsies. Lab
      testing for COVID-19 RNA and other ocular inflammatory mediators will be performed by Dr.
      Johnathan Schmitz's lab at VUMC under standard viral precautions. All lab analysis will be
      performed under a research protocol and not for clinical assessment or reporting.
    
  