
    
      RESEARCH PLAN AND METHODOLOGY

      Population All patients with infections (i.e. bacteremia, pneumonia, abdomen infections, skin
      infections, and urinary tract infections) caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae.

      Exclusion criteria Children < 16 years

      Trial design Multicenter prospective cohort study. Patients corresponding to the study
      definition will be detected by daily inspection of microbiological databases by one dedicated
      physician. Epidemiological variables will be detected for all patients at study admission. To
      identify the risk factors for infections (i.e. bacteremia, pneumonia, abdomen infections,
      skin infections, and urinary tract infections) caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae a
      case-control study will be performed. A case patient will be defined as adult patient ( 16
      years of age) who has an infection caused by ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae according to
      the definitions of the Center for Diseases Control and Prevention in Atlanta (CDC). In the
      Clinical Microbiology Laboratories, definition of ESBL production by the Clinical
      Microbiology Laboratories will be according to the CLSI guidelines (3), or to the BSAC
      guidelines (http://www.bsac.org.uk) for species other than Klebsiella spp., E. coli and
      Proteus mirabilis. One control will be selected for each case. Control will be chosen among
      all adult patients admitted to the same hospital during the same period (within 30 days) and
      in whom ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae were not isolated during their hospital stay. If
      more than one control will be available per case, patients with the date and time of
      admission closest to the case will be chosen.

      To identify the risk factors for mortality a second case-control study will be performed
      comparing infected patients who died to infected patients who survived (evaluable in patients
      with bacteremia, wound infections, pneumonia, and meningitis, only). This analysis will be
      performed adjusting the results for inadequate empiric antimicrobial therapy and site of
      infection (see following definitions).

      Data collection Medical records of in-patient admissions and microbiology and pharmacy
      databases will be reviewed. Data collected at the study enrollment will include: patient
      demographics, transfer from another hospital, resident of a long term facility or nursing
      home, previous hospitalization within one year, ambulatory status, requirement for chronic
      hemodialysis, presence of a central venous catheter (CVC), and ICU stay and surgical
      procedures in the 30 days prior to study inclusion. A composite score of co-morbid illnesses
      will be derived using the Charlson score. The severity of illness at presentation will be
      quantified using the criteria of McCabe and Jackson. Antibiotics administered during a 30-day
      period prior to study enrollment and for at least 48 hours will be recorded. For the risk
      factors analysis, oral and intravenous antibiotic exposure will be analysed by individual
      antibiotics and by classes, and will include penicillins, vancomycin, cephalosporins,
      antibiotics with predominantly anaerobic activity (metronidazole and clindamycin),
      aminoglycosides, quinolones, and carbapenems. Length of stay (LOS) after infection diagnosis,
      management of infections, timing and type of antimicrobial therapy, results of follow-up
      clinical cultures (if any), hematogenous complications and death will be also extracted from
      medical records. Microbiology records will be also reviewed for recovery of vancomycin
      resistant enterococci (VRE) or methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) in the 12 months prior
      to the study enrollment. All patients with infections caused by ESBL-producing
      Enterobacteriaceae will be followed up to hospital discharge or death.

      Mortality will be defined as death occurring during the study hospitalization. Appropriate
      antimicrobial therapy will be defined as the initiation of therapy with activity against the
      ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae (according to the results of the antimicrobial
      susceptibility pattern of the isolate) from the day before to 2 days after the initial
      positive clinical culture result.

      Outcomes Primary outcomes

        1. Risk factors for the development of infections caused by ESBL producers bacteria;

        2. Risk factors for inadequate initial antimicrobial therapy;

        3. Overall mortality and 30-day mortality among patients receiving inadequate initial
           antimicrobial therapy (evaluable in patients with bacteremia, abdominal infections and
           pneumonia, only);

        4. Variability by site of infection of overall mortality and 30-day mortality among
           patients receiving inadequate initial antimicrobial therapy (evaluable in patients with
           bacteremia, abdominal infections and pneumonia, only).

      Secondary outcomes

        1. Lenght of hospitalization;

        2. Costs of inadequate initial therapy;

        3. Days of defervescence.

      Statistical analysis At the end of the study two different analysis will be performed: the
      first one will consider patients with bacteremia, abdominal infections and pneumonia, and it
      will be focused on mortality; the second analysis will consider all infected patients and it
      will be focused on risk factor analysis and secondary outcomes.

      Sample size justification Assumptions

      Patients with bacteremia, pneumonia, abdomen infections, skin infections and urinary tract
      infections (first analysis):

      Mortality among patients with inadequate initial therapy: 25% Mortality among patients with
      appropriate initial therapy: 13%

      All included patients:

      Percentage of bacteremia: 20% Percentage of pneumonia: 10% Percentage of abdomen infections:
      15% Percentage of skin infections: 3% Percentage of urinary tract infections: 52%

      Primary outcomes Risk factors for mortality Difference of mortality between controls
      (inappropriate therapy) and cases (appropriate therapy): we anticipated a reduction from 25%
      to 13%.

      Secondary outcomes Difference of length of hospitalization between cases (appropriate
      therapy) and controls (inappropriate therapy): we anticipated a decrease from 80% (length of
      hospitalization < 15 days) to 40%.

      Difference of defervescence between cases (appropriate therapy) and controls (inappropriate
      therapy): we anticipated a decrease from 85% (defervescence < 3 days) to 30%.

      Assuming that p1=p2, where p1 is the proportion in population 1 and p2 is the proportion in
      population 2 and that alpha=0.05 (two-sided), power=0.80.

      Required sample size for analysis of risk factors for mortality: 366 patients with
      bacteremia, wound infections, pneumonia, and meningitis. To include 366 patients with the
      above reported infections the total sample size is likely to be 813 patients infected with
      ESBL-producing Enterobacteriaceae.

      Microbiological analysis of bacterial strains

      All ESBL-producing isolates obtained from patients included in the study at the Clinical
      Microbiology Laboratories of each Clinical Center will be collected and subjected to further
      investigation including:

        -  confirmation of the identification at the species level;

        -  determination of the antimicrobial resistance profile against a standard set of drugs;

        -  analysis of the ESBL determinants;

        -  analysis of clonal relationship between bacterial isolates of the same species. Results
           of microbiological analysis will be used for correlation with clinical data to assess
           the epidemiological and clinical impact of the ESBL-producing strains.

      Experimental methodology

      Confirmation of identification of the bacterial isolates at the species level will be carried
      out by standard phenotypic methods (10). In case of ambiguity of results, identification will
      be confirmed by 16S rDNA sequencing (16).

      Antimicrobial susceptibility testing will be carried out by broth microdilution as
      recommended by the CLSI (3), and categorical assignment will be carried out using the CLSI
      breakpoints (3). The following agents will be included: ertapenem, imipenem, meropenem,
      cefepime, ceftazidime, cefotaxime, piperacillin/tazobactam, amoxicillin/clavulanate,
      ciprofloxacin, levofloxacin, gentamicin, amikacin.

      The nature of the ESBL determinants will be investigated by molecular analysis using PCR and
      sequencing, as described previously (9, 15). The presence of ESBL determinants of the TEM-,
      SHV, CTX-M- and PER-type (i. e. those known to be circulating in Italy (9, 15)) will be
      investigated. In case of negative results with the available probes, the ESBL phenotype will
      be reconfirmed and, if positive, the nature of -lactamase deerminants will be studied by
      means of: (i) analytical isoelectric focusing (IEF) on crude extracts using previously
      described methods (14); (ii) DNA microarray technology, using a microarray for β-lactamase
      genes that has been developed in our laboratory, which includes probes for uncommon ESBL
      genes such as VEB, GES, BES, SFO, and TLA enzymes. In case of new ESBL genes undetected by
      the above methods (an unlikely occurrence), In the case of production of ESBL but unaccounted
      for by the presence of known resistance determinants, the resistance determinants will be
      studied by means of a shotgun-cloning approach followed by mapping and sequencing.

      Clonal relatedness among isolates of the same species will be investigated by high-throughput
      genotyping techniques such as RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) and/or by AFLP
      (Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism) analysis and/or REP PCR (19-21). In selected
      isolates, the clonal relationships will be performed by macrorestriction analysis of genomic
      DNA by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE).

      Plasmid analysis and investigation of resistance determinants to non β-lactam agents (by
      molecular techniques) will be considered in selected cases, should these information be
      relevant for correlation with clinical and epidemiological data.
    
  