
    
      HYPOTHESIS

        1. Hypothesis 1. The use of PrEP based on daily intake of TDF/FTC is acceptable for MSM and
           transgender women and their acceptance correlates with knowledge of PrEP and sexual risk
           behavior.

        2. Hypothesis 2. Adherence and duration of use of PrEP based on daily intake of TDF/FTC
           correlates with the level of education, socioeconomic level, knowledge of PrEP and risk
           behavior.

      OBJECTIVES AND DESIGN OF THE STUDY

      Primary Objectives:

        1. Describing the acceptability and its socio-demographic and sexual behavior correlates
           for the use of PrEP.

        2. Evaluate the persistence of the use of PrEP and its correlates with risk behaviors

        3. Evaluating the adherence to the PrEP using self-reporting and pill counts

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Describing the changes over time in risky sexual behavior among study participants.

        2. Describing the number of participants who acquire HIV infection.

        3. Evaluating the deviation of the indication of use of PrEP through self-reporting of its
           sale or sharing with third parties.

      Study Design

      This is an observational, longitudinal, multicenter, open-label study to evaluate the
      acceptability, use and adherence to PrEP in an MSM and transgender women population. Four
      nongovernmental organization health centers and one community-based organization in the
      cities of Lima and Iquitos will participate in this observational study. The study will
      enroll up to 1,000 participants (estimate of 200 participants per study site) for a period of
      72 weeks (one and a half years). Each participant will be followed for up to 96 weeks (two
      years) after the start of PrEP. The estimated duration of the study implementation is 192
      weeks (four years).

      After enrollment, participants must attend an assessment visit at 4 weeks, 12 weeks and then
      every 12 weeks until they complete their participation in the study.

      IMPLEMENTATION TARGET POPULATION

      Description of the Study Population This PrEP research project will be implemented in
      volunteer MSM and transgender women without diagnosis of HIV infection and at risk of
      acquiring HIV because of their sexual behavior and prior to this observational study
      enrollment, be prescribed with PrEP by their primary care providers according the clinic
      guidelines of the U.S. CDC (2014) and the WHO ( 2015)

      RESEARCH SITES

      Each one of the proposed sites have the ability to meet the specific project implementation
      and procedures in this protocol. Their investigators have shown to comply with all national
      regulations, including good clinical practice and protection of human research subjects. The
      proposed sites have experience in providing comprehensive health care services to the target
      population and have additionally participated in research studies that have evaluated
      different strategies for HIV prevention.

      Based on this profile, the sites are ideal for implementing the PrEP Demonstration Project in
      MSM and transgender women. The sites proposed for this project are:

        1. Asociación Civil Impacta Salud y Educación, Barranco site

        2. Asociación Civil Impacta Salud y Educación, San Miguel site

        3. Asociación Civil Selva Amazónica, ACSA site

        4. Asociación Vía Libre, Vía Libre site

        5. Espacio Común (Epicentro), Epicentro site

      The participation of a health facility of the Ministry of Health will be promoted given that
      with the information obtained in this study the cost-effectiveness of the program will be
      modeled to determine the feasibility of its escalation at various health centers that may be
      supported by public funds in the long term.

      RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION

      Recruitment The recruitment of volunteers for this study will be carried out through the
      implementation of a mass media campaign to promote the performing of HIV infection diagnostic
      testing. Virtual broadcast channels and social networking platforms will be used. In them
      messages will be placed in the form of banners or links to redirect users to the websites of
      the participating institutions, in which HIV testing diagnosis will be promoted during the
      time the study is implemented.

      Retention of Participants

      The retention of study participants will be governed by the following principles:

        1. Warm care at each site will establish a friendly relationship between the participant
           and the staff in charge of care;

        2. Quality care, including the established procedures, permanent and timely information to
           the user, as well as a short waiting time.

      Since the primary objective of this project is to determine the feasibility of implementing a
      PrEP program in MSM and transgender women at risk of acquiring HIV, this study will not
      promote active retention of participants.

      PRE-EXPOSURE PROPHYLAXIS TREATMENT

      Formulation/Content TDF/FTC co-formulation contains a fixed TDF dose of 300 mg (equal to 245
      mg of tenofovir disoproxil and 136 mg of tenofovir) and 200 mg of FTC.

      Regimen and Administration Study participants will follow the prescription issued by their
      primary health care provider.

      The PrEP medication will be provided at no cost by Gilead Sciences, Inc.

      Product Dispensing After receiving a prescription signed by the primary care provider of the
      participant, the pharmacist of each site will be responsible for dispensing the medication to
      each participant at each visit. At the start of PrEP visit, the pharmacist will dispense one
      bottle and at the first follow-up visit (week 4) will dispense two bottles. At all subsequent
      visits to take place every 12 weeks, three bottles will be dispensed. All study participants
      will be advised that the medication should not be shared. Study participants that report the
      loss or theft of medications will be provided with additional medication.

      Particularly for the Espacio Común site, which lacks a registered pharmacy that allows the
      storage and dispensing of products, medications will be dispensed at the Barranco de
      Asociación Civil Impacta Salud y Educación site pharmacy. In this scenario, the prescription
      will be issued at Espacio Común and with it, the participant will go to the pharmacy
      described at which the medication will be dispensed. It is important to mention that there
      are four blocks between the Espacio Común site and the Barranco site of Asociación Civil
      Impacta Salud y Educación. Given this geographical proximity, we do not consider that this is
      a problem for access to the study medication.

      Product Accounting. The pharmacists of the Barranco and San Miguel sites of Asociación Civil
      Impacta Salud y Educación, Asociación Civil Selva Amazónica and Asociación Vía Libre will be
      responsible for maintaining complete and updated records of the accounting of products
      received or acquired.

      All unused products will be returned to the central pharmacy of the study located at the
      Barranco site of Asociación Civil Impacta Salud y Educación once the project ends.

      Adherence to the Study Medication. Adherence to PrEP will be made by counting the returned
      tablets at each of the scheduled visits and the self-reporting of medication intake using
      questionnaires applied by an interviewer.
    
  