
    
      The investigators will recruit patients with orthopedic disorders on voluntary basis through
      department in St Luc Hospital in Brussels, old of 0 to 90 years, men and women with
      muscular-skeletal impairments (arthrosis, bone or muscle injury, ....). The investigators
      will exclude patients with multiple pathologies or not able to understand the instructions.
      They thus impropre the effectiveness of the treatment in Orthopaedics by better defining the
      route of most effective surgical first for the patient in arthroplasty (mini invasive,
      posterior, anterior), the most appropriate knee prosthesis type (design of prothesis), the
      conservative treatment properly to improve the quality of life of patients with orthopedic
      disorders (plaster, brace, physiotherapy...). They will evaluate the impact of treatments at
      the structural level (bone structure, muscle, etc.), at the functional level (mobility,
      strength, stiffness...), on the restriction of activities of patients (walking, make its care
      daily..) and on the limitation of participation in the life of every day (sport, work, social
      life, cultural...) following the ICF-WHO model.

      In addition, they will dispose of data necessary to better define the surgical precision
      (international organization for standardization ISO Norm), the quality of surgical care by
      analyzing data collected by high-precision tools at the surgical treatments.

      Patients will be subject to different clinical assessments, fill out questionnaires or come
      to the laboratory for analysis of the movement depending on the goal defined for each
      patient. Patients will have their current clinical follow-up (RX, scanner, mobility, force
      measurement, stiffness...) which the investigators be able to join a quantified analysis of
      the movement in the laboratory, satisfaction questionnaires, questionnaires measuring the
      impact of treatment on quality of life and their restriction of activities. It is a
      broad-spectrum study to try to improve the quality of care within a service target of
      orthopedics.
    
  