
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the applicability of SBCCE, MREC and US for diagnosing
      ulcer healing after medical treatment in patients with symptomatic CD compared to the current
      gold standard (ileocolonoscopy).

      This is a prospective, blinded, multicenter study. Patients are recruited from 3 centers in
      the Region of Southern Denmark managing adult patients with inflammatory bowel diseases. Each
      patient goes through a standardized work-up including medical history, physical examination,
      C-reactive protein, fecal calprotectin, ileocolonoscopy, SBCCE, MREC and US before and 10-12
      weeks after medical treatment with corticosteroids or biological therapy (Infliximab,
      Adalimumab, Vedolizumab or Ustekinumab). All examinations are reviewed and described in a
      standardized fashion. The radiologists and physicians describing SBCCE, MREC, and US are
      blinded to the findings at ileocolonoscopy and the other imaging modalities. Ileocolonoscopy
      serves as the diagnostic gold standard, and endoscopic disease activity is assessed with
      SES-CD.

      LOGISTICS: Patients go through an accelerated diagnostic work-up at inclusion and after 10-12
      weeks of medical treatment. In patients undergoing their first diagnostic work-up,
      ileocolonoscopy with biopsies is performed last to avoid false positive lesions at SBCCE. In
      patients with an established diagnosis, examinations can be performed in a random order
      provided that tissue samples are not taken during ileocolonoscopy. All diagnostic procedures
      should be completed within two weeks. If one imaging modality is contraindicated it is
      classified as "not performed". If ileocolonoscopy (gold standard) is contraindicated, the
      patient is excluded from the study. All radiological examinations are performed in the
      Department of Radiology, Lillebaelt Hospital Vejle. Ileocolonoscopy and SBCCE are performed
      at the local gastroenterology department.

      During the pre- and post-treatment assessment, radiological examinations and SBCCE are
      analyzed by physicians blinded to the result of ileocolonoscopy and the other bowel
      examinations. However, at the post-treatment assessment, physicians are not blinded to the
      pre-treatment examinations. After completing all diagnostic procedures, the treating
      gastroenterologist is provided with the results of SBCCE, MREC and US.

      EXTENDED ULTRASOUND STUDY: Patients are scheduled for additional US procedures after 2 and 4
      weeks. Procedures are performed without blinding, i.e. the physician is aware of the results
      of the pre-treatment assessment and the preceding US examinations. If the bowel wall
      normalizes at week 2, the subsequent procedure is cancelled. Fecal calprotectin is measured
      before each US procedure.
    
  