
    
      We will use a randomized controlled trial (RCT) design, randomizing informal heart failure
      (HF) caregivers meeting our inclusion and exclusion criteria 1:1 to an intervention or
      control group. After collecting baseline data, we will block randomize the caregivers to
      achieve equal distribution of key variables in each condition. We will block randomize on
      caregiver sex (male/female) and relationship to patient (e.g., spouse) - factors shown to
      influence perceived caregiving burden and receptivity to intervention. The randomization
      sequence will be generated a priori by a statistician independent of the study investigators
      using a randomly permuted blocks algorithm to ensure equal distribution of these variables in
      each study arm. The Project Manager will notify the study staff and participants of their
      group assignment (intervention or control) by telephone, email or message, as preferred by
      the individual. Although balance in sample size can be achieved with block randomization, the
      groups may not be fully comparable on other factors. Initial comparison of the groups will
      allow us to control for important covariates in the analyses. Investigators and all staff
      involved in collecting assessment data will be blinded to group assignment until after the
      data are locked. The nurse providing the intervention and the caregiver participants will not
      be blinded. All baseline data will be collected prior to randomizing. Timing of follow-up
      assessments will be based on day of randomization.

      The study intervention will be provided to individual caregivers. All caregivers (both
      groups) will be provided with access to an Internet site with excellent health information
      (HI). In addition, we have developed and pilot tested a virtual support intervention (ViCCY
      ["Vicky"] - Virtual Caregiver Coach for You), that we will provide on tablet devices to
      caregivers in the intervention group. We will provide tablets to all the caregivers, assuring
      that they have wireless network access so they can access the Internet site providing HI
      content. Caregivers in the control group will receive only HI but caregivers in the
      intervention group will receive 10 front-loaded sessions of ViCCY over 6 months.
    
  