
    
      COPD is a respiratory condition that is often associated with cigarette smoking, and defined
      by incompletely reversible airflow obstruction and complicated by exacerbations. Mucous
      hypersecretion with impaired mucociliary transport are frequently present, and are associated
      with infective AECOPD, and death related to pulmonary infection. COPD is both common,
      affecting 1 in 6 Canadians, and burdensome, being the 4th leading cause of death, in the
      Canadian population.

      In Canada, the most common primary diagnosis associated with admission to hospital is acute
      exacerbation of COPD (AECOPD). For moderate to severe COPD, the average patient will have
      more than 2 AECOPD per year. A single episode conveys a poor prognosis, being associated with
      death, further AECOPD events, and reduced health-related quality of life. Despite multiple
      guideline-based management strategies, 1 in 3 patients with AECOPD will have another episode
      within 8 weeks.

      Although the technology for heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) has been
      available for two decades, it has only recently become widely available for adults. The rapid
      humidification of gas allows this system to achieve flow rates of up to 60 liters per minute.
      These two factors, in combination, allow for a higher achieved fraction of inspired oxygen,
      and benefit the expectoration of secretions and ventilatory efficiency. Randomised clinical
      trials of ICU patients have demonstrated that HFNC is non-inferior to non-invasive
      ventilation both in the setting of acute hypoxemic respiratory failure and as an adjunct
      therapy post-extubation.

      HFNC is a promising treatment for patients with COPD as it can counteract potentially harmful
      mucous abnormalities by reducing mucous viscosity and restoring mucociliary transport.
      Randomised studies have also demonstrated that HFNC administered at home results in an
      increased the time to first exacerbation, fewer AECOPD, improved quality-of-life, and reduced
      PaCO2. However, the efficacy of HFNC during hospital admission, when mucous abnormalities and
      poor expectoration could be most pronounced, has not yet been studied. Furthermore, the
      feasibility and efficacy of this device as a patient transitions from the hospital to the
      community after an AECOPD remains to be elucidated.

      The objectives of this study are to test the efficacy of a heated humidified high-flow nasal
      cannula used during and after a hospital admission for AECOPD to reduce the risk of return to
      ER or readmission, and the feasibility of implementing such a device starting in hospital
      with transition to the home environment.

      This is an open-label, non-randomized pilot study of in-hospital and home HFNC in patients
      with COPD. Patients who consent to participate will have an a heated humidified high-flow
      nasal cannula device configured by a respiratory therapist and available at their bedside in
      hospital. Fraction of inspired oxygen will be adjusted as needed to obtain a pulse oximetry
      reading between 88-92%. If hypoxemia is not present (peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2)
      ≥88%) on room air, then the device will be used without supplemental oxygen. Temperature and
      flow rate will be titrated for patient comfort with a target temperature of 37 degrees
      Celsius and flow rate of ≥20 liters per minute if tolerated. Participants will be instructed
      to use the device overnight and as much as they like during the day targeting at least 6
      hours of use per 24 hour period.

      At discharge, subjects will be provided with a heated humidified high-flow nasal cannula home
      device. Targeted use and oxygen titration will remain unchanged from inpatient use. A
      respiratory therapist from will perform a home visit within 24 hours of hospital discharge to
      educate the patient on home use and ensure proper set up of the device, and an additional
      visit 2 weeks post-discharge. Patients will have access to a 24 hour emergency telephone
      number if they have any concerns. The duration of the trial will be 60 days post-discharge
      after which the device will be returned.
    
  