
    
      The study will evaluate the feasibility of using the ATC/DDD in three districts of
      Southwestern Uganda. The unit of intervention will be a health facility. Eighteen (18)
      randomly selected government owned health facilities at levels II, III and IV will be split
      evenly between the intervention and non intervention arms. Antibiotic prescriptions of new
      adult (in-patients and ambulatory) patients with antibiotic utilization records from the
      selected facilities will be enrolled in the study. The intervention is the introduction of
      the ATC/DDD plus the training on its importance and use by healthcare providers. The
      facilities selected will be far apart from each other to avoid contamination.

      Intervention arm: The ATC/DDD tool shall be piloted in all selected facilities of the 3
      randomly selected districts of Mbarara, Bushenyi and Kasese. The prescribers at these
      facilities will be trained about the importance and usability of the ATC/DDD tool. A pre and
      post assessment of the prescribers understanding of the tool's usability will be done prior
      to piloting the tool. This will guide the focus of the training and any other necessary
      support after the training. The trained prescribers will use the latest tool version to
      evaluate drug utilization of antibiotics (anti-infectives for systemic use) used at their
      respective facility levels for a period of 6 months. Prescriptions and drug administration
      reviews will be done in three phases and for 5 days following the National Medical Stores
      delivery schedule for medicines, that is, shortly after delivery of drugs (phase 1), midway
      (phase 2) and towards the end of the delivery period (phase 3). The evaluation will involve
      computation of antibiotic utilization parameters using the latest version of the ATC/DDD by
      both the trained healthcare providers and an independent research team. Findings will be
      compared for both groups to ensure implementation infidelity. .

      Patients and antibiotic utilization records:

        1. For inpatients: On the day of patient recruitment, health workers will routinely conduct
           baseline assessment of the consented patients to obtain data on demographics, clinical
           conditions and medications. Daily reviews of patients shall be conducted as routinely
           done by the clinicians until discharge, referral, death or loss to follow-up. A data
           extraction template will then be used to capture both baseline and daily follow-up
           patient information . Medication data will be obtained from the patient's hospital file
           (clinical notes, treatment sheets and drug administration charts), dispensing records of
           ward units, pill count validation of a patient's oral medication (capsules, tablets,)
           and of unused injectable medicine vials or ampoules in the possession of the patient or
           the caregiver. This will be done on a daily basis.

        2. For ambulatory patients: Only prescription data will be obtained from Out-patient
           Department (OPD) registers, dispensing logs and/or patients' charts using a data
           extraction template.

      Non-intervention arm: These will continue with the standard practice. However, the research
      team will collect data during the respective phases highlighted in the intervention arm for
      computation using the latest version of the ATC/DDD tool and comparison.
    
  