
    
      Advances in modern anesthesiology have significantly reduced the risk of anesthesia compared
      to the last century, however, the level of perioperative hospital mortality of planned
      operations at the moment is on average about 0.5% (ISOS group, 2016). Weiser et al. (2016)
      estimated that more than 313 million adults worldwide are subject to surgery each year. Thus,
      the number of deaths may result in several million each year worldwide. However, the study of
      the mortality risk is associated with certain difficulties, because over the past half
      century, this figure has decreased a hundred times and the study requires studies that
      include a large number of participants.

      Current research focuses on other outcome criteria - postoperative complications. Thus,
      anesthetic risk often refers to the risk of postoperative complications. The frequency of
      these complications varies in a wide range, ranging from 3 to 18 % (Gawande AA, 1999, Kable
      AK, 2002, Malik OS, 2018). The differences in the data are explained by the lack of clear
      definitions and differences in the design of studies, but the fact that the development of
      postoperative complications increases the risk of death several times (ISOS group, 2016) can
      be considered undoubted. However, despite the importance of this issue, in modern literature
      there is no clear idea of what is considered a high risk and which of the patients
      corresponds to this category.

      Understanding whether a patient is at high risk is an essential task - it allows you to
      obtain meaningful informed consent of the patient, as well as to understand whether to apply
      strategies for the prevention of complications (targeted infusion therapy, protective
      respiratory support, especially monitoring in the postoperative period, etc.).

      Attempts at preoperative risk stratification have been made for many decades, some scales
      estimate the initial physical status (ASA scale) (Young J, 2015) and predict mortality,
      others estimate the risk of specific complications (Lee index, respiratory risk scale, etc.)
      .

      Scales including intraoperative and postoperative parameters such as the POSSUM series of
      scales (Whiteley MS, 1996) are also being developed. The analysis shows that in routine
      clinical practice, these scales are not used very often, due to their limitations:
      subjectivity, technical complexity and often - low specificity and sensitivity.

      Concomitant diseases are the strongest predictors of postoperative adverse events and annual
      mortality. Monk et al. (2005) demonstrated that Charlson's comorbidity score of 3 or more
      significantly increased the risk of death. In addition, in most clinical studies, the
      ASAclassification of physical status as a kind of comprehensive assessment of patient
      comorbidity has repeatedly proved to be one of the strongest independent predictors of
      postoperative morbidity and mortality, despite the fact that this assessment is based on
      subjective perception (Watt J., 2018).

      The main concomitant diseases that are independent predictors of perioperative complications
      are diseases of the cardiovascular and respiratory systems (Van Diepen S, 2011). Increasing
      age, anemia, obesity, diabetes - these conditions also increase the risk of an adverse
      outcome. Diseases of the Central nervous system and neuromuscular diseases significantly
      disrupt the function of respiration, can change the level of the Autonomous regulation of the
      cardiovascular system, lead to significant cognitive disorders and nutritional deficiency,
      which also increases the risk of perioperative complications (Hachenberg T, 2014).

      On the other hand, large-scale observational studies conducted in recent years in a number of
      countries have not identified comorbidities as independent predictors of postoperative
      complications (Malik, 2018).

      Thus, data on the risk effects of comorbidities are contradictory and may be influenced by
      differences in the frequency and structure of these diseases in heterogeneous populations, as
      well as in different treatment strategies for cardiovascular, respiratory and other diseases.
      The identification of these risk factors is necessary to understand the pathophysiology of
      complications and identify potential ways to reduce anesthetic risk, such as the correction
      of concomitant disease.

      The degree of risk of surgery, of course, depends not only on the presence of comorbidities
      and their combinations, but also on the severity of surgical injury (Pearse RM, 2012, ISOS
      group, 2017), as well as the level of exposure to drugs for anesthesia and anesthetic
      techniques (Malik OS, 2018), therefore, the allocation of risk groups without these factors
      is also not appropriate.

      Objective: to assess the frequency and structure of comorbidities in patients undergoing
      surgery on the abdominal organs and to stratify the risk of postoperative complications by
      determining independent

      Evaluated parameters in study:

      1. Age, gender; 2. Class of physical status by ASA; 3. The presence and type of concomitant
      disease; 3.1 CHD; 3.2 CHF; 3.3 Heart rhythm disorders; 3.4 COPD; 3.5 Bronchial Asthma; 3.6
      CKD; 3.7 CNS diseases; 3.7.1 Stroke; 3.7.2 Epilepsy; 3.7.3 Parkinson's Disease; 3.7.4
      Alzheimer's Disease; 3.8 Neuromuscular diseases; 3.9 Diabetes; 3.10 Anemia; 4 Treatment
      received by the patient; 4.1 β-blockers; 4.2 ACE Inhibitors; 4.3 Aldosterone antagonists; 4.4
      Statins; 4.5 Anticoagulants; 4.6 Diuretics; 4.7 Bronchodilators; 4.8 Corticosteriods; 4.9
      Insulin; 4.10 Anticonvulsants; 5. The type and severity of surgery ; 5.1 Open surgery on the
      organs of the upper abdomen; 5.2 Coloproctological operations; 5.3 Gynecological surgery; 5.4
      Urological surgery; 5.5 Operations on vessels of the abdominal cavity; 5.6 Abdominal wall
      surgery; 5.7 Laparoscopic surgery; 6 Type of anesthesia; 6.1 Spinal; 6.2 Epidural; 6.3
      Combined spinal-epidural; 6.4 Intravenous; 6.5 Combined; 6.6 General+epidural; 7. Integral
      scales; 7.1 The cognitive function of the Montreal scale ; 7.2 Respiratory risk ; 7.3 Lee's
      Cardiovascular Risk Scale ; 7.4 NSQIP Cardiac risk scale ; 7.5 Hepatic insufficiency
      according to MELD; 7.6 CKD Stage by Level of GFR and Albuminuria; 7.7 COPD degree by GOLD.

      Order of conduct

        1. The data is registered in the Excel electronic database in a uniform format for all
           centers (the form will be sent by the coordinator to all centers participating in the
           study prior to the inclusion of patients).

        2. All centers need to get approval by the local ethics committee before the start of the
           study. The study protocol will be registered in Clinicaltrial.gov.

        3. The study includes all patients operated on within one operational day at the discretion
           of the center and meeting the inclusion criteria with registration in the questionnaire
           of the day of the week.

        4. All patients could sign informed consent to participate in the study prior to inclusion
           in the study.

        5. Before surgery, data on the patient and all studied factors specified in the study
           protocol are entered into the database.

        6. All patients included in the study are monitored before discharge from the hospital with
           registration of the data specified in the protocol.

      6. Every last day of the working week, all completed cases are sent as a separate Excel file
      to the study coordinator by email to trembachnv@mail.ru 7. The originals of the
      questionnaires are stored in the centers for the entire study time and for 3 years after its
      completion.

      8. The summary database is formed by the study coordinator and provided to the centers after
      the end of the study.

      Statistical analysis The sample size was calculated taking into account the fact that at
      least 10 cases of postoperative complications per one factor included in the final regression
      model are required. Given the wide range of complication rates in previous studies (from 3%
      to 20%), we have chosen a lower bound for a more accurate assessment. To include 20 potential
      risk factors in the regression model, 200 cases of postoperative complications are required,
      which at a frequency of 3% is not less than 7000 people. Taking into account the risk of data
      loss, and taking into account as many potential risk factors as possible, the size of the
      required sample was increased to 12,000 people, which will also assess the contribution of
      comorbidities to certain groups of complications. For validation of predictive models will be
      recruited 4,000 additional. The inclusion of the patient in the main and validation group
      will be carried out randomly.

      The character of distribution of studied parameters will be evaluated using the criterion
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov. The continuous data will be presented as the median and interquartile
      range for the nonparametric distribution and as the mean and standard deviation for the
      parametric distribution. Categorical variables will be presented as the number of patients
      and a percentage of the total number of patients.

      For the initial assessment of the Association of the factor with postoperative complications,
      a single-factor analysis using the χ2 criterion and the Mann-Whitney test will be carried
      out. All variables with a reliable relationship identified in the univariate analysis (p less
      than 0.05) will be included in logistic regression if there is no collinearity between them
      (correlation coefficient less than 0.25). The logistic regression model will be constructed
      using a step-by-step reverse inclusion procedure in which the presence of a complication will
      be a dependent variable. Potential predictors will be removed if this exception does not
      cause a significant change in the log likelihood ratio. The criterion for excluding the
      factor will be set at the significance level of 0.05. Adjusted odds ratios and 95% confidence
      intervals will also be calculated.

      The resulting predictive model will be evaluated in the validation group using ROC analysis
      and the Hosmer-Lemeshov test.
    
  