
    
      Ketamine hydrochlorid is a general anesthetic that is also used as short term sedative.
      Ketamine has an antagonistic effect on the central spinal N-Methyl-D-Aspartate (NMDA)
      receptors, the latter modulating pain stimuli generated peripherally on their way to central
      pain centers.

      Ketamin has been used recently pre-operatively rather than post-operatively. Our recent
      experience with pre-operative use of ketamine has not been analyzed yet by Tel Aviv Medical
      Center's researchers. There is also some experience with topical dermal, epidural,
      intra-articular and oral usage of ketamine.

      As far as we no, there are no reports on patients' subjective feeling when ketamine was given
      pre-operatively for postoperative acute pain in patients undergoing mid-sternotomy for lung
      and cardiac surgery. The possible influence of such an effect on the patient's well-being and
      the patient's family feelings and reactions were neither explored.

      The goal of the study is to examine the possibility that if ketamine is administered in the
      pre-operative period, as a topical ointment, this will induce changes in the patient's
      sensation of pain, his own satisfaction, and possibly his family's satisfaction as well. The
      basis of this contention is that by administering less morphine (which is given to the
      patient in the immediate post-operative period through PCA [Patent-Controlled Analgesia]),
      with or without changes in pain, might have positive effects on the patient's well being and
      his family's. This issue will be assessed by a verbal questionnaire and based and on a visual
      analog scale (VAS).

      Three groups of 25 patients each will be enrolled in the study. The first group will receive
      a placebo topical paste which will be produced by the hospital pharmacy. The second group
      will be given lignocain paste, and the third group will get ketamine topical paste, prepared
      by the pharmacy as well. The study will be double blind and randomized. All patients will be
      treated with morphine postoperatively, as mentioned above.

      It is anticipated that the amounts of morphine that will be used by the patients
      postoperatively by patients treated by ketamine will be reduced as compared to the other
      groups. This might increase the patient's and family's satisfaction rates, regardless of the
      decrease in the subjective pain ratings.

      The importance of this study is that if the contention that is at the basis of this study is
      proven true, similar surgical groups of patients will benefit from the addition of topical
      ketamine administration to the habitual morphine-used postoperative only analgesia. By doing
      so, complications that stem from high doses of morphine will diminish, thus maintain
      hemodynamic stability and benefiting from the advantages of a patient being awake,
      cooperative and able to feedback the medical personnel in real time about his condition.
      Cooperation and satisfaction of the patient and family could be the end result of this
      process. Finally, it is assumed that under such conditions the number of complications in the
      postoperative period, will minimize, and hasten rehablitation.
    
  