
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the efficacy of lutetium Lu 177 dotatate (LUTATHERA) treatment in patients
      with recurrent grade 1 meningioma as measured by 6-month progression-free survival (PFS)
      rate.

      II. To estimate the efficacy of LUTATHERA treatment in patients with recurrent grade 2 or 3
      meningioma as measured by 6-month PFS rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall survival (by grade cohort) of patients with recurrent meningioma
      during or after treatment of LUTATHERA.

      II. To determine the progression-free survival (by grade cohort) of patients with recurrent
      meningioma during or after treatment of LUTATHERA.

      III. To determine the toxicity of LUTATHERA treatment in patients with recurrent meningioma.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the impact of treatment on the patient's quality of life (QOL) using the
      Promise-10, Brief Fatigue Inventory (BFI), European Quality of Life Five Dimension Five Level
      (EQ-5D-5L), and Mayo Patient Survey National Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN)-Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) Brain Symptom Index Questionnaire-24 (FBrSI-24) (version
      2) instruments.

      II. To compare the response assessment between standard of care brain magnetic resonance
      imaging (MRI) and gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE (68Ga-DOTATATE) positron emission tomography (PET)
      imaging.

      III. To determine the best objective response (McDonald criteria) of patients with recurrent
      meningioma during or after treatment of LUTATHERA.

      IV. To determine the duration of local control with death as a competing risk (by grade
      cohort) of patients with recurrent meningioma during or after treatment of LUTATHERA.

      V. To perform a quantitative dosimetric analysis of radiation dose delivered with lutathera:

      Va. To determine intratherapeutic dosimetry for the target meningioma. Vb. To correlate
      treatment response of lutathera with target dose received. Vc. To determine intratherapeutic
      dosimetry for kidneys and other abdominal organs.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive gallium Ga 68-DOTATATE intravenously (IV) and undergo a PET/MRI before
      cycles 1 and 4. Patients then receive lutetium Lu 177 dotatate intravenously (IV) over 30-40
      minutes. Cycles repeat every 8 weeks for up to 6 months in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  