
    
      The incidence of primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) has increased threefold in
      immunocompetent populations in recent years. Improvements in treatment, particularly
      involving combined modality therapy with chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been shown to
      augment patient survival with a median disease-free period of about 40 months. However, the
      combination of these two modalities often increases the risk for delayed neurotoxicity. There
      is a paucity of studies that have assessed neuropsychological functioning and quality of life
      in patients with PCNSL. The majority of studies reported performance status and survival
      rates, but systematic cognitive evaluations were only seldom included. Unfortunately, relying
      only on these variables does not adequately assess the more subtle cognitive impairments that
      most patients with brain tumors experience. Neuropsychological difficulties often interfere
      with disease free patients' ability to function at premorbid levels at work and at home. A
      study including neuropsychological evaluations of a relatively large group of patients with
      PCNSL who received combined modality treatments, and are in remission from their disease is
      planned. A follow-up assessment also will be performed in order to monitor performance over a
      specified period of time. The proposed study will also test the hypotheses that: (1) the
      presence of polymorphisms that influence methionine metabolism places PCNSL patients treated
      with chemotherapy alone or in combination with radiotherapy at risk for developing
      treatment-induced white matter disease and cognitive dysfunction; (2) the possession of the
      apolipoprotein E (APOE) є-4 allele is associated with the development of cognitive
      difficulties following treatment for PCNSL. Research in order to better understand the
      incidence, extent, and severity of treatment-induced neuropsychological impairments in
      patients with PCNSL is of utmost importance, given the recent increase in both the number of
      cases diagnosed and longterm survival. It is likely to provide valuable information regarding
      specific cognitive domains that should be addressed in the development of strategies for
      cognitive rehabilitation or other interventions that may be appropriate. The findings of this
      study will also be relevant for comparison with ongoing and future research investigating the
      potential neurocognitive sequelae of alternative treatment modalities for PCNSL (e.g.,
      high-dose chemotherapy followed by peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) transplant).
    
  