
    
      Subjective well-being is a positive state affairs in six domains of life: interpersonal,
      community, occupational, physical, psychological, and economic (I COPPE). The purpose of the
      study is to evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability of an online
      intervention named Fun For Wellness (FFW), designed to promote skills and self-efficacy in
      the multidimensional I COPPE domains of life.

      In designing the program we considered the pressing societal need to promote universal health
      and well-being and prevent stress, illness and disease. Preventable conditions related to
      lifestyle such as obesity and stress afflict millions of people. Therefore, we saw a need to
      develop a universal tool for the adult population who would be comfortable with the online
      platform of FFW. Universal programs have been shown to be effective, for example, in reducing
      mental health problems in college students.

      While face-to-face interventions are effective in preventing serious conditions, they are
      very labor intensive and limited in reach. The ability to prevent adverse conditions and to
      enhance healthy behaviors through online interventions creates several opportunities:
      accessibility, scalability, interactivity, affordability, and fidelity of implementation. A
      randomized controlled trial of the FFW intervention in an employee sample, found initial
      evidence for the effectiveness of the FFW intervention. Participants who complied with the
      FFW intervention had significantly higher subjective well-being, as compared to compliers in
      the Usual Care group, in multiple I COPPE domains.

      For the current study, well-being and self-efficacy measures will be administered at baseline
      (T1), 30 days-post baseline (T2) and 60 days -post baseline (T3). A maximum of 500 patients
      will be enrolled. Recruitment will take place on-site through IRB approved study flyers at a
      community medical center. All other study activities will take place entirely online at a
      secure website.

      Hypothesis 1: Outcome effects: The online well-being program will be more effective than the
      usual care condition in improving: 1) overall well-being 2) domain well-being, and 3) health
      related quality of life (HRQOL) over time.

      Hypothesis 2: Self-efficacy effect: The online well-being program will be more effective than
      the usual care condition in improving I COPPE well-being self-efficacy.

      Hypothesis 3: Mediating effect: The effect of the online well-being program on- 1) overall
      well-being, 2) domain well-being and, 3) health related quality of life will be partially
      mediated by improvements in I COPPE well-being self-efficacy over time.
    
  