
    
      AIM 1: To evaluate the Quality of life in Hispanic and Non-Hispanic Kidney transplant
      recipients in a prospective longitudinal study using QOL questionnaires before and after the
      transplant. We propose to perform a prospective evaluation of QOL using the KDQOL-SF in every
      kidney recipient that is going to be transplanted at NMH. In addition to parameters included
      in the QOL instrument, we will consider ethnic background, renal function at the time of the
      evaluation and type of donor (deceased vs. living donor, expanded criteria donor vs. standard
      criteria donor), all of which has implications for the medical outcome of the transplant. An
      enrollment for Northwestern University is set at 750 subjects with a total approved
      enrollment for both sites of 1200 subjects. We plan to perform three assessments: the first
      before transplant, the second three months after transplant, and the third at the one year
      anniversary of the transplant. These milestones coincide with standard of care medical visits
      to the transplant center at NMH. This prospective study is going to start after the
      initiation of the Hispanic Kidney Transplant Program.

      AIM 2: To evaluate long term QOL in Hispanic kidney transplant recipients in a
      cross-sectional study of NMH patients from the last 10 years using QOL questionnaires. We
      propose to enroll an equal number of Hispanic kidney recipients and Non-Hispanic kidney
      recipients transplanted over the last 10 years. We will use the KDQOL-SF to assess the
      current QOL in three groups according to the era of kidney transplantation: 1) Less than 1
      year after transplant 2) 1-5 years after transplant and 3) 5 to 10 years post-transplant. In
      addition to the KDQOL-SF, we will examine their current level of renal function and the type
      of donor as was mention in the prospective part of this proposal.

      AIM 3: To determine differences in QOL in Hispanic kidney transplant recipients before and
      after the Hispanic transplant program at NMH was developed.

      In this specific aim, we will test the hypothesis that the cultural and educational oriented
      approach through the Hispanic transplant program will improve the QOL of Hispanic kidney
      transplant recipients and minimize differences compared to Non-Hispanic kidney recipients. To
      achieve this we will compare information from the cross-sectional evaluation in Aim 2 and the
      prospective evaluation in Aim 1 providing information before and after the inception of the
      Hispanic transplant program.

      AIM 4: To Evaluate the social impact that the services of the NMH Hispanic Transplant program
      provides to the patients that participate in it. Subjects will be given a survey to complete
      about their experience and/or asked to participate in an interview about their experience
      with Northwestern Memorial's Transplant Program. If subject has participated or received a
      transplant and is no longer at Northwestern Memorial, a survey and letter asking for their
      participation may be mailed to their residence. All names will be kept confidential. Expected
      duration of subject participation is either a survey (15-20 min) or an interview (up to 1
      hour).
    
  