
    
      Fluid overloading with oedema formation is a regular finding following on-pump cardiac
      surgery and may contribute to postoperative organ dysfunction. Myocardial oedema has been
      reported to impair both systolic and diastolic function. An association between
      intraoperative fluid loading and postoperative adverse outcome has been demonstrated in
      cardiac patients.

      Our group has experience with the use of hypertonic saline/colloids in several experimental
      studies (pigs). In these animal studies we have used hypertonic saline/colloids both as an
      infusion during CPB or as an additive to CPB-prime. Both administration methods resulted in
      significant reduction in fluid loading due to better intravascular volume preservation.

      One clinical study from our group observed reduced fluid load and an improved cardiac index
      when an infusion of hypertonic saline/colloids was used during cardiac surgery. Patients
      included in this study had a normal left ventricular function and no co-morbidity.

      The planned study includes patients with combination procedures, both aorta coronary bypass
      and valve implantation, and expected long CPB-time.Time spent on CPB is a individual risk
      factor negatively associated with increased mortality and morbidity. The investigators
      believe high-risk patients will have even more benefit of reduced fluid loading. Their
      tolerance for hypovolemia is lower and the incidence for hemodynamic instability first hours
      postoperatively is greater.

      The patients will be randomized to receive either a continuous infusion of hypertonic
      saline/colloids or acetated Ringer's solution during CPB. Accurate accounts of fluid
      additions, blood loss and diuresis will be kept. Determination of cardiac output (C.O.),
      intrathoracic blood volume (ITBV), extravascular lung water (EVLW) and global end diastolic
      volume (GEDV) will be monitored by use of the transpulmonary thermodilution technique
      PiCCO®plus system.

      Preoperative and postoperative echo cor will be performed.
    
  