
    
      Chronically traumatized people are at much higher risk for developing dissociative symptoms,
      which are notoriously difficult to treat, particularly in the context of other posttraumatic
      stress disorder symptoms. Dissociation is a phenomenon that involves feelings of separation
      from one's body and emotional state. Mindfulness practices, including breath-focused
      mindfulness meditation, are known to be useful for improving attention to one's physiological
      state, thus enhancing a feeling of "connection" with one's present experience. However,
      mindfulness-based practices are naturally a challenging task for highly dissociative people.
      The present project proposes the use of a novel device that uses physiological feedback to
      boost the effects of breath-focused mindfulness meditation in this population. This device is
      an element placed on the wrist that vibrates in accordance with one's breath. The method
      capitalizes on a "bottom-up" neurophysiological process. This study plans to recruit 80
      highly dissociative traumatized African American women through an established and highly
      productive NIH-funded project. Participants will be randomly assigned to 6 sessions of either
      breath-focused mindfulness meditation or physiologically augmented breath-focused mindfulness
      meditation. Electroencephalography data will be collected during the intervention sessions,
      and functional magnetic resonance imaging data will be collected pre- and post-intervention.
      These methods will be used to assess whether the physiological augmentation is producing:
      increased coherence or "network-like" activity among brain regions involved with
      interoception (awareness of one's bodily state); selective attention to the breath (increased
      tempero-parietal EEG gamma) and meditative engagement (increased frontal EEG theta). Clinical
      and neuropsychological measures will be used to assess potential effects on dissociative and
      posttraumatic symptoms, as well as selective and sustained attention and mindfulness ability.
      A follow-up will be conducted 1 month post-treatment to examine sustained clinical and
      cognitive effects.
    
  