
    
      This study is a randomized, single blind, placebo-controlled trial to evaluate the effect of
      vitamin D on vitamin D-deficient women with PCOS. 93 reproductive-aged women diagnosed with
      PCOS presenting to Maimonides Medical Center for annual check-up between October 2013 and
      March 2015 were screened for vitamin D deficiency (defined as 25 hydroxy-vitaminD [25OH-D]
      levels <20 ng/mL). All participants signed the informed consent and the study was approved by
      the international review board (IRB) of Maimonides Medical Center. PCOS was diagnosed
      according to the Rotterdam Consensus (ESHRE/ASRM criteria), i.e. the presence of two of three
      criteria: oligo- or anovulation, signs of clinical hyperandrogenism, and/or biochemical signs
      of hyperandrogenism and polycystic ovaries on ultrasonography after exclusion of specific
      identifiable disorders (thyroid disorder, hyperprolactinemia, congenital adrenal hyperplasia,
      androgen-secreting tumors, and Cushing's syndrome). The investigators included women aged
      between 18 and 38 years who were not: 1) pregnant, postpartum, breastfeeding, or 2) taking
      any vitamin D supplements, metformin or any hormonal therapy.

      Interventions and blood collection:

      68 women diagnosed with PCOS and vitamin D deficiency were enrolled. Participants were
      allocated to each group according to a computer-generated list using ratio 2/1 (Vitamin
      D/placebo). Women allocated to vitamin D group received one capsule 50.000 IU of vitamin D3
      once weekly for eight weeks. The vitamin D supplementation regimen was extracted from the
      Endocrine Society guidelines. Women in the placebo group received once capsule of placebo
      once weekly for eight weeks. The placebo was prepared at Maimonides Medical Center's
      pharmacy. To ensure compliance, The investigators called each participant once weekly and
      reminded her to take her pill. Fasting blood samples were collected by venipuncture before
      starting and within two weeks after completing the treatment (vitamin D or placebo). Blood
      samples were allowed to clot for 30 minutes at room temperature before centrifugation at
      1,200 rpm for 10 minutes. Serum was stored at -80°C in aliquots until assayed.

      The assays of all measured hormones, 25OH-D, VEGF, TGF-β1, sENG, and AMH:

      Serum 25OH-D levels were measured before and after completing the treatment. The levels were
      determined by the ADVIA Centaur vitamin D assay (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics).
      Dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), testosterone, sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG),
      thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing
      hormone (LH) were measured using IMMULITE 2000 XPi immunoassay system (Siemens Healthcare
      USA). Insulin and prolactin concentrations were quantified by DXL 800 immunoassay analyzer
      according to manufacturer's protocols (Beckman Coulter). Insulin resistance was calculated
      according to the homeostatic model assessment (HOMA) (29) by using the following formula:
      Insulin resistance (HOMA IR) = [fasting insulin (µU/mL) x fasting glucose (mmol/L)]/22.5.
      17OH-progesterone level was determined by ELISA assay (Eagle BioSciences). AMH concentration
      was measured using the ultrasensitive AMH/MIS CLIA kit (AnshLabs). TGF-β1 concentration was
      measured using Human TGF-beta1 Quantikine ELISA kit according to manufacturer's protocols
      (R&D Systems). sENG levels were quantified by Human Endoglin/CD105 Quantikine ELISA kit (R&D
      Systems). VEGF concentration was quantified using Human VEGF Quantikine ELISA kit according
      to manufacturer's protocols (R&D Systems). The inter-assay and intra-assay coefficients of
      variation for all assays were less than 10%.

      Clinical parameters:

      All the clinical parameters were evaluated before and four months after the completion of
      treatment. These parameters included blood pressure (BP), Ferriman-Gallwey score (FGS)
      (hirsutism score), acne status, and interval between periods.

      Statistical analysis:

      Data were tested for normality. All values were expressed as mean ± standard error of the
      mean (SEM). A paired student's t-test was used to compare pre- and post-treatment serum
      levels and clinical parameters. Correlation between changes in angiogenic factors and changes
      in clinical disease parameters was analyzed using Pearson's test and linear regression.
      X2-test was used to evaluate the changes in acne after treatment. SigmaStat (SPSS Science,
      Chicago, IL) was used for statistical analysis. P<0.05 was considered to be statistically
      significant.
    
  