
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of CPI-613 when administered with high dose cytarabine, and
      mitoxantrone (mitoxantrone hydrochloride) in all three phases of salvage therapy (induction,
      consolidation and maintenance).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe the response rate (complete remission [CR], and CR with incomplete recovery
      [CRi]) of CPI-613 in combination with high dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone.

      II. To observe the overall survival of patients treated with CPI-613 in combination with high
      dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone in induction, consolidation and maintenance.

      III. To monitor toxicities experienced by patients treated with CPI-613 in combination with
      high dose cytarabine and mitoxantrone in induction, consolidation and maintenance.

      OUTLINE:

      SALVAGE INDUCTION COURSE 1: Patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid intravenously
      (IV) over 2 hours on days 1-5, cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours starting on day 3
      for 5 doses, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes after the first, third, and
      fifth doses of cytarabine.

      SALVAGE INDUCTION COURSE 2 (OPTIONAL, AT DISCRETION OF TREATING PHYSICIAN): Patients receive
      6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid, cytarabine, and mitoxantrone hydrochloride as in course 1
      or an abbreviated second course at the discretion of the treating physician. In the
      abbreviated course, patients receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid IV over 2 hours on days
      1-3, cytarabine IV over 3 hours every 12 hours starting on day 2 for 3 doses, and
      mitoxantrone hydrochloride IV over 15 minutes after the first and third cytarabine doses.

      SALVAGE CONSOLIDATION: Patients achieving response receive up to 2 courses of the abbreviated
      course of 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid, high dose cytarabine, and mitoxantrone
      hydrochloride. Patients achieving response may undergo stem cell transplant at the discretion
      of the treating physician. Patients may proceed to maintenance after 1, 2 or no courses of
      consolidation at the discretion of the treating physician.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Patients achieving response receive 6,8-bis(benzylthio)octanoic acid IV
      over 2 hours on days 1-5. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up periodically.
    
  