
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the efficacy of neoadjuvant therapy comprising docetaxel, fluorouracil,
           epirubicin hydrochloride, and cyclophosphamide with versus without bevacizumab in
           patients with HER2-negative nonmetastatic breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To assess quality of life of female patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (≤ 50 years
      old vs > 50 years old), estrogen receptor status (negative [Allred score 0-2] vs weakly
      positive [Allred score 3-5] vs strongly positive [Allred score 6-8]), total tumor size* (≤ 50
      mm vs > 50 mm), clinical involvement of axillary nodes (yes vs no), and inflammatory/locally
      advanced disease (T4) (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      NOTE: *In cases with multifocal disease in one breast, or bilateral disease, the size to be
      used for the stratification is the sum of the single largest diameter of all measurable
      tumors.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive docetaxel IV on day 1; treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3
           courses. Patients then receive fluorouracil IV, epirubicin hydrochloride IV, and
           cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 (FEC). Treatment with fluorouracil, epirubicin
           hydrochloride, and cyclophosphamide repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30 to 90 minutes and docetaxel IV on day 1;
           treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses. Patients then receive FEC as in arm I.
           Treatment with FEC repeats every 3 weeks for 3 courses. Patients also receive
           bevacizumab IV over 30 to 90 minutes and docetaxel IV on day 1 in FEC course 1 only.

      Within 3-6 weeks after completion of last dose of study therapy, patients in both arms
      undergo surgery. Within 4-8 weeks after surgery, patients undergo radiotherapy according to
      standard protocol.

      Women complete quality-of-life questionnaires (FACT-B and EuroQoL) at baseline and during and
      after completion of study treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for 3 years.
    
  