
    
      Youth between the ages of 13 and 24 accounted for 22% of all new HIV infections in 2015. Less
      than half (44%) of youth living with HIV (YLWH) in the US are estimated to be virally
      suppressed, which is a well recognized critical factor in individual health and
      non-infectiousness. Given the high demands of social identity development during adolescence
      and early adulthood, as well as the increasing use of social media as important and
      influential communication channels, there is an ongoing need for innovative programs that
      leverage current communication channels to foster social support for ART adherence behaviors.

      The investigators developed a program first called Thrive With Me (TWM) as an intervention
      that leverages enhanced peer-to-peer interaction, ART adherence reminders and
      self-monitoring, and ART and HIV informational content to improve ART adherence. Given
      youth's broad acceptance and adoption of many of the components of the TWM intervention, and
      the critical need for novel and scalable ART adherence interventions for this population, we
      have adapted TWM for a younger audience and all genders in a program called YouTHrive (YT).

      Focus groups will provide insights into what features and functions of the current TWM study
      youth like and dislike to assist intervention adaptation. The investigators will conduct
      focus groups in three cities (Houston, Bronx, and Chicago) and will recruit up to 16 YLWH per
      city, and use the results to develop the YT intervention. Ahead of the RCT, the investigators
      will conduct usability testing on YT to gain feedback about the developed intervention. The
      investigators will recruit 12 YLWH in six cities to use the intervention for a two-week
      period for usability testing.

      The randomized controlled efficacy trial will compare YT (N=150) to a control group (N=150).
      YLWH in the control arm will receive weekly static information-only emails, compared to daily
      use of the dynamic YT social network site for the intervention group. Participants will be
      recruited from seven cities: Houston, Chicago, Atlanta, Tampa, Philadelphia, New York City,
      and Chapel Hill. Assessments will be collected at baseline and 5, 8, and 11-month follow-up.

      Specific Aims include:

      Primary Objective: In a 2-arm RCT (n=300), assess the efficacy of YouTHrive(YT) to sustain
      suppressed viral load (VL) among YLWH, compared to an HIV information-only control condition.

      H1: A higher proportion of participants in the YT intervention arm than in the
      information-only control arm will have undetectable VL at both the 5- and 11-month follow-up
      time points.

      Secondary objective: Assess whether YT is more beneficial for substance-using than non
      substance-using YLWH.

      H2: Among YLWH in the YT intervention arm, a different proportion of substance-using YLWH
      will demonstrate VL suppression at both the 5- and 11-month follow-up time points compared to
      non-substance-using YLWH.
    
  