
    
      As documented in the US Surgeon General's Call to Action to Promote Sexual Health and
      Responsible Sexual Behavior, training of health providers in sexual health care is critical
      to addressing a broad array of the nation's sexual and reproductive health concerns. Yet
      rigorous trials evaluating the effects of sexual health curricula on provider behavior are
      rare. In sub-Saharan Africa, an environment which has some of the world's highest rates of
      HIV, sexually transmitted infections, teen pregnancy, and unwanted pregnancy, and where
      female genital cutting, criminalization of key populations, and rates of sexual dysfunction
      in both men and women are common, investigators could find no formalized training of health
      providers in sexual health care. Sexual health education, even of health providers, is
      somewhat controversial in Africa. So, a rigorous study of its effects is needed, if such
      education is to be widely adopted. Recently, at Muhimbili University of Health and Allied
      Health Sciences (MUHAS) in Dar es Salaam, we adapted a World Health Organization sexual
      health curriculum training for primary healthcare providers in the Americas, for
      implementation in Tanzania. Participants were 87 nursing, midwifery, and allied health
      science students. Pre-Post evaluations show the curriculum to be highly acceptable, needed
      and desired by students, feasible in implementation, and effective in improving student
      knowledge, attitudes, and competence providing sexual health care to patients. The logical
      next step in this line of research is to conduct the first rigorous trial of a sexual health
      training curriculum for health professionals in Tanzania. There are three specific aims. Aim
      1 is to conduct a social ecological needs assessment of sexual health care delivery in
      Tanzania. To determine whether midwifery, nursing, medical, and allied health science
      students would benefit from one curriculum or separate curricula tailored by discipline, we
      will conduct focus groups of midwives, nurses, doctors, and allied health workers and
      students (3 from each discipline). In Aim 2, Investigators will further adapt a sexual health
      training curriculum/a tailored to the Tanzanian/East African/Sub-Saharan context, pilot test
      it, and train local faculty to implement it. Aim 3 is to evaluate the effectiveness of the
      sexual health curriculum. The team will conduct a randomized, controlled, single blinded
      trial of the curriculum against a waitlist control assessing effects on sexual health
      knowledge, attitudes, and sexual history and counseling skills (n=206 students per arm; 410
      in total). Hypotheses will test if the curriculum is effective, and whether such curricula
      are more effective for one discipline than another. If effective, MUHAS has committed to
      implement the curriculum for all their health students. Given MUHAS is preeminent in health
      student education across Africa, the curriculum assessed in this study has high potential to
      be widely adopted as a new standard of training for health professionals across Africa.
    
  