
    
      Abstract. In rural South Africa, only two-thirds of HIV+ pregnant women seeking antenatal
      care at community health centers took full advantage of available "prevention of
      mother-to-child transmission" (PMTCT) services in 2010 (SADOH). While engagement of male
      partners has been encouraged as a potential means of increasing PMTCT uptake, men have been
      reluctant to accompany their wives/partners to antenatal care.

      Recent studies generally support male involvement in promoting PMTCT, but the nature and
      impact of that involvement is unclear and untested. It is also clear that factors such as
      stigma, disclosure and intimate partner violence pose significant barriers to PMTCT uptake
      and retention in care, suggesting that male involvement may be "necessary, but not
      sufficient" to accomplish the WHO goal of <5% infant HIV incidence. Additional measures may
      be needed to increase participation by HIV positive pregnant women in PMTCT.

      In 2011, Mpumalanga Province had the highest rates of HIV in the country (36.7%) and rates of
      infant HIV incidence in rural clinics ranged up to 50%. Rates of PMTCT uptake in the Province
      have been among the lowest in South Africa (69%). This application proposes to expand on a
      successful PEPFAR- supported, PMTCT couples intervention pilot study conducted in Mpumalanga
      Province, ("Vikela Umndeni: Protect Your Family") to include a more representative population
      of HIV positive pregnant women and their partners, the primary objective being to determine
      whether male partner involvement plus a behavioral intervention would significantly reduce
      infant HIV incidence by increasing levels of adherence to ARV/ PMTCT protocols, including
      breastfeeding and family planning, during the antenatal and post-natal periods.

      The proposed study will enroll two cohorts of HIV positive pregnant women recruited from 12
      randomly assigned Community Health Centers (6 experimental, 6 control): a) Women attending
      without their male partners (n = 720), followed by b) Women attending with their male
      partners (n = 720 couples), to determine whether the influence of male participation itself
      or combined with a behavioral PMTCT intervention can significantly reduce infant HIV
      infection ante-, peri- and post-natally. It is our intention to significantly increase PMTCT
      participation from current levels (69%) in Mpumalanga Province to 90-95% through engaging
      women and couples in a unique, controlled, six session ante- and post-natal
      risk-reducing/PMTCT promotion intervention addressing the barriers to PMTCT (e.g., stigma,
      disclosure, intimate partner violence, communication, infant feeding practices, safer
      conception) that prevent women and men from taking full advantage of the treatment
      opportunities available to them and their infants. Based upon the encouraging preliminary
      results from our pilot study, successful CHC adoption of the "Vikela Umndeni: Protect Your
      Family" program could have major public health policy implications for containing the
      epidemic among the most vulnerable populations in rural South Africa: HIV+ pregnant women and
      their infants.
    
  