
    
      [F-18]VM4-037 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging.

      SMI is seeking to determine if [F-18]VM4-037 might be useful as a PET ligand for the in vivo
      imaging of CA-IX levels in human tissue.

      CA-IX is a very active enzyme which may acidify the extracellular microenvironment of tumor
      cells in response to hypoxia. Its expression usually promotes tumor growth and invasion, and
      thus impairs prognosis.

      VM4-037 presents no known risks from either in vitro study in cell lines or in vivo study in
      animals according to in-house preclinical investigations of this compound.

      The population to be studied consists of a total of approximately sixteen (16) adult
      subjects, which includes four normal, healthy volunteers and twelve cancer subjects with a
      confirmed or highly suspected diagnosis of head and neck cancer, non-small cell lung cancer,
      large solitary hepatic carcinoma, and renal cell carcinoma as defined by the protocol
      criteria.

      This initial trial will be an Exploratory, Phase 0 study designed to evaluate
      biodistribution, collect baseline and tumor/background imaging data, and gather preliminary
      safety data for this investigational product. The study results will be analyzed and
      considered in the design of future clinical trials.

      The primary objectives of this exploratory study are:

        -  To gain information on the bio-distribution of [F-18]VM4-037, to evaluate the PET images
           of [F-18]VM4-037 for resolution and signal to background ratio for tumors, and to
           determine CA-IX expression in tumor tissues by CA-IX antibody with immunohistochemistry

        -  To collect safety data, and to use this eIND in order to obtain the necessary
           information to file an IND (Investigational New Drug) application with the FDA (Food and
           Drug Administration)

      The secondary objectives for this exploratory study are:

        -  To begin collection of baseline imaging and metabolism data

        -  To gain information to improve study design for the conduct of future trials

      The trial is expected to begin subject enrolment in approximately April, 2009 and end subject
      participation in approximately September, 2009, depending on the rate of enrollment.

      The subject is expected to attend three visits, adding up to several hours.

      The Investigational Product (IP) being tested in this study is [F-18]VM4-037. The
      [F-18]VM4-037 will be administered to each qualified subject via a bolus intravenous (IV)
      injection. For normal volunteers, the dose will not exceed 20 mCi, as the imaging time for
      dosimetry is a minimum of four hours. For cancer subjects, the dose will be closer to 10 mCi
      (total imaging time for cancer subjects is about 2 hours).

      The procedures for this study include the following:

      Obtain Informed Consent, Assign Study Subject Number, Obtain Medical History, Perform
      Eligibility Blood Labs, Take Pre-Dose Blood Sample for CA-IX Test, Perform Pre-Dose ECG,
      Monitor and Collect Adverse Events, Collect Concomitant Medications, Perform Pre-Dose
      Physical Exam, Perform Pre-Dose ECG, Insert IV Line, Take Pre-Dose CBC and Chemistry Blood
      Labs, Take Pre-Dose Blood Sample for Metabolite Analysis (if applicable), Take Pregnancy Test
      (if applicable), Take Pre-Dose Vital Signs, Prepare and Administer IP, Perform [F-18]VM4-037
      PET Imaging, Take Post-Dose Blood Samples for Metabolite Analysis (if applicable), Take
      Post-Dose Vital Signs, Perform Post-dose ECGs, Collect Urine Sample and Count for Dosimetry
      (normal only), Monitor Adverse Events, Collect Concomitant Medications, Perform Physical Exam
      24 hr Post-Dose, Take Blood Sample for CBC and Chemistry Labs 24 hr Post-Dose, Perform ECG 24
      hr Post-Dose, Take Vital Signs 24 hr Post-Dose, Monitor and Collect Adverse Events, Collect
      Concomitant Medications, [F-18]FDG PET Imaging, Immunohistochemistry
    
  