
    
      Type 2 diabetes is associated with chronic sterile low-grade inflammation, usually caused by
      hyperglycemia and associated biochemical abnormalities, as well as by overweight/obesity. The
      co-existence of chronic renal failure further exacerbates inflammation in diabetic patients,
      and this contributes to the exceedingly high morbidity and mortality of this category of
      patients. One key element of this type of inflammation is the pro- versus anti-inflammatory
      polarization of circulating monocytes and tissue macrophages. Diabetes indeed causes an
      imbalance of this polarization, in favour of the pro-inflammatory (M1) monocytes at the
      expenses of anti-inflammatory (M2) monocytes. Cells belonging to the monocyte/macrophage
      lineage are of great importance in diabetes pathophysiology, as they are involved in
      atherosclerosis and adipose tissue biology, both of which determine diabetes outcomes. It is
      recognized that M1/M2 polarization relies on the expression of chemokines/cytokines and their
      respective receptors. Interestingly, among non-incretin substrates of DPP-4 are several
      chemokines (e.g. MCP-1 and -2, RANTES and SDF-1a), which may regulate M1/M2 polarization.
      Linagliptin (terminal half-life >100 hours, and effective half-life for accumulation
      approximately 12 hours) can be safely used in type 2 diabetic patients with renal impairment
      without dose adjusting, because the drug is excreted >90% with feces and has a minor renal
      excretion. The possibility to modulate the M1/M2 inflammatory pathway with the DPP-4
      inhibitor linagliptin entails a hitherto unappreciated opportunity for protecting diabetic
      patients with renal disease from the detrimental consequences of chronic inflammation on
      vascular and adipose tissue biology. We have set up a protocol to assess M1/M2 polarization
      of circulating monocyte/macrophage cells by flow cytometry. Our preliminary data indicate
      that diabetes is associated with an imbalance in M1/M2 polarization versus non diabetic
      controls, in favour of M1 cells in diabetic patients. Hyperglycemia per se may affect M1/M2
      polarization and it is expected that any effect of linagliptin on monocytes can be detected
      as soon as DPP-4 inhibition reaches steady-state. Therefore, in order to provide a
      proof-of-concept for the effect of linagliptin on M1/M2 polarization and to avoid the
      confounding of improved glucose control, the time point of the study will be very short (4
      days). Our preliminary data in cell cultures indicate that a few days of treatment with a
      stimulus is sufficient to modulate monocyte/macrophage polarization. This will provide
      valuable information on the direct effects of the drug on this inflammatory pathway.

      Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are vasculoprotective cells released from the bone marrow
      (BM) in response to ischemia, hypoxia and tissue injury. Once in the bloodstream, EPCs home
      to damaged tissues and help restoring a healthy and functional vasculature, by means of
      endothelial repair and angiogenesis. In steady-state conditions, CD34+KDR+ EPCs circulate in
      peripheral blood (PB) at very low levels and their release from the BM is coordinated by the
      sympathetic nervous system. It has been demonstrated that levels of EPC and generic CD34+ PC
      are predictors of future cardiovascular events, cardiovascular death and all-cause mortality.
      We have previously shown that Sitagliptin raised EPCs levels in 4 weeks. Herein, we aim to
      confirm those findings using Linagliptin, with a shorter time point.
    
  