
    
      Pancreatic resections (PR) are major hepato-pancreatico-biliary (HPB) surgeries associated
      with significant morbidity and mortality. Despite improvements in surgical technique, as well
      as peri- and postoperative care, mortality rates range from 2-5%, even in high volume
      centres. Moreover, morbidity rates after PR can be as high as 70%, especially when evaluated
      in a prospective setting. In this context, postoperative pancreatic fistula (POPF) represents
      one of the most frequent complications following PR, with a high variability in the
      literature ranging from 20% to 64%. Besides POPF, the most frequent complications following
      PR are delayed gastric emptying (DGE, 18%), postoperative fluid collections (10%),
      postoperative haemorrhage (PPH, 10%), wound infections (10%), or intra-abdominal abscesses
      (5%). All of these complications are often characterized by infection and sepsis, and despite
      all intensive-medical measures, associated with high mortality. In this context, early
      anticipation and appropriate treatment of clinically relevant grade B or C POPF (CR-POPF) is
      of utmost importance to prevent fatal outcome.

      In order to aid with timely detection and therapy of potentially severe POPF, evaluation of
      predictive biomarkers that could be able to differentiate early between non-significant
      biochemical leaks and potentially severe CR-POPF is of urgent interest for all specialties
      involved in the treatment of pancreatic surgery patients.

      Over the last decade, various biomarkers have already been assessed: Procalcitonin (PCT) is
      one of the most frequently used markers. It has advantages over common infection parameters
      such as CRP or white blood cells but is often altered in various forms of systemic
      inflammation and thus not precise enough for an accurate clinical assessment. Connor et al.
      proposed, that the early postoperative local inflammatory process (postoperative acute
      pancreatitis, POAP) represents one of the main determinants in POPF development and systemic
      response measured by CRP could predict severity of POPF. Moreover, in the LEOPARD-2 trial,
      higher postoperative IL-6 levels were found in patients with severe complications including
      CR-POPF, whereas IL-8 and CRP Levels in their series were comparable between groups.

      More recently, also Presepsin (soluble CD14) showed promising results as a biomarker for
      sepsis diagnosis and postoperative complications but has never been assessed in the context
      of major HPB surgeries.

      Early detection and therapy of potentially life-threatening complications following major HPB
      surgery is of urgent interest for all specialties involved in the treatment of these patients
      and studies investigating the predictive value of Presepsin and other inflammatory markers
      following PR are lacking. Accordingly, the aim of the present pilot study is to evaluate, for
      the first time, the kinetics of the biomarker Presepsin after PR and to predict the clinical
      course.
    
  