
    
      Normal healthy men enrolled in the study will be asked to provide semen specimens prior to
      the use of device. Samples will be produced with a minimum of 48-72 hours of abstinence.
      Further, the subjects will be blindly assigned with either sham Qi-Shield or Qi-Shield device
      and will be instructed to use the device for a duration of 8 weeks .Semen samples will be
      provided by the subjects at 0, 4 and 8 weeks interval.

      Group 1 study subjects will be provided with sham Qi-Shield device, whereas Group 2 study
      subjects with be provided with actual Qi-Shield device. Each user will be provided with a
      small carrier bag to accommodate the device during their travel. The participants are advised
      to keep the device within 3 meters of range as per the manufacturer instructions for a
      duration of 8 weeks.

      Semen analysis All specimens will be collected by masturbation at the Andrology Laboratory
      after 48-72 hours of sexual abstinence. Samples will be allowed to liquefy completely for
      15-20 minutes at 37C before further processing. After complete liquefaction, semen analysis
      will be carried out using automated LensHooke™X1 PRO semen quality analyzer (Bonraybio Co.,
      Ltd) to determine sperm concentration and motility, progressive motility (Agarwal et al.,
      2019). Viability will be determined by Eosin-Nigrosin stain if motility is <25%. Smears of
      the raw semen will be stained with a Diff-Quik kit (Baxter Healthcare Corporation, Inc.,
      McGaw Park, IL) for assessment of sperm morphology according to strict criteria as described
      in the WHO, 5th edition guideline.

      White blood cell measurement When the round cell concentration in the ejaculate is >1 X
      million/mL or >5 round cells per high power field, the sample will be tested for
      leukocytospermia, i.e. >1 X million white blood cells/mL. This will be confirmed by the
      peroxidase or the Endtz test.

      Measurement of Oxidation Reduction Potential ORP measures the transfer of electrons from a
      reductant (or antioxidant) to an oxidant. ORP is measured in millivolts (mV). In the current
      study, ORP will be measured using novel galvanostat-based technology-the MiOXSYS System (Aytu
      Bioscience, Englewood, CO). Briefly, 30µL of liquefied semen will be loaded on the MiOXSYS
      sensor. The sensor will be inserted into the MiOXSYS analyzer. Static ORP (sORP), measured in
      mV, is the integrated measure of the existing balance between total oxidants and reductants
      in a biological system. Data will be normalized with sperm concentration. ORP will be
      expressed as mV/ million sperm/mL.

      DNA fragmentation DNA fragmentation will be assessed via Terminal deoxynucleotidyl
      transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling assay (TUNEL assay). Briefly, 2 million
      spermatozoa will be washed in phosphate buffered saline (PBS) and resuspended in 3.7%
      paraformaldehyde. A total of 2 aliquots (A and B) will be used for each donor, one for ORP
      measurement and other for measurement of sperm DNA fragmentation. These will be placed on ice
      for 30-60 minutes at 4C. Thereafter, the spermatozoa will again be washed to remove the
      paraformaldehyde and then re-suspended in 70% ice-cold ethanol, stored at -20C until the time
      of analysis.

      Sperm DNA fragmentation will be evaluated using a TUNEL assay with an Apo-DirectTM kit
      (Pharmingen, San Diego, CA). Positive and negative kit controls provided by the manufacturer
      and positive test prepared by treating with hydrogen peroxide controls will be included for
      each run. Following a second wash in PBS to remove ethanol, the sperm pellets are
      re-suspended in 50 µL of freshly prepared staining solution for 60 minutes at 37C. The
      staining solution contains terminal deoxytransferase (TdT) enzyme, TdT reaction buffer,
      fluorescein isothiocynate tagged deoxyuridine triphosphate nucleotides (FITC-dUTP) and
      distilled water. All specimens are further washed in rinse buffer and re-suspended in 0.5 mL
      of propidium Iodide/RNase solution, and incubated for 30 minutes followed by flow cytometric
      analysis.

      BD C6 Acuri cytometry analysis: All fluorescence signals of labelled spermatozoa will be
      analyzed by the flow cytometer BD Accuri Flow cytometer (Becton Dickinson, San Jose, CA).
      About 10,000 spermatozoa will be examined for each assay at a slow flow rate of <100
      cells/sec. The laser excitation is provided at 2 wavelengths of 488 nm supplied by a solid
      blue state laser at 20mW and 640 nm powered by 14.7mW diode red laser. Green fluorescence
      (480-530 nm) is measured in the FL-1 channel and red fluorescence (640 nm) in the FL-2
      channel. The percentage of positive cells (TUNEL-positive) will be calculated using the flow
      cytometer software.

      Proteomic analysis Individual samples collected from each group will be subjected to 65%
      percoll gradient to specifically remove the white blood cells. Semen samples will be washed
      with PBS three times. Once the supernatant is removed, spermatozoa will be solubilized in
      radio-immunoprecipitation assay (RIPA) lysis buffer containing the proteinase inhibitor
      cocktail. After complete lysis of the spermatozoa, protein concentration will be determined
      using a bicinchoninic acid (BCA) kit and equal amounts of proteins will be fractionated using
      SDS-Page 1D gel electrophoresis. Separated bands will be cut from a single Coomassie blue
      stained 1D gel and analyzed. The bands will be washed, reduced, alkylated, and digested with
      trypsin. The digests will be separated by capillary column LC-tandem MS and the CID spectra
      searched against the human reference sequence database.

      Functional annotation and enrichment analysis will be performed using publicly available
      bioinformatics annotation tools and databases such as GO Term Finder, GO Term Mapper,
      UniProt, Software Tools for Researching Annotations of Proteins (STRAP), Database for
      Annotation, Visualization and Integrated Discovery (DAVID) (http://david.niaid.nih.gov), and
      proprietary software package such as IPA (Ingenuity Pathway Analysis) from Ingenuity®
      Systems, used to obtain consensus-based, comprehensive functional context for the large list
      of proteins derived from proteomic study. The data will be subjected to STRING (Search Tool
      for the Retrieval of Interacting Genes/Proteins), a biological database and web resource of
      known and predicted protein-protein interactions. This will help in identifying critical
      proteins involved in reproductive function.

      Data analysis All the data will be analyzed using the using the MedCalc Software (V. 17.8;
      MedCalc Software, Ostend, Belgium). Paired t-test will be used if the distribution is normal.
      Whereas, Wilcoxon signed rank tests will be used for parameters that do not follow normal
      distribution. For paired T-test comparisons based on 20 samples for each experiment, the
      power should be least 90% for parameters where a coefficient of variation is no more than
      20%.
    
  