
    
      One in four elderly Americans die in or shortly after discharge from an intensive care unit.
      An expanding body of literature documents that physician-family communication and end-of-life
      care is poor in intensive care units. These deficiencies are associated with high rates of
      adverse psychological outcomes among surrogates, physician-family conflict, and life support
      decisions that may be inconsistent with patients' goals and preferences. There is a lack of
      information on practical, generalizable interventions that effectively improve this important
      aspect of care for elderly patients and their families.

      The primary aim of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of a multifaceted
      communication intervention as compared to an educational control to improve psychological
      outcomes among family members of critically ill patients, using a randomized, controlled
      trial design.

      This randomized controlled trial involves adding a Family Support Specialist (FSS) to the
      clinical team to provide four types of support to the families of patients with advanced
      critical illness: emotional support, communication support (between the clinical team and the
      family), decisional support (education about the role of a surrogate decision maker) and
      anticipatory grief support.

      The overall aim of the study is to improve the long-term psychological outcomes for family
      members of critically ill patients, to improve the quality of communication and
      decision-making between physicians and families, and to improve the patient-centeredness of
      care.

      What happens in the study?

      Patient is randomized to one of two groups:

        1. INTERVENTION GROUP: Family Support Specialist is added to the clinical team to provide
           emotional support to the family and facilitate frequent communication with the clinical
           team.

        2. CONTROL GROUP: Receives usual care with the addition of two educational sessions
           provided by the FSS to teach family members about the ICU environment.

      What do participants need to do?

      Family Members: Interact with the Family Support Specialist daily. Family Support Specialist
      addresses family needs and ensures that their questions are addressed.

      Physicians: Collaborate with the Family Support Specialist to determine how best to support
      the family as well as attending clinician-family meetings.

      Sample size: With a sample size of 300 patients (450 surrogates), the study is well powered
      to detect small and clinically important differences in the primary outcome measure Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Score (HADS).The trial's original sample size of 400 patients (600
      surrogates) was chosen to maximize the power to detect differences in a secondary outcome
      measure (costs) that required a substantially larger sample size than the primary outcome
      (HADS). Since the original power calculations were conducted, new data were published which
      indicated that cost analysis in this context will require an even larger sample size based
      one effect modification from whether the patient lived or died. Therefore, the Data and
      Safety Monitoring Board recommended revising the sample size to power the trial on the
      primary outcome (HADS), which required 300 patients (450 surrogates).
    
  