
    
      Coffee as one of the most favorite worldwide beverages comprises a variety of chemicals
      maintaining the greatest health benefits among the commonly consumed beverages. Most
      investigations have so far focused on the beneficial effects of caffeine. On the contrary,
      knowledge on potential health benefits of non-caffeine coffee compounds is scarce. Coffee
      contains many polyphenols, especially chlorogenic acids (CGA), which have purported
      antioxidant abilities. With increasing incidence of degenerative diseases, the general public
      is turning to use natural herbal supplements, as one of these agents, CGA has been
      biologically and medically emphasized and can be expected to become a topic addressed in
      future studies, medical trends and pharmacology. The reducing risk of a variety of diseases
      following CGA consumption has been mentioned in recent basic and clinical studies. However,
      there is a lack of studies that examine the behavioral effects of CGA. This study aims to
      fill this gap.

      In a randomized double-blind study, the investigators test the acute effects of coffee
      enriched with CGA or CGA supplement on physiological functions such as blood pressure, blood
      glucose, and heart rate, and on psychological functions such as mood and cognitive
      performance in 30 healthy adult subjects (18-40 years).

      Participants will be allocated to an intervention plan using computer-generated random
      numbers. Treatments comprise of (1) 6g decaffeinated (5 mg caffeine) coffee (250 ml) with
      high total CGA (560 mg), or (2) 6g decaffeinated coffee (250 ml) with normal total CGA (224
      mg) , or (3) 6g decaffeinated coffee (250 ml) with normal total CGA and 800mg green coffee
      bean extract with total CGA (560mg), or (4) 6g decaffeinated coffee (250 ml) with normal
      total CGA and placebo, or (5) no treatment group. Participants will be instructed to abstain
      from alcohol, foods, and beverages containing caffeine, chlorogenic acids and high polyphenol
      content for 24 hours prior to the experiment. Upon arrival in the laboratory, participants
      will complete a 24-hour food recall, a psychometric test battery consisting of the
      questionnaire on competence and control beliefs (FKK), the Life Orientation Test-Revised
      (LOT-R), the Beliefs about Medicines Questionnaire (BMQ), the Sensitivity to Punishment and
      Reward Questionnaire (SPSRQ), General Self-Efficacy (SWE) questionnaire, and mood and
      cognitive performance tests consisting of the Profile of Mood States (POMS) questionnaire, a
      parametric Go/no-Go test (PGNG) and the California Verbal Learning Test (CVLT). The POMS,
      Go/no-Go, and CVLT will be repeated 40 min following CGA application, which coincide with the
      approximated peak of CGA blood concentrations and at 120 min post treatment. Blood pressure,
      blood glucose and heart rate recordings will be taken prior to treatment and at 1, 30, 60, 90
      and 120 min post-treatment. The response to GCE-enriched coffee will be compared to GCE
      supplement for each of the groups of variables.
    
  