
    
      Growing evidence supports oxidative stress may contribute to autism. Docosa Hexanoic
      Acid(DHA)is a normal substance that is present in large amounts in the brain and can be used
      by the body to produce natural antioxidants. Our hope is that supplementing DHA in
      individuals with autism may improve some aspects of their functioning. Specifically our aims
      are:

      Aim 1. To assess the effect of DHA vs. placebo treatment on the global severity of child and
      adolescent autistic disorder, via a 12-week double blind placebo-controlled parallel study.
      Global severity will be assessed by the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule-Generic
      (ADOS-G) and additionally in younger children by the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scale.

      Aim 2. To assess the effect of DHA vs. placebo treatment on behavioral symptoms and
      functional ability in children with autism. Assessment will be by the Aberrant Behavior
      Checklist (ABC)-Community Version11.

      Aim 3. To develop an improved protocol and study design based upon these studies for future
      large scale studies of DHA in the autistic population.

      Aim 4. Monitor the effects of therapy on the isoprostane biomarker. Aim 5: Develop additional
      biomarkers that correlate with autism and with therapy. We will extend the analyses to
      neuroprostanes and resolvins. We will measure: (i) Urinary excretion of the isoprostane
      metabolites, 2,3 Dinor-5,6 dihydro-PGF2t and iPF4α-VI. (ii) DHA derived resolvins D2, D4, D5
      and D6 and neuroprotectin.

      Aim 6: Confirm our preliminary results by correlating increased isoprostane excretion with
      GSTM1*0 copy number in individuals with autism.

      Aim 7: In the same way, correlate GSTM1*0 copy number with response to therapy assessed by
      diminution of isoprostane excretion during therapy.

      Aim 8: Study additional biomarkers developed through Hypothesis #2 for correlation with
      GSTM1*0 copy number and response to therapy to identify additional gene-biomarker
      correlations.

      Aim 9: Study additional polymorphisms of genes related to DHA metabolism, for association
      with autism, gene-biomarker correlations, and correlation with response to therapy.
    
  