
    
      The protocol will comprise a phase 1 during which the potential eligibility of patients
      (presenting with a resectable Klatskin - Excepted Type 1of Bismuth) will be assessed, based
      on clinical, biological and morphological data. After phases 1, the eligibility of the
      patient will be confirmed or not. In the context of the study, phase 2 will include the
      collection of blood samples as well as positon emission tomography (PET)-scan and upper
      endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) in order to rule out any obvious lymph node metastases. A short
      exploratory laparoscopy will also be performed in phase 2 to eliminate infra-clinic
      subcapsular liver metastases and peritoneal carcinomatosis. The randomization process will
      take place at the end of the phase 2, patients will be assigned into the transplantation arm
      (OLT) or the resection arm (RSX). During phase 3, patient will receive nutritional support
      and, if not done previously, a biliary drainage will be placed endoscopically. In the RSX arm
      (phase 3A), patients will undergo radical resection of the tumor (refer below technical
      details). Preoperative portal vein embolization may be necessary at this stage depending on
      the expected remnant liver volume, assessed by CT-scan volumetry. In the OLT arm (phase 3A),
      patients will receive neoadjuvant radiochemotherapy (External - 50 grays) following by liver
      transplantation (phase 4B). Before the fifth week after completion of radiochemotherapy, a
      staging laparotomy with local lymphadenectomy will be performed and patients will be put on
      the national waiting list in the absence of extra-hepatic disease, especially peritoneal
      seeding and lymph nodes involvement. A score exception will allowed a liver transplantation
      in the 3 months after staging laparotomy. During phase 5 the patient will be monitored
      postoperatively at the clinical, biological and morphological levels for 3 months. During
      phase 6, the patient will be followed clinically, biologically and morphologically for 5
      years in order to detect any recurrence and in the context of standard clinical care.
    
  