
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the maximally tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended dosing for the combination
      of CCI-779 and Bevacizumab in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer. (Phase I) II. To
      determine the proportion of patients with metastatic renal cell cancer who are progression
      free at 6 months. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity of the combination of CCI 779 and Bevacizumab in patients with
      metastatic renal cell cancer. (Phase II) II. To determine the clinical response rate of CCI
      779 and Bevacizumab in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer. (Phase II) III. To
      determine the time to progression (TTP), disease free survival, and overall survival of CCI
      779 and Bevacizumab in patients with metastatic renal cell cancer. (Phase II)

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify predictive molecular markers of response, both at the tumor level and in the
      plasma/serum level, in an exploratory manner.

      II. To correlate blood markers of angiogenesis with clinical activity of the combination of
      CCI-779 and Bevacizumab.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, phase I dose-escalation study followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are stratified according to study phase (I vs II).

      Phase I: Patients receive CCI-779 IV on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 and bevacizumab IV on days 1
      and 15.

      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of CCI-779 and bevacizumab until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Phase II: Patients receive CCI-779
      and bevacizumab as in phase I at the MTD determined in phase I. After completion of study
      treatment, patients are followed every 3 months until disease progression and then every 6
      months for up to 3 years after study entry.
    
  