
    
      Background

      Significance of hypersomnia in depressive illness

      Sleep disturbances are observed in up to 90% of depressed patients. Both insomnia, defined
      clinically as difficulty initiating and/or maintain sleep, and hypersomnia, defined as
      excessive daytime sleepiness (EDS) and/or excessive sleep duration, are key symptoms in the
      diagnostic criteria of depression. A sizeable number of studies have demonstrated clear
      associations between insomnia and poorer depressive outcomes. These include greater
      depressive symptom severity, poorer treatment response and increased risk of suicidal
      ideations and attempts. Persistent insomnia complaints following remission of major
      depressive episodes (MDE) have also been found to be associated with greater risk of
      recurrence, poorer overall functioning and quality of life. Compared to insomnia, there is
      much less research on the role of hypersomnia in depressive illness.

      Studies so far have suggested a prognostic significance. Hypersomnia in depressed subjects
      amongst a mix of mood disorders have been linked to greater treatment-resistance, depressive
      relapse, higher suicidal ideations and increased risk of suicide; while hypersomnia
      complaints amongst general populations have predicted the risk of incident depression. More
      recently, studies of depressed individuals amongst a mix of mood disorders had further found
      that the concurrence of insomnia and hypersomnia was associated with worse symptomatology
      compared to patients with insomnia or hypersomnia alone. These studies also found that the
      concurrence of insomnia and hypersomnia had greater associations with bipolar spectrum
      features, which builds on from previous findings suggesting that hypersomnia itself may be a
      clinical marker for undetected or subsequent diagnosis of bipolar II disorders in depressed
      patients.

      Knowledge gaps in the understanding of hypersomnia in major depression

      Despite its prognostic implications, there is currently a lack of studies investigating
      potential determinants or clinical correlates of hypersomnia in major depressive disorder
      (MDD). MDD is one of the commonest diagnoses encountered in the outpatient setting, and may
      be distinct in its determinants and outcomes compared to other mood disorders. Existing
      studies on hypersomnia in depression have predominantly included subjects from a mix of mood
      disorders; thus, a gap exists to extend the scope of understanding on hypersomnia amongst
      unipolar depression.

      Due to the lack of standardized definitions, even amongst contemporary classifications, there
      is little clarity as to which aspect of hypersomnia - i.e. whether EDS or excessive sleep
      duration, or in combination - is related to poorer depressive outcomes. Moreover, little is
      known about what severity of "excessive" daytime sleepiness and sleep duration may be of
      clinical significance. Most studies of hypersomnia in mood disorders have used crude
      definitions, predominantly in form of single yes/no questions, to define hypersomnia. Despite
      the availability of validated questionnaires such as the Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) that
      could help quantify EDS, or the use of sleep diaries that may help determine an individual's
      average sleep duration, limited studies of hypersomnia in MDD have employed these tools. The
      variability in definitions have also resulted in a large range of reported prevalence -
      between 8.9% to 78% of hypersomnia in MDD samples. In order to generate more clinically
      useful data, it may be helpful to "deconstruct" hypersomnia into EDS and prolonged sleep
      duration, to quantify them using validated or clinically-relevant measures, and further
      analyze their associations with potential determinants and depressive outcomes.

      Theoretically, a myriad of factors can contribute to EDS or prolonged sleep duration. These
      include physical-health related factors, such as the use of sedative medications, the
      presence of medical illnesses and sleep-related breathing disorders; also sleep-related
      factors, such as the need for shift-work, the presence of insomnia or other sleep-behavioral
      disturbances, or the presence of circadian-disorders or particular chronotype preferences.
      Psychiatric factors, such as increased anxiety, somatic complaints and perceived fatigue
      levels, may also be related to EDS or prolonged sleep duration. So far, no studies have
      simultaneously examined this range of factors and their potential associations with
      hypersomnia complaints in MDD. Whether these factors mediate or act synergistically with
      hypersomnia to influence depressive outcomes remain to be elucidated.

      A limitation that many hypersomnia studies have faced is the lack of objective measures used
      to corroborate subjective measures of EDS or sleep duration. The mean sleep latency test
      (MSLT) is currently regarded as the gold standard objective measure for EDS, while
      polysomnography (PSG) and wrist actigraphy has been useful in validating sleep diary data.
      However, the costs, expertise and time required to conduct these tests have limited their
      use. A study involving the use of both subjective and objective measures of EDS or sleep
      duration, in addition to a thorough analysis of the potential determinants and clinical
      correlates, may provide valuable information on the clinical profiles of hypersomnia patients
      and shed light on areas for further research and management.
    
  