
    
      Throughout the gastrointestinal tract there are specialized sensory epithelial cells that
      recognize stimuli from nutrients and bacteria. These cells have been traditionally known for
      their endocrine function. However, it was recently discovered using mouse models that these
      cells receive synaptic inputs from enteric and peripheral neurons, such as those with cell
      bodies in dorsal root ganglia or the vagal nodose.

      This finding opened a few possibilities, including the following: 1) sensory function of the
      gastrointestinal tract is modulated by neural activity; 2) gut bacteria influences brain
      function through a direct neural circuit; and 3) viruses that preferentially infect neurons
      access the central nervous system through this neural circuit [1,2]. To translate findings in
      animal models to humans, the investigator must test the hypotheses in which the physiology of
      gut sensory epithelial cells resembles that of humans.

      Visceral hypersensitivity is a core symptom for several gastrointestinal and brain behavior
      disorders, including irritable bowel syndrome, autism and anorexia. Unfortunately, the basic
      mechanisms of sensory processing in the wall of the gut are non-existent. This lack of
      knowledge precludes the development of therapeutic strategies to treat disorders linked to
      visceral hypersensitivity. The investigator's efforts to translate animal research into human
      models will be a foundation to develop target therapies for visceral hypersensitivity.

      Today, it is possible to derive organoids from intestinal crypts harvested from human
      intestinal or colonic tissue. The organoids have all epithelial cell types, including gut
      sensory cells. Here, the investigator's goal is to use de-identified human tissues to culture
      intestinal organoids in the laboratory, and use it as a platform to study the biology of
      innervated sensory epithelial cells. This work is significant because it will open the
      possibility to learn the mechanisms behind visceral sensation and neurodegenerative diseases
      that may arise in the gut.
    
  