
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major concern in public health in China. Relatively limited
      information is available about how evidence-based therapies are incorporated appropriately
      into routine clinical practice. Practical and applied knowledge from large unselected
      population is needed to guide practice for quality improvement.

      This study will enroll patients undergoing PCI in a large-scale hospital in in Northeast
      China. At study entry, participants will be interviewed during their index hospitalization,
      to collect information about symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical care.
      Demographic characteristics, medical history, clinical features, diagnostic tests,
      medications, procedures, and in-hospital outcomes of patients will be abstracted from medical
      records by well trained professional abstractors. CAG imaging will be reviewed by 2
      cardiologists through PACS. Other Procedural data, including stent type, total stent length
      and so on, came from operation records of PCI cases finished by operators. At 1 month, 6
      month, 12 month, 3 year and 5 year after discharge, participants will return to the clinic
      for follow up visits, a face-to-face interview will be conducted to get information about
      clinical events, symptoms, functioning, quality of life, and medical care during the recovery
      period. If participants can not return to the clinic for follow up visits,a telephone
      interview will be conducted to get the related information. Before discharge,, blood sample
      will be collected. Participants' blood samples will be stored for future biologic and genetic
      studies. This study will examine various real-life factors that may affect patients recovery
      after PCI, including patients' characteristics and treatment measures. Practical guidelines,
      quality evaluative system, and appropriateness criteria will be established based on the
      findings, to improve patients outcomes in future finally.
    
  