
    
      1. Introduction To discharge a preterm newborn after staying in neonatal intensive care
           unit (NICU) is a multifactorial decision. According to the American Academy of
           pediatrics guidelines of the physiologic competencies for hospital discharge of the
           high-risk neonate including preterm ones, are sufficient oral feeding and mature
           respiratory control, and finally the ability to maintain a normal body temperature in an
           unheated open bed (1). These mostly are achieved between 36 and 37 weeks' postmenstrual
           age (2-4).

           Shortening the period of a hospital stay, it could be beneficial to decrease the
           emotional stress resulted from the separation between the mother and the newborn and
           parents; furthermore, it may reduce the hospital-acquired co-morbidities as sepsis and
           surgical needs (5) and accordingly reduce the economic burden on the society.

           The timing to wean from the incubator is crucial since the immaturity of preterm
           newborn's thermoregulatory mechanisms which could affect weight gain as an attempt to
           maintain body temperature, achieving full feeding volume, and as a result could delay
           discharge from hospital (6, 7). The target weight for incubator weaning varies widely
           among NICUs. The common usual practice is between of 1700-1800 g, and it is generally
           based on the professional experience and judgment (8, 9).

           In 2010, a Cochrane Review assessed transferring preterm infants from incubator to open
           bed at a lower body weight (˂1700 g) by comparing to a higher body weight (˃ 1700 g).
           The review showed that preterm newborns can be transferred to open beds at 1600 g
           without adverse effects on temperature stability in terms of return to incubator or
           daily weight gain (10). A multicenter trial achieved the same result (11).

           Moreover, there are few studies showed that infants can be successfully transferred into
           cots at weights down to 1500 g (9, 12). A pilot study carried out stepwise four cohort
           trials of newborn's transfer from incubators to open beds at 1800 g, then at 1700 g,
           then at 1600 g and then finally at 1500 g (13). It demonstrated that there were no
           significant differences between the four cohorts in maintain body temperature after
           incubator weaning.

           The primary outcome of this study was to evaluate the feasibility and safety of
           incubator weaning for medically stable preterm neonates to unheated open cot at a body
           weight of 1400 g in terms of daily weight gain and temperature control. Newborns in the
           same study period were compared to a control group weaned at body weight of 1600 g.

        2. Subjects and Methods:

      2.1. Study design A prospective randomized clinical trial was conducted at NICU at King Fahad
      Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Preterm newborns admitted to NICU fulfilling items in
      inclusion and exclusion criteria during the period from August 2017 to October 2018 were
      included into the study.

      All eligible newborns were randomized into two groups to be weaned at 1,400 or at 1,600 g in
      a 1:1 ratio, using random block of 4. Newborns were eligible if body weight less than 1400 g,
      they were at least 5 days of age at the time of transferring to cot, they fed at least 60
      ml/kg/day at the time of transferring to cot, and they are medically stable with no
      significant apnea or bradycardia, no ventilator support, no phototherapy and not having a
      major congenital abnormality. Newborns were excluded if they didn't fulfill the above
      criteria or unlikely to reach the target weight within 7 days.

      2.2. Procedures Nursery temperatures were adjusted at 24-28 ◦c from birth to cot. The
      subjects were dressed in a hat, one vest and two wraps. Then, they were randomly assigned to
      either study group or control group. Infants were weighed naked daily. In the study group,
      the newborns were transferred to cot at a weight of 1400 to 1499 g and in the control group;
      they were transferred at a weight of 1600 to 1699 g. In the first day in the open cot, they
      were not bathed.

      2.3. Data Collected

        -  Baseline characteristics as birth weight, gestational age (GA), gender, age in days in
           the transfer day, body weight and GA in the transfer day.

        -  Relevant data from to incubator weaning

        -  After transfer, hourly axillary temperatures were taken until two consecutive readings
           between 36.4 and 37.1 °C. Then, temperatures were taken every 3 hours with each feed for
           at least 72 hours. After that, temperatures were taken four times a day minimum until
           discharge. If the axillary temperature was ˂36.4°C, thus an additional wrap was added.
           If the temperature was still low for an hour later, then the infant was returned to the
           incubator. Meanwhile, if the temperature was more than 37.1°C, a wrap was reduced.

        -  No of infants who failed to be transferred to cot. Failure of transfer is defined as the
           inability to maintained body temperatures above 36.4°C in a two consecutive axillary
           temperatures in a cot despite of adding covering.

        -  For infants who remained in an open crib, the rate of weight gain calculated every day
           over the week before and after transfer. In the discharge day, age in days after
           transfer to discharge date, WT and GA.

      2.4. Statistical methodology: Data were statistically described in terms of mean ± SD for
      continuous data and in frequencies (number of cases). For comparative purposes between groups
      in all continuous data, independent t-test or Mann Whitney t test was adopted. X2-square and
      fisher test were used for assessing association in categorical data.. P values less than 0.05
      were considered statistically significant. All statistical calculations were done using
      computer program IBM SPSS (Statistical Package for the Social Science; IBM Corp, Armonk, NY,
      USA) release 21 for Microsoft Windows.

      2.5. Ethical considerations: Due to safety concerns, the study was carried out in two steps.
      Initially, we started infants' weaning with the approved weaning weight at1500 grams. A total
      of 19 preterm infants were randomized in two groups. Both groups were weaned to cot with a
      100% success rate without any complications. Afterwards, the study was approved by the local
      Ethics Committee to start the second phase of the study at weaning weight of 1400 g. The
      parents were all directly contacted and agreed in writing informed consent.
    
  