
    
      A pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) still remains the curable treatment choice for most of
      malignant and benign neoplasms of the head of the pancreas and periampullary region. Though
      the safety of PD has been significantly improved, the post-operative pancreatic fistula
      (POPF) always is a formidable complication. More and more attention was focused on the
      different procedure of enteric reconstruction of pancreatic stump, which might be the key
      point to reduce the POPF.

      This is a prospective clinical trial performed in the general surgery department of Peking
      University Third Hospital. All pancreatic remnants are reconstructed with the method of Shark
      Mouth Modified Pancreaticojejunostomy. Shark Mouth Modified Pancreaticojejunostomy is
      performed as standardized procedure and all the detailed data of this procedure is
      documented, including gland texture, pancreas duct diameter, size of the stent, width of the
      pancreatic stump and diameter of the jejunum transverse incision. Silicone tube is inserted
      as internal stents and fixed on the pancreas remnant with non-absorbable sutures. The distal
      end of the tube should exceed the anastomosis of the common bile duct and jejunum. The same
      perioperative management strategies are conducted in all patients. Drainages are placed in
      all patients during the surgeries. Prophylactic somatostatin analogue are used in all cases
      for 3 days post operations.

      Theoretically, the incision of "Shark Mouth" might facilitate the pancreaticojejunostomy
      especially for the large pancreatic remnant; the feature of anastomosis might reduce the
      tension of pancreaticojejunostomy, which is important for the healing of anastomosis and
      might reduce the risk of POPF in the soft pancreas; the characters of anastomosis permits
      total drainage of pancreatic remnant, which is crucial in the situation of thinner pancreatic
      ducts.The purpose of this study is to evaluate the new anastomosis called "Shark Mouth
      Modified Pancreaticojejunostomy", especially the morbidity of POPF.
    
  