
    
      Evidence from the D.A.D. study, an international cohort study which includes a large
      proportion of SHCS patients, suggests that exposure to antiretroviral therapy (ART) increases
      the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD) most likely due to ART induced metabolic changes
      like dyslipidemia, insulin resistance, and type II diabetes. The exact mechanisms for these
      metabolic changes and whether specific classes or combinations of ART are causally related to
      these changes are not known. Of males aged < 40 and > 40 years in the SHCS, 8.8% and 32.5%
      are at moderate (10% - 20%) and 1.7% and 6.9% at high (≥ 20%) risk of CHD in 10 years
      according to the Framingham algorithm. The overall percentage at moderate and high 10-year
      risk of CHD was 14.9% and 3.0%, respectively. Therefore, an intervention to reduce CHD risk
      among individuals at high risk for CHD is warranted. We propose a randomised controlled
      cluster intervention trial to reduce total cholesterol in all HIV-infected individuals in the
      SHCS (primary endpoint) and in those with greater than or equal to 10% 10 year risk of CHD
      based on the Framingham score (secondary endpoint). The intervention is the receipt of
      structured continuously updated information on CHD risk factors and treatment of CHD risk
      factors of HIV-infected patients. Randomisation will be done at the physician level and
      stratified by centre (7 centres of the SHCS, outpatient clinic or hospital), and size of
      patient volume for registered private practices. For physicians randomised to the
      intervention group, a flow sheet with information on risk factors and treatment status of CHD
      will be provided for each of their patients every 6 months by the SHCS data centre. Each
      centre and each physician treating SHCS patients will receive internationally and locally
      approved guidelines for the management of risk factors for CHD in HIV-infected patients. The
      intervention will be limited to 18 months. Our goal is a 7% reduction in total cholesterol
      (primary endpoint) between the intervention and the control group in the entire cohort. With
      alfa-error of 5%, power of 80% and a loss to follow-up of 10%, 408 patients per arm will be
      needed. Sample size calculations adapted to the cluster design of the trial show that we have
      sufficient power to detect a 12% reduction in total cholesterol in patients receiving ART and
      at moderate to high risk of CHD. Further secondary endpoints are a reduction of systolic and
      diastolic blood pressure and of overall Framingham risk score. We will additionally monitor
      whether changes in ART due to high risk of CHD, or treatment of CHD risk factors decreases
      the proportion of patients with non-sustained control of HIV-viremia. Data from this nested
      cluster trial will provide important information as to whether provision of an individual's
      CHD profile will improve monitoring and reduce CHD risk factors in HIV-infected patients in
      the SHCS.
    
  