
    
      Induction of anesthesia inhaling sevoflurane is a very common practice in pediatric
      anesthesia.However, unwarranted exaggerated upper airway defensive reflexes that develop into
      apnea and laryngospasm with resultant hypoxemia is more common and also more severe.

      Despite their obvious clinical significance, reflexes that involve the function of the upper
      airway are only minimally understood and information on such reflexes is scarce in
      anesthetized humans. Nonetheless, a model was developed by analyzing respiratory variables
      and endoscopic images after stimulating the laryngeal mucosa with a small amount of distilled
      water. Clinical experience suggests that laryngeal reflexes occur more frequently under light
      levels of anesthesia. However, in contrast to other inhalational agents such as halothan,
      available data for sevoflurane suggest that an inverse correlation of laryngeal
      responsiveness to depth of hypnosis or end-tidal concentrations of sevoflurane (in adults and
      children) is less obvious. However, in all previous studies assessing laryngeal reflex
      responses under sevoflurane only low concentrations of sevoflurane (range of 1.0 - 2.5 Vol%)
      were examined. This is an important limitation because in clinical practice higher
      concentrations of sevoflurane are used, especially during manipulation of the airway, while
      the risk of airway irritation is high. Thus, the proposed study aims to explore the question
      whether the occurrence of laryngospasm can be reliably suppressed when high concentrations of
      sevoflurane are used.

      Based on results of experiments assessing conditions that facilitate tracheal intubation, it
      is clear, that increasing the end-tidal concentration of volatile agents obtunds airway
      reflexes. Regarding intubation conditions, the concept of MACEI 50% or 95% describes the
      minimum alveolar concentration (MAC) of a volatile anesthetic needed by 50 or 95% of the
      patients, respectively, to prevent all movement during and immediately after tracheal
      intubation. The proposed study aims to assess respiratory reflex responses at these levels of
      anesthesia by analyzing the respiratory variables and endoscopic images. The incidences of
      well-defined airway reflexes (cough reflex, spasmodic panting, expiration reflex, and apnea
      with laryngospasm, central apnea) will be examined. Apnea with laryngospasm will be of
      primary interest in our study and digital video analysis of the glottic opening will allow
      for a detailed analysis of laryngeal performance.
    
  