
    
      Prospective, double-blind study comparing Palonosetron and Dexamethasone in the prophylaxis
      of Post-Operative Nausea and Vomiting in children submitted to Strabismus surgery ABSTRACT
      Background: Postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV) is one of the main causes of patient and
      family dissatisfaction, which may delay the onset of oral intake and postpone discharge. In
      pediatric patients, the incidence of PONV is high, and in some studies it can reach values of
      70%. Strabismus surgery is considered an independent risk factor for PONV. Palonosetron is a
      second generation antiemetic drug, 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor antagonist, with a long
      half-life, which allows single dose administration and has been shown to be safe and
      effective in the treatment of chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, and has been used
      with satisfactory results in the prophylaxis of PONV in adult and pediatric patients. Studies
      involving palonosetron are still scarce.

      Objective: The study aims to compare the incidence of PONV after intravenous administration
      of palonosetron or dexamethasone in pediatric patients undergoing elective strabismus surgery
      under general anesthesia.

      Materials and Methods: This prospective, double-blind study consist of 80 patients of both
      genders, classified as ASA grade I and II, ranging in age from 2 to 15 years, scheduled for
      elective strabismus surgery at Hospital Universitário Antonio Pedro(HUAP), after consent by
      their parents. Patients will be randomized into two groups of 40 patients each. Group P will
      receive intravenous dose of palonosetron (1 mg.kg-1), and Group D will receive dexamethasone
      (0.2 mg.kg-1) after induction of anesthesia. Pacients will be observed for 6 hours before
      discharge and post-discharge symptoms will be assessed through telephone survey after 24 and
      48 hours. At the end of the study, results will be compiled and statistical analysis will be
      done by using Mann-Whitney test, Chi-squared test and Fisher test.
    
  