
    
      In this application, a randomized controlled trial will be used to test the hypothesis that
      small financial incentives can be used to increase post-operative ambulation. The randomized
      controlled trial design is necessary to demonstrate a causal relationship between the
      intervention (provision of financial incentives)and the outcome (increased ambulation). This
      design will also provide preliminary data (e.g. effect sizes, feasibility) needed to design
      larger trials that will determine whether increases in ambulation produced by financial
      incentives can be translated into decreases in clinically relevant outcomes such as
      post-operative complications, readmissions, and functional decline in patients undergoing
      major abdominal surgery.

      All participants will receive education about the importance of early ambulation and
      knowledge of their daily step goals. A Fitbit Zip, a commercially available activity tracking
      device with the ability to record and wirelessly upload step counts, will be provided to each
      participant to measure the outcome of daily step counts for a lead in period of 1-2 weeks
      before surgery and 30 days after surgery with the option for patients to continue to submit
      data independently for up to 90 days after surgery. The lead-in period will provide data to
      determine a patient-specific daily step count baseline. Step count goals will change each
      week and be determined by a set-percentage of the patient-specific baseline. The percentages
      will be as follows: 10% of baseline for week 1, 25% of baseline for week 2, 40% of baseline
      for week 3, and 55% of baseline for week 4. Data will be collected using the Way To Health
      platform, a digital platform specifically designed to facilitate randomized controlled trials
      testing interventions increase health promoting behavior.

      Participants will be randomized using simple balanced randomization into one of two arms:
      "control" or "financial incentives". Individuals will be informed if they fail to achieve
      adequate steps and would have otherwise been eligible for payments in order to leverage
      regret aversion. The financial incentive is framed as a "gain" rather than a "loss" because
      striving to achieve a positive reward may provide the necessary support to positively
      motivate patients who just had major, painful surgery. Small definite payments are combined
      with larger lottery-based payments to provide ongoing feedback coupled with the possibility
      of winning a higher magnitude reward. Automated notification about payments will be delivered
      through the participant's preferred mode of communication (e.g., phone call, email). Patients
      will track their earnings and step count over time through Way to Health.

      Beginning shortly before the planned surgery and continuing for 30 days after date of
      surgery, all participants will use Fitbit Zips to measure daily step counts. Patients will
      have the option of submitting up to 90 days of post-operative data. Post-operative ambulation
      has been repeatedly demonstrated to be beneficial to recovery by a number of different
      metrics, and the Zip device has been shown to be an accurate measure of step counts. The
      Stanford Health Assessment Questionnaire (SHAQ) is a broadly used and validated questionnaire
      which, in its shortened form, assesses subjects ability to perform 20 different actions and
      the need for assistance with these actions. It also captures patients global assessments of
      pain and well-being. This will be administered preoperatively, 30 days post-operatively, and
      90 days postoperatively to measured post-operative functional decline. The International
      Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ) Short Seven Day form quantifies patient reported
      levels of physical activity over the seven days prior to the interview. It is similarly
      broadly used and has been previously validated against accelerometer data. This will be
      administered preoperatively, 30 days post-operatively, and 90 days postoperatively to measure
      post-operative decline in physical activity and to discover differences in baseline physical
      activity that are not captured by preoperative step-count data.The Multidimensional Scale of
      Perceived Social Support (MPPSS) is a validated tool for assessing patient's self-assessed
      degree of support from others. Prior research has suggested social support as an important
      factor in exercise behavior, which is consistent with our clinical observations. This will be
      administered pre-operatively and a 30 and 90 days post-operatively to help account for
      confounding by this important and otherwise unmeasured variable.
    
  