
    
      The Specific Aims of the first phase of the study are as follows:

      Aim 1. To determine the feasibility of performing a randomized trial comparing two major
      types of bariatric surgery, Laparoscopic Roux en Y Gastric Bypass (RNY) and Laparoscopic
      Adjustable Gastric Banding (GB) versus a lifestyle weight loss intervention (LWLI) induced by
      diet and increased physical activity in moderately obese patients (Class I and II obesity)
      with T2DM. We hypothesize that: 1) A randomized design with both surgical and non-surgical
      arms will be both feasible and acceptable to participants and to providers 2) There will be
      no difference in retention rates between the LWLI and surgical arms (RNY, GB) of the study
      and it will provide estimates of overall retention for future studies.

      Aim 2. To obtain preliminary information regarding the effectiveness of two dominant
      bariatric surgery procedures versus an intensive lifestyle intervention to induce weight loss
      with diet and increased physical activity. We hypothesize that: 1) RNY will be superior to GB
      and LWLI in weight lost in 12 months.

      Aim 3. To explore the feasibility, methods for, and implementation of a range of early
      outcome measures including; resolution of diabetes, glucose control, medication usage,
      insulin resistance, beta cell function, body composition, objective measures of physical
      activity, and several psychosocial measures. We hypothesize that: 1) Participants will be
      willing to undergo a range of early outcome testing measures to assess metabolic change, body
      composition alterations, objective physical activity, and psychosocial factors. 2) Measures
      of T2DM improvement including an intravenous glucose tolerance test (IVGTT) will be feasible
      in a subset of participants in each study arm and RNY will be superior to both GB and LWLI
      for the clinical and metabolic improvement of T2DM. 3) The LWLI group will show improvements
      in physical activity compared to RNY and GB.
    
  