
    
      Breast cancer is a set of at least 4 different diseases, currently known as intrinsic genomic
      subtypes. Two of them are the so-called HER2-enriched, characterized by the HER-2 oncogene
      amplification, and the basal-like, which correlates closely with some of the triple negative
      tumors (TNBC). These subtypes are very sensitive to the primary medical treatment
      (neoadjuvant or Presurgical). The use of modern medical treatments as initial treatment, can
      allow the complete disappearance of cancer in the breast and axilla (pathologic complete
      response, CPR) in 40% of patients with TNBC and around 60% of patients with HER2-positive
      tumors in stage II and III.

      The need of local surgery in patients where the tumor disappeared completely (CPR) after
      primary medical treatment, is recently questioned, the improvement is not clear and
      radiotherapy could be sufficient to assure the locoregional disease control.

      The use of conventional diagnostic techniques (MRI, ultrasound, mammography and PET) is not
      enough reliable to determine the pathological complete response, making difficult to adopt an
      attitude of surgical abstention. The existence of a minimally invasive technique that could
      reliably determine the absence of cancer after primary medical treatment surgery, could avoid
      the surgery in these cases.

      Percutaneous biopsy guided by ultrasound radiofrequency is a technique that allows the
      complete resection of breast lesions up to 2 cm of diameter with minimal aggression to the
      mammary gland from the area of the initial tumor after the neoadjuvant treatment.

      Several studies report the use of this technique in patients with breast cancer. Results show
      a good tolerability of the technique by the patients and suggest that it would not only
      reduce the need of the re-excision, but also reduce the rate of local recurrence due to
      radiation absence.

      Biopsy using radiofrequency could be useful to confirm CPR in patients with triple-negative
      and HER2-positive tumors and several luminal B tumors and good response previously determined
      by conventional methods (MR in particular). Despite that, new prospective studies to analyse
      the reliability in patients selection with CPR and could avoid the traditional surgery are
      needed.

      To confirm this hypothesis, a group of 100 treated patients with unicentered tumors in stages
      II or III and good response determined by MR after 6 cycles of treatment (less than 2 cm
      apparent residual injury) will be consecutively subjected to radiofrequency biopsy and the
      surgery previously established for each case (Tumorectomy or mastectomy). Before surgery, the
      sentinel node will be biopsied in order to define the surgical treatment on the axilla (none
      in case of negative sentinel node, axillary lymphadenectomy if positive).

      The tumor samples obtained by percutaneous radiofrequency and mastectomy-Tumorectomy biopsy
      will be studied thoroughly to define the correlation between the two.
    
  