
    
      STAGE I, Part 1: We extracted limited access data sets from an existing research database
      (prior research patients' data from APPLES research project, where patients consented to
      provide a limited access data sets to the public domain as required by grants funded by the
      National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute [NHLBI], PI: Dr. Clete Kushida) and a dummy
      database with prepared test data (no real patient data) to evaluate and refine the initial
      iterations of the informatics infrastructure created via an agile evolutionary development
      process.

      STAGE I, Part 2: We expanded the functionality of the informatics infrastructure by testing
      its ability to incorporate research data collected from an electronic questionnaire, the
      Alliance Sleep Questionnaire (ASQ). We enabled data collection using the ASQ in order to use
      these data to evaluate and refine the iterations for the informatics infrastructure.

      STAGE I, Part 3: We expanded the functionality of the informatics infrastructure by testing
      its ability to incorporate live (ongoing) longitudinal data collected from multiple forms and
      data sources obtained during the STAGE II study. The addition of these data allowed the COMET
      Steering Committee to create use cases with a greater diversity of data content. The STAGE II
      data were used to evaluate and refine the iterations for the expanded informatics
      infrastructure.

      STAGE I, Part 4: Part 4 was designed to expand the collection of data beyond individual
      research studies, tapping into University-wide systems (e.g., Stride) to link longitudinal
      data collected during research studies to longitudinal data collected during clinical visits.
      Only de-identified data were shared with the network, and only the local site held the
      codebook that translated the Global Identifier (ID) to the Participant ID. All Health
      Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) regulations were considered.

      STAGE II: This stage was comprised of the multicenter, randomized, parallel group,
      comparative effectiveness trial to compare positive airway pressure (PAP) vs. oral appliance
      (OA) therapy in improving hypertension and abnormalities in cardiovascular function in
      overweight/obese patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA). Data collected during the STAGE
      II study were incorporated in Part 3 of the STAGE I study. This comparative effectiveness
      trial was conducted at 4 clinical centers, and the data collected during this trial were used
      to test the electronic network informatics infrastructure. The primary aim of the Stage II
      CET was to evaluate and compare the effect of positive airway pressure and oral appliance
      therapy on 24-hour blood pressure and vascular structure and function associated with
      obstructive sleep apnea in a primarily female, overweight/obese hypertensive population.

      STAGE III: This stage was comprised of completion of data analysis and preparation of the
      electronic network informatics infrastructure for deployment beyond the four Clinical Centers
      to interested Clinical and Translational Science Awards (CTSA) institutions. We also explored
      expanding the ontologies beyond a sleep-related ontology to other medical ontologies, and the
      use of federated database methodology.
    
  