
    
      Source of Data In this 8 month follow up, longitudinal intervention study, a total of
      20patients (9 males and 11 females, Age range: 30-50 years) with chronic periodontitis were
      selected from the outpatient section of the Department of Periodontics, Islamic Azad
      University Dental School of Tehran /Iran. The study met the criteria of the Helsinki
      Declaration of1975, revised in 2008. The survey plan was reviewed and sanctioned, approved by
      the ethics commission of the Institutional Ethical Committee and Review Board of the Deputy
      of Research, School of Dentistry. All subjects received oral and written explanation of the
      intent of the survey and signed an informed consent after receiving detailed information
      about the purpose, the benefits, and the possible risks associated with the trial. The study
      was conducted from October 2012 to November 2013. The study was registered at the Iranian
      registry of clinical trials (IRCT), registration code: IRCT2014050717587N2.

      Selection Criteria Patients meeting all of the following criteria were included in the study:
      aged between 30 and 45 years; 20 natural teeth present; clinical and radiographic signs of
      moderate (clinical attachment level of 2 to 3mm); probing depth (PD) of >4 mm; no periodontal
      treatment the previous 6 months; and willingness to comply with the study protocol.

      Patients were excluded from the study if they met one or more of the following criteria: 1)
      existing systemic disease that may influence the severity or progression of periodontitis;
      taking medications that may influence the periodontium (e.g., non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs) or other medicines (antibiotic) within the 6 months preceding the beginning of the
      study; concurrent or planned orthodontic treatments; planned extensive dental restorations;
      patients with cavitated caries; pregnancy or lactation; mouth rinses during the entire period
      of the study; hypersensitive to doxycycline or ketoprofen; smoking.

      Grouping Criteria Patients received scaling and root planing on first visit in accordance
      with the one stage full-mouth debridement protocol + polishing; the therapeutic endpoint was
      defined as a clean root surface void of visible or clinically detectable remnants of biofilm
      or calculus. After 2 weeks (debridement), was applied into all periodontal pockets with PD of
      ≥4 mm using a syringe with a blunt canula. The canula was inserted to the base of the
      periodontal pocket and gel was applied 0/5 ml on each side of the mandible. After patient
      enrollment by an examiner; using blocked randomization with a block size of 4 and an
      allocation ratio of 1:1 Block randomization was chosen to prevent too much variability in the
      number of patients randomized and ensure a reasonably steady flow of patients to each
      treatment group, Allocation cover was ensured by using container and labeling that did not
      reveal the content of the trial drug packages who was blind to the therapist and the clinical
      examination. Patients were randomly assigned to either the A or B group, while mandibular
      arches are each divided into two parts (left and right sections) with 100 sites in both
      groups.

      In the A group, was treated by scaling and root planing (SRP) followed by local delivery of
      doxycycline 3%+ ketoprofen 2.5%, while the B group was treated by scaling and root planing
      along with ketoprofen 2.5%; and was administered to the both groups every 15 days for 3
      months. After treatment, patients were given thorough oral hygiene instructions, the trial
      gel for local application contained ketoprofen gel (2.5% Sanofi Pharmaceutical plant
      construction in France) + 3 % doxycycline (Kharazmi Pharmaceutical manufacture in Iran) in
      the group (A), another group (B) ketoprofen 2.5%gel was used. After treatment, patients were
      given thorough oral hygiene instructions and were asked to use dentifrice sodium fluorides
      (Crest cavity protection) and to finish from using any mouthwashes during the course of the
      study. The subjects were given careful instructions in self-performed plaque-control
      measures: twice-daily tooth brushing using the Bass brushing technique with a soft toothbrush
      and a regular fluoride containing toothpaste and once-daily Interdental cleaning using dental
      floss. Clinical parameters, including Plaque Index (PI) (18), sulcus bleeding index (19).
      Probing depth (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) were recorded at baseline (before the
      SRP) and at 0, 15,30,45,60 days and 3 months. William's periodontal probe was used to
      standardize the measurement of clinical parameters. All pre- and post-treatment clinical
      parameters were recorded by an examiner who was masked to the type of treatment received by
      the patients while another clinician provided treatment for both groups. All pre- and
      post-treatment clinical parameters were recorded by an examiner who was masked to the type of
      treatment received by the patients while another clinician provided treatment for both
      groups.
    
  