
    
      68 healthy patients (ASA I, II, and over the age of 18 and under the age of 60 years with
      posterior mandibular maxillary jaw and with symptomatic pulpitis (severe and long response to
      cold test) and requiring root canal therapy are selected. .

      The criteria for entering the study include: absence of periodontal disease and any
      periapical radiolucency except for PDL dilation, absence of susceptibility to local
      anesthetic or sulfite drugs, non-pregnant women and non-lactating women, lack of drugs that
      interact with local anesthetic Or change the perception of pain (such as beta-blocker drugs,
      opiates, etc.).

      Exclusion criteria included: Clinical observation of necrotic pulp after opening the access
      cavity in the desired tooth, the patient's inability to give informed consent and patient's
      continuation of the research in each stage of the trial.

      Sampling was done in a simple and non-experimental way from a dental clinic in Isfahan, and
      then the samples were randomly assigned to one of the two experimental groups (A, B) using
      simple random numbers.

      Preparation of infiltration solution will be such that using a syringe with a high accuracy
      (hamilton) of 0.2 ml of magnesium 10% sulfate vial or distilled water sterilized and then
      into a 1.8ml cartridge of lidocaine 2% With an epinephrine 80000/1, the solution is shaken 5
      times for mixing, so that no sediment should be seen.

      Each vial is filled with distilled water or magnesium sulfate by an individual who is unaware
      of the nature of the design and is not involved in the design, and each letter A or B is
      written. This statement is not decoded after the statistical examination. Therefore, the
      study is blind and blind. In this way, 68 patients are examined in 2 groups of 34 people. It
      should be noted that all anesthesia is injected by one person.

      First, patients with recognized pulpitis in mandibular posterior teeth have been identified
      and information about them is given. Patients will be introduced to the executive phase after
      the required explanation and clarification of the ambiguity and written consent. After
      completing the patient information form by the practitioner and complying with all entry and
      exit criteria, the study begins on each patient.

      The patient records his pain as an initial pain on the Heath-Parker Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS). This pain measurement method involves a 180 mm line with descriptive words that
      differentiates patients on a line where the best describes their pain. In order to design a
      standard injection of the maxillary nerve block in all patients, using Aspirating Dental
      Injection Syringe, Novocol Ontario, Canada, the needle of the 27 mm long 35 mm (Septoject,
      Septodont, Saint-Maur-des- Fosses cedex, France) Lidocaine 2% with epinephrine 80000/1 mixed
      with magnesium sulfate or distilled water, injections in the retro-cell region and cm1 above
      the occlusal mandibular plan. After insertion of the needle at a rate of 3-5 mm into the
      tissue, aspiration was performed and about 2-3 ml / 2. It is injected from the contents of
      the cartridge, the syringe 1 mm is returned to the bone hard tissue (in the form of the
      syringe body in the perimmel area of the opposite side), and after the aspiration of the
      contents of each cartridge in a 1 minute period It is injected. After 15 minutes, in case of
      numbness of the lips, the patient begins to study and the access cavity begins on the desired
      tooth. In each of the stages of acquiring the access cavity or entering the initial file to
      the canal, in the event of pain, the treatment is suspended and the patient signs his pain on
      the pain assessment chart based on the Heft-parker VAS and at this stage the study It's over.
      In the absence of anesthetized lips, the patient is excluded from the study and after
      completing the injection, the root canal is given.
    
  