
    
      Specific Aims

      Informed by the Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research, a leading implementation
      science framework, this hybrid type III effectiveness implementation study will evaluate
      specific implementation strategies for MMBFM. Consistent with a hybrid type III study, there
      are two goals: (1) compare the clinical effectiveness of MMBFM supported by mental health
      clinician vs. peer coaches in a randomized trial of 470 pregnant women; and (2) compare the
      reach of MMBFM across OB clinics for two sets of implementation strategies to facilitate
      access to and initial engagement in MMBFM: patient facing strategies (PFS - direct outreach
      to women following prenatal visits via secure patient portal, email, text, or mail) vs.
      patient facing strategies combined with clinician facing strategies (PFS+CFS - Electronic
      Medical Record (EMR)-embedded prompts for OB providers, printed prescription pads for
      providers, flyers). A cluster randomized design will be used, randomizing 30 OB clinics
      across 4 health systems to either of these two implementation conditions, to assess their
      impact on reach. The investigators will address the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Compare the clinical effectiveness (i.e. engagement and symptom reduction) of MMBFM
      supported by clinician vs. peer coaches among women with a history of prior depressive
      episodes. Hypothesis 1: Coaching delivered by mental health clinicians vs. peers with lived
      experience will be associated with equivalent reductions in depressive symptoms at 6 months
      post-randomization.

      Aim 2: Examine specific mechanisms of action for MMBFM participants receiving clinician vs.
      peer coaching. Hypothesis 2a: MMBFM participants receiving peer coaching will report less
      self-stigma and social isolation than those receiving clinician coaching, and MMBFM
      participants receiving clinician coaching will report less ruminative response to negative
      affect and greater decentering at 6 months post-randomization than those receiving peer
      coaching. Hypothesis 2b: Any difference between peer and clinician coaching in depression
      outcomes will be mediated by treatment-specific targets - at least partially via increased
      engagement.

      Aim 3: Examine the effects of specific implementation strategies on reach of the MMBFM
      program. Hypothesis 3: Clinician facing implementation strategies (CFS) in combination with
      patient facing strategies (PFS) will lead to higher rates of reach than patient facing
      strategies alone.

      Aim 4: Estimate the cost-effectiveness of MMBFM supported by clinician vs. peer coaches.
      Hypothesis 4: MMBFM will be more cost-effective when supported by peer vs. clinician coaches.

      The trials of implementation strategies at the individual and clinic levels will be conducted
      at four health systems representing diversity in geographic location and in racial and ethnic
      membership: Kaiser Permanente Colorado, Southern California, and Georgia, and HealthPartners
      in Minnesota. These sites include 95 clinics and more than 400 obstetric clinicians (OB
      physicians, nurse practitioners, midwives, nurses), providing prenatal care for 53,000 women
      annually. The implementation trial for Aims 1 and 2 will recruit 470 women following prenatal
      care visits total across the four health systems and randomize them in equal numbers to
      participate in one of the two coaching arms for the MMBFM program, lasting 8 weeks. The
      clinic-level implementation trial (Aim 3) will involve a cluster randomized design in which
      30 OB clinics will be recruited from the four health systems and randomized in equal numbers
      to either the PFS or PFS+CFS intervention arms, lasting 6 months. The individual- and
      clinic-level trials will be conducted in parallel.

      The 8-session MMBFM program teaches mindfulness practice and cognitive behavioral skills to
      help reduce automatic, depressogenic modes of thoughts, emotions, and sensations. MMBFM is
      delivered in a mobile first digital format, accessible from desktop or mobile devices, and
      provided in an individually tailored manner that includes experiential practice, video-based
      vicarious learning, and didactic information.
    
  