
    
      -  Rationale: There is ample evidence that children treated for a brain tumour (BT) often
           develop deficits in social and emotional functioning. The investigators wish to examine
           the cause of these deficits, i.e. the underlying neuropsychological deficit(s). The
           following is expected:

             1. Children treated for a BT will perform worse than both healthy controls and
                patients with Cystic Fibrosis (CF) on measures of social cognition at Time 2 (3
                years post diagnosis), but not at Time 1 (shortly after diagnosis, before
                neurotoxic treatment). The deterioration in performance will be influenced by the
                following adverse factors:

                  1. History of cranial radiation therapy;

                  2. Site of lesion in diencephalon;

                  3. History of hydrocephalus and/or posterior fossa syndrome;

                  4. Younger age at diagnosis.

             2. Parents and teachers will rate patients with a BT as being less socially competent
                and experiencing more internalizing problems than healthy controls and patients
                with CF at Time 2, but not at Time 1.

             3. Performance on tests of social cognition will be positively related to executive
                functions at Time 1 and 2.

             4. Performance on tests of social cognition will be positively related to parent and
                teacher reports of social competence and environmental biographic factors (parental
                education and occupation) at Time 1 and 2.

        -  Objective: To study impairment and developmental delay in social cognition (and related
           cognitive functions) caused by brain damage in patients treated for a BT in childhood as
           compared to a reference group of chronically ill children. The focus will be on the
           neurocognitive basis of such deficits.

        -  Study design: Comparative Non-randomised Prospective International Multi-Centre Study

        -  Study population: 49 Children treated for a BT aged 5-13 years, 32 children diagnosed
           with CF aged 5-13 years and 32 healthy controls aged 5-13 years.
    
  