
    
      Breastfeeding is the better method to promote adequate growth and development in preterm
      infants. However, sometimes preterm infants needs to be supplemented with the own mother milk
      or formula using another methods.

      The cup and the bottle have been used in neonatal units, however there is still no evidence
      to determine the best feeding method, which must be safe, efficient and not jeopardize breast
      feeding.

      The aim of this study is evaluates the effect of the use of bottle and cup in breast sucking
      patterns. The intervention will be the use of bottle or cup to feed preterm infants before or
      to supplement breastfeeding after randomization. Nowadays, bottle feeding is the conventional
      method and we wish to compare sucking patterns after use of bottle or cup. As secondary
      endpoints, weight gain, days of life to begin full oral feeding, length of hospital stay and
      breast feeding rates will be observed. In order to achieve this aim, a blind randomized
      clinical trial will be done with 96 very low birth weight infants, in which a group is
      randomly selected to be breast fed and get supplementary food using a cup and another to get
      supplementary food using a bottle.

      The trial's inclusion criteria are: birth weight < 1500 g (very low birth weight infants),
      gestational age from 26 to 32 full weeks, absence of congenital anomalies in the face, head
      and neck, without severe asphyxia (Apgar < 5 on the 5th minute), negative tests for AIDS,
      absence of pulmonary chronic disease, mothers willing to breastfeed. Exclusion criteria are:
      intraventricular hemorrhage (degree III or IV), necrotizing enterocolitis, infection after
      the beginning of the trial.

      Once all newborns in the trial were clinically stable (normal blood pressure without needs of
      oxygen) and with a volume intake of at least 100 ml/Kg/day of milk through the orogastric
      tube, they will receive oral-motor stimulation through a stimulation program previously
      published (2002). Once the newborn meets the criteria to begin oral feeding, an instrumental
      assessment of non-nutritive sucking and nutritive sucking will be carried out. Intra-oral
      pressure is assessed in non-nutritive sucking using a pressure monitoring device in a gloved
      finger: intra-oral negative pressure will be registered using a pressure transducer inserted
      through a catheter to the tip of the gloved little finger. This catheter will be connected to
      a second pressure transducer. Simultaneously, breathing (respiratory flow) will be measured
      using a pneumotachograph coupled to a nasal Prong. Two minutes of sucking will be collected
      from the moment the newborn responds to the search reflex and grabs the finger. During
      nutritive sucking assessment, respiration (respiratory flow) will be measured using a
      pneumotachograph coupled to a nasal Prong. At the same time intra-oral sucking pressure will
      be recorded by a pressure transducer connected to a catheter located on the mother's breast.
      Nutritive sucking will take place in the first 5 minutes of breastfeeding. After the first
      assessment has been concluded, the newborn will be randomly assigned either to the group that
      will use a cup or a bottle for supplementary feeding using randomized block design.
      Assessments will be repeated at discharge from the hospital.

      The study is taking place at Fernandes Figueira Institute and was approved by the
      Institutional Review Board.
    
  