
    
      Discontinuation of mechanical ventilation is a three-step process including:

        1. - Readiness testing.

           It evaluates the criteria to determine whether a patient might be able to be
           successfully and safety weaned from mechanical ventilation. The detection of readiness
           to try a spontaneous breathing test has controversial questions, in special concerning
           to oxygenation. From a conservative to an aggressive criteria we can list:

             1. PaO2/FiO2 > 200 on PEEP ≤ 5 cm H2O (Esteban et al, 1999).

             2. PaO2/FiO2 ≥ 150 on PEEP ≤ 8 cm H2O (Boles et al, 2007).

             3. PaO2/FiO2 > 180 on PEEP ≤ 10 cm H2O (Walsh et al, 2004). We will compare Walsh and
                Boles in their different considerations for oxygenation criteria. Since Walsh
                criteria require a higher level of PEEP we understand that this criteria is more
                aggressive and in this way it allow to an early detection of readiness to SBT, but
                there is not any evidence of this statement.

        2. - Spontaneous breathing trial (SBT). It tries to simulate (but not only) post-extubation
           work of breathing to promptly determine the time to extubation. There is also disparity
           about SBT minimal ventilator settings:

             1. Inspiratory pressure with a range between automatic tube compensation (ATC) and
                inspiratory pressure of 5 - 8 cm H2O. Theoretically, if we use a higher support
                pressure during SBT it would be easier to pass the test. One could think that this
                may rise the risk of reintubation but there are various trials that have not
                confirmed this assumption.

             2. Guidelines does not make any recommendation about expiratory pressurization,
                although the trials conducted use levels of Positive End-Expiratory Pressure
                (PEEP), between 0 and 5 cm H2O.

             3. Furthermore, we consider that "minimal ventilator settings" must be adjusted to
                additional parameters not previously considered, like preventive therapy applied
                after the extubation.

             4. All spontaneous breathing trials will last 30 minutes.

        3. - Extubation follow-up care. Therapies targeted to prevent post-extubation respiratory
           failure like high flow nasal cannula (HFNC), noninvasive ventilation (NIV) and
           respiratory physiotherapy for improving airway clearance, have been proposed.

      The variability of preventive therapies and its settings generate different "minimal
      ventilator settings".

      In view of all that has been set out above, there are two essential points that has not been
      analyzed as far we understand:

        1. The different screening criteria available have not been compared with each other about
           allowing early detection of readiness, even less with the individual risk of
           postextubation failure and still less with the preventive therapy that would be applied
           for each group.

        2. The different inspiratory support pressure as well as PEEP level, have not been compared
           with other different values, even less with the individual risk of postextubation
           failure and still less with the preventive therapy that would be applied for each group.

      The detailed weaning criteria include the following:

        -  Clinical evaluation:

             -  Adequate cough reflex and good clearance of respiratory secretions.

             -  Resolution or stabilization of the initial reason for intubation.

             -  Patient awake with RASS between +1 and -2 according the Richmond Assessment
                Sedation Scale (RASS).

        -  Data evaluation:

             -  Cardiovascular stability with minimal or no need of vasopressors (HR ≤ 140 lpm,
                blood systolic pressure between 90-160 mmHg with minimal or no need of vasopressors
                and without increase in the last 24 hours).

             -  Successful oxygenation defined by SpO2 >90% on FiO2 ≤ 40% or PaO2/FiO2

                ≥150 with PEEP up to ≤8 cmH2O (Boles et al, 2007) or PaO2/FiO2 >180 con PEEP ≤10 cm
                H2O (Walsh et al, 2004).

             -  Respiratory rate ≤35 bpm without respiratory acidosis.

             -  Hemoglobin >7g/dL.

             -  Temperature between 36-38,5ºC.

             -  Blood potassium between 3-5 mmol/L.

             -  Blood sodium between 128-150 mmol/L.

      Detailed definition of high risk factors for extubation failure: age older than 65 years;
      heart failure as the primary indication for mechanical ventilation; moderate to severe
      chronic obstructive pulmonary disease; an Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II
      (APACHE II) score higher than 12 on extubation day; body mass index of more than 30
      (calculated as weight in kilograms divided by height in meters squared); airway patency
      problems, including high risk of developing laryngeal edema; inability to deal with
      respiratory secretions (inadequate cough reflex or suctioning >2 times within 8 hours before
      extubation); difficult or prolonged weaning, in brief, a patient failing the first attempt at
      disconnection from mechanical ventilation; 2 or more comorbidities defined with Charlson
      score; and mechanical ventilation for more than 7 days.

      The detailed risk categories are the following:

        -  Low risk: Patients without risk factors who benefit from HFNC.

        -  Intermediate risk: Patients with 1 to 3 risk factors excluding obese (BMI >30 Kg/m2) and
           those who develop hypercapnia during the SBT, that can benefit from HFNC.

        -  High risk: Obese (BMI >30 Kg/m2) and patients with 4 or more risk factors including
           hypercapnia during the SBT. This group may benefit from prevention with NIV.

      Sample size estimation:

        -  Basal parameters in low risk patients treated with post-extubation HFNC: estimated 30%
           of the entire population. Reintubation rate 4.9% and 1(1-3) days on mechanical
           ventilation. Estimated reduction in the intervention group: 1 day in the 25% of the
           patients.

        -  Basal parameters in intermediate risk patients treated with HFNC: estimated 70% of the
           entire population. Reintubation rate 12.24% and 4 (2 - 9) days on mechanical
           ventilation. Estimated reduction 1 day in the 33% of the patients).

      Calculated standard deviation 3.5 days. CI 95% and power 80%, loss rate 10%, and one-tail
      analysis: 260 patients per group.

      Simple randomization immediately after finishing the spontaneous breathing trial. An
      intention to treat analysis will be performed.

      Detailed HFNC treatment: High-flow oxygen (Optiflow, Fisher and Paykel Healthcare) will be
      applied immediately after extubation through specific nasal cannula. Flow will be initially
      set at 10 L/min and titrated upwards in 5-L/min steps until patients experience discomfort.
      Temperature will be initially set to 37°C, unless reported too hot by patients, and FIO2 will
      be regularly adjusted to the target peripheral capillary oxygen saturation (SPO2) of greater
      than 92%. After 48 hours, high-flow will be stopped and, if necessary, patients will receive
      conventional oxygen therapy.

      Criteria for spontaneous breathing trial failure are: agitation, anxiety, depressed mental
      status, diaphoresis, cyanosis, evidence of increasing respiratory effort, increased accessory
      muscle activity, facial signs of distress, dyspnea, PaO2 lower than 60 mmHg or SpO2 lower
      than 90% on inspired fraction of oxygen higher than .5, PaCO2 higher than 50 mmHg or
      increased more than 8 mmHg from baseline value, arterial pH lower than 7.32 or decreased more
      than .07 from baseline value, respiratory rate higher than 35 breaths per minute or increased
      more than 50% from baseline value, heart rate higher than 140 beats per minute or increased
      more than 20% from baseline value, systolic arterial pressure higher than 180 mmHg or
      increased more than 20% from baseline value, systolic arterial pressure lower than 90 mmHg,
      or cardiac arrhythmias.

      Patients who tolerate the spontaneous breathing trial will be reconnected with the previous
      ventilator settings for rest and clinical evaluation of airway patency, respiratory
      secretions, and upper airway obstruction before extubation.
    
  