
    
      Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a highly effective treatment for severe major depression.
      It has been estimated that approximately 10 percent of all patients admitted to the hospital
      for treatment of major depressive disorder receive ECT.

      However, not all patients who receive ECT respond, and of those who do, not all achieve
      remission. Furthermore, while there is a wide range in the number of ECT treatments done
      among all people with depression, the average is approximately eight treatments. Because
      treatments are usually done three times per week (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday), the minimal
      length of stay for the average person receiving inpatient ECT is typically greater than two
      weeks.

      Finally, ECT is not without risk, and every round of ECT incurs additional risk of not just
      the treatment itself, but also the risks of general anesthesia. Thus, although ECT is a
      robust mode of treatment for Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), there remains a need for
      improved treatment efficacy and speed of onset. Improving the efficacy of ECT would not only
      benefit individuals with MDD, but also have far-reaching effects for the health care system
      as it could impact the cost and resources utilized.

      Ideally, an agent could be added to augment the effect of ECT, both in terms of efficacy as
      well as speed of onset. In 2006, Furrey et al, reported the rapid antidepressant effect of
      the antimuscarinic drug, scopolamine, delivered parenterally. Significant antidepressant
      effect was found after the first scopolamine administration. The improvement was reported
      immediately following the first IV administration, increased across all treatments, and was
      sustained into the placebo crossover period.

      Scopolamine is an anticholinergic muscarinic agent, with activity in the CNS and pilot data
      to suggest a significant impact on rapidly improving depressive symptoms in patient with MDD,
      when administered IV. Thus, it serves as a reasonable choice to augment the effects of ECT in
      the treatment of patients with MDD.

      Primary Aim 1) Assess the ability of scopolamine to augment the antidepressant effects of
      ECT.

      Hypothesis 1a: Patients receiving ECT plus scopolamine will have significantly greater mean
      improvement on total HAM-D score between baseline and endpoint than those receiving ECT plus
      placebo.

      Hypothesis 1b: Patients receiving scopolamine in addition to ECT will require fewer mean ECT
      treatments to obtain response/remission compared to the group receiving ECT plus placebo.

      Primary Aim 2) Evaluate the hypothesis that scopolamine will shorten the time to response and
      remission for patients receiving ECT.

      Hypothesis 2: Time to response and to remission in the Scopolamine group will be
      significantly shorter compared to ECT alone.

      Secondary Aim: Provide evidence for the tolerability of intravenous scopolamine administered
      during ECT.

      Hypothesis 3a: There will be no between group difference (between ECT plus scopolamine vs ECT
      plus placebo) in mean number of ECT sessions withheld due to cognitive impairment (as
      determined by attending psychiatrist).

      Hypothesis 3b: There will be no between group differences (between ECT plus scopolamine vs
      ECT plus placebo) with regards to the mean number of moderate to severe side effects.

      Hypothesis 3c: There will be no significant difference between the scopolamine plus ECT group
      and the placebo plus ECT group on mean levels of physiological measures of ECT including:
      heart rate, blood pressure, seizure length, duration of muscle paralysis, duration of
      asystole, and energy need to induce seizure.

      Exploratory Analyses: we will assess whether the scopolamine plus ECT group will have a
      shorter average length of stay on the inpatient psychiatric unit compared to those receiving
      ECT plus placebo.

      We will also assess whether the scopolamine plus ECT group will have significant differences
      in the cognitive measures at endpoint compared to those receiving ECT plus placebo.
    
  