
    
      The Phase 1 study is a pilot project in which a population of patients with UC is tested for
      the effect on the composition of the microbiota that would have the administration of various
      combinations of fibers, in addition to the tolerability and acceptance by the patient. The
      study will include two groups of 20 patients each. One of the groups will receive 6 grams of
      fiber a day in a single shot with the main meal (group 1) and the other group will receive 12
      grams of fiber a day divided into two meals with the main meals (group 2). Two different
      combinations of fibers (formula A and B) will be tested with the following administration
      pattern for both groups.

      Description of the administration pattern Week 1: Formula A Week 2: Formula A Week 3: Formula
      B Week 4: Formula B

      A second sequential cycle similar to the first one (4 weeks with the same administration
      pattern) will be repeated in order to confirm the reproducibility of the findings.

      The two formulas contain fibers known and commonly used in human nutrition, which were
      previously tested in in vitro models with human faeces and their ability to promote the
      growth of butyrate-producing bacterial species that are deficient in patients with colitis
      was proven ulcerative (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Roseburia hominis). The fibers are
      presented in aluminum envelopes to dissolve in a glass of water, juice, infusion or cold
      cream (max 37 ° C).

      In addition, formulas A and B for group 1 (a single intake per day) include the mixture of
      probiotics i3.1 in quantity per envelope of 3e + 9 colony-forming units, which contains:
      Pediococcus acidilactici CECT 7483, Lactobacillus plantarum CECT 7484 and Lactobacillus
      plantarum CECT 7485 in a 1: 1: 1 ratio. Formulas A and B for group 2 (two intakes per day)
      include the probiotic i3.1 in quantity per envelope of 1.5e + 09 colony-forming units.

      In the two groups, the first week the patients will receive half of the dose with the aim of
      facilitating the adaptation in those people who usually do not consume fiber. The usual diet,
      tolerability and patient satisfaction will be controlled through biweekly predefined
      questionnaires.
    
  