
    
      Burden of Alcohol and Tobacco: According to the World Health Organization (WHO),
      approximately 5.9% of total global deaths are attributable to alcohol consumption. It is
      estimated that tobacco kills more than 7 million people each year globally. In Ontario alone,
      approximately 9,800 new cases of cancer diagnosed in a single year could be attributed to
      tobacco, while 1,000 cases a year could be attributed to alcohol consumption. Despite this
      evidence, 15.2% of Canadian adults reported drinking more alcohol than the low-risk
      guidelines, while 15% reported using a tobacco product in the last 30 days.

      Addressing Alcohol and Tobacco Together: The health issues associated with tobacco and
      alcohol use are diverse and pervasive. Many of the health concerns associated with each
      substance are exacerbated by use of the other (i.e. smokers who also drink alcohol are at an
      increased risk for cancers of the oral cavity). Further, it has been found that Ontarians who
      drink alcohol above the recommended safe guidelines are more likely to be smokers. It thus
      follows that any widespread screening program should target identification of both
      behaviours. This is supported by recent work that found that alcohol and tobacco use are
      "often treated separately despite concurrent treatment potentially leading to better outcomes
      for each".

      PCPs are uniquely positioned to impact health behaviours of their patients. Strong evidence
      and relevant guidelines encourage PCPs to consistently ask about tobacco and alcohol use as a
      crucial first step to identifying and treating risky behaviours. However, current clinical
      practice does not live up to these guidelines. A recent report showed that only 23% of
      patients in Canada had spoken with their providers about alcohol use in the past two years.
      Furthermore, screening is often limited to periodic health exam visits (i.e. 'complete
      physicals'), leading to missed opportunities to screen at visit types which may provide key
      teachable moments, as well as missing patients who may not be coming in for preventative
      health visits.

      Digital, patient-initiated screening is increasingly being recognised as a promising method
      to improve screening rates by overcoming commonly identified screening barriers. Several
      small-scale studies have shown that digital, patient-initiated screening can be an efficient
      method of systematic screening in primary care with high acceptance and usability by
      patients. These methods may also empower patients to become more engaged in their own health
      care, particularly those who are both most likely to have risky behaviours and least likely
      to book preventative care visits.
    
  