
    
      Background and Rationale

      Disparities in type 2 diabetes, pre-diabetes, and obesity among the Marshallese and Pacific
      Islanders.

      The Marshallese are a Pacific Islander population experiencing significant health
      disparities, with some of the highest documented rates of type 2 diabetes of any population
      group in the world. Our review of local, national, and international data sources found
      estimates of diabetes in the Marshallese population (those living in the US and in the
      Republic of the Marshall Islands) ranging from 20% to 50%, compared to 8.3% for the US
      population and 4% worldwide. While national prevalence data are limited, 23.7% of Pacific
      Islanders surveyed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) in 2010 reported a
      diagnosis of type 2 diabetes, more than all other racial/ethnic groups. Our pilot research,
      which includes health screenings with the Marshallese community in northwest Arkansas
      (n=398), documented extremely high incidence of diabetes (38.4%) and pre-diabetes (32.6%).
      Our pilot data also revealed similar disparities in one of the strongest risk factors for
      diabetes-obesity-with 90% of Marshallese participants classified as overweight or obese.
      Thirty-two percent of those who had pre-diabetes were also overweight or obese. Further
      compounding these significant disparities in diabetes prevalence and related risk factors,
      research indicates that Pacific Islanders living in the US are less likely than other
      racial/ethnic groups to receive preventative or diagnostic treatment, or diabetes education.

      Reducing disparities by reducing weight. Overweight/obesity is considered the strongest
      modifiable risk factor for type 2 diabetes, and even a modest reduction in weight (5-10%) can
      be clinically meaningful.

      Specific aim. Our aim is to compare the effectiveness of achieving weight loss between two
      Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) Lifestyle Interventions - the faith-based Wholeness,
      Oneness, Righteousness, Deliverance (WORD) DPP, and the Pacific Islander culturally-adapted
      Partnership for Improving Lifestyle Interventions (PILI) DPP - in the Marshallese population
      using a cluster randomized controlled trial (cRCT).

      Study design. The study design is a comparative effectiveness cRCT conducted in church
      settings or other community setting convenient to the participant group. Churches were
      selected as the primary setting based on Marshallese stakeholder input.

      Randomized participant assignment. Randomization will occur at the church cluster level, with
      1:1 assignment of churches to each arm. Churches and community based participant groups will
      be blocked (i.e., grouped into similar units) according to geographic region and approximate
      number of adult church members. Randomization will be conducted by a biostatistician or
      designated investigator, who will have no interactions with potential participants and has no
      supervisory role with study staff responsible for recruiting, consent, and intervention
      process.

      Recruitment and Consent

      Church-based recruitment is specified by stakeholders as culturally appropriate and the
      community's preferred recruitment method. During recruitment, Marshallese study staff will
      give presentations and distribute study information in English and Marshallese. Those who
      express interest will complete an eligibility screener, to determine eligibility. All study
      information and consent materials will be provided in English and/or Marshallese based upon
      the participants' preferences. Eligible participants will be provided a copy of the consent
      to review, and participants will have the opportunity to ask questions, consent, and enroll
      in the study. The consent process will include providing information to the potential
      participants and the opportunity to have bilingual Marshallese staff answer questions
      regarding study participation. The consent document will be given to the participant, and the
      informed consent process will be documented in the participant's research record.
    
  