
    
      A gastrostomy is a feeding tube that communicates from the skin directly into the stomach. It
      is a device frequently used in patients that have feeding difficulties or are unable to
      maintain normal growth via oral feeds.

      Currently there are many solutions in the market for long-term enteral feeding, however none
      of them provide comfort and autonomy to their users, since they have a high probability of
      dislodgement, clogging, leakage and are bulky.

      The Fidmi Medical PEG Feeding Tube and Accessories are to provides food, liquids and
      medications into the stomach of patients who are having difficulty of swallowing. Fidmi
      Feeding Device is the first presented "low-profile device from day 1", easily hidden under
      clothing and not limiting mobility. Unlike other solutions, Fidmi device is resistant to
      dislodgement due to a semi-rigid internal bumper, and avoids clogging thanks to a disposable
      insert to deliver the nutrition.

      Fidmi device consists of 1) a rigid-core silicone bumper that prevents dislodgment, 2) a
      disposable internal tube replacement for a daily nutrition supply and prolonged patency, and
      3) an external flexible bolster that keeps the stoma site ventilated and stable. The
      disposable insert is placed inside the feeding port and is replaced every 1-2 weeks to avoid
      clogging, extend the product life, and improve the cleanliness and hygiene of the tube.
      Disposable tube replacement is easy and safe and can be done by the patients themselves or
      their caregivers as the tract is never compromised and there is no need for a physician
      verification. The device is eventually removed in a simple procedure that can be done by the
      caregiver or patient themselves. Fidmi device obtain a tool that dismantles the internal
      bumper into small parts that are naturally expelled from the body for trauma free-removal.

      The Fidmi Feeding device would be inserted into eligible enrolled patients who would be
      followed up during a period of 3 months until device removal. Safety, usability and
      discomfort parameters would be monitored following 2, 30, 60, 90 and 120 days following the
      insertion procedure.
    
  