
    
      Space-occupying, malignant middle cerebral artery (M-MCA) infarctions are still one of the
      most devastating forms of ischemic stroke, with a mortality of up to 80% in untreated
      patients.The term M-MCA is referred to a severe middle cerebral artery (MCA) syndrome with
      typical clinical symptoms (hemiparesis to hemiplegia, severe sensory deficits, head and eye
      deviation, hemi-inattention, and, if the dominant hemisphere is involved, global aphasia),
      following a uniform clinical course (progressive deterioration of conscious within the first
      24-48 h), and ending in herniation. An early diagnosis is essential and depends on CT
      (Computed Tomography) and MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) to aid the prediction of a
      malignant course, but, until today there is no clear consensus to define and predict
      radiologically a malignant evolution in early phases.Over the past 10 years, results from
      randomised controlled trials and their pooled analyses have provided evidence that an early
      hemicraniectomy leads to a substantial decrease in mortality at and months and is likely to
      improve functional outcome. However, there are still important questions about the individual
      indication for decompressive surgery. In consideration of a variable clinical course (some
      patients develop fatal brain edema early, whereas other patients do not show severe brain
      swelling for several days), achieving a way to measure, control and predict malignant brain
      edema formation would be of extremely important value.

      In this way, the ICP measuring could represent an objective value to determine in every
      patient the time point to indicate decompressive craniectomy surgery, and also could allow us
      to find a correlation between the size of the infarction and periinfarction edema. Therefore
      the optimal timing of surgical intervention can be defined and all the medical treatment
      adjusted.

      Currently, ICP can be measured and registered only using invasive techniques. The two ICP
      measurement methods available - intraventricular and intraparenchymal - require both a
      neurosurgical procedure, in order to implant the catheter and probes within the brain. Thus,
      these measures include themselves a risk for the subject, and both infections and
      intracranial bleedings are regular albeit not frequent complications. In addition, invasive
      recording of ICP requires neurosurgical expertise and intensive care unit (ICU) facilities.
      Therefore ICP measurement so far, is not a standard of care in stroke units.

      A reliable, accurate and precise non-invasive method to measure ICP would be of considerable
      clinical value, enabling ICP measurement without neurosurgical expertise and ICU facilities.
      Moreover, it would save the patients from the complication risks associated with invasive
      measures.

      ICP should be measured in patients with MCA stroke in order that their ICP can be observed
      prospectively.It is expected that any increase in ICP will be detected before neurological
      deterioration occurs. Beside the benefits for the patient, there is the advantage for the
      attending physician to have more evidence in his decision and the correct moment to make it.

      Non-invasive ICP measurement will be done with non-invasive ICP absolute value meter
      (Vittamed 205). This device has CE marking since July 2014.The non-invasive technique for
      measurement of ICP is based on simultaneously measuring of an ophthalmic artery (OA) blood
      flow parameters in the intracranial (IOA) and extracranial (EOA) segments of the OA with
      two-depth transorbital Doppler (TCD) measurements including mechanical head frame for
      fixation of ultrasonic transducer on the closed eye lid.

      The planned number of 48 subjects and their non-invasive ICP measurements is expected to be
      collected during a 36 months period starting from the first quarter of 2018. The main
      analysis of these data will be done during the three-year project. Measurements will be
      performed in patients admitted to the Kantonsspital Aarau.
    
  