
    
      Detailed Description Spondylolisthesis is a spinal condition in which one vertebral body has
      slid forward in relation to the vertebrae below and is sometimes associated with spinal
      instability. Lumbar spondylolisthesis is a relatively common problem and is generally
      diagnosed from radiographs. MRI is often used to evaluate the condition further and to
      determine if there is nerve root compression involved. One potential disadvantage with
      traditional MRI to evaluate spondylolisthesis is imaging is performed with the patient lying
      supine in the scanner. This creates a potential for the superior vertebra to slide
      posteriorly so that the extent of the slip may not be fully appreciated, if seen at all. Use
      of upright weight bearing MRI provides the opportunity to image the spine in the position
      that patients are most likely to experience symptoms and is similar to standing radiographs.

      MRI Acquisition: Each patient will undergo MRI scanning in the supine and weight bearing
      positions during the same imaging session. If it is determined that a patient who has
      consented to participate in the study should not have an MRI made due to safety concerns
      (such as metallic implant or other contraindication to MRI not identified during recruiting),
      they will be discontinued from the study and another patient recruited to fulfill the planned
      number of images available for analysis.

      The MRI procedure will be standard lumbar spine scanning protocol using the Esaote G-scan, an
      open unit. Patients will be scanned supine and then the unit rotated to 81 degrees from
      horizontal for the weight bearing scan. Immediately after each scan, the patient will
      complete visual analog scales (VAS) assessing back and leg pain.

      Researcher(s) performing image assessments will be blinded to the position in which scans
      were made. Data to be recorded for each image is the Meyerding scale (1-4 scale rating the
      severity of the spondylolisthesis), amount of slip (mm), anterior and posterior disc space
      height (mm), foraminal area, anteroposterior (AP) distance at the most narrow part of the
      foramen, and disc space angulation. Area of the spinal canal and AP distance across the canal
      will be measured from axial images. The facet fluid sign, associated with spinal instability,
      will be assessed from axial MRI views using a 3-point scale with "none" indicating no
      evidence of fluid in the left or right facet joints; "possible" if there is some suggestion
      of fluid in the joints; or "definite" if there is at least a 2 mm wide layer of
      hyperintensity within either joint bilaterally at the level evaluated. Additionally, the
      width of the fluid fill of the facet joint taken perpendicular to the apparent joint line,
      and the largest value recorded as effusion size.

      Clinical Assessments: VAS separately assessing back and leg pain will be completed
      immediately after the supine scanning and again immediately after weight bearing scanning.
      Analysis will be conducted to determine if differences in pain correlate with changes in
      images taken in the two positions.

      Statistical methods: Parametric measures will be compared for the two imaging positions using
      paired t-tests. Pairwise categorical data will be analyzed using McNemar analysis. In the
      secondary study dealing with facet fluid sign, mean values for translation, disc height,
      foraminal area, and AP distance will be compared across the three facet fluid sign categories
      using ANOVA.

      Changes in back and leg pain will be analyzed to determine if there is a relationship between
      these changes and changes noted on the positional MRI. It is not anticipated that this
      section of the study will produce statistically significant results, but will hopefully
      provide guidance for possibly investigating these parameters in future studies.

      From routine clinical lateral flexion/extension radiographs, change in translation between
      the two positions will be measured. If a lateral neutral radiograph is available, translation
      as well as anterior and posterior disc height will be measured. All measurements will be made
      using the same methods as described for the MRIs.

      Sample size: At least 25 patients, but no more than 60 patients will be included. After 25
      patients are imaged, data will be analyzed to determine an appropriate sample size to
      determine a statistically significant difference between measurements made from the supine
      and upright weight bearing images.
    
  