
    
      Despite the availability of a wide range of antidepressant drugs, clinical trials indicate
      that 30% to 40% of patients with major depression fail to respond to first-line
      antidepressant treatment, despite adequate dosage, duration, and compliance. Moreover, in
      those patients who do experience symptomatic relief following conventional anti-depressant
      treatment, clinical improvement is not evident for 3-4 weeks. Thus, there is a clear need to
      develop novel and improved therapeutics for unipolar and bipolar depression.

      The cholinergic system is one of the neurotransmitter systems implicated in the
      pathophysiology of mood disorders. Evidence suggests that during major depressive episodes,
      the cholinergic system is hypersensitive to acetylcholine. Agents that enhance muscarinic
      cholinergic receptor function increase depressive symptoms in depressed subjects, and can
      produce symptoms of depression in healthy individuals. The preclinical literature more
      specifically implicates the muscarinic receptors and indicates that the use of muscarinic
      antagonists, in the context of animal models of depression, results in improvement in the
      behavioral analogs of depression.

      Preliminary results obtained under protocol 3-M-0108 provide strong evidence for the
      potential effectiveness of the anticholinergic scopolamine in rapidly producing clinically
      significant antidepressant effects. We observed large reductions in Montgomery-Asberg
      Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores that occurred over hours/days following i.v. infusion
      of scopolamine, which stood in marked contrast to the 3-4 week period generally required for
      conventional therapies. Moreover, these improvements were observed in subjects who had been
      nonresponsive or incompletely responsive to conventional antidepressant therapies,
      highlighting the potential for this treatment to benefit a larger percentage of individuals
      with depression. The goal of this research project is to perform a clinical trial to evaluate
      the efficacy of the muscarinic cholinergic receptor antagonist scopolamine administered via
      transdermal patch on clinical symptoms of depression.
    
  