
    
      The study will consist of three periods: 1) Screening; 2) Induction, and 3) Maintenance
      treatment and follow-up.

      Screening period After signing informed consent, patients will be screened for study
      eligibility by assessment of inclusion and exclusion criteria. Screening procedures will
      include collection of demographic data, medical history, physical examination, vital signs,
      and laboratory evaluations.

      Induction period Patients will receive 8 weekly treatments of RITE + MMC, using the Synergo®
      System. Each treatment lasts about 60 minutes and consists of two 30-minute cycles with 40 mg
      MMC/50 ml sterile water for injection each cycle. These 8 treatments will be followed by a
      pause (see Table 1), after which a follow-up cystoscopy (first follow-up control) will be
      conducted during Weeks 12-13 (from the first treatment).

      Maintenance Treatment and Follow-up Period

      During the maintenance period, patients will receive one Synergo® RITE + MMC treatment every
      6 weeks. Each treatment lasts about 60 minutes and consists of two 30-minute cycles with 40
      mg MMC/50 ml sterile water for injection each cycle. Maintenance treatments will be given
      until the end of 12 months after the patient's first induction treatment, unless the
      patient's participation in the study is terminated due to either:

        1. a lack of complete response (at 6 months) or worsening of disease (at 3 months; see
           first and second follow-up control below), or

        2. recurrence/progression Patients will be assessed by cystoscopy, urine cytology and, if
           required, subsequent biopsy or transurethral resection (TUR) of suspect areas every 3
           months till the end of the study.

      Two consecutive definite positive urine cytologies will be required to confirm persistent or
      recurrent disease if visual and biopsy are negative. In such cases, investigation of
      extravesical locations (CT-IVU, prostatic urethra biopsy) will be performed between the first
      and second urine cytology.

      At the first follow-up control, i.e., 3 months after administration of the first study
      treatment, patients will undergo a cystoscopy evaluation.

      Patients failing to achieve a disease-free state at the time of the first follow-up will
      continue in the study, unless a new occurrence of a T1 and/or high-grade lesion is found or
      any extra-bladder involvement is evident from pathological analysis.

      At the second, i.e., 6-month, follow-up visit, patients will undergo biopsies of suspicious
      areas and random bladder biopsies of the trigone, bladder dome, right, left, anterior and
      posterior of the bladder wall. Upper tract washes will be performed in patients in whom urine
      cytology will be positive with no pathological evidence of NMIBC lesions in the bladder or
      the prostatic urethra. Patients failing to achieve a disease-free state at the time of the 6
      month assessment and/or experiencing a new disease occurrence, demonstrated by cystoscopy and
      biopsy, and/or in whom extra-bladder involvement is suggested by a positive upper tract
      washes result will be removed from the study.

      Upper tract imaging (CT-IVU imaging is recommended, IVU if CT not available) will be
      performed at 12 months from the first study treatment.

      Extended treatment and follow-up period For longer-term disease-free-survival data collection
      purposes, patients free of tumor at the end of the study will be offered to continue
      receiving one Synergo® RITE + MMC treatment every 8 weeks. Each such treatment will last
      about 60 minutes and will consist of two 30-minute cycles with 40 mg MMC/50 ml sterile water
      for injection, each cycle. These treatments will be given until the end of 24 months after
      the patient's first induction treatment. See table 2 for details on the extended treatment
      and follow-up.
    
  