
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the pathologic complete response rates in women with HER2/neu-negative
           inflammatory or locally advanced breast cancer treated with paclitaxel
           albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation, doxorubicin hydrochloride,
           cyclophosphamide, and pegfilgrastim with vs without bevacizumab.

        -  To compare the overall survival of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  To assess whether there is a correlation between bevacizumab and stratification factors
           (type of disease and hormone receptor status).

        -  To compare the toxicities of these regimens.

        -  To explore the molecular biomarkers related to the biology and outcome of inflammatory
           breast cancer.

        -  To explore potential molecular biomarkers that predict response to therapy and drug
           sensitivity.

        -  To evaluate biomarkers with respect to the sequence of paclitaxel albumin-stabilized
           nanoparticle formulation and doxorubicin hydrochloride/cyclophosphamide/pegfilgrastim
           administration in patients not receiving bevacizumab.

        -  To explore residual cancer burden and correlate it with outcome.

        -  To evaluate the time to treatment failure prior to surgery.

        -  To evaluate disease-free survival from the time of surgery in patients undergoing
           definitive surgery.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to type of disease
      (inflammatory vs locally advanced breast cancer) and hormone receptor status (positive
      [estrogen receptor (ER)+ and/or progesterone receptor (PgR)+] vs negative [ER- and PgR-]).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over
           30 minutes on day 1 and bevacizumab IV over 30- to 90-minutes on day 1 of weeks 1-12.
           Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and
           pegfilgrastim SC on day 2 of weeks 14, 16, 18, 20, 22, and 24.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over
           30 minutes on day 1 of weeks 1-12. Patients then receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV
           and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1 and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2 of weeks 14, 16, 18, 20,
           22, and 24.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and cyclophosphamide IV on day 1
           and pegfilgrastim SC on day 2 of weeks 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, and 11. Patients then receive
           paclitaxel albumin-stabilized nanoparticle formulation IV over 30 minutes on day 1 of
           weeks 14-25.

      In all arms, patients with stable or responding disease undergo surgery 3-6 weeks after
      completion of chemotherapy. Patients may then undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks.

      Serum, whole blood, and tissue samples are collected periodically for biomarker analysis,
      circulating endothelial cell analysis, and pharmacogenomic studies, respectively.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 1 year and then
      annually for 4 years.
    
  