
    
      The investigators planned a single centre, randomized stratified, double-blind, sham-
      controlled design.

      Adolescents and young adults with childhood ataxia will be recruited and randomly assigned to
      two different groups: the active-tDCS group and the sham-tDCS group. Each group will undergo
      a multi-sessions (8 sessions) intervention during which tDCS will be delivered over the
      cerebellum. The stimulation will be paired with a virtual reality VR training. The Virtual
      Reality (VR) training will exploit a design based on probabilistic learning of social events
      in child-friendly environments. During the training, participants will be asked to conquer
      some goal/objects by predicting the behaviour of some competing virtual avatars whose actions
      should be probabilistically learned. Based on the same structures, two different
      child-friendly scenarios will be created and they will be respectively used in the pre- and
      in the post-training evaluation sessions (scenario A) or in association with the tDCS
      protocol throughout the 8 sessions of intervention (scenario B).

      Participants' abilities of social prediction (primary outcome) will be tested through a
      validated computer based Action prediction task assessing participants' abilities in
      predicting others' actions based on previous experience. This experimental paradigm comprises
      a probabilistic learning (familiarization) phase and a testing phase. In the familiarization
      phase participants are asked to observe an actor performing two different types of grasping
      actions (such as grasping movement of an apple for eating the apple or for offering the apple
      to another partner) in different colour-cued contexts. They are asked to recognise actor's
      intention.

      Crucially, the probability of co-occurrence between one action and the colour-cued context is
      implicitly biased with pre-established probability of association. In the testing phase, the
      same videos are presented but their length is dramatically shortened via temporal occlusion
      before the action is completed. In this way, since the movement kinematics is ambiguous, an
      observer would use the previously learned association with context to predict the fate of the
      action, and responses should be biased toward the contextual priors. A control non-social
      prediction task with a similar structure will be also used. A standard neuropsychological
      assessment (NEPSY-II) before and after the training will allow assessing the generalizability
      of the effects to general social perception abilities, in particular Theory of Mind and
      affect recognition (Secondary Outcomes). In the post-training and in the follow-up evaluation
      session (one month after the end of the intervention) the training acceptability and the
      quality of life assessments will be performed.

      The protocol will allow testing the efficiency of the combined tDCS+ VR training in:

        -  enhancing social prediction abilities in childhood ataxia;

        -  enhancing implicit learning abilities, even in non social contexts;

        -  improving theory of mind abilities;

        -  improving patients' quality of life;

        -  further investigating the safety and tolerability of tDCS.
    
  