
    
      1. The first aim of this Database Registry is to maintain a prospective multicenter series
           of patients treated surgically for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis. Patients from
           multiple scoliosis centers around the U.S., as well as a center in Germany, will be
           enrolled with comprehensive analysis of the curve pattern being treated, as well as the
           type of surgery performed. The outcome of each surgical treatment will be analyzed. This
           will allow the frequency of various curve types to be determined, as well as the
           frequency of various surgical approaches utilized for each curve pattern.

        2. The second aim is to determine if operative outcomes vary based on the surgical approach
           utilized in scoliosis correction. In this analysis, it is anticipated that specific
           approaches can be identified to be most appropriate for given scoliotic curve patterns.
           In addition, the variations within individual curve patterns will be analyzed, as will
           specific variations in the surgical approach (e.g., distal level of instrumentation,
           hooks versus screws, hook patterns, etc).

        3. The third aim is to develop an algorithm to guide surgical decision making based on a
           scoliosis curve classification scheme that will allow the surgeon to provide the best
           overall outcome (radiographic, functional, cosmetic) for a given patient with idiopathic
           scoliosis.

        4. The fourth aim is to evaluate the long-term outcomes of surgical intervention in this
           patient population.

        5. The fifth aim is to maintain a prospective multi-center series of patients with
           idiopathic scoliosis who have not undergone surgical correction of their deformity. The
           long-term outcome of this patient population will be compared with the surgical patient
           population.

        6. The sixth aim is to develop a guide to help clinicians make a decision for optimal
           surgical treatment of AIS curves based on patient-specific 3D information.

        7. Factors that may influence intra and post-operative course will also be evaluated. Of
           particular interest are patient specific factors (curve size, pre op characteristics
           such as blood work and PFT testing) and their influence on intra-operative blood loss.
    
  