
    
      A randomized prospective double blind study of misoprostol administration in asymptomatic
      patients with pregnancies of unknown location.

      The management of asymptomatic patients with pregnancies of unknown location (PUL) remains a
      challenge. Determining the location of the pregnancy is the first priority in the evaluation
      of these women. Some of these asymptomatic women present with inappropriate raising
      beta-human chorionic gonadotropin (βHCG), while others have assurance of pregnancy duration
      (e.g. IVF pregnancies) with no sonographic evidence of intra or extra uterine pregnancy. Most
      of the PULs are failed intra-uterine pregnancies.

      The main concern regarding PUL is the late diagnosis of an ectopic pregnancy (EP). Some
      studies report that between 5 and 42% of women seen for US assessment with a positive
      pregnancy test have a PUL and only 6-20% will subsequently diagnosed with EP (1). Other
      studies report that 94% of PUL will resolve spontaneously, and out of the 6% that did not
      spontaneously resolve 68.9 % were finally diagnosed with failed IUP and only 5.6% were
      diagnosed with EP (2).

      Women with PUL should be evaluated in minimum time, but also with minimal invasiveness.
      Management that will resolve such pregnancies in a rapid manner will save time and money and
      possibly avoid unnecessary administration of MTX or surgical intervention.

      Several protocols have been investigated in order to fasten the diagnosis of PUL. For
      example, obtaining serial β-HCG, the first one in the initial presentation, two days later
      and seven days later (3). Another protocol suggested endometrial sampling by D&C or
      aspiration of uterine continents with Karman cannula and checking the β-HCG after 24 hours
      (2).

      Purpose: The aim of our study will be to prospectively assess the use of misoprostol in
      asymptomatic patients with pregnancies of unknown location(PUL).

      The study group will contain hemodynamically stable women >18 years old with a PUL with
      abnormal plateauing serum β-HCG trend (increase<53%or decrease <15% in 2 days) < 1000 IU/l
      and a pelvic ultrasound unremarkable for an intrauterine pregnancy (IUP) or an ectopic
      pregnancy (EP).

      Each participant will get Vaginal misoprostol 800 mcg or placebo. Main Outcome Measure(s):
      The primary outcome measure will be an uneventful decline of serum β-HCG to an undetectable
      level (<2 IU/l) by the initial intervention strategy. Secondary outcome measures will include
      additional treatment (e.g. methotrexate (MTX) administration or laparoscopy), side effects
      and serum β-HCG clearance time, features of the optimal candidates for treatment by cytotec.
    
  