
    
      The proposed project will leverage the existing state-run public distribution system (PDS) to
      provide fortified rice using a domestically manufactured rice grain (Fortified Rice Kernels,
      or FRK). FRKs are grains made from rice flour, highly enriched with iron and other
      micronutrients (such as Vitamin A, B9 and Vitamin B12), and shaped like a conventional grain
      of rice. It is mixed into conventional rice in specified ratios (1g of FRK 100g of
      conventional rice) and is almost indistinguishable from conventional rice in appearance and
      taste. For this study, rice will be fortified using FRKs containing iron, zinc, vitamin A and
      vitamins B1, B3, B6, B9 and B12.

      The Tamil Nadu PDS already provides up to 20 kilograms of rice at no cost to all households
      in the state, with an additional 15 kilograms to households identified as particularly poor.
      This is done through a widespread network of Fair Price Shops (FPS). The proposed study
      (implementation and accompanying evaluation) will be conducted as a cluster-randomized
      controlled trial, with baseline and follow-up surveys conducted 12-15 months apart. In the
      interim, 110 Treatment FPS will be randomly assigned to receive fortified rice, and another
      110 randomly assigned Control FPS will continue receiving conventional rice. The
      investigators plan to conduct the study in one sub-district of Tamil Nadu with a population
      of about 1/2 million people.

      In a cluster, the study team will randomly select 40 households to participate in the
      baseline and followup surveys and household members meeting the eligibility criteria, i.e.
      women between 12 and 40 years and children between 6 and 59 months, will be enrolled. These
      surveys will collect information about dietary patterns and socioeconomic status, and
      importantly, will also collect objectively measured health indicators (biomarkers and
      anthropometric measures), to test directly for anemia and micronutrient deficiencies.

      To implement the intervention, the Government pre-existing PDS system, will be used. Every
      household in Tamil Nadu has a card that entitles it monthly to a pre-specified quantity of
      rice (and other goods) from a specific location that belongs to a network of so called Fair
      Price Shops (FPS). These FPS in turn receive rice from government-run warehouses (called
      godowns) where rice is delivered from a central procurement system and then bagged.
    
  