
    
      Baseline:

      On Day 1, the following baseline tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will fill out 10 questionnaires about your pain, fatigue, how you have been feeling,
           and your general quality of life. The questionnaire packet may take up to 1 hour to
           complete.

        -  You will have an electroencephalograph (EEG -- a test that measures the electrical
           activity of the brain) performed. The EEG should take about 1 hour to complete.

      Study Groups:

      If you choose to take part in this study, after completing the baseline tests and procedures,
      you will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups.

      Group 1 will take part in a minimum of 2 neurofeedback training sessions each week for up to
      10 weeks, for a total of up to 20 training sessions. The neurofeedback training sessions may
      take place on any 2 days of the week and may be up to 5 times a week, if you are interested
      in training more quickly.

      Group 2 will be placed on a wait-list, will continue to receive standard care, will not take
      part in the neurofeedback training, but will take part in the follow-up visits, described
      below. Group 2 will not take part in the neurofeedback training during Group 1's
      neurofeedback training period.

      Neurofeedback Training (Group 1 only):

      Neurofeedback training is a type of therapy that uses an EEG and a computer software program
      to measure brain wave activity. The neurofeedback training will be given in a video-game
      format and is designed to teach you ways to slowly re-train your brain wave activity by using
      "rewards" that you will hear and/or see when your brain waves change in the way the
      researchers are looking for.

      With continuing feedback, coaching, and practice, researchers hope you will be able to learn
      how to produce the brain wave patterns that may help to reduce the perception of pain and
      improve quality of life.

      For the EEG during each neurofeedback training session, researchers will place 1 or 2
      electrodes on your scalp and 1 or 2 electrodes on each earlobe. The electrodes will measure
      and record your brain wave activity, similar to the way a doctor listens to your heart beat
      from the surface of your skin.

      During each training session, you will sit quietly and relax while watching a computer
      screen. A neurotherapist will be present during each neurofeedback session to provide
      one-on-one assistance and guidance. Each neurofeedback training session will take up 1 hour
      to complete (about 15 minutes to get set up and about 45 minutes to complete the training
      session).

      At each neurofeedback training session, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will rate your pain on a scale of 0-10.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking.

      At the 10th training session only, you will also complete 3 questionnaires about your mood
      and pain. The questionnaires should take about 10 minutes to complete.

      Follow-Up Visits (Both Groups):

      If you are in Group 1:

        -  After you have completed neurofeedback training, and again 1 and 4 months later, you
           will fill out the same 10 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  An EEG will be performed about 1 week after your last neurofeedback training session and
           again 4 months later.

      If you are in Group 2:

        -  After Group 1 has completed neurofeedback training, and again 1 and 4 months later, you
           will fill out the same 10 questionnaires you completed at baseline.

        -  An EEG will be performed about 1 week after Group 1 has completed neurofeedback training
           (up to 10 weeks after baseline) and again 4 months later.

      Length of Participation:

      If you are in Group 1, after you complete the questionnaires at the follow-up visit 4 months
      after your last neurofeedback training session, your active participation on this study will
      be over.

      If you are in Group 2, you will remain on study for up to 6 ½ months. If you choose to take
      part in the optional procedure, you will remain on study for up to 10 additional weeks to
      complete neurofeedback training.

      This is an investigational study. The equipment used for neurofeedback training is FDA
      approved and commercially available equipment. Using neurofeedback equipment to teach
      patients ways to modify their own brain waves to decrease the perception of pain and improve
      quality of life is investigational.

      Up to 80 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  