
    
      The VITAAL exergame is an individualized multicomponent exergame training based mostly on the
      prevention and slowing of physical and cognitive decline and its consequences. It mainly
      consists of three (four with UI) components; strength training, balance training, cognitive
      training and pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) when suffering from UI. For strength
      training, Tai Chi-inspired movements are included which are a combination of classical
      strength exercises and Tai Chi movements. Since Tai Chi is mainly performed in a semi-squat
      posture it places a large load on the muscles of the lower extremities. For balance training,
      step-based training is included in the VITAAL exergame, as the execution of rapid and well
      directed steps has been shown to be effective in preventing falls. Both, Tai Chi-inspired
      exercises and step-based exercises, combined with challenging game tasks, provide a
      'holistic' physical activity requiring motor functions, cognition and mental involvement. The
      PFMT is divided in two categories, isolated exercises of PFM (different contraction
      sequences) and dual task exercises, where PFM contractions are performed with or in
      combination with balance exercises. Moreover, Tai Chi-inspired training, step-based training
      and PFMT could be more motivating and joyful than standard exercises. Some cognitive training
      is already included in these training components as they represent simultaneous
      cognitive-motor interaction and require motor and cognitive functions. But specific
      attentional and executive functions are important for walking abilities and safe gait.
      Therefore, the VITAAL exergame explicitly targets on these neuropsychological functions
      (selective attention, divided attention, inhibition/interference control, mental flexibility,
      working memory). To maximize benefits for participants, the VITAAL exergame implements some
      basic general training principles; providing feedback, optimal load of task demands,
      progression of difficulty and high variability.

      Intervention group MI:

      The VITAAL exergame intervention for MI includes 36 training sessions with three sessions per
      week, each lasting around 45 minutes (30 minutes real training time) resulting in 12 weeks of
      training (two weeks of break/holiday allowed). The time frame and training intensity is based
      upon studies illustrating positive training effects in older adults performing exergame
      training. A training session includes an individually calculated amount of strength,
      cognitive-motor and balance training, which remains the same over the 12 week intervention
      period. Between the training sessions and exercises, rest intervals will be integrated to
      alleviate the acquisition of new skills. Participants are allowed to continue their usual
      daily business and activities during the study period. The training takes place at Physio
      SPArtos in Interlaken, Bern. They get well instructed on how to set up and use the system at
      the physio centre. The first two training sessions will be supervised one to one, after that
      someone will observe the training every 4 weeks to make adjustments and support the
      participants. The other training sessions will be done without supervision. However, there
      will be a physiotherapist available in case questions come up or help is needed. The
      compliance with the exergame training will be monitored using an attendance protocol filled
      in by participants.

      Intervention group UI:

      For the incontinent women in this study, the VITAAL exergame intervention will last over 12
      weeks and consists of three parts 1) VITAAL exergame (2 sessions/week) lasting 45 minutes
      each (30 minutes real training time) at the physio centre, 2) PFM exercises according to a
      training booklet (3 sessions/week) lasting 10 minutes each at home and 3) education related
      to UI at home.. Between the training sessions and exercises, rest intervals will be
      integrated to alleviate the acquisition of new skills. Participants will be allowed to
      continue their usual daily business and activities during the study period. The training will
      take place at the physio centre SPArtos, Interlaken, Switzerland and their home. Women will
      get instructed on how to set up and use the system at the centre and how to do the PFM
      exercises at home. The VITAAL exergame training sessions will be supervised. Furthermore,
      every fourth week the additional weight for the strength training will be adjusted. However;
      the participants will be encouraged to use the system as independently as possible. The
      compliance with the exergame training will be monitored using an attendance protocol filled
      in by participants. For both groups, training compliance will be followed online by the
      investigators in the Web portal as each participant will have a personal login and training
      data will be stored in the internet-based back-end.

      Control group MI:

      Participants of the MI control group are instructed to do a non-individualized conventional
      training including 15 minutes walking exercise (in nature or on treadmill) and additional 15
      minutes of strength, balance, and cognitive-motor exercises (at the therapy centre or at
      home). The exercises are based on recommendations from the "Beratungsstelle für
      Unfallverhütung" (bfu). The participants will receive a training booklet with the exercises.
      In total there are three different training programs which are divided according to their
      level of difficulty. Participants are instructed to start with the first level for four weeks
      and then go on to the next level for another 4 weeks. The control group training in this
      study includes 36 training session with three sessions per week, each lasting around 45
      minutes resulting in 12 weeks of training (two weeks of break/holiday allowed). Between the
      training sessions and exercises, rest intervals will be integrated to alleviate the
      acquisition of new skills. Participants are allowed to continue their usual daily business
      and activities during the study period. The first training sessions take place at Physio
      SPArtos in Interlaken, whereas the walking can be made outside or on a treadmill. The
      participants get well instructed on how to do the training at the centre or at home. There
      will always be a supervisor at the training centre to further help and support the
      participants with any questions and issues. Furthermore, participants will be called every 4
      weeks, to ensure social contact similar to that in the intervention group. The training
      components will not be individually adapted for this group. Participants in this groups will
      report their trainings in an attendance protocol and their additional activity in an activity
      protocol. In addition they need to rate the exercise intensity on each session with Borg
      scale.

      Control group UI:

      The control group training will last over 12 weeks. The training sessions will be divided in
      three parts 1) 30 minutes of brisk walking (2 sessions/week, 2) PFM exercises according to a
      training booklet (3 sessions/week) lasting 10 minutes each at home and 3) education related
      to UI at home. The PFM training booklet will be based on two studies that showed a reduction
      of incontinence in older adults while performing group pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT)
      and mobility exercises. The PFMT program will consist of 4 PFM exercises and will be divided
      into three phases allowing for the gradual progression in treatment (from first to third
      month), with gradual increase in difficult exercises in terms of duration, repetition and
      position. Each phase will last four weeks. Between the training sessions and exercises, rest
      intervals will be integrated to alleviate the acquisition of new skills. Participants will be
      allowed to continue their usual daily business and activities during the study period. The
      first training sessions take place at the physio centre SPArtos, Interlaken, whereas the
      walking can be made outside or on a treadmill. The participants get well instructed on how to
      do the training at home. Furthermore, participants will be called every 4 weeks, to ensure
      social contact similar to that in the intervention group. The training components will not be
      individually adapted for this group. Participants in this group will report their trainings
      in an attendance protocol and their additional activity in an activity protocol. The
      compliance with the active control intervention will be monitored using an attendance
      protocol filled in by participants. Furthermore, training compliance will be followed online
      by the investigators in the Web portal as each participant will have a personal login and
      training data will be stored in the internet-based back-end.
    
  