
    
      Inclusion and exclusion criteria:

      All adult patients admitted to the UZ Leuven's ICU after the approval of the study by the
      local Ethical Committee and before June 30th 2018 will be included in the study. The only
      exclusion criteria will be the presence of end-stage renal disease before or of AKI on ICU
      admission.

      Computer predictions:

      Elements from laboratory reports, clinical history and physiological monitoring will be used
      both by clinicians and by the computer algorithm to estimate the risk of AKI. Such
      measurements are part of the routine standard care in the ICU: no additional exam will be
      required for this study. These values are regularly stored in the electronic health care
      system (KWS, Klinisch Werkstation and iMDsoft's MetaVision). They will be retrieved in
      read-only mode when needed for formulating the predictions. The retrieval will take place
      regularly on a weekly basis in order to limit the amount of time that patients'
      identification data will be stored for the study.

      In detail, the following parameters will be used by the computer model:

        -  upon admission: age, baseline serum creatinine (lowest value of the previous 3 months;
           if not available, calculated using the Schwartz formula), surgical or medical category
           (transplant surgery / cardiovascular surgery / abdominal or pelvic surgery / thoracic
           surgery / other: medical, trauma, other surgery), planned admission (yes / no), history
           of diabetes (yes / no), blood glucose, suspected sepsis (yes / no), and hemodynamic
           support (none / mechanical / pharmacological / both);

        -  on the first morning after admission: serum creatinine (measured in the morning), APACHE
           II score, blood lactate (worst value since admission), total bilirubin, and hours of ICU
           stay;

        -  at 24h after admission: hourly urine output, doses of inotropes and vasopressors, and
           continuous arterial blood pressure values.

      Physicians predictions:

      Physicians' predictions will be collected alternatively through interviews conducted
      personally by one of the investigators or by means of a questionnaire compiled by the
      physicians themselves. To parallel the timing of AKIpredictor, clinicians' predictions will
      be gathered at three time-points:

        -  admission predictions: at the earliest after admission (up to 3h);

        -  morning predictions: on the first morning after admission, right before or after the
           handoffs that take place between 8.30 and 9.00 AM;

        -  24h predictions: at 24h after admission (up to 24h+3h).

      Interviews to multiple physicians about the same patient in the same time frame will be
      encouraged, as long as they are not influenced by one another (junior resident, senior
      resident, staff member).

      In every prediction, both a continuous (on a 0-100 % scale) and a binary (yes / no) estimate
      of AKI risk will be inquired. A self-assessed degree of confidence about the prediction will
      also be tracked (very confident / medium confident / not confident at all). The exact time at
      which the human prediction is collected will be saved. Finally, data about the clinician
      expressing the prediction will be tracked: age, gender, seniority (see above), years of ICU
      experience.

      Endpoint assessment The effective development of AKI will be diagnosed in agreement with the
      2012 KDIGO guidelines [1]. To take into account AKI occurring outside the ICU where hourly
      measurements of urine output are not recorded, only the creatinine criterion will be used.
      Serum creatinine values will be collected from the electronic health record system KWS
      (Klinisch WerkStation) each day for 7 days following ICU admission. This biochemical exam is
      routinely performed on a daily basis in any hospitalized patient unless considered at low
      risk for complications, and it is always required if there's suspicion of an acute renal
      insult. For these reasons, potential missing creatinine values will be considered evidence of
      an improving patient and absence of AKI for that day.

      ICU discharge and eventual readmission will also be tracked for secondary analyses. The death
      of the patient will also be recorded and included among the negative outcomes.

      Assessment of efficacy The efficacy of both predictors will be evaluated with the
      construction of ROC curves. Due to the lack of previous studies on the subject, a current
      estimate of the accuracy of clinicians' prediction of AKI is not currently available.
      Appropriate sample size calculations to obtain sufficient power are therefore not feasible at
      the moment. Statistical analysis will be performed at the end of the data collection as
      follows. A ROC curve will be plotted both for the computer-based AKIpredictor and the
      continuous (%) estimate of AKI risk assessed by the clinicians at each of the three
      time-points (upon admission, on day 1 and at 24 hours). The area under the curve (AUC) of
      each plot will be calculated. The AUCs will then be compared in pairs by bootstrapping, and a
      significance value of the comparison will be derived. Subgroup analysis will be performed
      with the same approach.

      Ethics and regulatory approvals:

      The trial will be conducted in compliance with the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki
      (current version) and the principles of good clinical practice. This protocol will be
      submitted to the ethical committee of the UZ Leuven. Any eventual subsequent protocol
      amendment will also be submitted to the ethical committee and Regulatory Authorities for
      approval.

      By virtue of its non-interventional nature and that all the data will be stored in anonymized
      fashion, informed consent will not be required from the subjects if this is deemed
      appropriate by the local Ethical Committee. The investigators shall treat all information and
      data relating to the study as confidential and shall not disclose such information to any
      third parties or use such information for any purpose other than the performance of the
      study. The collection, processing and disclosure of personal data, such as patient health and
      medical information is subject to compliance with applicable personal data protection and the
      processing of personal data (Directive 95/46/EC and Belgian law of December 8, 1992 on the
      Protection of the Privacy in relation to the Processing of Personal Data).
    
  