
    
      This research study will evaluate the effectiveness and estimate the feasibility of
      administering an investigational drug called 'CN-105' (the study drug), to prevent
      postoperative cognitive decline, delirium (serious confusion) and underlying brain
      inflammatory and brain activity changes in adults 60 years and older undergoing surgery. The
      word "investigational" means the study drug is still being tested in research studies and is
      not approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA).

      It is hoped that CN-105 will block signaling via a gene known as ApoE4, the most common gene
      implicated in late life Alzheimer's disease.

      Depending on when patients enroll in this study, participants will receive either a placebo
      or a progressively higher dose of CN-105 until the safest and best tolerated dose is reached.
      The study drug is given via IV (intravenous, meaning through a vein) infusion in the
      hospital. Study drug infusions will be given up to 4 days after surgery.

      Participants will also perform memory and thinking tests, as well as complete a survey and
      functional assessments, both prior to surgery and again 6 weeks after surgery. Each of those
      research visits will last about 1 hour.

      Additionally, the investigators will collect a blood sample and a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
      sample prior to the participant's surgery, 24 hours after surgery, and again 6 weeks after
      surgery. To obtain the CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) sample, investigators will perform a lumbar
      (the lower part of the spinal column) puncture. During surgery, investigators will also
      record participant brain waves from the scalp using an EEG (electroencephalography) monitor.
      An electroencephalography monitor reads the electrical activity of the brain in different
      places using a cap with sensors that is worn on the head.

      Although previous studies have not found any associations between the study drug and any
      serious medical problems, investigators will monitor its effect on wound healing and
      postoperative infections.

      Benefits of this study include the possibility of fewer problems in thinking and memory after
      surgery if this study drug works as hoped.

      Risks of participation in this study include headache, infection/discomfort from the lumbar
      puncture, discomfort from the blood draw, and minor skin irritation or redness from the EEG
      and heart rate monitor procedures.
    
  