
    
      This is a single arm, non-interventional, uncontrolled, multicenter study in metastatic
      colorectal cancer patients receiving cetuximab-based infusional 5-FU regimen as 1st line
      treatment. Patients who are pathologically diagnosed as metastatic colorectal cancer with RAS
      wild type genotyping will be recruited in this study. Patients enrolled will be those for
      whom it is planned to treat their colorectal cancer with a cetuximab-based infusional 5-FU
      regimen according to the locally approved label. Cetuximab-based treatment is anticipated to
      be continued until disease progression, intolerable toxic effects, or withdrawal of consent
      occurs. Blood samples from patients enrolled in this study will be collected before the start
      of cetuximab-based chemotherapy, and every 3 months during the 1st line treatment with the
      cetuximab-based regimen. Blood sampling is also required at 2-3 weeks after disease
      progression following cetuximab treatment and after disease progression on 2nd line
      treatment. The blood samples will be sent to a central laboratory at the Taipei Institute of
      Pathology and evaluated for RAS genotype, using MassARRAY technique. The objectives of this
      study are described as follows.

      Primary objective:

      To observe the percentage of detected RAS mutations (circulating DNA) during 1st line
      cetuximab exposure in Taiwanese patients.

      Secondary objective:

        1. To observe the time to onset of detected RAS mutation in circulating DNA.

        2. To observe the quantification mutation load change under treatment.

        3. To evaluate clinical response and resection rate of metastases with 1st line cetuximab
           exposure.

        4. To evaluate treatment duration with 1st line cetuximab.

        5. To investigate the correlation between the occurrence and levels of acquired RAS
           mutations post-cetuximab treatment and clinical outcomes (progression free survival and
           overall survival).

        6. To calculate total 1st line cetuximab exposure dosage.

        7. To investigate correlation between the irinotecan or oxaliplatin dosage and acquired
           resistance.
    
  