
    
      Leukodystrophies are a group of approximately 30 genetic diseases that primarily affect the
      white matter of the brain, a complex structure composed of axons sheathed in myelin, a glial
      cell-derived lipid-rich membrane. Leukodystrophies are frequently characterized by early
      onset, spasticity and developmental delay, and are degenerative in nature. As a whole,
      leukodystrophies are relatively common (approximately 1 in 7000 births or almost twice as
      prevalent as Prader-Willi Syndrome, which has been far more extensively studied) with high
      associated health-care costs; however, more than half of the suspected leukodystrophies do
      not have a definitive diagnosis, and are generally classified as "leukodystrophies of unknown
      etiology". Even when a diagnosis is achieved, the diagnostic process lasts an average of
      eight years and results in test expenses in excess of $8,000 on average per patient,
      including the majority of patients who never achieve a diagnosis at all. These diagnostic
      challenges represent an urgent and unresolved gap in knowledge and disease characterization,
      as obtaining a definitive diagnosis is of paramount importance for leukodystrophy patients.
      The diagnostic workup begins with findings on cranial Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI)
      followed by sequential targeted genetic testing, however next generation sequencing
      technologies (NGS) offer the promise of rapid and more cost effective approaches.

      Despite significant advances in diagnostic efficacy, there are still significant issues with
      respect to implementation of NGS in clinical settings. First, sample cohorts demonstrating
      diagnostic efficacy are generally small, retrospective, and susceptible to ascertainment
      bias, ultimately rendering them poor candidates for utility analyses (to determine how
      efficient a test is at producing a diagnosis). Second, historic sample cohorts have not been
      examined prospectively for information about impact on clinical management (whether the test
      results in different clinical monitoring, a change in medications, or alternate clinical
      interventions).

      To address these issues, the study team conducted an investigation of patients with suspected
      leukodystrophies or other genetic disorders affecting the white matter of the brain at the
      time of initial confirmation of MRI abnormalities, with prospective collection of patients
      randomly received on a "first come, first served" basis from a network of expert clinical
      sites. Subjects were randomized to receive early (1 month) or late (6 months) WGS, with SoC
      clinical analyses conducted alongside WGS testing. An interim analysis performed in May 2018
      assessed these study outcomes for a cohort of thirty-four (34) enrolled subjects. Two of
      these subjects were resolved before complete enrollment and were retained as controls. Nine
      subjects were stratified to the Immediate Arm, of which 5 (55.6%) were resolved by WGS and 4
      (44.4%) were persistently unresolved. Of the 23 subjects randomized to the Delayed Arm, 14
      (60.9%) were resolved by WGS and 5 (21.7%) by SoC, while the remaining 4 (17.4%) remained
      undiagnosed. The diagnostic efficacy of WGS in both arms was significant relative to SoC
      (p<0.005). The time to diagnosis was significantly shorter in the immediate WGS group
      (p<0.05). The overall diagnostic efficacy of the combination of WGS and SoC approaches was
      26/34 (76.5%; 95% CI = 58.8% to 89.3%) over <4 months, greater than historical norms of <50%
      over more than 5 years.

      The study now seeks to determine whether WGS results in changes to clinical management in
      subjects affected by undiagnosed genetic disorders of the white matter of the brain relative
      to standard diagnostic approaches. We anticipate that WGS will produce measurable downstream
      changes in clinical management, as defined by disease-specific screening for complications or
      implementation of disease-specific therapeutic approaches.
    
  