
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, participant blinded, single center, clinical trial
      to ascertain whether a smartphone connected digital incentive spirometer, the Smartpeakflow™,
      can improve participant adherence to prescribed incentive spirometer exercises. A control
      group will be given the Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center (BIDMC) standard Voldyne
      Incentive Spirometer with an attached microcontroller that will record use of the spirometer.
      The study group will be given the Smartpeakflow ™ connected to an android motherboard
      (microcomputer, aka smartphone) running Android OS, that will then record use and store this
      data on the smartphone itself. Participants will then use an app on the BIDMC provided
      smartphone to view their usage and receive encouragement to continue using their device. All
      data on use will be recorded locally and there will be no internet connection or
      communication with participant through this device at any time.

      The study is designed as a technology evaluation to assess feasibility, usability and assess
      for early impact on our outcome measures. The investigators plan to enroll up to 50
      participants to participate in this study.

      At the time of enrollment, participants who meet the inclusion criteria, and none of the
      exclusion criteria, will be asked to opt in to the study. Participants will read information
      about the study and research staff will explain what it means to "opt in". Prospective
      participants will be given ample time to read the informed consent form and ask any
      questions.

      Once enrolled, participants will be randomized electronically to either the study group or
      control group. Participants that are randomized to the control group will have no further
      training or instructions at the Pre-Anesthesia Testing Clinic. Participants that are in the
      study group will be instructed on how to use the smartphone application and device which will
      then be provided to them in the Post Anesthesia Care Unit after their surgery. Both groups
      will retain and utilize the spirometers throughout their hospital stay, and the devices will
      be collected by the investigators when the participant is discharged from the hospital.
    
  