
    
      This project is a test of the efficacy of a new diagnostic method for imaging the airways
      known as virtual bronchoscopy. Virtual bronchoscopy is performed by acquiring thin section
      computed tomography (CT) images of the chest. These images are used to generate a three
      dimensional model of the tracheal and bronchial walls on a graphics workstation in 3-D. The
      model can be manipulated to allow the viewer to "fly through" the tracheobronchial tree
      providing views similar to those obtained during bronchoscopy. The technique produces a
      display of the human bronchial system in a readily understood format. Moreover, it allows
      investigation of post-stenotic portions of the bronchial tree that are beyond the reach of
      fiberoptic bronchoscopy. Further, virtual bronchoscopy may be used to guide interventional
      procedures. The patients that will be studied in this protocol will be those having
      inflammatory, infectious, or neoplastic pulmonary processes who would have had a chest CT for
      clinical reasons. These patients will be recruited from current NIH protocols. The study
      design consists of scanning of the thorax using thin section helical CT, followed by three
      dimensional surface rendering of the airways and transfer of the digital data to videotape.
      In one of four parts of the protocol, the virtual bronchoscopy will be compared with results
      from fiberoptic bronchoscopy in a blinded study. In a second part of the protocol, the
      virtual bronchoscopy will be used to perform a descriptive analysis of cavitary lung lesions.
      In the third part, the utility of virtual bronchoscopy in diagnosis of neoplastic lesions of
      the chest will be studied. In the fourth part, certain technical problems in the virtual
      bronchoscopy procedure will be investigated. The patients will only have fiberoptic
      bronchoscopy for clinically indicated purposes. We anticipate that virtual bronchoscopy will
      be diagnostically efficacious for disorders which produce a morphologic alteration in
      bronchial anatomy.
    
  