
    
      All postmenarchal female patients over the age of 14 years will be eligible to enter the
      study except for the following exclusions: serum creatinine > 2.0 mg/dl, patients with
      diabetes insipidus-nephrogenic and central, those on lithium therapy and diuretics that
      cannot be held for 3 days. Subjects under the age of 18 will be asked tp complete the
      questionnaire, which requires that the subject record the weights at 8 AM and 10 PM and
      whether they get up at night to urines. If they gain more than three pounds during the day
      and get up at night to urinate, they will be asked to keep a record of their weights and the
      number of times they get up at night to urinate for one week. A consent form for patients
      below the age of 18 has been developed for this age-group. Patients will be recruited from
      referrals from the different subspecialty groups in the Winthrop Hospital system, mainly
      pediatric endocrinology, obstetric and gynecology, neurology, ophthalmology, cardiology and
      gastroenterology practices.

      The subjects will be placed in the following groups:

      Group I: nonedematous patients

        1. polycystic ovaries

        2. autonomic failure-male and female

        3. Age and gender matched normals Group II-Edema not meeting criteria for idiopathic edema

      1.Congestive heart failure 2.Cirrhosis of liver 3.Nephrosis 4.Pregnancy 5.Pre eclampsia
      6.Unknown cause of edema, such as obesity. Group III-Orthostatic weight gain of > 3 lbs
      between 8 AM and 10 PM with nocturia

        1. Idiopathic edema, include patients in Group I-fluctuations in weight/nocturia

        2. Autonomic failure, include patients in Group I-fluctuations in weight/nocturia

      Group III subjects will undergo the following procedures:

        1. Record weights in pajamas before bedtime and after excreting first urine upon arising in
           the morning for 1 week.

        2. Record the number of times they get up to urinate and collect all urines passed
           overnight in separate containers, including urine excreted upon arising in the morning.
           The patient will record the time and date on each container provided for this purpose.

      24 hour study:

        1. Blood will be collected after waking up the following morning and at 7 PM the same day.
           Blood will be analyzed for renal profile, renin, aldosterone, uric acid, phosphorus

        2. All urines excreted from the time after arising in the morning and collected in separate
           containers throughout the following 24 hours and the times of collection noted. The
           urines will be analyzed for osmolality, sodium, potassium, creatinine, uric acid, urea
           and phosphorus.

      Bioimpedance Studies:

      Patients in group III will have bioimpedance studies performed in the morning upon arising
      and in the evening to determine any change in body composition, i.e. change in volume of
      extracellular, intracellular and total body water.

      Collection of Interstitial Fluid:

      In selected patients, an 18g needle will be placed subcutaneously in the mid-thigh and the
      interstitial fluid collected by gravity to obtain 2-3 ml of fluid for analysis in late
      afternoon. A blood sample will be obtained after completion of the sampling of edema fluid.
      The serum will be analyzed for renal profile, total protein, albumin and electrophoresis. The
      interstitial fluid will analyzed for renal profile, osmolality, total protein, albumin and
      electrophoresis.

      Fluorescein dye studies:

      Patients in Group III and selected patients with polycystic ovaries without edema over the
      age of 18 years will undergo a standard ophthalmologic fluorescein dye test to detect any
      increase in vascular endothelial permeability. Patients with diabetes mellitus will be
      excluded from this study.
    
  