
    
      The spread of multi-drug resistant bacteria and financial burden of periprosthetic joint
      infection exacerbate the need for treatments to address pathogenic contamination and expedite
      healing. Although rare, these infections can place a great financial burden on the health
      care system and are often associated with increased hospital length of stay, compromised
      function, reduced quality of living, and increased likelihood of follow-up surgeries.
      Bacterial infection can further compound this problem with the widespread, prolonged use of
      prolonged antimicrobial prophylaxis. It is know that there is a high frequency of infections
      after open and arthroscopic shoulder surgery caused by Propionibacterium acnes. Because P.
      acnes normally colonizes under the epidermal layer in sebaceous glands, topical skin
      preparations, skin cleansers, and antibiotics may be unable to completely penetrate the deep
      layers of the skin to eradicate its colonization in all layers of the skin.

      A novel, wireless, low-level microcurrent-generating antimicrobial device has been observed,
      in vitro, to exhibit electricidal effect in the presence of antibiotic and multidrug
      resistant clinical wound isolates. These energy-based systems were originally employed to
      augment wound healing process, reduce infection, and address edema and pain in the recent
      decades. Low-level microcurrents have been recently expanded into the orthopedic space as a
      bacterial growth inhibitor both in vitro and in vivo. Procellera (JumpStart) is a sterile
      single layer dressing consisting of a matrix of alternating silver (Ag) and zinc (Zn) dots
      that are held in positions on a polyester substrate with biocompatible binder. Dressing is
      then activated in the presence of a conductive fluid, which may come from wound exudate or
      exogenous fluids, such as saline.

      Many studies have been done already on the wound healing and pain management properties of
      JumpStart, but only few have explored its bactericidal properties. To date, no MRSA strains
      have been found to possess Ag-resistant genes, and there is no known mechanism of bacterial
      resistance to all heavy metal ions. However, studies have suggested that the widespread and
      uncontrolled use of Ag+ in wound care may result in more bacteria developing resistance.
    
  