
    
      Clinical characterization (Burns, Tremoulet, Sivilay, Roberts, Jain): Over the 8 months of
      enrollment funded by this supplement, 30 sites will collect data on KD and MIS-C patients
      using the detailed case report form in our REDCap database. This includes data on patient
      demographics, clinical presentation, laboratory data, treatments, clinical outcomes, and
      cardiovascular outcomes on all KD and MIS-C patients so that the investigators can develop a
      systematic picture of the different patient groups (see details below).

      Parent observations (Kim): To learn about signs and symptoms in the patient and family
      members leading up to acute presentation a parent questionnaire will be devised and analyzed
      by Dr. Katherine Kim with the Patient and Parent Advisory Board. The investigators will
      collect known signs and symptoms as well as those that may not have been previously reported
      in the literature and record presence/absence, location in the body, and severity level by
      day. The questionnaire will be available as a mobile/web application and via paper. With
      these data, the investigators will conduct an exploratory analysis to characterize symptom
      phenotypes and the relationships of these profiles with demographic features and clinical
      characteristics. In addition, the investigators will assess whether we can detect differences
      between the symptom phenotypes of KD and MIS-C. The investigators will conduct cluster
      analysis to identify symptom phenotypes from aggregate symptom observations blinded as to
      presumed or verified diagnosis (n=100 with each sign/symptom on each day as a distinct data
      point). Phenotypes may include characteristics such as symptoms that co-occur or are
      independent, and symptom burden index (e.g., number symptoms present). The investigators will
      use Ward's hierarchical cluster analysis to estimate the number of likely clusters.3 The
      investigators will apply K-means nonhierarchical cluster analysis repeated 100 times in a
      leave-one out validation model to assure repeatability and stability within the model. The
      investigators will create score indices analyzed with logistic regression, principal
      component analysis, factor analysis and correlation analysis. The investigators will then
      assess whether clusters are related to verified diagnosis and/or sociodemographic
      characteristics such as age, race/ethnicity, geography. The investigators will use
      discriminant analysis techniques and more recent classification techniques such as CART to
      examine if symptom phenotypes of KD and MIS-C are dissimilar. If information in terms of
      symptom clusters at a point in time or a trajectory of a single symptom over time are
      insufficient to distinguish between the two conditions, this would provide support for the
      argument that the recorded symptoms are insufficient for discrimination or that the two
      disease entities are not symptomatically different. This exploratory analysis will provide
      important information that can be further developed for clinical guidance and parent
      education.

      Photography (Kim, Tremoulet): Patient photographs of the eye, mouth/tongue, and rash will be
      collected as a novel addition to the usual clinical data. These photographs obtained before
      treatment will document the presence or absence of conjunctival injection and perilimbal
      sparing, mucocutaneous changes in the oropharynx including changes in the vermillion border
      (erythema, fissuring) and the tongue (strawberry tongue), and the nature of the rash. The
      photographs will be subjected to analysis using facial recognition software and artificial
      intelligence approaches used by our collaborators at the University of Southern California
      Center for Artificial Intelligence in Society led by Hayden Shively and Lucas Hu to evaluate
      whether a computer algorithm can be created that can differentiate the clinical
      characteristics of MIS-C from photographs taken of children with acute KD and those with
      other pediatric febrile illnesses. Dr. Katherine Kim at UC Davis will compare the photos with
      the questionnaire responses to supplement the parent descriptions of signs and symptoms and
      validate the observations. This comparison can result in enhanced descriptions using the
      words of parents themselves. Photography is needed to document these physical findings as the
      investigators have learned over the years that physician description of these features is
      woefully inaccurate. The finding, for example, of a strawberry tongue is a specific injury
      pattern that involves sloughing of the cornified tips of the filiform papillae and has
      historically been associated with only 3 conditions: staphylococcal and streptococcal
      toxin-mediated disease and KD.
    
  