
    
      Anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (AION) is one of the most common causes of optic
      neuropathy after the age of 50. There is currently no available treatment and although up to
      40% of patients have some spontaneous improvement within the first few months, most patients
      remain visually devastated. About 50% of patients retain relatively spared central visual
      acuity with an inferior altitudinal visual field defect. These patients usually complain of
      difficulty reading and loss of depth perception.

      Recently, training-induced enlargement of visual field defects has been demonstrated in some
      patients with VF defects secondary to lesions of the retrochiasmal visual pathways. This
      computer-based Vision Restoration Therapy (VRT) was developed in Germany and has been
      FDA-cleared in the United States for the past one year.

      VRT is currently available at Emory for patients with homonymous hemianopia. Patients work on
      personally-designed software (on a laptop at home) twice daily (30 minutes each) for 6
      months. Zones of partially damaged neurons, which are usually located between the intact and
      damaged area of the visual field (transition zone) are deliberately stimulated by VRT. There
      is only anecdotal evidence that this visual restoration therapy may be helpful in enlarging
      the visual field of patients with optic neuropathies.

      The goal of this pilot study is to evaluate the effect of VRT on the visual function of
      patients with unilateral or bilateral AION, who have good central vision (at least 20/60) and
      altitudinal visual field defects. The effect of VRT will be evaluated by visual acuity, color
      vision, stereo vision, Humphrey VF (24-2 SITA standard) testing, and scales evaluating
      reading speed and vision-based quality of life. These measures will be repeated before VRT,
      at 3 months, at 6 months, and at 1 year after VRT. 20 patients will be included in the study.
      Patients will be randomized at inclusion between VRT and sham (placebo)-training (10 in each
      group). The 10 patients receiving sham training will then receive VRT for the following 6
      months if they so choose. All data will be analyzed in a blinded fashion. The company
      developing VRT in the United States (NOVAVISION) has agreed to provide VRT and sham-training.
    
  