
    
      Obesity has been declared the number one illness of the 21st Century in industrialized
      countries, and is reaching epidemic proportions. Adoption, twin and family studies have
      reported that obesity has a strong heritable component and in particular, it has been
      suggested that BMI in adults is due to genetic influence rather than shared family
      environment. Binge eating in obese patients was escribed. Therefore, it has been proposed
      that binge eating disorder (BED) may contribute to obesity in some individuals. Subjects with
      BED are frequently obese. Conversely, BED is often observed in obese populations, especially
      the severely obese. Therefore, these findings suggest that BED is a major public health
      problem and a contributor to the obesity epidemic.

      Evidence from twin studies suggests a significant contribution of genetic factor in binge
      eating. Interestingly, it was reported that relatives of patients with BED displayed a higher
      prevalence of obesity, particularly of severe obesity than relatives of probands without BED.
      Adoption and twin studies have consistently shown that, regardless of the population studied,
      genetic factors play an important role in determining the risk of developing binge eating.

      Pharmacological studies reported that topiramate plays an important role in the treatment of
      binge eating disorder. It has been observed improvement of co-occurring binge eating disorder
      in patients receiving topiramate for treatment of mood disorder. In addition, topiramate was
      associated with anorexia and weight loss in clinical trials with epilepsy patients. Also,
      topiramate has been demonstrated efficacy in pilot and controlled studies for binge eating
      disorder (BED) associated with obesity. A paper review showed that topiramate weigtht loss
      was reported in 21 of 32 studies analyzed.

      Recently, it was approved on 4/6/2012 the use of topiramate in combination with phentermine
      (QNEXA) in the Meeting of the Endocrinologic and Metabolic Drugs Advisory Committee of the
      Food and Drug Administration, as an adjunct to diet and exercise for weight management in
      patients with a body mass index (BMI) equal to or greater than 30 kilograms (kg) per square
      meter or a BMI equal to or greater than 27 kg per square meter if accompanied by
      weight-related co-morbidities.

      Finally, animal studies have shown that stimulation of the lateral hypothalamus by glutamate
      and glutamate agonists, including kainite/AMPA agonists, causes an intense, rapid,
      dose-dependent increase in food intake.

      Topiramate weight loss was reported in 21 of the 32 studies analysed and reached 5% reduction
      of the baseline weight prior treatment in 5 studies. Among the studies analyzed, a frequent
      finding was that the grater weight loss was associated with higher BMI at baseline. Also,
      diabetic patients were related with glycemic control and normalization of blood pressure in
      hypertensive subjects. Topiramate was generally well tolerated and serious adverse events
      were rare. Also, the use of topiramate was reported effective for weight reduction and
      improvement in glycemic control in obese subject with type 2 diabetes treated with metformin
      monotherapy.

      Topiramate, which is approved for use in epilepsy and migraine prophylaxis, has multiple
      sites of action that might contribute to its neurostabilizing effects.

      The mechanism of action of topiramate in BED is unknown. It may act as an appetite
      suppressant or satiety enhancer or somehow influence the reward system acting on appetite,
      and thereby reduce binge eating. Topiramate has not been shown to affect serotoninergic
      neurotransmission. Indeed, it has been shown to attenuate nicotine-induced increases in
      mesolimbic extracellular dopamine and norepinephrine, but not serotonin, release.

      In addition, topiramate antagonizes glutamate receptors. Since glutamate and glutamate
      agonists rapidly elicit intense eating when injected into the lateral hypothalamus of rats,
      topiramate might reduce binge eating through glutamate antagonism. However, the mechanism of
      action of topiramate is unknown. Therefore, it is very important pharmacogenetic and
      neurofunctional brain studies that could help to elucidate the role of topiramate such as a
      new treatment for binge eating disorder associated with obesity in Mexican population.

      Genetic studies will be important to elucidate the mechanism by which putative susceptibility
      variation in candidate genes influences in pharmacological improvement of binge eating
      disorder in obese patients treated with topiramate. DNA variants in coding and regulatory
      regions of genes will be both useful for systematic genome scans, for identifying genes
      associated with drug response, and for examining integrated systems of gene pathways as an
      important step on the route to functional genomics. Initiatives focused on identification of
      gene variants would greatly facilitate postgenomic research on the links between genes,
      brain, behavior, and treatment response.

      Many drug targets (e.g., receptors, transporters, enzymes) that contribute to the
      pharmacodynamics of drug response are not only key players in the regulation of
      neurotransmitter systems but also directly or indirectly modify the development and
      plasticity of neural networks involved in drug effects. There is now considerable evidence
      that variability of epigenetic profiles of genes critical to neurocircuit development and
      function influences drug responses.

      There are a number of different kinds of natural genetic variation that result in functional
      protein differences and affect drug responsiveness. The type of variation that is most
      prevalent in the genome and, arguably, the most relevant to common diseases and complex
      traits is represented by single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs).

      There are many ways in which genetic variability, the differences in the sequence of specific
      genes, can lead to variability in drug responsiveness and it is likely that each of these
      mechanisms is involved in determining the effects for example in anticonvulsant drugs. Up to
      now, the focus of pharmacogenetic studies has been on "polymorphic drug metabolism". This
      methodology examines variations in the sequence of genes that code for drug-metabolizing
      enzymes. SNPs have been found to underlie variability in drug-metabolizing capacity and such
      variability is often documented as differences in drug and metabolite profiles between
      patients. It is likely that variation in genes coding for proteins involved in other
      pharmacokinetic processes, including drug absorption, distribution, and excretion, also help
      to determine individual differences in responsiveness although these mechanisms are not as
      well studied regarding genetic influences.

      Another way in which genetic variation plays a role in drug responses depends upon
      polymorphisms in genes that code for proteins involved in drug targets or that mediate drug
      action. These differences in response apply both to therapeutic effects and adverse effects
      so that both efficacy and toxicity may be influenced by individual genetic variation. In the
      future, pharmacogenetic discoveries related to drugs will make individualization of therapy
      even more difficult in the sense that the genetic substrate that mediates efficacy may well
      differ from that mediates toxicity. As such, two different sets of genes and genotypes will
      need to be examined in order to match patients with the most appropriate treatment.

      Differences in response apply both to therapeutic effects and adverse effects so that both
      efficacy and toxicity may be influenced by individual genetic variation.

      In addition, compounds exist with mechanisms of action that either differ from standard drugs
      or are not yet fully characterized. These compounds and their mechanisms will lead eventually
      to the investigation of specific, possibly novel, genes in relation to drug responsiveness.
      Because behavioral traits are the most complex traits of all, response to
      psychopharmacological drugs, which modify behaviour traits, is likely to profit from this
      integration. Moreover, behavioural pharmacogenetics will make a major contribution to
      functional genomics.

      Connecting drug response with relevant functional DNA variants and differences in brain
      regions represents the ultimate goal for pharmacogenetic research playing an important role
      in advancing this understanding. Brain imaging can provide valuable links in understanding
      the potential importance and clarifying the pathophysiological mechanisms that lie between
      associations of genetic variability and clinical response. Analysis of additional
      populations, such as Mexican population, is also necessary to achieve these goals. The use of
      brain imaging combined with genetics can aid in understanding the pathophysiological
      mechanism of the disease. Additionally, brain imaging has the ability to bridge between
      preclinical research and human pharmacological studies.

      This study proposes the collection of samples which will result from this study will form the
      basis with which to identify the genes associated with neurofunctional brain areas involved
      in food craving in obese patients with BED treated with topiramate in Mexican population. The
      pharmacogenetic analysis in obese patients associated with BED will identify gene variants
      associated with the treatment efficacy to topiramate in Mexican population.

      Objective The main objective of this study is to analyze the genetic variants and
      neurofunctional brain areas associated with food craving in obese patients with binge eating
      disorder responders to topiramate treatment.

      Study design:

      This will be a naturalistic clinical study designed to analyze the effect of genetic variants
      and neurofunctional brain areas associated with food craving in patients with obesity and
      binge eating disorder responders to topiramate.
    
  