
    
      Anaemia is a cause and consequence of PPH. A cohort study in Assam, India found that women
      with moderate or severe anaemia had a greatly increased risk of PPH. Women with moderate
      anaemia had a 50% increased risk, whereas those with severe anaemia had a ten-fold increased
      risk of PPH. Anaemic women may be more susceptible to uterine atony due to impaired oxygen
      transport to the uterus. Anaemic women experience worse outcomes after PPH. An international
      survey of 275,000 women found that severe maternal outcomes after PPH were nearly three times
      more common in anaemic than in non-anaemic women. Even moderate bleeding can be life
      threatening in anaemic women. Excessive bleeding after childbirth worsens maternal anaemia,
      resulting in a vicious circle of bleeding and adverse outcomes. Fatigue due to anaemia
      severely limits a mothers' wellbeing and her ability to care for her children. Despite
      efforts to prevent anaemia, many women labour with perilously low haemoglobin levels

      Tranexamic acid (TXA) inhibits fibrinolysis by blocking the lysine binding sites on
      plasminogen. TXA reduces surgical bleeding and death due to bleeding in trauma patients. The
      WOMAN trial assessed the effects of TXA in 20,060 women with PPH. When given within three
      hours of birth, TXA reduced death due to bleeding by nearly one-third (RR=0.69, 95% CI 0.52
      to 0.91, p=0.008). However, for many women, treatment is too late to prevent death from PPH.
      Most PPH deaths occur in the first hours after giving birth and women with anaemia are at
      greatly increased risk. Whilst there have been some trials of TXA for the prevention of PPH,
      most have serious flaws and none collected data on maternal health and wellbeing. There is
      currently no reliable evidence about the effectiveness and safety of TXA for preventing PPH.

      The WOMAN-2 trial will determine reliably the effects of TXA in anaemic women who give birth
      vaginally.
    
  