
    
      An MPRAGE is a high quality anatomical image of the brain. This is used as an anatomical
      overlay, so that all data collected from the advanced sequences below can be correlated with
      the correct brain areas in three dimensional space.

        1. Resting BOLD - BOLD stands for blood oxygen level dependent. This functional sequence
           allows for the viewing of the thinking brain at rest, and looks at brain areas that are
           functionally working together at the same time. The brain is in one of its most active
           states when it is at rest, and literature has shown that a few neurological illnesses
           such as OCD, depression, and pain have been associated with analyzing the data in this
           sequence.

        2. Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) - ASL tracks the blood flow in the brain visually and gives
           a statistical value of how much blood is in each region in cc's per 100 grams of brain
           per second.

        3. Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) - DTI tractography shows the different fiber tracts in
           the brain using a 3D model. Fiber tracts are the physical neural pathways that can show
           disruption or connection in communication between different areas of the brain. This is
           an effective technique when looking at traumatic brain injury.

        4. Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) - MRS measures the ratios of select chemical
           compounds in the brain in relation to each other. This has shown to be effective in
           analyzing memory loss, dementia, and Alzheimer's type disorders.

        5. Stimulated BOLD - The same sequence as the resting BOLD, except the brain is being
           scanned during the completion of a task, instead of rest. By specifying the task
           (visual, problem solving, language, etc), the different areas of the brain working
           together to complete this task can be imaged. This is very effective for task specific
           symptoms and deficits.

      The methods and procedures in this study are all under the observational category. MRI's are
      FDA approved and are non-experimental devices. The goal of this research is to assess the
      feasibility of the scan itself, so everything done with respect to the scan is considered
      observational in nature. If the subject drops out of the study, anything described in this
      protocol will still be able available to the subject as standard medical care. The
      observational procedures will involve recording data for the advanced MRI scans, and no
      information will be shared for research if the subject does not sign the consent form.
    
  