
    
      Assessment of patients in the emergency department, ICU or surgical department can be a
      challenging process. This assessment includes collecting data regarding injury mechanism,
      vital signs, and physical examination findings before proceeding to other ways of evaluating
      the patient.

      These data are then integrated in an attempt to form an accurate patient status and to
      determine the urgency of treatment and evacuation to the next echelon of care when necessary.
      When caring for multiple casualties, this process takes on an even greater importance because
      the care of one patient can delay the care of others.

      Triage and monitoring of patients consists of several vital sign measurements including blood
      pressure, oxygen saturation, and heart rate. These measurements show varying correlation with
      patient survival, Injury Severity Score, and the need for life-saving intervention. The most
      significant disadvantage of their use as part of patient triage is that they are all
      retrospective by nature, and a change in these indices occur only after substantial
      hemodynamic compromise and failure of compensatory mechanisms when life-saving interventions
      might be too late.

      Because of the limitations inherent to these vital signs, several calculated indices have
      been suggested in an attempt to integrate a few vital signs into more sensitive metrics for
      prediction of patient outcomes. The most frequently described metric is shock index (SI),
      which is calculated as the ratio between heart rate and systolic blood pressure (normal
      values, 0.5 Y 0.7), and has demonstrated superiority over other indices. Heart rate
      variability has also been frequently suggested as a calculated vital sign, but its clinical
      utility in the acute blood loss setting has proven to be limited as a result of its high
      interpatient and intrapatient variability.

      The Compensatory Reserve Index (CRI) represents a new paradigm for measuring the
      physiological reserve of integrated cardiopulmonary mechanisms (e.g., tachycardia,
      vasoconstriction, breathing) that compensate for reduced central blood volume. Advanced
      sensor technologies such as photoplethysmography enable noninvasive recordings of analog
      arterial waveforms. Using a model that induces stepwise reduction of central blood volume
      (lower body negative pressure [LBNP]) in volunteering young healthy human test subjects,
      through application of negative pressure to the lower body, feature-extraction and
      machine-learning techniques were used to reveal subtle changes in waveform features that are
      associated with a declining volume. This approach enables simultaneous abstraction and
      normalization of various characteristics of the arterial waveform. As such, the CRI aims to
      reflect the capacity of all factors contributing to physiological compensatory mechanisms,
      including compensatory reflexes, various muscle contractions, and respirations, among others.
      Compensatory Reserve Index values range from 0 (complete decompensation) to 1 (full
      compensatory reserve available). The device itself is compact, light, and can be placed on
      the patient's finger, and the test can be performed within 30 s, making the measurement of
      CRI theoretically feasible in almost any setting. The approach was designed to prospectively
      identify ongoing loss of central blood volume and thus estimate the point at which
      individuals will experience hemodynamic decompensation (onset of shock) well in advance
      compared with changes in standard or "legacy" vital signs.

      The CRI has been shown to correlate with central blood volume changes in human subjects in
      laboratory conditions however, few published data regarding its use in other experimental
      models or its ability to detect actual blood loss exist. The current investigation represents
      the first effort to apply a small pulse oximeter unit to test the CRI on human subjects
      admitted to hospital.

      The purpose of the study is to test the hypothesis that a novel noninvasive CRI monitoring
      algorithm would demonstrate greater sensitivity and specificity compared with standard vital
      signs for identifying patients with blood loss, SIRS, sepsis thus enabling appropriate
      measures to be taken.
    
  