
    
      Von Willebrand factor (VWF) is a large plasma glycoprotein involved in thrombosis,
      haemostasis and vascular biology. Its principal role is to capture platelets at sites of
      blood vessel endothelial injury allowing the formation of an unstable platelet plug, an
      initial step in haemorrhage control. Following this, blood coagulation at the site of injury,
      results in the formation of fibrin strands, which enmesh and stabilise the platelet plug,
      until vessel repair is complete.

      Following endothelial cell (EC) injury or activation, VWF becomes tethered, either to EC or
      to the now exposed subendothelial matrix (SEM). The shear stress generated by blood flow
      causes the tethered VWF to unravel, exposing its multiple platelet binding sites, resulting
      in platelet capture.

      One of the most important domains of VWF is the A1 domain, which contains binding sites for
      the platelet receptor glycoprotein Ib (GPIb) as well as for collagen and heparin.

      Heparin is the major component of mast cell secretory granules. Its precise physiological
      role is unknown but it has been proposed that it plays a role in host defense mechanisms. The
      anticoagulant properties of heparin, however, have been exploited pharmaceutically and
      exogenous heparin has been a clinically useful anticoagulant since 1935.4 It is known to
      potentiate the effects of antithrombin in the inactivation of Factor Xa and thrombin.
      Unfractionated heparin therapy can be monitored using the plasma activated partial
      thromboplastin time (APTT), anti -factor Xa activity or, if very high doses are used, the
      activated clotting time (ACT). The APTT is most commonly used to monitor UFH therapy as it is
      cost effective and readily available. However, it is subject to several pre-analytical and
      analytical variables and therefore may not provide an accurate measure of the anticoagulant
      effect of UFH. The anti-factor Xa activity is less susceptible to confounding factors and
      makes this the assay of choice but it is less widely available.

      Studies have shown that heparin also competitively inhibits the binding of VWF to platelet
      receptor GPIb, an anti-thrombotic effect distinct from its anticoagulant role via
      Antithrombin. This may in part explain why the bleeding complications that occur during
      heparin therapy are unpredictable, despite using current techniques for monitoring its
      anticoagulant effect. This additional activity of heparin is likely to be of particular
      importance during CPB when very high concentrations of heparin are used to maintain the
      extracorporeal circuit and which have to be reversed to restore haemostasis at the end of the
      procedure. The currently available literature remains incomplete in the characterisation of
      the changes that occur in VWF-dependent platelet function and do not explain the observed
      recovery of VWF function above baseline levels, after reversal of heparin with protamine
      sulphate. The aim of this study is to fully characterise the changes in VWF concentration,
      function and platelet interaction, that occur in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and
      receiving intravenous unfractionated heparin, intra- and post-operatively. This is a
      prospective, single centre cohort study involving the analysis of haemostatic assays in
      patients receiving IV heparin during cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. The study aims to
      recruit 30 eligible adult patients (>18 years) undergoing first time cardiac surgery for the
      correction of atrial septal defects or undergoing tissue mitral valve replacement and
      receiving IV unfractionated heparin intra-operatively at Royal Brompton Hospital. The study
      aims to recruit a uniform population of 30 patients which should be achieved within 6 months.
    
  