
    
      Children and adolescents admitted with confirmed diagnosis of AML will be assessed for
      eligibility criteria and enrolled in the study. Subjects will be randomized into experimental
      and control groups using table of random numbers generated by computer.Experimental group
      will receive aprepitant capsules as an add-on therapy (Apretero; Hetero Laboratories, India)
      1 h prior to chemotherapy on days 1-3 in addition to ondansetron.

      The dose of aprepitant will be as per our previous study based on weight groups'

        -  Weight 15-40 kg : Aprepitant 80 mg on days 1-3

        -  Weight > 41kg: Aprepitant 125 mg on day 1 followed by 80 mg on days 2-3 Patients will be
           required to swallow the whole capsule and opening of capsule will not be permitted.

      All three doses will be administered under supervision by the sister allocated. Control group
      will receive ondansetron (0.15 mg/kg) as an intravenous bolus 30 minutes before chemotherapy
      followed by every 8 hourly. Metoclopramide will be used as a rescue agent.

      The data will be collected from each patient in a proforma from day 1 to day 13 of
      chemotherapy by the investigator during his/her stay as in-patient in the hospital. The
      Proforma will contain different items dealing with demographic and clinical characteristic of
      the subjects.A Diary will be maintained for nausea and vomiting record. It will help in
      collecting data regarding nausea, vomiting along with some additional variables like-
      chemotherapy related toxicities, requirement of any rescue medication.

      The subjects will be given the diary for symptom assessment on day 1 and it will be filled up
      under the supervision of the investigator on day 1 and day 2 of chemotherapy. The diary will
      be given to the subjects on day 3 of the chemotherapy to record all the events (incidence and
      severity of nausea, vomiting, requirement of rescue medication and other toxicities).

      Edmonton's symptom assessment criterion will be used in the diary for assessing severity of
      nausea. The NCI guidelines will be used to assess the severity of vomiting based on the data
      provided by the patient in the diary.Patients/attendant's will be explained about the filling
      of the diary and will maintain it for recording of vomiting under the investigator's
      supervision.

      A modified intention-to-treat population (patients who receive chemotherapy, take one or more
      doses of study drug, and have one or more post treatment measurements) will be used for
      efficacy analysis.Proportion of patients with CR will be compared between patients with or
      without aprepitant.
    
  