
    
      Currently, the standard practice consists of utilizing a traditional colonoscope and depends
      on manual manipulation and learned expertise of human anatomy. If the scope guide reduces the
      amount of external maneuvers required, this will reduce patient discomfort and may reduce
      sedative requirements during procedure. Reduction in mechanical loops formed while advancing
      the scope will reduce the amount of time per procedure and potentially increase polyp
      detection. Additionally, if the physician is unable to complete the procedure (as indicated
      by reaching the cecum (anatomical structure signifying the end of the colon), clinical data
      may be lost. A reduction in the number of loops formed and ease of advancing scope will
      facilitate completion of procedure.

      The patient will not be exposed to any inconvenience, danger, or discomfort as a result of
      study participation. Patients undergoing colonoscopy as SOC, if enrolled into the study, will
      be randomized by envelope at the time of procedure. If the patient is randomized to the scope
      guide, the PI simply activates the guide through a mechanical button placed on the scope
      itself. If the patient is randomized to SOC, the physician proceeds with the colonoscopy
      without activating the scope guide. The same scope is used regardless of randomization
      result. The physician is able to turn on and off the magnetic function through the touch of a
      button.

      The colonoscopy procedure itself is not dependent upon use of the scope guide. However, the
      use of the scope guide may assist the physician in performing the procedure with less
      physical manipulation. Without the use of the ScopeGuide, an endoscopist is able to perform
      the procedure based off anatomical knowledge and through the use of maneuvers such as
      changing the patient position and applying external pressure. This study will test if the
      ScopeGuide decreases the number of maneuvers required for completion. If the number of
      maneuvers is decreased, it is likely to decrease patient discomfort and decrease the duration
      of procedure. This study will also test of the ScopeGuide increases completeness of
      procedure.

      300 patients undergoing SOC colonoscopy will be randomized 1:1 to receive traditional
      colonoscopy or scope guide assisted colonoscopy.

      This study will assess if the scope guide assist function improves successful completion of
      colonoscopy, time to completion, and reduction in the number of mechanical loops and external
      maneuvers required to advance the scope. Polyp detection rate and amount of sedation required
      will also be assessed.
    
  