
    
      Chronic tic disorders (CTD), including Tourette syndrome (TS), are associated with a
      substantially reduced quality of life. Medication treatments are no more than 50-60%
      effective in randomized controlled trials, and are often discontinued due to unacceptable
      side effects. Behavioral therapies require ability to participate in therapy and a specially
      trained therapist, but weekly visits to psychologists are impractical for many Americans,
      especially in rural areas. Patients strongly desire new treatment options.

      In June, 2020, Stephen Jackson's group at the University of Nottingham published a
      fascinating report in Current Biology on a potential novel treatment for tics. The radical
      new idea arose from observations associating movement inhibition with 8-14 Hz activity in
      motor cortex. They first showed that rhythmic 12 Hz peripheral stimulation of the median
      nerve evoked synchronous contralateral EEG activity over primary sensorimotor cortex, whereas
      arrhythmic stimulation at the same mean rate did not. As hypothesized, median nerve
      stimulation (MNS) at 12 Hz created small but statistically significant effects on initiation
      of voluntary movements. Importantly, they also demonstrated that this stimulation did not
      meaningfully impair concentration, suggesting that the effect did not operate through simple
      distraction. They went on to test 10 Hz MNS in 19 TS patients, and demonstrated using blinded
      video ratings a significant reduction in tic number and severity during 1-minute stimulation
      epochs vs 1-minute no-stimulation epochs. They noted that in some participants, benefit
      lasted beyond the end of the stimulation epoch. Videos accompanying the publication showed
      dramatic benefit during MNS in some subjects. Although the authors appropriately noted the
      steps needed to generalize these results to clinical practice, news reports already have led
      a number of TS patients to contact them asking for treatment. The Nottingham group has
      referred such inquiries from the U.S. to me as leader of our Wash.U. Tourette Association of
      America (TAA) Center of Excellence.

      The hypotheses of this project are that the tic benefits reported by the Nottingham
      investigators are replicable, that they are specific to rhythmic stimulation, which alone
      entrained cortical activity, rather than to a placebo effect, and that they endure past the
      end of stimulation.

      This project (a) will replicate the Nottingham findings using identical methods, and (b) will
      test rhythmic MNS against a placebo treatment (arrhythmic MNS at the same mean frequency). It
      also will gather additional preliminary data needed for a future R01 application, including
      response and tolerability with longer (5-minute) stimulation blocks, and the duration of
      benefit after the end of a stimulation block.
    
  