
    
      The worldwide high prevalence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) requires lifestyle changes and
      new dietary prevention strategies based on the increased intake of foods rich in bioactive
      compounds, as they are considered as key mediators in the improvement of CVD risk factors.

      Regarding the health impact on anthocyanins in cardiometalic risk factors and CVD, it has
      been reported that the dietary intake of anthocyanidins, among other classes of flavonoids,
      is inversely associated with the risk of CVD in both European and US population. A recent
      systematic review of human randomized controlled trials assessing the impact of anthocyanins
      on CVD markers concluded that one of the main modulated outcomes is the decrease of serum
      LDLc. However, diet does not appear to be sufficient to guarantee the necessary intake to
      obtain the health benefits specified. Due to previous positive results, a new dietetic
      strategy based on biofortification to enhance the levels of phenolic compounds is proposed in
      the present project.

      The primary aim is to evaluate the added health value of the presence of anthocyanins in the
      redlove apple, versus a green apple with a similar matrix, on cardiometabolic risk, and
      compare the matrix effect on the bioavailability of anthocyanins and its effect on
      cardiometabolic risk factors, in two different products with a similar phenolic and
      anthocyanin content: the redlove apple and an aronia drink.

      Participants will be 120 free-living volunteers (men and women) with high LDL-cholesterol
      levels (LDL-cholesterol levels ≥115 mg/dl and ≥190 mg/dl) who will be assigned to one of the
      three arms for 6-week period of dietary treatment. The design of the intervention study is
      controlled, parallel and randomized. The intervention will combine acute (post-prandial) and
      chronic effects.

      The sample size was computed to be sufficient to detect differences between treatment groups
      regarding the evolution in time of LDL-cholesterol levels. Justification of chosen sample
      size is based on assuming a 0.50mmol/l (approximately 15%) post-intervention difference of
      LDL-cholesterol and a 0.72mmol/l Standard deviation (SD), with α=0.05 and 1-β=0.08 a minimum
      of 22 participants were required. However the sample size will be 40 participants for arm, in
      total 120 subjects.

      For the acute study, the investigators have chosen n=10 subjects per arm according to the
      most studies that have addressed the metabolic effects of a postprandial intervention have
      been performed using a very similar number of subjects with statistically good quality
      results.
    
  