
    
      The presence of lymph node metastases has a large impact on prognosis and treatment in
      head-and neck cancer patients and necessitates treatment intensification. Determining lymph
      node status, however, is a challenge because up to 20% of patients with a pre-operative
      clinically negative neck will have occult metastases in the neck dissection specimen. One
      promising technique is USPIO-enhanced MRI, an MR-imaging technique in which ultrasmall
      superparamagnetic iron oxide (USPIO) particles are intravenously infused as a contrast agent
      in patients 24-36 hours before the MRI examination and has proven to be of value in detecting
      lymph node metastases in various types of cancer. The investigators want to validate this
      technique in a cohort of head and neck cancer patients who undergo neck dissection surgery.
      Histopathology wills serve as the gold standard and the correlation will be made on a
      (neck)level-to-level and node-to-node basis. Since the investigators have no experience in
      reading USPIO-enhanced MR images of the neck with 3-dimensional iron-sensitive MR sequences,
      this study starts with an explorative part and will be followed by the pilot study. The
      explorative component aims at obtaining knowledge regarding visual features of
      (non-)metastatic cervical lymph nodes on USPIO-enhanced MR images. The purpose is that the
      observers work through a learning curve. The information obtained will be used to develop a
      scoring system for the radiologic assessment of cervical lymph nodes in the subsequent part
      of our study.

      If USPIO-enhanced MRI is successful, this may obviate the need for a sentinel node procedure
      for example. Furthermore, it could guide treatment such as the performance of more selective
      neck dissections and de-escalation of the radiation dose to healthy tissues in order to
      decrease morbidity but maintaining high cure rates.
    
  