
    
      This was a qualitative study using semi-structured interviews with caregivers of
      community-dwelling people with dementia. Purposive sampling was used to recruit caregivers
      from Jockey Club Centre for Positive Ageing.

      Study protocol would be explained by principal investigator (PI) to case managers in JCCPA,
      including aim and objectives of the study, inclusion criteria, exclusion criteria and
      interview questions.

      Due to privacy issues, case managers in JCCPA would screen family caregivers and ask for
      consent to participate in the study. Contact method of caregivers would be provided to PI by
      JCCPA case managers upon caregivers' consent. PI would then approach caregivers to arrange
      online meetings and send the online consent form to them for their consideration and
      reference. Risks and benefits of the study and the right to withdraw from the study at any
      time would be explained to participants before consent form was signed by participants
      digitally.

      Demographic data such as age, gender, education level, years of caregiving to PWD and time
      spent on caregiving would be collected using Google form.

      All interviews were conducted through video-conferencing individually. Each interview took 30
      to 45 minutes. The interviews were started with an close-ended question, such as "Do you know
      the special approach that JCCPA has adopted?" and "Did the staff tell you about it at
      admission?", followed up by open-ended questions such as "What do you know about case
      management?" and "Can you tell me how your caregiving experience was with case manager
      support?". Subsequent probing questions aimed at clarification and gaining more insight on
      their experience, was guided by the participant's responses.

      Demographic data such as age, gender, education level, years of caregiving to PWD and time
      spent on caregiving would be collected using Google form.

      All interviews were conducted through video-conferencing individually. Each interview took 30
      to 45 minutes. The interviews were started with an close-ended question, such as "Do you know
      the special approach that JCCPA has adopted?" and "Did the staff tell you about it at
      admission?", followed up by open-ended questions such as "What do you know about case
      management?" and "Can you tell me how your caregiving experience was with case manager
      support?". Subsequent probing questions aimed at clarification and gaining more insight on
      their experience, was guided by the participant's responses. Video-conferencing software such
      as Zoom, Google Meet, or facetime would be used for online interview. Interview would be
      conducted in JCCPA to ensure privacy of the participants.

      All interviews were audio recorded and transcribed verbatim. The transcript were validated by
      re-listening to the tapes.

      Constant comparative analysis was used for coding and category development. Incidents were
      identified in the data and coded. Initially, codes were identified as much as possible. Codes
      were compared to others codes. Codes were then collapsed into categories. In this process,
      incidents in a category were compared with previous incidents. New data was compared with
      data obtained earlier during the analysis phases. In intermediate coding, basic data was
      transformed into more abstract concepts allowing the theory to emerge from the data. Then,
      advanced coding was done to facilitate integration of the final grounded theory.
    
  