
    
      The postpartum period is a very stressful experience for most mothers. It is generally
      accepted that women are physically and psychologically stressed during the postpartum. After
      delivery a woman may have worries about the health of her baby and her own health, as well as
      the changes in her body, their impact on her sexual life and her relationship with her
      husband. In addition, she may have financial concerns, concerns about breastfeeding, and be
      worried about bonding with her baby.

      First-time mothers also have to adapt to their new role as mothers and may be worried about
      their abilities to take care of the baby. This may cause first-time mothers to develop
      postpartum depression and other emotional problems. First-time mothers can feel overwhelmed,
      exhausted, and isolated in their new roles.

      We are conducting a study to look interventions that may reduce stress in the postpartum
      period for first- time mothers. One of these interventions is an educational film that
      describes the common stressors that first-time parents go through in the early postpartum
      period. The other is a hotline service that women can call at anytime during the first 3
      months postpartum to ask about problems she or the baby may be experiencing. The hotline will
      be answered by a trained midwife.

      Women will be recruited from all hospitals in Beirut after delivery and before they leave the
      hospital. If they agree to participate in the study, they will be randomly assigned to
      receive the film, the hotline service, both the film and the hotline service, or a CD
      containing children's songs. Women will be visited at home at 2 - 3 months after delivery by
      a researcher to complete questionnaires designed to measure stress, depression and anxiety in
      the postpartum.

      Participants will not receive any financial compensation for participating in the study.
      Although women may benefit from the interventions, we will not know that until we complete
      the study. However, participation in this study may benefit mothers in the future if we find
      that the hotline or educational video are useful. There are no risks associated with
      participation in this study.

      Confidentiality of the collected information will be ensured. All information collected will
      be used for research purposes and will be kept anonymous.
    
  