
    
      Our postulated null hypotheses is that implants placed with osseodensification surgical
      drilling compared to those placed with subtractive conventional drilling technique in a
      split-mouth design will result: 1) in the same insertion torque values and; 2) in the same
      implant stability quotient values when measured immediately after implant placement and after
      1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 12 weeks.

      Study Objectives:

      A.Perform a prospective clinical study to investigate implant primary stability through
      measuring insertion torque values (IT) and Implant stability quotient (ISQ) when implants are
      placed using a standard drilling protocol (subtractive surgical drilling, as recommended by
      implant manufacturers) compared to osseodensification drilling protocol in a split-mouth
      design.

      B.Implant stability quotient will be measured once the implant is placed (immediate), and at
      1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 12 weeks.

      C.To investigate, and analyze these two surgical drilling protocols as function of different
      implant manufacturers with variations in diameter and length.

      D.To further track trends in the use of osseodensification surgical drilling once the patient
      receives the prosthodontic reconstruction.

      E.To share the knowledge generated from this prospective analysis through scientific
      publications.

      Patient selection will focus on the need of implant placement on the right and left
      equivalent sides of the maxilla/mandible where one side/site will receive implant(s) placed
      post osseodensification surgical drilling recommended by Densifying reference guide of the
      Densah Burs manufacturer, and the other side/site will receive implant(s) placed by the
      control technique, which is subtractive conventional drilling recommended by the specific
      implant manufacturer.

      Written consent will be provided, explained and signed by participating patients.

      After Dental Implant procedure, participating patients will be asked to participate in 6-12
      weekly follow visits.

      Subjects Selection and Study Procedures:

      Study will include 23 patients. Patients should not be in another research study or have not
      been in any other research study in the last 90 days. They cannot be in this study if they
      are abusing any drugs.

      Patient selection will focus on the need of implant placement on the right and left
      equivalent sides of the maxilla/ mandible where one side/site will receive implant(s) placed
      by osseodensification surgical drilling, and the other side/site will receive implant(s)
      placed by the control surgical technique, which is subtractive conventional drilling
      recommended by the implant manufacturer.

      Written consent will be provided, explained and signed by participating patients.

      After Dental Implant procedure, participating patients will be asked to participate in 6-12
      weekly follow-up visits.

      Subjects Selection and Study Procedures:

      Study will include 23 patients. Patients should not be in another research study or have not
      been in any other research study in the last 90 days. They cannot be in this study if they
      are abusing any drugs.

      Patient selection will focus on the need of implant placement on the right and left
      equivalent sides of the maxilla/mandible where one side/site will receive implant(s) placed
      by osseodensification surgical drilling according to the manufacturer Densifying Reference
      Guide, and the other side/site will receive implant(s) placed by the control surgical
      technique, which is subtractive conventional drilling recommended by the implant
      manufacturer.

      Written consent will be provided, explained and signed by participating patients.

      After Dental Implant procedure, participating patients will be asked to participate in 6-12
      weekly follow visits.

      Study Procedures:

        1. The implants will both be placed in the upper or lower jaw. The type of placement
           preparation of the first implant will be determined by chance (like flipping a coin)
           with other preparation for the second implant site. Implant primary stability will be
           measured initially by measuring insertion torque values utilizing a commercially
           available and validated clinical torque indicator.

        2. Implant placement procedure will follow the standard of care for both implants for pain
           management, aftercare and infection control.

        3. During the weekly follow-up visits over 6-12 weeks, we will conduct a non-invasive
           measurement of Implant secondary stability utilizing the Osstell device. Osstell is a
           resonance frequency tester, which will create a gentle vibration in the implant and
           measure how much if any the implant moves with the vibration. The device will not loosen
           the implant. The standard of care is after confirming implant healing and high secondary
           stability is to initiate yearly follow up as needed.
    
  