
    
      Background:

        -  Metastatic or locally advanced refractory/recurrent human papillomavirus
           (HPV)-associated malignancies (cervical, vulvar, vaginal, penile, anal, and
           oropharyngeal) are incurable and poorly palliated by standard therapies.

        -  Administration of autologous tumor infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) generated from
           resected metastatic melanoma can induce objective long-term tumor responses.

        -  Young TIL can be generated from HPV-associated tumors.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine if autologous Young TIL infused in conjunction with high dose aldesleukin
           following a non-myeloablative lymphodepleting preparative regimen can mediate tumor
           regression in patients with metastatic or locally advanced refractory/recurrent
           HPV-associated cancer.

        -  To study immunologic correlates associated with Young TIL therapy for HPV-associated
           cancers.

        -  To determine the toxicity of this treatment regimen.

      Eligibility:

      - Patients greater than or equal to 18 years old with a pathologically confirmed diagnosis of
      metastatic or locally advanced refractory/recurrent HIPV-16+ or HPV-18+ human
      papillomavirus-associated cancer.

      Design:

        -  Patients will undergo biopsy or resection to obtain tumor for generation of autologous
           TIL cultures and autologous cancer cell lines.

        -  All patients will receive a non-myeloablative lymphocyte depleting preparative regimen
           of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg/day intravenous (IV)) on days -7 and -6 and fludarabine
           (25 mg/m(2)/day IV) on days -5 through -1.

        -  On day 0 patients will receive between 1 times 10 (9) to 2 times 10(11) young TIL and
           then begin high dose aldesleukin (720,000 IU/kg IV every 8 hours for up to 15 doses).

        -  Clinical and immunologic response will be evaluated about 4-6 weeks after TIL infusion.

        -  Initially, 18 evaluable patients will be enrolled in two cohorts; patients with cervical
           cancer and those with non- cervical cancer. For each cohort, if 0 to 2 of the 18
           patients experience a clinical response, then no further patients will be enrolled. If 3
           or more of the first 18 evaluable patients enrolled have a clinical response, then
           accrual will continue until a total of 35 evaluable patients have been enrolled in each
           cohort. Up to 73 patients may be enrolled over approximately 3-4 years.
    
  