
    
      In response to the National Institutes of Health's call for empirically-supported models to
      implement research-tested health behavior change interventions, the investigators are testing
      a 3-step (prepare, roll-out, and sustain) Community Implementation Model (Model) in
      low-resource African communities. The Model is adapted from a theory-based model that was
      effective in implementing a hospital-based intervention in South Africa. Its participatory
      approach, clear steps, observable benchmarks and multimedia Toolkit will facilitate community
      ownership and build capacity to use the Model with fidelity. The investigators test whether
      community members can use the Model to effectively implement a peer group HIV prevention
      intervention called Mzake ndi Mzake (Friend to Friend) with fidelity and effectiveness.
      Developed and tested among several populations in Malawi (R01-NR08058), This intervention was
      efficacious in rural, central Malawi. Intervention communities had significantly better
      outcomes, including higher condom use and HIV testing for both adults and adolescents, than
      control communities. The investigators evaluate the Model's implementation success in
      Phalombe District, in southern Malawi, where the HIV prevalence of 14.5% is twice that of
      other regions. Our implementation partnership builds on the strengths and contributions of
      four sectors. Traditional community leaders mobilize their communities' assets, including
      volunteers to implement the peer group intervention. The District health system has formal
      authority in health organizations, contributes health knowledge, and provides local District
      health data. The District political administration supports this effort by negotiating
      donated space for an HIV/AIDS Resource Centre and by pledging funds to sustain and expand
      implementation of the intervention if communities demonstrate that they can use the Model.
      Researchers from both US and Malawi universities contribute the Model and the Mzake ndi Mzake
      peer group intervention, provide supportive technical assistance for program implementation
      and conduct evaluations. Specific aims and their evaluation are: Aim 1) Prepare and support 3
      communities in using the Model to implement Mzake, evaluated with community self-rated
      benchmarks. Aim 2) Identify implementation patterns across sites and over time, evaluated
      using mixed-methods to integrate benchmarks with observations, focus groups, and interview.
      Aim 3) Assess communities' effectiveness in using the Model to implement Mzake, evaluated
      with a stepped wedge design (N = 864). Analysis uses multi-level hierarchical models to
      detect improvements over time in HIV-related behavioral outcomes and a symptoms interview
      with a nurse for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in participants who have received the
      intervention compared to the delayed-intervention control group. (Our original plan to use
      rapid STI tests appropriate for community use had to be modified because of new data
      indicating unacceptable reliability and withdrawal of one test from the market). Aim 4)
      Evaluate whether the Model is feasible, acceptable, effective and sustainable when used by
      communities to implement Mzake, examined by integrating data from Aims 1-3. If successful,
      this study will advance implementation science by providing a replicable evidence-based model
      for implementation of HIV prevention interventions and other health interventions by
      low-resource communities.
    
  