
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the toxicities and estimate the maximum tolerated dose or the recommended phase
      2 dose of dasatinib in pediatric patients with refractory solid tumors.

      II. Determine the toxicities of dasatinib in pediatric patients with imatinib
      mesylate-resistant Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) leukemia.

      III. Characterize the pharmacokinetics of dasatinib in pediatric patients with refractory
      solid tumors or imatinib-resistant Ph+ leukemia.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Preliminarily define the antitumor activity of dasatinib in pediatric patients with
      refractory solid tumors within the confines of a phase I study.

      II. Obtain pilot data on the activity of dasatinib administered in pediatric patients with
      Ph+ leukemia.

      III. Assess the biologic activity of dasatinib on tumor cells when available. IV. Determine
      the phosphotyrosine state of SRC and ABL substrates and correlate this with dasatinib dosage
      and antitumor activity (pharmacodynamics study).

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, dose-escalation study. Patients are stratified according to
      disease (solid tumors vs leukemia).

      Stratum 1 (solid tumors): Patients receive oral dasatinib twice daily on days 1-28. Treatment
      repeats every 28 days for up to 24 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of dasatinib until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which ≥ 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

      Stratum 2 (leukemia): Patients receive dasatinib as in stratum 1. Cohorts of 3-12 patients
      receive escalating or de-escalating doses of dasatinib. The MTD is defined as the dose
      preceding that at which 7 of 12 patients experience DLT.

      After completing study treatment, patients are followed for 1 month.
    
  