
    
      There is considerable public and professional interest in complementary and alternative
      approaches, including meditation, for managing posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), but
      there is little empirical support to guide their use. Multiple meditative techniques can be
      applied to the amelioration of this disorder, and the literature suggests that they operate
      by different mechanisms. Compassion meditation is a meditative practice focused on the wish
      that others and the self may be free of suffering. Because this particular form of meditation
      has been shown to elicit positive emotion and feelings of connection with other people, it is
      uniquely well suited to addressing PTSD, which is characterized by strong negative affect,
      deficits in positive emotion and social connectedness.

      Compassion meditation has not been evaluated for use with PTSD patients; therefore, the goal
      of this project is to refine an existing compassion meditation protocol for individuals with
      PTSD, to examine the safety and feasibility of this approach and to collect data to make
      initial estimates of efficacy. The proposed project will be completed in two phases.

      In phase one, the compassion meditation protocol will be executed with individuals with PTSD
      and iteratively refined based on therapist and participant feedback. In addition, a
      relaxation protocol that was used in a previous PTSD trial will be modified to match the
      length and format of the meditative practice.

      In phase two, the investigators will complete a pilot study to examine the feasibility of
      conducting a randomized trial comparing these interventions and to provide information that
      will allow us to better design future projects. Ultimately, the research informed by this
      project may provide an additional option for treatment of PTSD, which would be an important
      contribution because existing treatment approaches are not universally acceptable or
      effective.
    
  