
    
      Many HIV infected individuals live in crowded urban settings. These conditions are associated
      with repeated intestinal parasite infections (helminths), which may alter the immune system
      in individuals with HIV and AIDS. This alteration in the immune system may increase both the
      susceptibility to other infections and the severity of these infections in these individuals.
      Prior studies have shown that in HIV infected individuals, intestinal parasites are
      associated with increased levels of the HIV virus circulating in the blood. Studies have also
      clearly shown that in individuals with HIV, progression to AIDS can be predicted by the
      quantity of HIV virus detectable within the blood. It is important to determine whether
      treating helminth co-infection in patients with HIV will help individuals control HIV
      infection and slow disease progression.

      The investigators propose a study to characterize the short-term effect of antihelminth
      therapy on HIV disease progression, markers of immune activation and levels of HIV in genital
      secretions. They also plan to determine the prevalence of helminth infection in individuals
      with HIV. This study will examine factors that might affect an individual's risk of helminth
      infection, such as CD4 count, viral load, age, gender and duration of time spent in an urban
      setting. In addition, the investigators will conduct a randomized clinical trial to determine
      the effect of treating helminth infection on markers of immune activation, HIV disease
      progression and risk of transmission as measured by HIV-1 RNA in genital secretions. The
      study will be conducted in a group of HIV infected individuals in and around Nairobi, Kenya
      who do not yet meet criteria for highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).

      Identifying inexpensive and practical methods to delay HIV progression offers tremendous
      public health benefits. At the present time, highly active antiretroviral therapy is being
      rapidly scaled up in resource poor settings. The demand for these drugs currently far
      outweighs the capacity for such services to be provided in many regions. For the millions of
      people infected by HIV in resource poor settings, delaying immunosuppression for months to
      years could allow important developments in infrastructure which would permit the maximum
      number of individuals to benefit from highly active antiretroviral therapy.

      HIV-1 infected adults will be invited to participate in the trial. Women whose pregnancy test
      is positive will be excluded from the study. A physical examination will be conducted on all
      prospective clients, and those found to have clinical pallor, or signs and symptoms of active
      tuberculosis, malaria or malignancy will be excluded from the study. Individuals with CD4
      counts greater than 250 cells/mm3 will be enrolled in the study following written informed
      consent.

      HIV-1 infected patients who meet inclusion and exclusion criteria will be enrolled for
      screening. Stool samples will be collected at enrollment and evaluated for ova and parasites.
      All patients who are found to have positive stool parasite examinations and who consent to
      participate will be enrolled in the treatment phase of the study. Those who are found to have
      negative stool specimens will not continue to the treatment phase. Baseline demographic and
      socio-economic data will be collected from these patients in order to evaluate the prevalence
      and correlates of helminth infection among HIV-1 infected individuals. Those who are found to
      be infected with helminths but who decline to participate in the treatment phase will be
      treated at no charge with a three day course of albendazole (400 mg/day) by the study
      investigators. Those patients who are enrolled in the treatment phase will have blood
      collected for baseline plasma HIV-1 RNA levels. Computer-generated random number allocation
      will be used to assign treatment group. The pharmacy at the Kenya Medical Research Institute
      will be responsible for the determination of randomization group and distribution of
      albendazole and placebo. The pharmacy will also be responsible for maintaining records
      regarding treatment group. Treatment will be provided in the form of a six 200 mg pills of
      albendazole or six placebo pills identical in appearance. Both placebo and albendazole will
      be provided in an identical appearing envelope. Treatment arms consist of either initial
      therapy with albendazole (400 mg per day for three days) or two placebo pills per day
      initially. All patients will be required to visit the clinic twelve weeks after enrollment.
      At this twelve week visit, stool samples will again be collected for evaluation of helminth
      infection. Plasma CD4 count and HIV-1 RNA level measurements will be repeated at this twelve
      week visit. All patients who received placebo initially as well as all patients with evidence
      of helminth infection will be treated with open-label albendazole therapy regardless of
      initial treatment arm. At enrollment and the twelve week visit, lymphocytes will also be
      isolated from serum samples for assessment of immune activation markers. Genital HIV-1 RNA
      levels will be compared in 100 individuals randomized to immediate versus deferred
      antihelminthics at baseline and at the 3-month visit (prior to receiving deferred therapy).
      This will provide data quantifying the potential effect of anti-helminthic treatment on
      genital HIV-1 RNA. Consenting adults will have genital swabs collected (semen or
      cervical/vaginal) and placed in freezing media prior to cryopreservation and transport to
      Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center for HIV-1 RNA assays.

      Patients who do not follow-up as directed will be contacted by the administrative support
      team at their homes in order to determine the reason for each loss to follow up. Any adverse
      events during the treatment period will be reported and managed accordingly at the treatment
      clinic.
    
  