
    
      Hypereosinophilic syndromes (HES) are a heterogeneous group of disorders characterized by
      peripheral eosinophilia and evidence of eosinophil-related end organ damage. Although a high
      proportion of patients respond initially to corticosteroid therapy, high doses are often
      necessary to control the eosinophilia and clinical symptoms, and many patients become
      relatively refractory to therapy and/or develop serious side effects.

      Dexpramipexole (KNS 760704) is a synthetic aminobenzothiazole shown to safely reduce blood
      eosinophils counts in individuals with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) in several
      clinical trials. The purpose of this proof-of- concept study is to evaluate the effect of
      dexpramipexole, an orally bioavailable small molecule, on circulating and tissue eosinophils
      in 10 subjects with HES. Following completion of eligibility assessments, subjects with
      absolute eosinophil count (AEC) < 1000/uL will enter a lead-in period, during which a
      standardized weekly corticosteroid taper will be undertaken to establish a "minimally
      effective corticosteroid dose" in each study subject. For subjects whose symptoms are stable
      but AEC > 1000/uL at the time of enrollment, the steroid dose at the time of enrollment will
      be defined as the minimally effective corticosteroid dose and no taper will be performed.
      Once the minimally effective corticosteroid dose is established, treatment with
      dexpramipexole 150 mg twice daily will begin. A standardized corticosteroid taper will begin
      after 12 weeks of treatment with dexpramipexole to determine the "minimally effective
      corticosteroid dose on dexpramipexole". Eosinophil counts and routine chemistries will be
      monitored weekly during corticosteroid tapering. End organ assessment, including
      echocardiogram, pulmonary function testing, and other studies as appropriate will be
      performed at study baseline, initiation of dexpramipexole therapy, 3 months after initial
      dosing with dexpramipexole, and the end of study visit. Bone marrow assessment will be
      performed prior to and after 12 weeks of dexpramipexole. Drug levels will be assessed prior
      to dexpramipexole and at week 12 and week 24 of dosing.

      The primary efficacy endpoint will be the number of subjects with a greater than or equal to
      50 % change in prednisone (or equivalent) dose to maintain absolute eosinophil count (AEC) at
      or below baseline (pre-enrollment) levels and control clinical symptoms (responder analysis).
      Assuming that 10 patients received study drug per protocol, at least 4 of them will need to
      meet this endpoint to significantly show (at the usual two-sided 5% level, equivalent to the
      onesided 2.5% level) that at least 10% of patients respond to dexpramipexole (exact binomial
      test). Safety will be assessed as the incidence of adverse events (AEs) (including serious
      adverse events [SAEs]), vital signs, clinical laboratory assessments, physical examination,
      electrocardiogram (ECG) tests, and body weight. Exploratory endpoints will include
      determination of the effect of dexpramipexole on measures of eosinophil activation,
      cytokine/chemokine profile and other immunologic parameters, and reduction of tissue
      eosinophils.
    
  