
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility of mobilizing and infusing autologous lymphocytes (ALI)
           following immunomodulatory therapy comprising azacitidine and lenalidomide in patients
           with multiple myeloma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the ability to proceed with autologous stem cell transplantation in these
           patients.

        -  Determine the complete response rate at 6 months following transplant in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the progression-free survival and overall survival of patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the time to progression in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Monitor the toxicity of post-autologous stem cell infusion of autologous lymphocytes.

        -  Measure the pre- and post-ALI immune response to cancer testis antigens (CTA)
           (CTA-specific Ig and T-cell repertoire).

        -  Study the expression of CTA in multiple myeloma before and after azacitidine therapy.

      OUTLINE:

        -  Immunomodulatory therapy: Patients receive azacitidine subcutaneously on days 1-5 and
           oral lenalidomide on days 6-21. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 3 courses in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Lymphapheresis: Patients undergo autologous lymphocyte harvest on day 22 of courses 2
           and 3.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT): Patients undergo single or tandem ASCT
           using standard protocols.

        -  Autologous lymphocyte infusion (ALI): Patients undergo ALI approximately 28-60 days
           after ASCT.

      Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study for correlative
      laboratory studies, including CTA-specific immune monitoring by RT-PCR, ELISPOT assays, and
      flow cytometry. Tissue samples from bone marrow aspirates are also collected at baseline,
      during course one, and after course three for CTA expression and methylation studies.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  