
    
      Oxygen therapy is one of the most prescribed treatments in medicine, especially in intensive
      care patients. It is an adjuvant therapy as a respiratory support whose goal is to maintain
      optimal ventilation and oxygenation and to improve alveolar gas exchange. HFNC is in full
      swing and increasingly used as an alternative to standard oxygen therapy in patients with
      acute respiratory failure (ARF). This nasal oxygenation technique, humidified and heated at
      high flow, initially developed in pediatrics is a simple and effective alternative for adults
      in IRA hospitalized in intensive care. The OHD makes it possible to deliver a gas mixture
      with a maximum flow rate of 70 l/min of oxygen via a generator connected to a chamber for
      humidifying and heating gases at 37 °. OHD offers several physiological benefits that could
      encourage its use: administration of a high oxygen-inspired fraction (FiO2), generation of a
      low level of flow-dependent PEP, reduction of nasopharyngeal resistance, and wash-rinse of
      the anatomic dead space, thanks to the high nasal flow. It is also a comfortable technique
      compared to the NIV.

      This means of oxygen therapy is increasingly used in routine practice in our patients
      admitted to intensive care for non-hypercapnic respiratory insufficiency, especially since
      this reason for admission represents approximately 30% of our patients. HFNC is interesting
      because of the pathophysiological advantages mentioned above, especially in patients with ARI
      who are hypoxemic. These patients have a greater respiratory work with an increase in
      inspiratory flow of up to 30-40l/min on average and exceed 60l/min or 120l/min. This flow
      rate can not be compensated by conventional oxygen therapy, limited to 15 l / min, which is
      insufficient to guarantee a constant and high oxygen concentration during inspiration, hence
      the interest of OHD capable of delivering a maximum flow rate of 70 l/min.

      Its use has grown exponentially since 2015, the year of publication of the multicenter study
      FLORALI, comparing different methods of oxygen therapy (OHD vs conventional oxygen therapy vs
      NIV / OHD) in 310 patients with acute non-hypercapnic respiratory failure (2). In this study,
      the primary endpoint is the rate of intubation. There was no significant difference (p =
      0.17) between the 3 techniques used: OHD (37.7%), conventional oxygenation (46.8%) and VNI /
      OHD (50%), despite a clear decrease in mortality at J90 (p = 0.02) in the OHD group (12%)
      compared to the other 2 strategies but this is a secondary endpoint. However, in the most
      hypoxemic patients (P / F ≤ 200), post-hoc analysis found a significantly lower intubation
      rate (p = 0.009) in patients treated with OHD alone (35%) compared with conventional oxygen
      therapy group (53%) and NIV / OHD (58%), with the same observation regarding the number of
      days without mechanical ventilation. These authors also published a post-hoc analysis of this
      study. They analyzed the effect of OHD in 82 immunocompromised patients and concluded that
      OHD patients had a better prognosis compared to those treated with conventional oxygen
      therapy or NIV. They found a significantly lower intubation rate (p = 0.04) in the HFNC group
      (31%) compared to conventional oxygen therapy (43%) and NIV (65%). These results should be
      interpreted with caution since Lemiale et al., In a large multicenter randomized study, did
      not show a significant difference in morbidity-mortality intubation in 374 immunosuppressed
      IRA patients treated with NIV (HFNC alone or NIV / HFNC) or standard oxygen therapy. These
      results are interesting, although they are post-hoc analyzes and secondary judgment criteria.
      A multicenter French randomized study was published recently and confirms the results of the
      Lemiale team (HFNC is no better than standard oxygen therapy in immunocompromised patients).
      For these patients, another multicenter randomized controlled French trial is underway
      (NCT02978300).

      Currently more and more patients, admitted for non-hypercapnic ARF, are treated with HFNC in
      first intention as well as post-extubation, because of its pathophysiological advantages, its
      comfort and its simplicity of setting up and use, despite the result of a single multicenter
      randomized study, positive only on secondary endpoints and post-hoc analyzes.

      In addition, a recent meta-analysis, by Corley et al., Of randomized studies on the use of
      HFNC concluded in an insufficient level of evidence to recommend HFNC in ARF patients with a
      risk of delayed intubation of these patient. It should be noted, however, that the studies
      analyzed are heterogeneous in terms of patients, mode of administration of HFNC and etiology
      of ARF. Some authors are interested in parameters such as the ROX index to target patients at
      risk or not to progress to intubation in patients treated with HFNC which would secure its
      use and guide clinicians. Studies are underway to investigate the benefit of this device in
      patients with chronic respiratory failure admitted for hypercapnic ARF compared to standard
      oxygen between NIV sessions (NCT03406572). These authors also published a study concerning
      the use of HFNC in pre-oxygenation compared with BAVU and demonstrated a decrease in
      desaturation in pre-intubation. However, other authors have moderated these results in
      another randomized study with a different methodology, especially in terms of the use of OHD
      in apneic oxygenation (absence of mandibular sub-luxation). These results still show the
      heterogeneity of the practices as for its use in pre intubation.

      Regarding its use in weaning mechanical ventilation, HFNC is increasingly used especially in
      post-operative without real benefit proven in the literature.

      For example, in the University Hospital of Nantes in the Intensive Resuscitation Medicine
      (ICU) department, in 2017, 110 patients in ARF, were treated by HFNC out of 191 patients
      admitted for IRA, or 58% (institutional figures). There is a certain craze for this
      oxygenation technique in intensive care despite the low level of evidence, hence the interest
      of our epidemiological study.

      It is a prospective, observational, multicentric (20 centers), epidemiological French study
      whose main objective is to evaluate the incidence of HFNC use. In order to calculate the
      incidence of use of the HFNC, The investigators will ask the different centers to provide us
      with the number of patients hospitalized in intensive care during the period of inclusion.
      the secondary objectives are: evaluation of morbidity and mortality in intensive care:
      intubation rate, weaning failure, weaning mode of HFNC. Epidemiological data: modalities of
      use, duration of use and indications.
    
  