
    
      METHODOLOGY:

      This study is performed only in adults who required a non-surgical root canal obturation. The
      studied indication is the root canal sealing.

      This multi-centre and open-label study comprises two groups corresponding to tested root
      canal sealer (a reference product and investigational product). Randomization is required.

      Investigational product that is a dental cement based on biosilicate technology (PA0903) will
      be applied with lateral compaction or single cone technique. On the contrary, reference
      product that is a zinc oxide-eugenol used in dental practice (Pulp Canal Sealer) will be
      applied with a single wave technique.

      Study start: 01/12/11

      Inclusion period: 24 months

      Study duration: 2 years after the end of inclusion period

      OBJECTIVES: The trial objective is to illustrate the clinical and radiographic outcome of
      PA0903 in the described indication.

      Primary objectives:

      The primary objective is to evaluate: clinical and radiographic outcome of root canal
      treatment at two years when using PA0903 as an endodontic sealer with gutta-percha. The
      success rate is defined as no pain (score of 0 at the VAS scale) and absence or decrease in
      the size of LEO (fulfilment of Strindberg's criteria). If a pre-existing lesion, the size
      decrease associated with normal contours, width and structure of the periodontal margines is
      considered as success. All cases in which lesion increases or is stabilized after 2 years
      were judged as unsuccessful . Moreover, all cases in which Strindberg's criteria if they are
      suitable were not fulfilled were judged as unsuccessful. A follow-up of two years is
      described as the predictive time of success.

      Secondary objective:

      The secondary objectives are to evaluate the following criteria and in an indicative way, to
      compare them between patients receiving the PA0903 and those receiving the reference product:

      - The success rate at each time point and also the components of this composite variable
      (i.e. pain and Healing process for total class (vital teeth and necrotic teeth) of endodontic
      status of teeth).

      In case of pre-existing LEO associated with necrotic teeth, size of LEO and suitable
      Strindgberg's criteria will be used to judge the outcomes of the root canal therapy as
      described below :

      At visit 2 (6 months) treatment is considered successful when LEO is stable or decreased in
      comparison with V0 associated with Strindberg's criteria suitable.

      At V3 (1 year), treatment is considered successful when LEO is decreased in comparison with
      V2 associated with Strindberg's criteria suitable.

        -  the Healing process associated with PA0903 application in each endodontic status

        -  the handling, consistency and physical characteristics of PA0903

        -  the longevity and safety of the product associated with PA0903 after two years.

      TRIAL POPULATION AND NUMBER OF PATIENTS: about 60 patients will have to be included in the
      study, 20 by center with a ratio 2 (PA0903): 1 (reference). Adults will be included without
      gender distinction.

      Coordinating center Endodotontic service of Pitié Salpétrière Pitié Salpétrière Hospital
      75634 Paris Cedex 13 France

      DURATION OF TREATMENT:

      The product is applied on D0 (inclusion) of the study. The follow-up period includes 2 years
      with 4 visits: Visit 1(Week 2), Visit 2 (Month 6), Visit 3 (Year 1) and Visit 4 (Year 2).
    
  