
    
      Methodology Only patients who sign informed consent will be included. Patients after a
      miscarriage in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy who need to perform an instrumental revision of
      the uterine cavity (RCUI, revisio cavi uteri instrumentalis) will be randomized into two
      groups. In the first group, RCUI will be performed according to current standards. In the
      second group, an anti-adhesive preparation with hyaluronic acid (Hyalobarrier gel Endo) will
      be applied to the uterine cavity at the end of the RCUI procedure. Eight to twelve weeks
      after the operation, the occurrence of adhesions will be evaluated by ultrasound examination
      and diagnostic hysteroscopy (if adhesions will be detected, they will be disrupted). The
      study will also include the completion of a questionnaire in terms of the frequency and
      strength of the menstrual cycle. The presence of adhesions will be assessed according to The
      American Fertility Society (AFS).

      Expected number of enrolled subjects: a total of 200 patients, 100 in each branch Entry
      criteria: Adult (18 to 40 years old) women with a wish for future pregnancy, abortion in the
      2nd trimester of pregnancy (over 12 weeks of pregnancy) with instrumental revision of the
      uterine cavity (RCUI), signed informed consent

      Exclusion criteria: age below 18 years, age over 40 years, history of previous uterine
      surgery (myomectomy, resection of the intrauterine septum, disruption of intrauterine
      adhesions), suspicion of molar pregnancy, signs of pelvic infection, disagreement with
      participation in the study

      Primary goals of the project:

        1. determination of the frequency of intrauterine adhesions in women who underwent
           instrumental revision of the uterine cavity (RCUI, revisio cavi uteri instrumentalis)
           after abortion in the 2nd trimester of pregnancy

        2. to determine whether the application of an antiadhesive agent with hyaluronic acid has
           an effect on the frequency of intrauterine adhesions after this procedure

      A similar prospective randomized multicenter study investigating the relationship of
      intrauterine adhesions using an intrauterine gel with hyaluronic acid was published in 2017
      by Hooker. Patients were enrolled in the study up to the 14th week of pregnancy. The
      incidence of intrauterine adhesions was statistically lower in the hyaluronic acid group
      compared to the no treatment group (13% vs. 30.6%, RR 0.43, 95% CI 0.22-0.83, p 0.013).
      However, this study investigated RCUI in the first trimester of pregnancy. Our study is to
      our knowledge the first with a focus on the second trimester RCUI.

      Secondary goals of the project:

        1. number of pregnancies (pregnancy rate) in the period of 24 months after RCUI in both
           groups

        2. number of term pregnancies in the 24 months after RCUI in both groups
    
  