
    
      Background:

      Because of VA's long history in disaster preparedness, and the crucial role VA providers will
      play, the VA medical system has the potential to make an enormous difference in outcomes
      following a bioterror attack or infectious outbreak. A 2002 AHRQ report reviewed 60 studies
      and found that very few bioterrorism preparedness training programs were rigorously
      evaluated. Our project was the first effort to formally test and implement a bioterrorism
      preparedness intervention in the VA healthcare system. Because Internet-delivered
      interventions have the potential for wide dissemination, we used the Internet to implement
      the Intervention.

      Objectives:

        1. To develop, tailor, and continuously update and validate evidence- and scenario-based
           electronic teaching and testing modules to increase VA clinicians' knowledge of Category
           A biological warfare agents. We refer to these instruments as Bioterrorism Case Analysis
           and Skills Enhancement Sessions (BioCASES) and Bioterrorism Skills Test Sessions
           (BioTESTS).

        2. To test the effectiveness of the BioCASES teaching modules by way of a randomized
           controlled trial of VAMCs using the BioTESTS to evaluate their effectiveness for
           increasing and sustaining VA clinician knowledge, skills, and ability to respond to
           bioterrorism events.

        3. To continue to develop and adapt BioCASES and BioTESTS for use in VA CME programs.
           Ultimately, we will disseminate the intervention throughout the entire VA system.

      Methods:

      Our project team developed or refined and updated a total of 12 educational modules focusing
      on CDC's Category A agents and other emerging infectious diseases. We developed post-test
      instruments and case-based scenarios germane to the VA patient population for anthrax and
      smallpox. Materials were designed specifically for the unique clinician populations and
      electronic educational applications available in VAMCs. Website functionality and content
      were refined using the nominal group technique and "thinking aloud" protocols. We tested our
      innovative, web-based educational intervention at fifteen VA facilities via a randomized
      controlled trial (RCT).

      Status:

      The intervention has been completed. Fifteen sites were randomized and completed the study
      processes.
    
  