
    
      Participants included in this study will be recruited from the Hand and Upper Limb Clinic
      (HULC) at St. Joseph's Hospital. Patients at HULC are routinely tested function and strength
      and use questionnaires that ask about pain and disability. These procedure help to monitor
      usual recovery. Participation in this study will require being screened for eligibility and
      informed about the study by their surgeon or their delegate,who is a research assistant
      working on this project. By using a computer-generated sequence, the participant will be
      randomly allocated to either of the following treatment groups:

        1. Usual physical therapy OR

        2. Usual physical therapy AND Hands-Up Program (Exercise and Education) The standard care
           for a distal radius fracture would include receiving an assessment related to whether
           casting or surgery is necessary. The participant may be in a cast for 6 weeks with
           routine check up and x-rays to monitor the healing, at 3 months, 6 months and 12 months.
           The participant should receive some physical therapy related to restoring function of
           the hand and wrist.

      In addition to the usual care, being allocated to the intervention group would require the
      participant to attend an exercise and education program once their cast has been removed and
      they've restored some strength and function in their hand and wrist. The exercise portion of
      the intervention will focus on strength and balance training, with aspects of managing distal
      radius fracture healing as well. The education will focus on learning about risk factors for
      a distal radius fracture, osteoporosis, exercise for adults, nutrition for adults and falls
      prevention strategies. Both the exercise and education programs will take place at the HULC
      clinical research lab. The participant will be asked to come in two times per week for
      approximately 75 minutes per session. The participant will have 45 minutes of exercise which
      will include upper and lower body strength training, balance and some hand and wrist
      rehabilitation, followed by 30 minutes of education related to distal radius fractures,
      osteoporosis education, exercise, nutrition and falls prevention.

      The control group will receive the educational materials (one-page info graphics) at the end
      of the 12-month study participation.

      On the participant's initial visit, they will be asked to fill out questionnaires to assess
      their symptoms related with pain, disability and function. The investigators will conduct
      several strength assessments such as, a pinch strength test, grip strength, lower body
      strength and upper body strength. The investigators will take a bone mineral density
      assessment using a dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA), of the spine, hip and wrist.
      Follow-up visits for the study will be similar to our usual follow-up, which takes place at 6
      week, 3 month, 6 months and 12 months after the participant's initial visit. Specifically, at
      baseline the participant will be asked to have a DXA (an X-ray measuring your bone density),
      complete some questionnaires and perform strength and balance assessments. The DXA assessment
      will not be done at the 6 week, 3 month assessment, but the questionnaires and strength and
      balance assessments wee be done at those time points. At the 12 month mark all of the outcome
      assessments will be repeated, including the DXA. Additionally, a physical activity diary will
      be provided at the initial visit which will be maintained as a daily log of exercise and
      physical activity during the study period (for one-year). The participant will be asked to
      bring the physical activity diary to the follow-up visits (at 6 weeks, 3 months, 6 months,
      and 12 months) so that research staff can keep a copy of physical activity log completed
      during the study period.
    
  