
    
      Cerebral autoregulation (CA) is a mechanism that maintains cerebral flood flow (CBF) despite
      the fluctuations in the arterial blood pressure. This process protects the brain from
      ischemic or hemorrhagic insults during events of hypo- or hyperperfusion, respectively.
      Children under general anesthesia (GA) are particularly vulnerable to these events because
      anesthetic agents profoundly impact cerebral metabolic supply and demand. At the same time,
      to varying degrees, anesthetic agents can compromise respiration, produce hypotension, and
      even inhibit cerebral autoregulation function. General anesthesia-induced cerebral
      hypoperfusion can occur during routine GA and is associated with deleterious neurological
      outcomes in children. Thus, primary goals in managing GA are therefore to maintain adequate
      hemodynamics and cerebral perfusion under intact CA.

      A recent large retrospective study demonstrated that blood pressure ranges in anesthetized
      children are significantly lower than in awake, healthy children. However, the safe limits of
      blood pressure that maintains adequate cerebral perfusion in infants and children are not
      clear and my vary depending on the age and disease severity. Currently, bedside CBF
      monitoring had been impractical. Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) is the only clinically
      available tool to measure cerebral blood flow velocity in larger arteries. Although TCD has
      been used for obtaining cerebral hemodynamics including autoregulation for clinical use, it
      is not practical for long-term monitoring due to the difficulty to secure the probe on the
      patient's head. Furthermore, the accuracy of the TCD measurement is highly operator-dependent
      which impedes its general use.

      Cerebral oximeters, based on near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) have become popular means of
      assessing cerebral hemoglobin oxygen saturation (cStO2) during GA, but its use has not become
      routine. Clinically relevant desaturation (generally below 50-60 percent) implies a mismatch
      between brain oxygen supply and demand. When presenting persistently, they can serve as an
      intraoperative warning sign of hemodynamic and metabolic comprise. A recent study with 453
      healthy infants undergoing general anesthesia for non-cardiac surgery found the episodes of
      desaturation is rare (2%) despite that critically low blood pressure (MAP <35 mmHg) was
      observed in almost 40% of subjects. Because desaturation events are relatively rare, they are
      unlikely to be responsible for adverse outcomes in non-cardiac surgery. However, the
      magnitude of the change in cStO2 from the awake to anesthetized state was associated with the
      range of MAP experienced during GA, suggesting systematic changes in cerebral perfusion may
      be more important than desaturation events for assessing hemodynamic risk.

      To address the critical public health issues associated with the safe use of anesthesia in
      children, the investigators propose to develop new beside tools to monitor cerebral
      hemodynamics and perfusion continuously during anesthesia. The investigators aim to quantify
      cStO2, CBF, CMRO2, and its coupling relationship in children with and without neurologic
      impairments while awake and during different phases of GA (aim1). With continuous measures of
      arterial blood pressure, the investigators will further determine CA functions by studying
      the relationship between CBF and ABP simultaneously with anesthesia-related physiological
      events, including hypercapnia (aim2). Ultimately, the investigators aim to integrate our
      technology into perioperative monitoring to enable age-appropriate, goal-directed cerebral
      hemodynamic management to spare infant brains from the potentially deleterious effects of
      anesthesia.
    
  