
    
      Acanthamoeba keratitis (AK), caused by a pathogenic amoeba, is a sight-threatening corneal
      infection with severe pain, epithelial defect, epithelial haze, pseudodendrites, and, most
      characteristically, radial keratoneuritis. The corneal infection of AK was first recognized
      in the mid 1970s. Since then, a growing number of AK cases were diagnosed, mainly resulting
      from improper use of soft contact lenses.

      Clinical diagnosis of AL is difficult, especially in the early phases of the disease, and it
      often is misdiagnosed and treated as a herpes simplex infection. It was reported a diagnostic
      delay of more than 18 days between onset of symptoms and start of anti- amoebic treatment
      results in a poor disease progress. While definitive diagnosis is made by confirmation of
      Acanthamoeba cysts or trophozoites in corneal lesions by staining, corneal biopsy, or tissue
      culturing.

      In vivo confocal microscopy was considered useful in the rapid diagnosis of AK. The
      Acanthamoeba cysts were observed almost exclusively in the epithelial cell layer as highly
      reflective, round or stellate, high-contrast particles with a diameter of 10 to 20 μm. It was
      suggested that invasion of Acanthamoeba cysts into Bowman's layer may be a useful predictor
      for a persistent clinical course. The trophozoites are pear-shaped or irregularly
      wedge-shaped structures, some surrounded by a brilliant halo some exhibiting fine
      pseudopodia-like extensions, with mean size of 30.2 µm (range 19.2-55.6μm). It was reported
      to present in cornea stroma. Highly reflective activated keratocytes forming a honeycomb
      pattern change was reported to be present around the keratoneuritis. In addition,
      infiltration of inflammatory cells, possibly polymorphonuclear cells, was observed along with
      the keratocytes in cases of AK. However, the in vivo confocal microscopic findings in
      patients with AK is still limited. Some clinical findings may not be correlated with the
      reports published before.

      John K.G. et al recommended clinical treatment toward Acanthamoeba keratitis using Diamidine
      and Biguanide which are the only two proofed Acanthamoeba cysticidal medication, while
      Metronidazole is effective in vivo but not in vitro. Topical steroid was considered rather
      controversial but important and beneficial. It was recommended to use a minimum of 2 weeks of
      Biguanide prior to the use of topical steroid for inflammation control. When Acanthamoeba
      keratitis was diagnosed early in the disease course, topical steroid can be spared for the
      immediate using Diamidine and Biguanide to kill pathogen. In a United Kingdom multicenter
      study of 218 patients, the average duration of medical therapy was 6 months (range, 0.5 to 29
      months). In 2011, a little over half of respondents using corticosteroids in the treatment of
      Acanthamoeba keratitis. Surgical managements including epithelial debridement, cryotherapy
      and corneal graft surgery may itself be therapeutic if performed early and promote
      penetration. Therefore, when Acanthamoeba keratitis was suspected, a long-term and immediate
      medical treatment may be needed ,and the use of topical steroid toward Acanthamoeba keratitis
      is still worth investigating.
    
  