
    
      Adult volunteers will be recruited to donate stool samples for laboratory-based experiments.
      Once the sample has arrived at QIB 50-100g will be added to the colon model and, depending on
      the system used, either cultured for 24h or for up to 40 days. During this time, factors
      under investigation will be added to the model.

      Samples added mimic food chyme arriving at the ileal-caecal valve in the intestinal tract. At
      this stage digested, but non-absorbed food components plus cells and mucous shed from the
      lining of the small intestine enter the large intestine. Samples of bacteria and media can be
      taken at any point during the incubation.

      Two models are used

        1. a simple batch culture in which bacteria, media and test compounds are added to a single
           compartment and analysed over 24h

        2. a three compartment model with continuous flow of media, test compounds and bacteria
           from the entrance port of the first chamber to the exit of the third chamber mimicking
           movement through the three main compartments of the colon. This model allows for a
           stable bacterial population to be established before addition of test compounds, and can
           remain viable for up to 40 days. In the case of these longer incubations, multiple time
           points can allow for quite complex experiments looking at interactions between bacteria,
           food and pharmaceutical products where different factors are added at different time
           points.

      Samples collected during the incubation will be analysed by centrifuging the sample to create
      a pellet containing bacteria and a supernatant containing a wide range of metabolites. The
      bacteria will be analysed by extracting their DNA for genomic analysis or using RNA based
      approaches. On occasion, conventional microbiological techniques might be used. The
      supernatant will be filter sterilised prior to analysis of its chemical composition by
      techniques such as mass spectrometry, gel electrophoresis, or chromatography. Alternatively
      the supernatant may be added to cell lines to model the interaction between the bacterial
      ecosystem and the cells lining the colon.
    
  