
    
      All patients with symptomatic stage 1-2 POP, who have failed / declined conservative therapy
      will be informed about the study and invited to participate.

      Once eligibility for inclusion into the study has been confirmed and written consent has been
      obtained, the patient will be invited for a baseline visit. At this visit the patient will
      have their medical history confirmed and have all Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification Score
      (PoP-Q) measurements made. They will be given the ICIQ Vaginal Symptom (ICIQ-VS) and Pelvic
      Organ Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire (PISQ-12) questionnaire.

      Patients will be randomised and blinded to their allocated arm: active treatment or sham
      treatment (2:1, treatment : Sham).

      Patients will then undergo 4 outpatient treatment visits. The timing of visits will be from 1
      month apart. Before each treatment, they will have their urine tested for infection (dipstick
      urinalysis) and a pregnancy test (not required if had hysterectomy / sterilised). If
      urinalysis is negative, they will be receive an outpatient ProlapLase treatment which lasts
      20 minutes. They will be given a leaflet outlining what to expect and a contact number if
      they have any concerns or questions. They will be asked about any deleterious effects since
      their last appointment, have a PoPQ score recorded and asked to complete a Patient Global
      Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) questionnaire. Patients will routinely receive 4
      treatments. Each treatment will be 4 weeks apart.

      Patients will be invited to attend a follow up visit 6 months after the 4th treatment. They
      will be asked if they are happy to continue to participate in the trial and if happy, asked
      to complete International Consultation on Incontinence Questionnaire (ICIQ-VS), Pelvic Organ
      Prolapse/Urinary Incontinence Sexual Function Questionnaire (PISQ-12) and Patient Global
      Impression of Improvement (PGI-I) symptom questionnaires and undergo a Pelvic Organ Prolapse
      Quantification Score (PoP-Q) score. Patients will be asked about any Adverse Event / Serious
      Adverse Event since involvement in the study. Patients randomised to the Sham arm will be
      un-blinded at 6 months and offered the treatments (x4) if they wish. They will then be
      followed up at 6 and 12 months after treatment.
    
  