
    
      Data collection Information regarding sex, age at diagnosis, place of residence, white blood
      cell (WBC) count, immunophenotype (B or T lineage), weight and height (length when
      appropriate) at diagnosis, and chemotherapy protocol is collected from the patients' clinical
      charts by previously standardized staff. Overcrowding was used as a proxy for socioeconomic
      status (SES) according to the Bronfman's criteria (high SES, up to 1.5 people per room;
      medium-low SES, more than 1.6 people per room). The risk classification is according to the
      criteria of the National Cancer Institute (NCI): standard risk [ages from 1 to 9.99 years;
      WBC count < 50 × 109/L] or as high risk [age < 1 or ≥ 10 years or WBC ≥ 50 × 109/L].

      Assessment of nutritional status at diagnosis of ALL BMI at diagnosis will be used.. Using
      WHO software (version 3.2.2, World Health Organization, Geneva), the BMI-for-age Z-scores
      were calculated for each patient. According to WHO classification, patients were categorized
      as normal (- 1.9999 to 0.9999), wasted (- 2 to - 2.9999), severely wasted (≥ - 3), at risk of
      overweight (1-1.9999), overweight (2 to 2.9999) and obesity (≥3). In addition, the BMI
      percentiles cutoffs provided by CDC were: normal (p5-84.9999), underweight (< p5), overweight
      (p85-94.9999), and obese (≥ p95). The nutritional classification and measurements validation
      regarding weight and height recorded in clinical files used to classify patients' nutritional
      status in present research has been previously described. Underweight patients were excluded
      from the analyses.

      Sample size The sample size calculation was performed using Epi-Info version 7 software
      taking into account a mortality outcome frequency of 10.8% in the unexposed group (normal
      weight patients) and a death outcome frequency of 24% for the exposed (obese/overweight
      patients), a statistical power of 80% and a confidence of 95%; resulting in a total "n" of
      350 overweight/obese patients to be compared with the rest of the cohort that are not
      overweight and obese.

      Statistical analysis Descriptive statistics and relative risks (RR) calculation with 95%
      confidence intervals (CI) will be carried out. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis will be
      conducted. Log-rank test will be calculated. The analyses will be conducted independently for
      disease-free-survival (DFS) or overall survival (OS), adjusting for variables whose effects
      on the studied outcomes have been previously documented (age, sex, socioeconomic status,
      immunophenotype, NCI risk classification, and chemotherapy protocol). A Cox proportional
      hazard model will be used. Hazard ratios (HR) with 95% CIs will be calculated.
    
  