
    
      Each year around 130,000 Australians are admitted to ICU at a daily cost of approximately
      $4000 per patient. Their care consumes close to 3 billion dollars per year. These critically
      ill patients are the sickest in the hospital. They require substantial resources and multiple
      interventions. Some die and many of those who survive have delayed and compromised functional
      recovery which can persist for months or years.

      Nutrition therapy is an essential standard of care for all ICU patients who are mechanically
      ventilated and remain in ICU for more than a few days. Enteral nutrition (via a nasogastric
      tube) is usually initiated within 24 hours of ICU admission with a formula containing 1
      kcal/ml and prescribed at an approximate rate of 1 ml/kg/hour. However, standard enteral
      nutrition practice typically results in the delivery of only ~60% of the full-recommended
      calorie requirement.

      Although prescribed calories can reliably be delivered using the intravenous route, the
      enteral route is preferred for a number of reasons and is recommended by all nutrition
      guidelines as first-line therapy. In particular, enteral nutrition is more physiological,
      less costly and associated with fewer infective complications. Delivery of nutrient into the
      gut also has beneficial effects on subsequent gut function and may reduce ongoing sepsis
      which can be fuelled by the movement of gut flora through a permeable mucosa that has not
      been exposed to nutrient. Intravenous nutrition is accordingly, generally used only when
      enteral feeding is impossible, or persistently limited. Although supplementing enteral with
      intravenous nutrition can increase calorie delivery, this has not been shown to have a
      therapeutic benefit and may worsen important clinical outcomes. This may be because adverse
      effects associated with intravenous nutrition counteract the benefits of increased calorie
      delivery.

      Previous trials support the concept that optimising nutrition in the critically ill will
      improve outcome, however, the evidence is limited, inclusive and generally of low quality. It
      is extraordinary that there is not better (Level I) evidence to inform nutrition management
      in critically ill patients given the frequency of the intervention, the biologic rationale,
      the high mortality following ICU admission, the frequency of muscle wasting and the poor
      functional outcomes in survivors. This is especially true given the low cost of enteral
      nutrition (~$23/day).

      The investigators recently completed pilot study clearly achieved all the key criteria which,
      for a pharmaceutical product, would lead to a phase III trial, namely: 1. feasibility; 2.
      safety; 3. separation; 4. excellent recruitment rate; 5. successful blinding; 6. a signal for
      benefit.

      A definitive study must now be done to establish whether 90-day survival and functional
      outcomes following critical illness may be improved by increased calorie delivery.
    
  