
    
      Introduction:

      This will be the first prospective, randomized clinical study ever performed on penetrating
      cardiac injuries in the world literature. A group of patients with penetrating chest injuries
      will present haemodynamically stable, with blood in the pericardial sac diagnosed on
      ultrasound. The accepted international management of what is termed; "the stable
      haemopericardium" has been a median sternotomy. In our experience in Cape Town, when a median
      sternotomy is performed in these cases, any cardiac injury if present has already sealed or
      there is no cardiac injury. We feel that these patients should be managed with a much smaller
      and simpler operation that does not require admission to the intensive care unit
      post-operatively and this is merely drainage of the blood from around the pericardial sac via
      a subxyphoid window (SXW).

      Method A SXW is performed under general anaesthetic and involves a 5 cm incision below the
      sternum. The pericardial sac can be opened and the blood drained. This small operation also
      allows the heart to be examined for any active bleeding. If there is active bleeding then
      obviously, a median sternotomy is required to fix the hole in the heart. If there is no
      active bleeding then the patient is randomized to either median sternotomy (the international
      norm) or the pericardial sac is merely drained with a soft drain and no further surgery is
      performed. The randomization is computer generated. The patients are documented with respect
      to intensive care stay and total hospital stay. Any complications are noted and the patients
      are then followed up in order to ensure that the patients who underwent the SXW alone are
      alive and well. This is essential to ensure the safety of this much smaller procedure for
      this condition. Informed consent is signed for each patient and all patients must be older
      than 18 years of age.
    
  