
    
      Background:

      Some individuals successfully maintained on buprenorphine or methadone are appropriate
      candidates for dose tapering and transition to medication-free follow-up care. For such
      individuals, the physical discomfort of the dose taper can be a barrier to a successful
      transition. Recent data suggest a novel approach: the FDA-approved diabetes medication
      pioglitazone (Actos), which activates the gamma (g) subtype of
      peroxisome-proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs). Pioglitazone acts not only in peripheral
      tissue, but also in brain regions associated with drug tolerance and withdrawal. In animal
      models, pioglitazone prevents signs of opioid withdrawal. In a small, preliminary open-label
      clinical study, opioid-maintained outpatients given pioglitazone were remarkably successful
      in transitioning comfortably to a medication-free state, after prior unsuccessful attempts
      without pioglitazone. These initial data provide proof of principle and indicate that
      pioglitazone merits evaluation in a randomized-controlled study.

      Scientific goals:

      (1) To determine whether, compared to placebo, pioglitazone increases successful completion
      of an opioid agonist/antagonist taper in patients who are physically dependent on opioids.
      (2) To determine the neural mechanisms by which such an effect may occur.

      Participant population:

      A total of up to 120 opioid-dependent participants (80 evaluable) will be enrolled. Evaluable
      participants are defined as those who are randomized to one of the two main experimental
      groups (pioglitazone or placebo). Target enrollment will include 25% women and 70% minorities
      (mostly African-American).

      Experimental design and methods:

      The study will be a randomized, double-blind clinical trial with two treatment groups (40 per
      group): pioglitazone (45 mg oral daily) and placebo. The study will last up to 10 weeks. All
      participants will receive 27 days of buprenorphine/naloxone (referred to hereinafter as
      buprenorphine) - 14 days of stabilization and a 13-day taper. Pioglitazone/placebo will be
      initiated in week 2 and continue for 5 weeks (3 weeks concurrently with buprenorphine and 2
      weeks without). Participants will have two follow-up assessments: a clinic visit (week 7 or
      one week post-pioglitazone/placebo) and a phone follow-up (week 10 or 4 weeks
      post-pioglitazone/placebo). Participation will be conducted as a combination of outpatient
      and inpatient portions: first two weeks (pre-buprenorphine taper) as outpatients; 18 days on
      an inpatient unit (JHBC CRU) during and for approximately 5 days after the buprenorphine
      taper; and 10 daily visits and two follow-up visits outpatient. Throughout the study,
      participants will receive weekly individual counseling, including case management to prepare
      for post-study treatment. Data on opiate-withdrawal symptoms and craving will be collected
      daily. Data on self-reported drug use, with urine specimens for drug testing, will be
      collected three times weekly. A subset of participants will undergo functional
      magnetic-resonance imaging (fMRI) and magnetic-resonance spectroscopy (MRS): one training
      session in the mock scanner and two scanning sessions that will occur at the end of the first
      week of buprenorphine and during the second week of the buprenorphine taper. Another subset
      of participants (largely overlapping with the subset who undergo fMRI/MRS) will undergo one
      lumbar puncture so that we can measure levels of neurotransmitters, metabolites, and
      proinflammatory cytokines in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). At the lumbar-puncture visit, blood
      will also be drawn so that we can compare analyte levels in CSF and blood. At the end of the
      study, all participants will be offered assistance to transfer to another treatment program,
      either drug-free treatment or opioid-agonist treatment (OAT). The primary outcome measures
      will be opioid-withdrawal severity as measured on the SOWs and COWs. Secondary outcome
      measures will include overall proportions of opioid-negative urines, proportions of
      participants needing adjunct medications, time to resumption of opioid use following
      discharge from the residential unit, status at follow-up, and (in the subset of participants
      who agree to undergo lumbar puncture) CSF levels (and corresponding blood levels) of
      proinflammatory cytokines and other analytes, which we hypothesize will predict outcome and
      thereby clarify pioglitazone s mechanism of action. In the subset of participants who agree
      to undergo fMRI/MRS and lumbar puncture, we will attempt to determine the neural mediators of
      pioglitazone s therapeutic effects, or (if pioglitazone is not effective) to determine
      predictors of treatment outcome. Post-treatment outcome measures are expected to be affected
      only indirectly by pioglitazone; we anticipate that pioglitazone will reduce withdrawal
      symptoms, enhance initial abstinence during the buprenorphine taper, and address possible
      protracted withdrawal.

      Benefits to participants and/or society:

      Participants will receive buprenorphine taper and drug counseling. There may be incidental
      benefits from the buprenorphine and counseling, because they are likely to reduce
      participants' use of opioids and risk of infectious diseases such as HIV or hepatitis B and
      C.

      Risks to participants:

      Participants may experience side effects from pioglitazone and/or buprenorphine/naloxone and
      are likely to experience some discomfort from opioid withdrawal. The subset of participants
      who agree to undergo lumbar puncture and fMRI/MRS may experience side effects from those
      procedures.
    
  