
    
      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is one of the common causes of chronic liver
      disease nowadays. NAFLD is considered as the hepatic manifestation of metabolic syndrome. In
      Malaysia, the prevalence of metabolic disorders such as diabetes mellitus, obesity and
      dyslipidemia are increasing with time. Despite the disease burden, treatments for NAFLD are
      currently limited due to the ongoing evolving theory of its pathogenesis.

      One of the proposed mechanisms is via gut-liver axis (GLA), whereby the role of gut
      microbiota has been implicated. Two main components of GLA are gut microbiota and gut
      barrier. A change in gut microbiota composition will predispose to gut barrier dysfunction,
      which subsequently leads to bacterial by-products translocation into the portal circulation.
      Eventually, these by-products reach the liver and trigger the cascades of hepatic
      inflammation, leading to fatty liver and its disease progression.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the role of probiotics in modulating the gut
      microenvironment - namely gut microbiota composition, gut barrier function and local gut
      inflammation, as well as its effect on the clinical outcomes in NAFLD patients.

      Investigators propose a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of 6-month
      duration. Investigators aim to recruit 48 NALFD patients, with either treated with probiotics
      or placebo. Small intestinal microbiota will be determined by 16S-rRNA sequencing and
      immunoreactivity of zona occludens-1 (tight junction protein in the gut barrier) and
      cytokines mRNA level will be measured. The degree of liver steatosis and stiffness will be
      assessed by using transient elastography and biochemical blood tests. All these variables
      will be determined pre- and post-intervention with probiotics/placebo.

      This study will provide a valuable knowledge on the role of probiotics as the gut
      microenvironment modulator and strengthen the hypothesis of GLA involvement in the NAFLD
      development. Hence, probiotics can be strongly considered as one of the treatment options for
      non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.
    
  