
    
      Searching for consciousness in non-communicating brain-injured patients by clinical
      examination is essential, yet challenging. The origin of many clinical signs is not entirely
      clear and their significance as to whether or not the patient is conscious is even less
      certain. In addition, consciousness may wax and wane within seconds to hours and days to
      months. Indeed, as many as 40% of patients with disorders of consciousness (DoC) are
      misclassified as being in a vegetative state (VS). Although these patients may not show any
      signs of consciousness during clinical examination because of lost motor output, some are
      able to willfully modulate their brain activity on command, occasionally even answering yes
      or no questions by performing mental imagery tasks. For patients with acute brain injury and
      their caregivers, this has significant ethical and practical implications, not least for
      prognostication, treatment decisions, resource allocation and end-of-life considerations.

      Technologies based on functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) and electroencephalography
      (EEG) have been developed during the last two decades to assist clinical evaluation of
      patients in VS and minimal conscious states (MCS). There are three main approaches to test
      for preserved consciousness: (i) Active paradigms in which patients are required to execute
      cognitive tasks, as outlined above, (ii) passive paradigms relying on the documentation of
      preserved large-scale functional cortical connectivity, following an external stimulus, and
      (iii) resting state conditions in which assumptions about the patient's conscious state are
      made by extrapolation from patterns of spontaneous brain activity. Consciousness paradigms
      offer exciting opportunities but so far they have been almost exclusively employed in
      rehabilitation medicine, addressing patients with chronic brain disorders, typically several
      years following onset of the injury. Moreover, these studies have mainly been restricted to
      spot assessments, not taking into account that consciousness fluctuates over time. In
      addition, important methodological issues remain, including uncertainties about the
      specificity and sensitivity of the different paradigms and about their applicability in brain
      disorders of various etiologies. Lastly, almost all studies until now have employed either
      fMRI- or EEG-based paradigms, although the two modalities do not necessarily yield identical
      results in a given patient but rather complement each other. As the investigators have
      recently pointed out in a review and meta-analysis, systematic evaluation of the similarities
      and differences of these technologies is essential, preferentially by multimodal serial
      assessments.

      In the present protocol, as a novel approach the investigators will focus on the evaluation
      of consciousness in patients in the acute phase of brain injury. The aim is to establish,
      validate and improve fMRI- and EEG-based consciousness paradigms in intensive care (ICU) and
      step down units. This will assist clinicians in more precisely estimating the level of
      consciousness in various acute disorders of the brain. The project will comprise a
      multidisciplinary approach including expertise from neurology, clinical neurophysiology,
      anesthesiology and functional neuroimaging. The investigators hypothesize that serial
      multimodal assessments better reflect changing levels of consciousness than single unimodal
      evaluations. Within the next two to three years, the investigators wish to establish a full
      clinical service and a fruitful research milieu covering the entire spectrum of fMRI- and
      EEG-based consciousness paradigms in acute brain injury. The ability to identify preserved
      cognitive abilities following acute brain injury is of utmost importance to improve
      diagnosis, to guide therapeutic decisions and to better predict outcome in non-responsive
      patients. Eventually, the present research project will lead to more efficient decision
      making in neurocritical care, thereby optimizing resource allocation and improving quality of
      life in survivors with acute brain injury.

      Study Design:

      Due to its complexity, this project is divided into 3 phases, including 9 work packages.

        -  During the first phase of the project the investigators aim to set up the different
           parts of consciousness testing, that is, clinical rating scales; fMRI-based active,
           passive and resting state paradigms; and EEG-based active, passive and resting state
           paradigms. This will be done step by step and in a pragmatic manner according to local
           requirements and resources. To this end, a prospective, longitudinal database will be
           set up, collecting all relevant clinical, neurophysiological and imaging data, as well
           as a biobank for cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples (work packages 1-7).

        -  During the second phase of the project the investigators wish to combine all diagnostic
           parts and to implement them simultaneously using a convenience sample of suitable
           non-communicating patients with acute brain injury (n=20) at the neurological and
           neurosurgical ICU and step down units, Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen University Hospital.
           These patients will be tested for the presence of preserved consciousness and cognitive
           abilities with the full range of fMRI- and EEG-based consciousness paradigms, as well as
           standardized bedside examination and clinical rating scales (work package 8).

        -  In the third phase of the project the investigators wish to develop a full clinical
           service for the evaluation of patients with DoC following acute and sub-acute brain
           injury, including comprehensive neurological evaluation and fMRI- and EEG-based
           consciousness paradigms, and to build the infrastructure for a fruitful research
           activity in the future (work package 9).

      Detailed and regularly updated procedures for each work package are provided in the
      Amendments to the Study Protocol (see below).

        -  Work package 1 (resting state fMRI; systematic clinical examination): The investigators
           will start by evaluating a convenience sample of DoC patients with acute brain injury
           (n=10), admitted to the ICU and/or neurological and neurosurgical step down units at
           Rigshospitalet, using resting state fMRI, since a relevant protocol is already available
           at the institution. A systems-level approach, including assessment of the auditory and
           default mode networks, will be used as described earlier. At the same time, the
           investigators will establish a systematic clinical examination protocol, including - but
           not limited to - the Full Outline of UnResponsiveness (FOUR) and Coma Recovery
           Scale-Revised (CRS-R). Exclusion criteria include contraindications for examination by
           MRI, severe cardiorespiratory compromise and similar acutely life-threatening
           conditions, evidence of severe pre-morbid neurological deficits such as aphasia or
           deafness, lack of Danish or English language proficiency, age less than 16 years, and
           patients without evidence of intact primary auditory and sensory cortex function as
           revealed by pretest screening with brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP) and
           somatosensory evoked potentials (SSEP). The investigators will aim for un-sedated
           patients; however, if patients cannot be weaned from sedation, the level of sedation
           will be lowered to the lowest possible level in order to maximize the chance of
           detecting the presence of consciousness.

        -  Work package 2 (clinical database): In order to maximize the learning effect at the
           present institution and to facilitate research, all relevant clinical,
           neurophysiological and imaging data will be collected in a comprehensive longitudinal
           database. Clinical outcome data will be assessed, either by telephone interview or
           during follow up visits, using established rating scales (e.g. modified Rankin Scale
           (mRS), Barthel index) at hospital discharge and at 3, respectively, 12 months. Approval
           to establish this database and to distribute information derived from it by means of
           scientific publication will be obtained according to current legislation from the Danish
           authorities Datatilsynet (The Danish Data Protection Agency) and Sundhedsstyrelsen (The
           National Board of Health).

        -  Work package 3 (active fMRI paradigms): The investigators will establish an active fMRI
           paradigm by means of visual imaginary tasks (playing tennis, navigating in a familiar
           surrounding) as described earlier, using a similar convenience sample (n=5-10) as in
           work package 1. Patients will be clinically evaluated on a daily basis, including 30 min
           prior to and after each fMRI assessment, in order to capture fluctuations in
           consciousness levels as accurately as possible. Prior to inclusion, patients will be
           examined by brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP) and somatosensory evoked
           potentials (SSEP) in order to ensure intact primary auditory and sensory cortex
           integrity.

        -  Work package 4 (passive fMRI paradigms): The investigators wish to set up a passive fMRI
           paradigm using two oddball paradigms ("subject's own name", respectively, semantic
           ambiguity), and we will assess patients (n=5-10) clinically and neurophysiologically
           (BAEP, SSEP) as outlined above.

        -  Work package 5 (resting state EEG): In order to correlate resting state EEG with
           clinical outcome data, the investigators will assess a historical EEG database,
           available at the Department of Clinical Neurophysiology, Rigshospitalet, for EEG
           complexity and other advanced EEG measures following acute brain injury 18.

        -  Work package 6 (active EEG paradigms): Similar to fMRI, the investigators will establish
           an active EEG paradigm using visual imaginary tasks (playing tennis, navigating in a
           familiar surrounding) as described earlier (Cruse et al. 2011). Clinical evaluation of
           patients (n=5-10) will be performed as outlined previously.

        -  Work package 7 (passive EEG paradigms): The investigators will set up passive EEG
           paradigms using oddball paradigms ("subject's own name", respectively, semantic
           ambiguity) as described previously. As cognitive correlates we will accept P300 and more
           prolonged evoked potentials, as well as more elaborate measures such as EEG complexity.
           Clinical evaluation of patients (n=5-10) will be performed as previously described.

        -  Work package 8 (consecutive sample assessed by full range of fMRI- and EEG-paradigms):
           In this work package, corresponding to the second phase of the project, the
           investigators wish to combine all consciousness measures in order to systematically and
           comprehensively evaluate consciousness in each acute brain injury patient, using the
           full range of clinical assessments as well as active, passive and resting state fMRI-
           and EEG-based paradigms. The investigators aim for 20 consecutive TBI and/or non-TBI
           non-communicating DoC patients admitted to the neurological and neurosurgical ICU or
           step down units (inclusion criteria). Prior to inclusion, primary auditory and sensory
           cortex integrity will be verified using BAEP and SSEP. Exclusion criteria will include
           those referred to in work package 1.

        -  Work package 9 (full clinical service; biobank): Once the investigators have shown that
           comprehensive fMRI- and EEG-based consciousness paradigms are feasible in patients with
           acute brain injury in the ICU and intermediate care units, they wish to establish a full
           clinical service and a national referral center for the evaluation of DoC patients
           following acute brain injury. In addition, the investigators will set up a biobank for
           cerebrospinal fluid and blood samples for potential future studies related to genomics
           and metabolomics. Together this will lay the foundation for a fruitful research milieu
           (phase 3).
    
  