
    
      Title: CRADLE (Community enabled Readiness for first 1000-Days Learning Ecosystem) Project

      Introduction:

      The "developmental origins of health and disease" (DOHaD) is a concept that has emerged over
      the past 50 years, linking the state of health and risk from disease in early childhood and
      adult life. With increasing evidence in neuroscience of the critical window of the first 1000
      days of life which has life- long impact on cognitive, behavioral, physical and mental health
      of an individual. In present society where new parents learned the skills from social media
      which are based on personal perception and not evidence.

      CRADLE (Community-enabled Readiness-for-1000-Days Learning Ecosystem) initiative seeks to
      improve first-time families' self-efficacy in parenting and to tangibly impact factors in
      maternal and child care which will result in improved health of mother and child.

      Hypothesis:

      Use of an integrated choice architecture in a self-learning eco-community, with calibrated
      nudges, and group interactions & interaction with midwives and individualised
      teleconferencing sessions in the first 1000-days for first-time families will improve
      parenting self-efficacy.

      Method:

      This will be an Interventional Cohort Study. Each ARM 250 subjects. ARM 1 : Routine care ARM
      2 : Behavioral Intervention with nudges and Facebook interaction ARM 3 : Community
      Intervention with interaction with midwives and individualised teleconferencing sessions

      The follow up period will be from first contact till child reaches 2 years old Measurement.

      The investigators will quantify the impact of this initiative through measurements of
      specific health & nutrition domains & patient-reported outcome measures (see below) as well
      as participant satisfaction.

      The two key health morbidities the investigators are addressing are the overall health and
      mental wellness of first-time families as well as their metabolic health (ie, nutrition).

        1. Mother's Height and Weight (BMI)

        2. Child's Height and Weight (BMI)

        3. PROMIS Global-10 Scale

        4. Patient Health Questionaire-2

        5. Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale

        6. Parental Sense Of Competency Scale

        7. Tool To Measure Parenting Self-Efficacy (TOPSE)

        8. Birth Satisfaction Scale

        9. Breastfeeding Self-Efficacy Scale

       10. Infant Feeding Questionnaire
    
  