
    
      This research is interested in using Dermabond skin adhesive as a closure for repeat cesarean
      incisions. The current standard of practice is to close these incisions with either skin
      surgical staples or suture. We will compare the use of Dermabond vs. the use of skin surgical
      staples in the closure of these incisions.

      Eightenn-50 year old pregnant patients are eligible for this study. Other inclusion criteria
      are history of a previous Pfannenstiel (transverse) incision and no evidence of infection at
      the incision site. Exclusion criteria include a previous vertical incision and active
      infection at the incision site. Patients will be enrolled during their prenatal appointments
      and the Texas Tech OB/GYN clinic, Grand Expectations, and the Southwest OB/GYN Associates
      offices. They will be consented by faculty, residents, and nursing staff. This is a
      preliminary study of 50 patients (25 in experimental arm, i.e. Dermabond and 25 in the
      control group, i.e. surgical skin staples). Patients will be randomized in a 1:1 fashion by
      placing the terms "Dermabond" and "Staples" in a sealed envelope. The envelopes will be kept
      in the Family Birth Center under lock and key. The envelopes will be opened at the time of
      repeat c-section. A data set will be collected prior to randomization and include: gravidity,
      parity, age, BMI (weight and height), comorbid diseases and ethnic background.

      At the time of closure, there will be subcutaneous reapproximation of tissue to take the
      tension off of the skin. This will occur for all subjects. The type of suture used and the
      suturing technique will be recorded. The skin edges will be closed with either Dermabond per
      label directions or with skin staples, depending on randomization. The length of the
      incision, the type of suture used, the type of stitch used and the total number of layers
      closed will also be documented. The number of staples will also be documented.

      During the hospital stay, the patients wound will be examined on post operative day one and
      three. At this time, wound characteristics will be documented using a modified Hollander
      scale. A digital photograph of the incision will also be taken. The patient will also be
      given a patient satisfaction survey about their wound. The patients will then be seen at two
      weeks post partum and again at six weeks post partum. The wound characteristics and patient
      satisfaction will again be documented using the above materials.

      Other data that will be collected includes the incidence of wound infection, as documented by
      wound culture, wound separation rates as documented by need for wound packing and wound
      dehiscence.
    
  