
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the 3-year recurrence-free survival of women with high intermediate risk (HIR)
      stage I/II mismatch repair deficient (dMMR) endometrioid endometrial cancer treated with
      radiation and pembrolizumab (MK-3475) versus radiation alone.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the safety and tolerability of concurrent pembrolizumab (MK-3475) and
      radiation compared to radiation alone in patients with MMR deficient high intermediate risk
      endometrial cancer (HIR EC).

      II. To describe the recurrence patterns in each group. III. To measure recurrence free
      survival at 5 years in each group. IV. To estimate disease specific overall survival in each
      group. V. To determine whether the addition of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) to radiation, compared
      with radiation alone is associated with decreased quality of life at 6- and 24-weeks, as
      measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT)-Endometrial (En) Trial
      Outcome Index (TOI), increased gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms as measured with the GI
      subscale, and increased fatigue as measured with the Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement
      Information System (PROMIS)-Fatigue scale (short form).

      VI. To validate the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Immune Checkpoint Modulator
      (FACT-ICM) subscale, which assesses in cancer patients on immunotherapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the baseline tumor genetic and microenvironment parameters predictive of
      clinical benefit or resistance to immunotherapy.

      II. To determine whether the addition of pembrolizumab (MK-3475) to radiation, compared with
      radiation alone, is associated with decreased quality of life as measured with the Functional
      Assessment of Cancer Therapy-Immune Checkpoint Modulator (FACT-ICM subscale) and more
      self-reported bother from side effects as measured with a single item GP5 "I am bothered by
      side effects," a question from the FACT-En TOI.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients undergo pelvic external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) daily for 5-6 weeks and
      vaginal brachytherapy completed within 7 days after completion of EBRT in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients undergo EBRT and brachytherapy as in Arm I. Within 7 days prior to the start
      of radiation therapy, patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment with pembrolizumab repeats every 6 weeks for up to 1 year (9 cycles) in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  