
    
      Title of Trial: A Healthy People Initiative: A Randomized Controlled Trial Building the
      Socio-Economic Capital of Low Income Population At-Risk for HIV and Hepatitis-C (HPI Pilot
      Trial)

      Short Title of Trial: HPI Pilot Trial

      Principal Investigator: Smita Pakhalé

      Trial Sites: Ottawa (The Bridge Engagement Centre) & Toronto (Parkdale Activity Recreation
      Centre)

      Primary Objective: To assess the feasibility of a randomized controlled trial investigating
      access to improvements in 'social capital' in the low income population in Ottawa and
      Toronto.

      Primary Feasibility Outcome: To assess the ability of participating sites to enroll an
      average of 6 participants per month.

      Secondary Feasibility Outcomes: The consent rate of eligible participants, and the rate of
      protocol violations resulting in cross contamination of the groups receiving study
      intervention.

      Tertiary Feasibility Outcomes: 1) To estimate the costs of poverty reduction intervention
      (life skills workshops, training, and education/volunteer/employment opportunities); and 2)
      to compare healthcare utilization (ER visits and hospitalizations) over one year before and
      after the study by linking the trial data to health administrative data available at the
      Institute for Clinical and Evaluative Sciences (ICES).

      Patient Reported Outcomes (PROs): 1) To assess the trend in self-reported quality of life; 2)
      To estimate change in self-reported self-efficacy 3) To assess access to work or volunteering
      positions; and 4) to estimate self-reported reduced or quit tobacco use rate (corroborated
      with the measurement of exhaled Carbon Monoxide) and poly-substance use rate.

      Qualitative Process Outcomes: The investigators will conduct in-depth focus group research
      with community peer researchers to learn more about the implementation process and the
      qualitative effects of the intervention. They will also include open-ended questions in the
      6th and 12 month (study-end) survey to better understand the experience of participants.

      Study Design & Population: Randomized Controlled Cross-Over Trial comparing access to
      improvement in 'social capital' vs. usual care in low income People Who Use Drugs at-risk for
      or living with HIV/AIDS and/or HCV. The usual care group will be offered the intervention
      after six months.

      Sample Size: 80

      Trial Arms: Participants will be randomized to receive life-skills workshops, training,
      education resources and access to small-paid or volunteering positions in the neighborhood
      community OR to usual care for six months. Usual care will consist of information on locally
      available services catering to the target population. Both groups will have access to tobacco
      dependence management during the study.

      Trial Duration: 12 months

      Follow-up Duration: 12 months
    
  