
    
      Background:

        -  Patients with the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) familial cancer syndrome demonstrate
           manifestations in a variety of organs, including the pancreas. Pancreatic manifestations
           can range from benign cysts and micro cystic adenomas to neuroendocrine tumors of the
           pancreas which are capable of regional and distant metastases. These neuroendocrine
           tumors can result in life-threatening complications.

        -  This protocol is designed to identify VHL patients with pancreatic manifestations and to
           follow these patients with serial imaging studies, germ line genetic analysis, discovery
           of serum biomarkers, and novel imaging modalities such as 68-Gallium DOTATATE PET/CT
           scan.

      Objective:

      - To comprehensively and longitudinally evaluate the natural history of patients with VHL
      pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and cystic lesions, estimating and defining their clinical
      spectrum.

      Eligibility:

      - Patients greater than or equal to 12 years of age diagnosed with VHL.

      Design:

        -  Demographic data will be collected from the medical record and patient interview for
           each patient participant. Data will be securely stored in a computerized database.

        -  Patients will be evaluated by the urology, neurosurgery, brain oncology and/or
           ophthalmology personnel as indicated to rule out or manage other manifestations of VHL
           such as hemangioblastoma, renal cell cancer, and pheochromocytoma.

        -  Anatomical and functional clinical imaging studies, research blood and urine sample
           collection will be performed at each scheduled visit. Research 68-Gallium DOTATATE
           PET/CT imaging studies in adult subjects will be performed, no more than once per year.

        -  Surgical resection of solid lesions of the pancreas will be recommended based on
           previously published criteria.

        -  Based on our analysis of likelihood of tumor growth or risk of metastasis, data will be
           analyzed every two years and appropriate revisions will be made to the surgical
           management guidelines, if indicated by data analysis.

        -  Projected accrual will be 40 patients per year for a total of 15 years. Considering some
           patients may have a screen failure, we anticipate accruing of 740 patients on this
           protocol.
    
  