
    
      Objectives: The primary objective of this study is to compare the immunogenicity of two novel
      vaccination strategies, consisting in vaccination with a HD influenza vaccine or an MF59a
      influenza vaccine, to the standard-dose non-adjuvanted vaccination (standard of care) in a
      population of SOT recipients.

      The main secondary objectives are to evaluate the efficacy of the novel vaccination
      strategies in reducing the incidence of influenza, to correlate the humoral responses to
      vaccination with protection from influenza and to assess the influence of immunosuppression
      on influenza vaccine responses.

      Safety objectives include the assessment of the reactogenicity of the different vaccines and
      to describe the incidence of acute rejection and the development of anti-Human Leucocyte
      Antigens (HLA) antibodies after vaccination.

      Study design: Prospective double-blinded randomized controlled three-arm parallel group
      superiority multicenter trial.

      Inclusion / Exclusion criteria: Study participants will be enrolled among ≥18-year old stable
      SOT recipients ≥3 months after transplantation, regularly followed at their respective
      outpatient clinic at the 7 transplant centers and scheduled to receive the annual influenza
      vaccine. Candidates will be excluded in case of previous severe reaction or allergy to one of
      the study vaccines or in case of treatment for acute rejection, among others.

      Measurements and procedures: At day 0, after giving informed consent, eligible patients will
      be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio into 3 arms: standard quadrivalent intramuscular vaccine
      (control), HD trivalent vaccine and MF59a trivalent vaccine. After vaccination participants
      will be followed for a period of 6 months. Safety will be assessed immediately after
      vaccination and 7, 28 and 180 days after vaccination, and blood sampling for immunogenicity
      analysis will be performed at baseline, 7, 28 and 180 days after vaccination. Additionally to
      evaluate the vaccine safety, anti-HLA antibodies will be measured at baseline and at days 28
      and 180 after vaccination. Hemagglutinin titers will be determined by hemagglutination
      inhibition assay (HIA) according to standardized methods. During the influenza season, the
      development of influenza will be systematically assessed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)
      by surveillance nasopharyngeal swab.

      Study Product / Intervention: The study intervention consists in the intramuscular
      administration of either a HD vaccine (containing 60 µg of antigen of each of the three viral
      strains) [Fluzone-HD®] or a MF59a vaccine (containing 15 µg of antigen of each of the three
      viral strains with a MF59 adjuvant) [Fluad®].

      Control Intervention: The control intervention consists in the administration of the standard
      quadrivalent non-adjuvanted intramuscular influenza vaccine (VaxigripTetra®), containing 15
      µg of each of the four viral strains.

      Number of Participants with Rationale: The investigators plan to enroll 780 patients (260
      patients per study group). Sample size was calculated to find a significant difference
      between the three groups for the primary endpoint. The lowest seroconversion rate of 46% for
      standard dose, a mid seroconversion rate of 59% with MF59a vaccine, and the highest
      seroconversion rate of 70% with HD vaccine has been assumed. A 10% drop out rate is assumed
      and the number of patients has been rounded up to get balanced groups. In each group 260
      patients are required which amounts to 780 patients.
    
  