
    
      Multiple myeloma is an incurable disease that is characterized by the malignant proliferation
      of plasma cells. It is the second most common hematological malignancy, is invariable fatal.
      The primary approach for treatment of multiple myeloma is systemic chemotherapy. Conventional
      chemotherapy with melphalan and prednisone (MP) has increased the survival from 12-17 months
      to approximately 3 years. But several other studies have shown that combination therapy with
      addition of other agents such as cyclophosphamide, nitroureas or anthracyclins does not
      improve the prognosis of patients with multiple myeloma. During the past few years it has
      been demonstrated that high dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell
      transplantation can prolong the overall survival of myeloma patients and therefore became the
      standard of care for younger patients. Since it has been demonstrated that high dose
      chemotherapy is also well tolerated by the elderly high dose chemotherapy is recommended for
      patients up to an age of about 70 if there is no relevant comorbidity. Thus, the development
      of more effective regimens for the teatment of relapsed or refractory myeloma patients is
      urgently needed. Treatment with corticosteroids alone can induce responses in both primarily
      resistant and relapsed patients with myeloma. High pulse dexamethasone (40mg daily d1-4, 9-12
      and 17-21) showed response rates of 27% in primarily unresponsive patients and 21% in
      relapsed patients, which were initially responsive. In combination with anthracyclins like in
      the VAD-regimen (vincristin, adriamycin, dexamethasone)response rates of about 31% were
      achieved in primary unresponsive patients whereas the response rate was 65% in patients who
      relapsed, but had previously responded to therapy. Thus, the combination of dexamethasone
      with anthracyclines and vincristin achieve a certain anti-myeloma activity in relapsed or
      refractory patients. Nevertheless due to the neurotoxicity, treatment with vincristin of
      elderly patients is critical and limited. Therefore substitution of vincristine by a less
      toxic agent with high anti-myeloma activity like the new thalidomide analogues (see below)
      could reduce toxicity and improve the therapeutic efficacy of anthracycline and dexamethasone
      containing regimens. Protocol DSMM VII Page 7/52 29.09.2004 Version 1.1 dexamethasone
      containing regimens. One interesting drug with substantial anti-myeloma activity in patients
      with relapsed or refractory myeloma is thalidomide. Thalidomide has been demonstrated to
      induce remissions in about one third of relapsed myeloma patients if given as a single agent
      therapy. Response rates evaluated in phase-II studies could be improved up to 55% if
      thalidomide was administered in combination with other drugs such as glucocorticoids. However
      substantial side effects were observed such as somnolence, constipation and neuropathy. These
      observations led to development of derivatives of thalidomide in order to reduce toxicity and
      to improve efficacy. The thalidomide analogues represent a new class of active drugs based on
      immunmodulatory and direct anti-myeloma effects which have been demonstrated to have a
      greater potency to inhibit growth of MM and angiogenesis in vitro and in vivo than
      thalidomide. In a phase I study heavily pretreated patients with relapsed or refractory
      myeloma were treated with CC-5013 (RevlimidTM, lenalidomide). Revlimid at doses up to 25
      mg/day was safe and well tolerated. The dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was myelosupression at a
      dose level of 50 mg/day. In contrast to thalidomide treatment with CC- 5013 showed no
      significant side effects like somnolence, constipation or neuropathy. In addition 29 % of the
      subjects achieved a > 50% paraprotein reduction, 71% a reduction of > 25%. Preliminary phase
      II data showed in about 20 % of relapsed myeloma patients a > 50% reduction of paraprotein, a
      > 25% reduction could be observed in about 50%. No additional toxicity was observed in
      combination with dexamethasone. Thus, Revlimid as a single agent is well tolerated and has a
      profound anti-myeloma activity in patients with refractory or relapsed disease. These data
      suggest that Revlimid combined with chemotherapy could lead to enhanced anti-myeloma effects
      with acceptable toxicities. The present study will investigate the safety and the efficacy of
      intermittent dosing of CC-5013 (Revlimid) combined with Dexamethasone and Doxorubicin in the
      treatment of relapsed or refractory myeloma. Objectives Primary Objectives
    
  