
    
      Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease resulting from mutations in a 230 kb gene on chromosome
      7 known as the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Study subjects
      with CF manifest pathological changes in a variety of organs that express CFTR. The lungs are
      frequently affected, the sequelae being chronic infections and airway inflammation. The
      principal goal of treatment of subjects with CF is to slow the chronic deterioration of lung
      function.

      This is a Phase 2a study of safety, and tolerability of 28 days of daily dosing of two dose
      (280 mg, and 560 mg) cohorts of Arikace™ versus placebo. Study subjects will be randomized to
      receive either study drug or placebo (1.5% NaCl) by inhalation via a PARI eFlow® nebulizer.
      Cohort 1 (280mg) will complete 28 days of daily dosing with Arikace™ and 14 day post dosing
      safety evaluation by the Safety Committee (DSMB) before initiation of enrollment in Cohort 2
      (560mg). Cohort 2 will complete 28 days of daily dosing, and a 14 day post dosing safety
      assessment by the DSMB to evaluate safety data. All study patients will be followed for
      safety, pharmacokinetics, clinical, and microbiologic activity for 28 days post completion of
      study treatment.

      The total study period will be up to 56 days, with screening visit occurring within the
      preceding 14 days prior to randomization. Patients will be clinically evaluated during the
      first 48 hours post-randomization, and weekly for the 28 days treatment period, and during
      the follow up visits at study days 35, 42, 49, and 56 days to determine safety, tolerability,
      pharmacokinetics (PK), and clinical, and microbiologic activity.

      Clinical laboratory parameters, audiology testing, clinical adverse events, and pulmonary
      function will be evaluated for all study subjects in order to determine the qualitative and
      quantitative safety and tolerability of Arikace™ compared to Placebo. Serum, urine, and
      sputum specimens will be collected at periodic intervals to assess PK. Additionally; sputum
      samples will be collected to determine changes in bacterial density. Pulmonary function
      testing and CFQ-R measurements will be assessed at selected time points throughout the study.

      DSMB has recommended the amendment of the main study to evaluate safety and efficacy of
      additional cycles of treatment with Arikace™. All patients who were randomized in the main
      study, were compliant with the study protocol, and continue meeting study eligibility
      criteria can be consented to participate in the open-label extension to evaluate the safety,
      tolerability and efficacy of 560 mg once daily dose of Arikace™ administered for six cycles
      over eighteen months. Each cycle will comprise of 28 days of treatment followed by 56 days
      off treatment. The total extension period will be up to 518 days (74 weeks, about 18 months).

      Clinical laboratory parameters, audiology testing, clinical adverse events, and pulmonary
      function will be evaluated for all study subjects in order to determine the longer term
      safety, tolerability, and efficacy of Arikace™. Serum specimens will be collected at periodic
      intervals to assess PK for safety. Additionally, sputum samples will be collected to
      determine changes in bacterial density. Pulmonary function testing and CFQ-R measurements
      will be assessed at selected time points throughout the study. Arikace™, Arikayce™, Liposomal
      Amikacin for Inhalation (LAI) and Amikacin Liposome Inhalation Suspension (ALIS) are all the
      same may be used interchangeably throughout the study and other studies evaluating amikacin
      liposome inhalation suspension.
    
  