
    
      -  Objectives of the study

             1. Primary Objective To evaluate efficacy of continuous erythropoietin receptor
                activator (C.E.R.A.) and Darbepoetin Alfa, to maintain Hemoglobin level - within
                the target recommended range - among ESRD patients, in direct comparison to
                currently available ESA (Epoetin alfa and beta).

             2. Secondary Objective To compare the safety profile of the three groups (Epoetin,
                Darbepoetin alpha, C.E.R.A.) by the prevalence of associated morbidity and
                mortality.

        -  Patients and Methods

             1. Study Subjects All haemodialysis patients of the main dialysis centers in Qatar
                (Doha, Alkhour and Alwakra) were screened.

             2. Study Design This is a prospective, randomized, comparative, open label study. The
                study has passed through three phases; the first phase was screening period for 4
                weeks, the 2nd phase was titration period for 12 weeks and the third phase was
                evaluation period for 24 weeks.

                All patients have entered a 4-week screening/baseline period during which they
                continued to receive their previous Epoetin beta or alfa treatment.

                Eligible patients were then randomly assigned (1:1:1), either to continue on the
                previous same dose and route of administration of Epoetin alpha or beta (Epoetin
                group), or to receive Darbepoetin alfa (Aranesp ® Amgen) every week or 2weeks
                (Darbepoetin group) or methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta (Mircera ® Roche
                ,F. Hoffmann-La Roche, Basel, Switzerland) once monthly (C.E.R.A. group).

                In the second group Subjects who were receiving Epoetin alpha/ beta two or three
                times a week were switched to Darbepoetin alfa once a week, while those receiving
                Epoetin alpha or beta once a week were switched to Darbepoetin alfa once every 2
                weeks.

                Two hundred IU Epoetin: 1 mcg Darbepoetin alfa ratio was used to determine the
                starting dose of Darbepoetin alfa. If a dose of Epoetin alpha or beta does not
                equate exactly to a unit dose of Darbepoetin alfa at switching, then the nearest
                available unit dose of Darbepoetin alfa was used.

                Darbepoetin alfa doses were adjusted according to the approved prescribing
                information, without additional restrictions.

                In the third group Mircera® (F.Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., Basel, Switzerland) is
                provided as pre-filled syringes.

                Intravenous monthly administration was carried out. The initial dose was 120 mcg,
                200 mcg or 360 mcg, provided that patient had previously received a weekly dose of
                Epoetin alpha/ beta of less than 8000 IU, between 8000 to16 000 IU or more
                than16000IU respectively. Doses of C.E.R.A. were adjusted according to protocol and
                not more than once monthly.

                Doses of C.E.R.A. were decreased by 25% for Hb values >12 and ≤13 g/dL and
                increased by 25% for Hb <11 and ≥10 g/dL. C.E.R.A. dose was increased by 50% for Hb
                <10 g/dL. Treatment was interrupted temporarily if Hb exceeds 13 g/dL.

                The doses for all patients were adjusted so that haemoglobin concentrations would
                remain within a target range of 11-12 g/dL during the study.

                Iron supplementation was to be initiated or intensified according to centre
                practice in cases of iron deficiency (serum ferritin <100 μg/L, transferrin
                saturation <20%, or hypochromic red blood cells >10%) and discontinued in patients
                who had serum ferritin levels >800 μg/L or transferring saturation >50%.

                The study was conducted in accordance with the revised Declaration of Helsinki, and
                the study protocol was approved by our internal research committee. Written
                informed consent was obtained from all studied patients.

             3. Sample Size and Technique One hundred and ten patients were planned to be recruited
                in each arm according to number of eligible subjects after screening period.
                (Alpha= 0.05, B= 0.20 having 66% response rate by MIRCERA , 40.4% response rate by
                darbepoetin alpha So by comparing the sample size happened to be 107 individual for
                each group.[Statistical methods for rates and proportion by Joseph L. Fleiss (2nd.
                1981, John Wiley & Sons, NY), chapter 3].

                The study has primarily evaluated the whole population of haemodialysis patients in
                Qatar.

                Laboratory assessment of the haemoglobin, haematocrit, white blood cell count,
                platelet count was measured at weekly intervals. Aspartate amino transferase,
                alanine aminotransferase, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, C- reactive protein,
                potassium, phosphorus, serum ferritin, serum iron, serum transferrin, total
                iron-binding capacity were measured at monthly intervals. Physical examinations
                including chest, heart, abdomen examination and evaluation of the volume status
                were performed at baseline, monthly and at the final visit. Fractional clearance of
                urea (Kt/V) or urea reduction ratio was used to assess adequacy of haemodialysis at
                baseline then monthly as unit protocol.

                Data were collected in data collection forms.

             4. Data Management and Analysis plan Collected data was fed in excel sheet and then
                converted to SPSS 14.0 statistical package for analysis. Descriptive statistics
                were performed for all the continuous and categorical variables appropriately.
                Parametric and non parametric statistical techniques were applied to see
                significance difference between the groups. P value 0.05 (two tailed) or less was
                considered as statistical significant level.
    
  