
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a clinically relevant disease that is associated with
      cardiovascular, metabolic, and neurocognitive consequences. OSA is a very common disease; the
      Wisconsin Sleep Cohort Study found that OSA affects 2% of women and 4% of men aged 30-60.
      However, these data predate the obesity epidemic and use of more modern diagnostic equipment,
      such that more recent studies have reported prevalences of moderate to severe OSA as high as
      24% in women and 49% in men.

      The prevalence of OSA has been found to be particularly high in patients suffering from
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). One study of veterans with combat related PTSD found
      that 67.3% of this population was diagnosed with OSA after undergoing polysomnography. This
      finding is consistent with those of Mysliwiec et al who found rates of OSA in 63% of
      post-deployment soldiers and 51% of active duty soldiers. Despite increased recognition of
      this association, there has been little progress in establishing a pathophysiological link
      between the two diseases, and no study to our knowledge examining the possibility that PTSD
      might drive the development of OSA. Furthermore, individuals with PTSD have been found to
      have significantly lower compliance with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) therapy
      than the general population, with claustrophobia, mask discomfort, and air hunger as the most
      commonly cited reasons for non-adherence. Despite this, studies have shown both benefit in
      sleep quality and PTSD related nightmares with OSA treatment. Alternative OSA therapies are
      therefore particularly important in this group, but will rely on determination of targets
      other than those treated by CPAP.

      While a propensity towards upper airway collapse, as seen in obesity, has classically been
      considered the principle determinate of OSA pathogenesis, more recent work has shown that
      non-anatomical variables including the ventilatory arousal threshold (ArTH) are also
      important. During wakefulness pharyngeal dilator muscles remain active to maintain airway
      patency however during sleep these muscles lose activity in all individuals but in those with
      OSA airway collapse occurs and results hypoxia and hypercapnia. Both accumulation of carbon
      dioxide and increased negative pressure can cause recruitment of the upper airway dilator
      muscles resulting in pharyngeal patency if sleep is maintained. Cortical arousal during apnea
      for most individuals represents a protective mechanism as the airway is restored with
      resolution of hypoxia and hypercarbia. However individuals with low ArTH (individuals who
      wake easily) do not have sufficient time for accumulation of respiratory stimuli, recruitment
      of pharyngeal muscles is then unable to occur which results in disruption of sleep. ArTH is
      variable amongst individuals and is dependent on the magnitude of negative intrathoracic
      pressure tolerated before awakening occurs and is independent from other factors.

      A central feature of PTSD is a state of persistent hyperarousal that chronically persists
      following a traumatic event. Individuals with PTSD have been found to have important
      physiologic changes of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis (HPA) and sympathoadrenal system
      including increased levels of sympathetic neurotransmitters such as norepinephrine and
      increased activity of α2-adrenergic and glucocortocoid receptors. Both the HPA and
      sympathetic nervous system are associated with attention and arousal. Prolonged activation of
      these systems has been shown to induce important biochemical changes associated with
      disordered sleep. Indeed, studies in norepinephrine deficient knockout mice have demonstrated
      that increased stimulus is required to induce cortical arousal in the norepinephrine
      deficient mice and results in higher acoustic ArTH when compared to controls. Our hypothesis
      is that patients suffering from PTSD will have a lower ArTH when compared to subjects without
      PTSD. This work is significant because if lower ArTH is associated with PTSD these patients
      may benefit from therapies that raise the ArTH.

      Prior studies have indicated that trazodone, a serotonin reuptake inhibitor commonly used for
      insomnia and occasionally for depression, may raise the arousal threshold without suppressing
      upper airway muscle activity. This medication therefore presents a potentially attractive
      alternative treatment to CPAP therapy for patients with OSA related to a low arousal
      threshold.
    
  