
    
      In total, 8 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) patients, 8 patients with
      interstitial lung disease (ILD) and 8 healthy subjects were recruited.

      The patient was studied at the afternoon in a semirecumbent position. After the application
      of topical anaesthesia (2% xylocaine), the patient was asked to swallow two balloon-tipped
      catheters and the multi-pair esophageal electrode catheter through the nose into the their
      right position.

      At the first period, the stable signals of unassisted spontaneous breathing (about 5min) were
      chosen to be recorded. After this period, the patient was placed on noninvasive pressure
      support ventilation(PSV). The inspiratory positive airway pressure (IPAP) was initially
      titrated by patient's tolerance . The noninvasive ventilation lasted at least 20 minutes
      until the breathing was stable. All the raw signals were recorded. The last 15 minutes of the
      stable computer-stored data were calculated and analyzed. The leaks were monitored by the
      display of the ventilator and the computer during the procedure. When the leak was observed,
      the mask was carefully adjusted to prevent. Esophageal and gastric balloon-catheters were
      used to detect the intra-thoracic and abdominal pressure. Airway pressure was also measured
      simultaneously. EMGdi was recorded from a multipair esophageal electrode .During ventilation
      Airflow and ventilation were measured with pneumotachograph.

      Respiratory rate, tidal volume,the time difference between the initial increase and the
      termination of the diaphragm electromyogram(EMGdi) , time difference between maximal value of
      EMGdi and the end of inspiratory flow,time difference between the point of zero flow between
      inspiration and expiration ,and the time difference between the onset of the upward
      deflection in transdiagramic pressure( Pdi) and the return of Pdi were calculated during the
      unassisted spontaneous breathing and mechanical ventilation.
    
  