
    
      Purpose:

      To determine whether prophylactic exposure to tenofovir gel alters the therapeutic response
      to a tenofovir containing antiretroviral regimen

      Study design:

      Open label, two-arm, randomised controlled trial

      Study population:

      Women who become infected with HIV while participating in the CAPRISA 004 and CAPRISA 008
      trials. There are 3 study populations:

      Study population 1:

      HIV positive women from the CAPRISA 004 tenofovir gel arm and HIV positive women from the
      clinical trial tenofovir gel provision arm of CAPRISA 008

      Study population 2:

      HIV positive women in the placebo arm of CAPRISA 004

      Study population 3:

      HIV positive women from the family planning service arm of CAPRISA 008

      Study sites:

      CAPRISA eThekwini and CAPRISA Vulindlela clinics.

      Study duration:

      3 years

      Study intervention:

      Enrolled women will be initiated on their assigned antiretroviral therapy regimen when they
      reach any of the following criteria:

        -  reach a CD4+ count of less than 350 cell/mm3

        -  acquire an AIDS defining illness

        -  become pregnant - women in any of the three study populations who become pregnant during
           follow-up will be initiated on their assigned treatment regimen, as appropriate, for
           prevention of mother-to-child transmission of HIV.

      At enrolment women in each of the three study populations will be assigned randomly to one of
      the two following antiretroviral regimens Intervention Arm: Tenofovir, lamivudine and
      efavirenz Control arm: Zidovudine, lamivudine and efavirenz

      Sample size: The projected sample size is 90 women. The number of women in each stratum is as
      follows:

      Study population 1: n = 40 Study population 2: n = 30 Study population 3: n = 20

      Primary endpoint:

      The primary endpoint is the antiretroviral treatment failure rate at 12 months. Treatment
      failure is defined as viral load > 50 copies/ml, antiretroviral regimen changes for treatment
      failure or death

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Change in CD4+ cell count from the earliest post-infection timepoint to the time of
           randomisation to 12, 24 and 36 months post-randomisation

        2. Tenofovir resistance, defined as presence of K65R, K70E or any of the TAMS mutations.

        3. Reported adverse events with severity grades 3 and 4 based on the DAIDS toxicity grading
           tables

        4. Cellular and humoral immune responses

        5. Genital viral shedding (viral load on tear flow) Ancillary Endpoint Mother-to-child HIV
           transmission rates as determined by PCR on infant at 6 weeks.
    
  