
    
      For nurses and physicians, concerns exist relative to emotional exhaustion, burnout, and job
      dissatisfaction. In a study of medical students (median age 25 years), residents/fellows
      (median age 31 years), and early career physicians (median age 37 years), adverse
      manifestation rates were 30-40% for emotional exhaustion, 40-50% for burnout, 40-60% for
      depression, 7-9% for suicidal ideation, and 50-60% for fatigue. The rate of emotional
      exhaustion, a risk for burnout, has been found to be substantial in nurses in the U.S.

      Mindfulness is an attitudinal expression of receptive awareness, wherein there is a
      distinction made between an experience occurring in the present moment and associated
      thoughts and interpretations about the experience. The thinking process itself is observed
      with all thoughts being treated as equal in value, without attraction or rejection. In two
      investigations that consisted of physicians and nurses, a high mindfulness score was
      associated with less stress, greater wellbeing, and a positive emotional tone among subjects.
      Mindfulness training has been associated with reductions in stress or burnout risk in studies
      that include nurses and physicians.

      Neurofeedback (NFB) is a process in which an individual learns to intentionally alter their
      brainwave activity. NFB has been demonstrated to be useful for decreasing anxiety and
      enhancing attention.

      As concerns with electroencephalographic (EEG) artifacts and the fact that technologies for
      providing quantitative EEG analysis are continuously evolving, the investigators selected the
      Bispectral Index (BIS) monitor (Aspect Medical Systems, Newton, MA) as a device to provide
      NFB signals. The Food and Drug Administration classifies the BIS monitor as an EEG monitoring
      device that monitors EEG signals, and it may be used for monitoring the effects of anesthetic
      and sedating agents. The credibility and validity of the device is supported by more than
      2,500 citations in the National Library of Medicine that includes publications in the New
      England Journal of Medicine and Cochrane Systematic Review.

      Reductions in BIS values have also been found for conditions other than pharmacologic
      sedation and include acupressure, stage I sleep, and relaxation using guided imagery.

      Although combining mindfulness and NFB has been advocated, such a model, to the
      investigators' knowledge, has not been evaluated. Therefore, the purpose of the proposed
      study is to evaluate a model of mindfulness and NFB among physicians and nurses.
    
  