
    
      A low glycemic index diet (LGIT) is a modification of a ketogenic diet (KD) that includes low
      carbohydrate, medium protein, and high fat intake.It is a potential new intervention for
      refractory schizophrenia.The possible mechanism is that relatively low and stable blood sugar
      levels trigger the brain to start applying fat metabolism, helping to compensate for impaired
      GABA levels in the brain.KD can effectively treat refractory epilepsy, and its therapeutic
      effect on epilepsy is comparable to that of antiepileptic drugs, which have been written into
      the treatment guidelines as a good synergist and mood stabilizer in schizophrenia and various
      mental disorders.Therefore, it can be assumed that LGIT has a certain effect on the positive
      symptoms of schizophrenia as a synergistic agent.In this study, 80 patients with
      schizophrenia were randomly divided into two groups: LGIT diet and normal diet.The changes of
      PANSS and blood lipid before and after treatment were analyzed. Transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (TMS) was used to evaluate the gaba-mediated cortical excitability of patients to
      further explore the mechanism of efficacy.

      Experimental design:

      1)Experimental scheme:

        1. Sample estimation and selection of cases: although not find LGIT to treat schizophrenia
           scale research for reference, but in an article published in 2018 KD the curative effect
           of treatment of refractory epilepsy in children and adherence of Meta analysis, Du
           Ailing from 1989 to 2018 were analyzed such as relevant information received 503 cases,
           termination of the experiments of the main causes of poor adherence to patients and
           family members, the loss rate of about 10%.Therefore, 80 cases meeting the inclusion
           criteria and exclusion criteria were included in this study, all of which were
           inpatients from huangpu district mental health center in Shanghai. The patients were
           divided into LGIT group (L) with 40 cases and normal diet group (N) with 40 cases by
           random number table method.

        2. Inclusion criteria:

             -  Meet the diagnostic criteria of schizophrenia in icd-10, and score ≥4 in any item
                of p1-7 in PANSS scale.

                ② Meet the diagnostic criteria for treatable schizophrenia: in the past 5 years to
                three drugs and the appropriate dose and course of antipsychotic drugs (three drugs
                at least two chemical structures are different) poor response; Adverse reactions of
                patients who cannot tolerate antipsychotic drugs; Even with adequate maintenance
                treatment or preventive treatment, the patient still relapses or deteriorates.

                ③ Age 18-65.

        3. Exclusion criteria:

             -  Patients with the following diseases: fatty acid transport or oxidation defects,
                ketone body synthesis or decomposition defects, mitochondrial diseases, serious
                liver diseases, pyruvate carboxylase defects, porphyria, carnitine deficiency, some
                immunodeficiency diseases, organic acid urine; ② Patients with bleeding tendency,
                severe hypertension and severe heart, liver, lung, kidney failure, severe epilepsy
                patients; ③ Serious history of alcohol and drug abuse, addiction; ④ Extremely
                excited restless patients;Patients using implantable electronic devices.

        4. Withdrawal criteria:

           ① Complete the 12-week test process;

           ② LGIT patients in the experimental group and the normal diet control group continued to
           use the original drugs throughout the experiment. If the type or dose of antipsychotics
           changed due to the recurrence of the disease, they would withdraw from the experiment.

           ③ The patient can not tolerate the situation of diet treatment, autonomous request to
           withdraw.

        5. Before treatment, at the end of the 4th week, the 8th week and the 12th week, venous
           blood was extracted from the elbow for four times, and the positive and negative symptom
           syndrome scale (PANSS), Hamilton anxiety scale (HAMA) and Hamilton depression scale
           (HAMD) were measured by two professional evalutors with blind evaluation.The
           neuropsychological state rating scale (RBANS) was used to assess changes in cognitive
           function before and after treatment.Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was used to
           assess changes in cortical excitability mediated by gaba-capable intermediate neurons in
           patients before and after treatment.

        6. Efficacy evaluation criteria: according to obvious effect (PANSS score reduction rate
           >50%), effective (PANSS score reduction rate 25-50%), invalid (PANSS score reduction
           rate <25%).

        7. the LGIT diet of the experimental group consisted of 55% fat, 30% protein and 15%
           carbohydrate, and the glycemic index of the food was limited to less than 50. The meal
           was prepared by a public nutritionist who evaluated the nutritional composition of the
           inpatients provided by the canteen and then added or subsumed the compound nutrition
           powder.

      2)statistical treatment: SPSS21.0 statistical software package was used, measurement data
      were expressed as (x-±s), the mean level was 0.05, group t test was used for comparison
      before and after treatment, and correlation analysis was multiple stepwise regression
      analysis.
    
  