
    
      Purpose: The delivery of whole breast radiotherapy to women with a deep inframammary fold
      frequently results in a marked skin reaction (brisk erythema and/or moist desquamation). The
      main aim of this study is to compare the efficacy of prophylactic silver leaf nylon dressings
      with standard skin care against standard skin care alone in the prevention of brisk erythema
      and moist desquamation. A secondary aim of the study is to assess whether the use of silver
      leaf nylon dressings can reduce breast-related symptoms of pain, burning sensation and
      itching in women undergoing whole breast radiotherapy.

      Hypothesis: The hypothesis is that silver leaf nylon dressing reduces the percentage of
      patients developing brisk erythema and moist desquamation while undergoing whole breast
      radiotherapy. The secondary hypothesis is that silver leaf nylon dressing reduces
      breast-related symptoms of pain, itching and burning sensation in patients receiving whole
      breast radiotherapy. The null hypotheses are that there is no reduction in brisk erythema,
      moist desquamation or breast-related symptoms in patients undergoing whole breast
      radiotherapy with the use of silver leaf nylon dressing.

      Justification: Severe skin reactions are common in patients with a deep inframammary fold who
      undergo whole breast radiotherapy. It may be possible to reduce the severity of skin
      reactions in this population of patients with the use of silver leaf nylon dressing. This
      might make whole breast radiotherapy more tolerable for patients.

      Objectives: The objectives of this study are to compare the severity of skin reactions of
      patients with a deep inframammary skin fold undergoing whole breast radiotherapy (using the
      Radiation Therapy Oncology Group scoring system, as well as a supplementary scoring system)
      between the experimental arm and the control arm, and to compare the severity of breast-
      related symptoms (using visual analogue scales), topical steroid use and analgesic use
      between the two study arms.

      Research Method: This will be a single blind randomised controlled trial. The target
      population comprises patients with a deep inframammary fold undergoing whole breast
      radiotherapy. Patients will be randomised to follow standard skin care recommendations
      throughout radiotherapy treatment (control arm) or to follow these recommendations in
      addition to using a silver leaf nylon dressing (experimental arm). Randomisation will be
      stratified for the delivery of prior chemotherapy and for the radiotherapy fractionation
      schedule (extended versus standard).
    
  