
    
      Study Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the flip of a coin) to receive either fentanyl or placebo. You will have an equal chance
      of being assigned to either group. Neither you nor the study staff will know to which group
      you have been assigned. However, if needed for your safety, the study staff will be able to
      find out what you are receiving.

      Study Drug/Placebo Administration:

      Before you receive the study drug/placebo, you will walk back and forth in an indoor hallway
      for up to 6 minutes. You may feel out of breath or become exhausted. You may slow down, stop,
      and rest at any time you need to.

      After that, you will sit down and rest (for about 30 minutes).

      You will then be given the study drug/placebo by a nasal spray. You will then wait for
      another 20 minutes and repeat the walking test.

      After that, you will sit down and rest (for about 30 minutes).

      You will then be given the study drug/placebo again by a nasal spray. You will then wait for
      another 20 minutes and repeat the walking test for a third time.

      Study Visit:

      During your study visit, the study staff will collect information from your medical record
      about your age, sex, race, disease type, your performance status, any drugs you are taking,
      and possible causes of shortness of breath.

      Before each walk test, you will complete the questionnaires about your symptoms.

      Before and after each walk test, the study staff will record your heart rate, breathing rate,
      and the level of oxygen in your blood using a measuring device that will be clipped onto your
      finger. The study staff will also ask you 3 questions about how hard it is to catch your
      breath and your level of tiredness.

      During each walk test, you will be asked 6 times how hard it is to catch your breath. The
      distance you walked and how often and for how long you stopped will be recorded.

      Before and after the second and third walk tests, the study staff will ask you about any side
      effects from the study drug/placebo that you may be having.

      During the rest period between the walk tests, you may be asked several times how hard it is
      to catch your breath.

      After each walk test, you will also be asked to complete 4 tests of your mental abilities,
      including finger tapping, simple mathematics questions (addition, subtraction,
      multiplication, division), recall of numbers, and recall of objects. It should take 15
      minutes to complete these tests.

      At the end of the study visit, you will complete 1 questionnaire that asks if you think the
      study drug/placebo is helping you, and how satisfied you are with the study. It should take
      about 5 minutes to complete the questionnaire.

      Length of Study:

      You will be on this study for up to 3 hours. You will be taken off study if intolerable side
      effects occur during the study.

      This is an investigational study. Fentanyl is FDA approved and commercially available for the
      treatment of pain. Its use to help with shortness of breath is investigational.

      Up to 25 patients will be enrolled in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  