
    
      State-of-the-art implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICD) provide a variety of
      algorithms to optimize episode classification and to minimize the danger of delivering
      inadequate therapies. An important role in checking the correctness of episode detection,
      classification and treatment plays the intracardiac electrogram (IEGM), which is stored
      inside the ICD for every detected episode. However, to analyze the stored IEGM, the physician
      has to interrogate the implant, i.e. the patient has to visit the ICD ambulance for
      follow-up. As a result, follow-ups are performed principally to corroborate that the ICD has
      correctly classified and treated detected tachycardia episodes, to optimize the parameters
      and in case of adverse event detection, to modify the programmation.

      The extension of BIOTRONIK Home Monitoring® by IEGM-Online® with LUMOS ICD offers a new
      possibility to meet the following challenge:

      Due to its integrated long-distance telemetry, the implantable cardioverter defibrillator
      (ICD) LUMOS is capable of periodically transmitting data and IEGM-online from the ICD memory
      to the BIOTRONIK Service Center via patient device. The BIOTRONIK Service Center decodes the
      data and presents it to the physician on a password secured internet site. Additionally, in
      case certain event criteria are met, the most important Home Monitoring information is
      immediately faxed to the physician as an Event Report. These events can be customized by the
      physician. Thus, the physician will be able to closely monitor the patient and check the
      adequacy and efficiency of the ICD therapy without requiring the patient to visit the
      physician. The transmitted data comprise information on atrial and ventricular rhythm,
      atrioventricular conduction and system status.

      The purpose of the present study is to evaluate the safety and economic impact of ICD
      follow-up schedule with Home Monitoring in France. For this assessment, the investigation
      compares two groups: For the ACTIVE group, after a first follow-up, the patients are only
      followed by Home Monitoring and one follow-up per year. The ICD follow-up or therapeutic
      intervention will be primarily based and triggered on event reports reception and after
      cardio reports and IEGM-online analysis on internet site. The findings from this group will
      be compared to those of a group receiving standard of care (CONTROL group). Both patient
      groups will be followed for 27 months and will have Home Monitoring switched on. The data
      from the CONTROL group will not be presented online to the attending physician, but a
      retrospective analysis on differences between the two groups will be performed. The clinical
      study will analyse, the incidence of significant serious adverse events (composite of
      all-cause mortality, cardiac and device related SAE), the costs reduction, the
      home-monitoring workload, the quality of life, the incremental Costs/Effectiveness ratio, the
      patient willing-to-pay, the delay of Home Monitoring to manage adverse events, the
      sensitivity of Home Monitoring to detect ICD dysfunctions, the inappropriate therapies rate
      and impact on hospitalization, the number of ICD charge and impact on battery longevity.

      The trial will be conducted as a prospective, randomized, open, multicenter, national
      clinical trial. The enrolment of 400 patients in 40 clinical centres in France is anticipated
    
  