
    
      Hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) has been a popular choice for the treatment of hypertension mainly
      due to its efficacy in lowering blood pressure, safety, and cost-effectiveness. Similarly,
      angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE-I), because of their neutral to positive impact
      on glycemic control, have been a popular choice for addressing hypertension in abdominally
      obese patients. Furthermore, the ACE-I drug class has been shown to improve vascular
      endothelial function and inflammation in addition to its blood pressure lowering effects.

      Conversely, beta-adrenergic receptor blockers (b-blockers) have generally been avoided as
      first line anti-hypertensive therapy in pre-diabetic patients due to concerns about worsening
      glycemic control and potential hastening of progression to type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
      However, recent data have shown that the 3rd generation b-blocker carvedilol does not
      negatively affect glucose metabolism and therefore may be a safe and effective choice for
      blood pressure control in these patients. This neutral glycemic effect is likely due to the
      fact that carvedilol is a non-selective b-receptor antagonist (blocks both b1 and b2
      receptors) with alpha1-receptor blocking properties. In addition, carvedilol possesses
      anti-oxidant properties and improves endothelial function, potentially making it an
      attractive anti-hypertensive treatment strategy in patients with abdominal obesity.

      The combination of carvedilol and lisinopril may be especially effective in reducing blood
      pressure and may act synergistically to address the impaired vascular function and increased
      inflammation and oxidative stress present in patients with the metabolic syndrome phenotype.
      Therefore the primary objective of the current study will be to evaluate the effects of
      carvedilol CR + lisinopril compared to lisinopril + HCTZ on vascular function in a head to
      head trial in abdominally obese, hypertensive patients. The secondary objective will be to
      compare the effects of these two anti-hypertensive therapies on plasma biomarkers of
      endothelial activation, inflammation, and oxidative stress in these patients.
    
  