
    
      As of April 20, 2020, there had been over 2.4 million confirmed cases of coronavirus disease
      2019 (COVID-19) reported globally; 759,786 cases in USA. Triage protocols have been developed
      to prioritize individuals for COVID-19 testing based on exposure or symptoms. Due to the high
      demand for screening, the turnaround time for results in our area varies from 5-6 days. While
      current estimates suggest that 80% of individuals will have mild illness, there is no
      reliable way to predict course. Also some patients may rapidly deteriorate a week after
      illness onset. No proven preventive or therapeutic options are yet available for individuals
      with mild symptoms who are tested for COVID-19 infection, and asked to self-isolate
      themselves at home while awaiting results.

      COVID-19 is mainly a respiratory disease. Complications such as pneumonia and acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are among its most dreaded complications, and major
      contributors to Intensive Care Unit admissions and mortality. Early studies show that dyspnea
      occurs at a median of 6 days after initial symptom onset, which can progress to ARDS at a
      median of 12 days after onset. Hence, there is a window of 3-4 days after symptom onset
      (corresponds to the time individuals typically wait for test results) that interventions
      could be applied to prevent progression. Pulmonary and functional rehabilitation has proven
      validity in preventing worsening of pulmonary and physical function in respiratory diseases.
      But the utility of rehabilitation has not yet been established in the COVID-19 patient
      population.

      Based on our research in frail older adults and input from experts, the investigators
      recently developed and published an innovative stratified self-guided care and exercise
      manual for patients with COVID-19 infection to improve pulmonary function and prevent
      immobility. The investigators build on this experience to test the efficacy of a
      telephone-based app (PT-Pal™) version of this pulmonary and mobility focused rehabilitation
      program. The PT-Pal is a validated cloud-based patient engagement platform that enables
      management of patient care by sending treatment plans, surveys and reminders to the patient's
      mobile device using HIPAA compliant secure messaging.

      Our aim is to conduct a pilot single-blind randomized controlled trial in 100 patients tested
      for COVID-19 infection and isolated at home who will be randomized into either a 14 day
      PT-Pal pulmonary and mobility focused rehabilitation program or a self-guided exercise group.
      Compared to participants in the active control group, the investigators hypothesize that
      participants in the PT-Pal program will show lesser declines in self-reported pulmonary (St
      George's Respiratory questionnaire) and physical function (AM-PAC basic mobility
      questionnaire) due to greater participation and adherence rates. The investigators will test
      at baseline, day and day 14 to determine trajectories in both groups. All outcomes will be
      collected remotely as social distancing precludes in-person testing. At our recruitment site,
      40-45% of individuals tested for COVID-19 had a positive result, but given current delays in
      obtaining results (5-6 days), the investigators will enroll participants before knowing their
      COVID-19 status.

      The investigators will also examine the following secondary outcomes obtained remotely:
      Pulmonary function (breath holding and peak flow), Physical function (5 times sit to stand
      test), Health events (Emergency Room visits, hospitalizations), Psychological
      (anxiety/depressive symptoms), and Feasibility metrics (sessions completed).

      Our pilot clinical trial will build the evidence base for a rehabilitative approach to be
      applied alongside emerging therapies to ameliorate the devastating pulmonary and physical
      function declines seen in COVID-19 infection. It can be implemented in the time window
      between presentation and development of severe symptoms in the large population of adults
      awaiting test results in the community. Our approach can also apply to COVID-19 patients such
      as those discharged from hospitals or healthcare workers furloughed home due to disease
      exposure.
    
  