
    
      A randomized controlled trial (RCT) is planned among 140 of the MOMFIT offspring, aged 3-5
      years old. The KIDFIT Study follows final data collection in the MOMFIT RCT. Moms were
      randomized to either the MAMA DASH Diet and lifestyle intervention or the "Web-Watcher"
      enhanced usual care group that received periodic newsletters highlighting publicly available
      websites and reputable links related to healthy pregnancy. The first MOMFIT baby was born in
      September 2013 and the last was born in July 2016; the KIDFIT cohort will include children
      who are ages 3-5 years at the time of randomization. Post-partum, the MAMA DASH Intervention
      Group received ongoing encouragement for maternal adherence to the DASH Diet and
      breastfeeding of the child for as long as possible, preferably at least six months. General
      diet information regarding post-weaning was provided briefly to further encourage maternal
      adherence to the diet. KIDFIT will randomize children stratified by the original MOMFIT
      groups to either the DASH Diet and Lifestyle intervention (called KIDFIT-Healthy) or enhanced
      (websites/apps) Usual Care called KIDFIT-Safe. Children randomized to the intervention group
      will have a 12 month diet and lifestyle intervention that will implement the DASH kids diet,
      encourage physical activity, limit screen time, and encourage 10 to 13 hours of sleep.
      Mother-Child Dyads randomized to the usual care group will be sent monthly guides addressing
      environmentally safe home settings to raise children and given related resources for healthy
      family lifestyle habits for their family.

      The KIDFIT clinical intervention will develop, implement and test a lifestyle intervention to
      determine whether (1) children ages 3-5 years, born to overweight/obese (OW/OB) mothers who
      adhered to an antenatal diet and lifestyle intervention, demonstrate improvements in weight
      gain trajectories, diet pattern quality, physical activity levels and other ideal
      cardiovascular health (iCVH) measures compared to children whose OW/OB mothers underwent
      usual care; (2) lifestyle intervention at ages 3-5 years is associated with improvements in
      those same measures independent of or additive to maternal intervention; and (3) epigenetic
      mechanisms and molecular pathways underlying these associations can be differentiated.KIDFIT
      results will help determine whether antenatal diet and lifestyle interventions and/or early
      life child-focused diet and lifestyle interventions offer the potential for prevention of
      obesity, thereby maintaining iCVH earlier and longer.
    
  