
    
      Design Patients will be included in the study at the beginning of ICU stay in a participating
      hospital (t0) and survivors will be followed over a period of 12 months after discharge from
      ICU. If patients have been treated before in a referring hospital, a retrospective assessment
      of their health status during their stay in this hospital and during inter-hospital transport
      will be performed. Four follow-up measurements (at discharge from ICU as well as 3, 6 and 12
      months after discharge) will be performed on individual patient level.

      Sample & Recruitment Hospitals of the "ARDS Network Germany" and other hospitals which
      provide care for patients with ARDS were invited to participate in the study.

      It is envisaged to screen 2600 patients for the presence of ARDS and to include 2400 patients
      as members of the source population. An in-hospital mortality rate of 30% is assumed;
      therefore, we expect to analyze a study population of 1500 patients at t1 (discharge from
      ICU). For each follow-up-assessment (t2-t4: 3 months, 6 months, 12 months after discharge),
      loss-to-follow-up rates due to death, withdrawal of consent or other reasons are estimated to
      be about 10%, resulting in slightly more than 1000 patients at 12-months-follow-up.

      Measurements The main predictor is quality of care provided in the ICUs of the participating
      hospitals. The following main indicators were chosen: qualification of physicians,
      implementation of routine daily multiprofessional ward rounds with documentation of daily
      therapy goals, number of ventilated patients per, and membership of the hospital in the "ARDS
      Network Germany". All quality indicators will be assessed by questionnaire at the
      institutional level.

      Main outcome measures of the DACAPO study are HRQoL and return to work among survivors of
      ARDS (see study outcomes).

      Moderating variables are gender, socio-economic status, prevalent and incident
      psychopathological symptoms (PHQ-D, PTSS-14) and the availability of social support (F-SozU
      K-14).

      Additional variables comprise general medical ICU parameters (e.g. comorbidity, prognostic
      scores (SAPS (Simplified Acute Physiology Score) II, SAPS III ) and an organ dysfunction
      score (SOFA (Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score)) and parameters relating to ARDS
      (e.g. cause and severity) and its treatment (e.g. ventilation parameters, use of supportive
      care measures, critical events (hypoglycaemia, hypoxia)) as well as socio-demographic and
      psycho-social characteristics.

      Additionally, costs will be assessed as direct costs in terms of treatment costs at the ICU.

      Data Sources and Data Collection Patients's general medical characteristics and medical data
      relating to ARDS and its treatment will be assessed during ICU stay and gathered through
      electronic case report forms (eCRFs). Data on the direct costs of treating patients with ARDS
      in the ICU will be gathered from hospital records. A 12-months mortality follow-up will be
      performed. Local municipal population registries will be contacted to obtain data on
      mortality at the patient level.

      At baseline, caregivers will provide proxy report of patients' socio-demographic data, at
      follow-ups (discharge from ICU, 3 months, 6 months, 12 months), patients themselves will
      complete self-report questionnaires on socio-demographic and psycho-social characteristics as
      well as on the main outcome measures.

      Data on indicators of quality of care will be assessed through questionnaires administered to
      the directors of the hospitals/ICUs.

      Data Management The open source software OpenClinica, version 3.1, will be used for
      electronic data collection and data management. eCRFs will be used for data entry. A
      continuous assessment of data quality will be performed by exporting data sets to statistical
      packages to run further error and plausibility checks. Data from paper-pencil-questionnaires
      completed by patients will be entered into the database twice in order to ensure high data
      quality.

      Statistical Analysis A linear multilevel regression model will be fitted both for the
      physical and the mental component summary score of the SF-12. A non-parametric multilevel
      regression model will be used for the outcome "return to work". The modelling procedure will
      be applied to each of the operationalizations of the predictor "quality of care".

      All analyses will be carried out using SAS 9.4 software and STATA version 12 software.
    
  