
    
      All patients will receive the FC-6 study treatment regimen every 2 weeks during each 8-week
      cycle for a total of 3 cycles.

      Baseline imaging of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis will be performed. CT scan or MRI of the
      abdomen will be performed after 1 cycle of neoadjuvant therapy to assess clinical response
      and resectability of liver metastases. If liver metastases are not deemed to be resectable at
      this assessment, but tumor assessment demonstrates stable disease or partial response,
      therapy will continue with re-assessment for clinical response and resectability after Cycle
      2 and, if necessary, after Cycle 3.

      After a minimum of 1 cycle of therapy, patients who meet the guidelines for resection of
      liver metastases will undergo liver metastasectomy (tumor resection and/or ablation) as soon
      as judged technically feasible by the hepatic surgeon in order to minimize chemotherapy
      damage to the liver and morbidity from surgery. At the investigator's discretion, the
      chemotherapy and cetuximab regimen may be continued for 1 additional treatment given at least
      2 weeks before the planned date of surgery. This additional treatment, if given, will not be
      considered to be part of the 3 study therapy cycles.

      The surgical goal is to perform a curative (R0) resection and/or ablation. If curative
      surgery was performed and if only 1 or 2 cycles of therapy were administered before surgery,
      postoperative therapy using the same regimen will resume 4-6 weeks following surgery to
      complete 3 cycles of study treatment. Following discontinuation of study therapy, all
      patients who undergo R0 resection (with or without ablation) will be followed every 3 months
      for the first 2 years on the study and then every 6 months for years 3 through 5.

      Further therapy for patients who do not undergo R0 resection/ablation will be at the
      investigator's discretion. These patients will only be followed for vital status every 12
      months for the remainder of the 5-year period following study entry.

      A total sample size of 60 patients will be enrolled in the FC-6 trial.
    
  