
    
      Fifty-six (56) subjects, aged 18-70 years will be recruited from patients with dyspeptic
      symptoms referred to the clinic for consultation about H. pylori infection and who have not
      previously been treated for this infection. Patients in whom H. pylori infection is confirmed
      (by endoscopy with biopsy) and who fulfil the inclusion criteria, will be invited to enter
      the study. After written consent has been obtained subjects will be randomly allocated to one
      of two groups, one to receive omeprazole (2x20mg/day) + 1 tablet placebo per day and the
      other to receive omeprazole (2x20mg/day) + 1 tablet (2x108 CFU L. reuteri) ProGastria per
      day.

      After randomisation on Day 0 of the study, the subjects will also be asked to complete a
      gastrointestinal symptom rating score (GSRS) to determine baseline symptomology.

      Intervention will begin on Day 1 and last for 28 days after which therapy will be stopped.
      The subjects will be asked to complete the GSRS questionnaire on Day 14 and Day 28. At Day
      14, the patients GSRS scores are monitored and the patients interviewed. In those patients
      where there is a marked deterioration of their condition or symptoms, these will be
      considered treatment failures and eradication therapy will then be started on Day 15.

      The day after therapy is stopped (Day 29), patients symptoms will be assessed. All patients
      will undergo gastroscopy to determine the presence of H. pylori or not. If H. pylori
      infection is confirmed (by endoscopy and biopsy staining), these subjects will be given
      triple therapy to eradicate the infection and followed up on Day 90 of the study.

      On Day 29, those patients that no longer complain of symptoms and are shown to be free of H.
      pylori infection by endoscopy (treatment success group), will continue with no further
      therapy until Day 90.

      On Day 90 all subjects will be given a UBT to determine the presence of H. pylori infection
      and symptoms will be again assessed using GSRS. Asymptomatic patients with negative breath
      test will be considered recovered. In those patients where persistent H. pylori infection is
      confirmed by breath test, second line therapy will be implemented as indicated.
    
  