
    
      Despite advance in the prevention and treatment of esophageal variceal bleeding (EVB), it is
      still a majorcomplication of portal hypertension with the characteristic of a high mortality
      around 15~20% after anepisode of hemorrhage. Following development of EV and EVB, ascites and
      renal dysfunction occurs in a large portion of patients with time. The international
      consensus suggested use of non-selective beta-blocker(NSBB) to prevent EVB. Long-term use of
      NSBB was also found to decrease occurrence of encephalopathy and spontaneous bacterial
      peritonitis (SBP) and extend survival. Until 2010, Dr. Lebrec et al. found use of NSBB might
      decrease survival in cirrhotic patients with refractory ascites, therefore they suggested
      discontinued use of NSBB in these patients. The findings lead to a vigorous dispute between
      hepatologists. In 2011, the reputable team again found use of NSBB might cause
      post-paracentesis circulatory dysfunction (PPCD) in cirrhotic patients undergoing a large
      volume paracentesis. Occurrence of PPCD was known to cause acute kidney injury (AKI) and
      increase mortality. In 2014, Austria investigators found use of NSBB was associated with
      increased AKI and shortened survival in patients with SBP. Despite the findings of these
      studies implicated the harmful aspects of NSBB use, a major debate remained because lack of
      randomized controlled trial some unequal distribution of patients.Taipei Veterans General
      Hospital is renowned by its high profile research in portal hypertension and its related
      complications. The current proposal is aimed to clarify the strategy of NSBB use. We will
      include patients with EV and EVB. They will be randomized to EVL vs. NSBB for primary
      prevention And EVL+long-term NSBB vs. EVL+short-term NSBB for secondary prevention. 150
      patients will be included in a 3-year period. Primary end-points are formation/progression of
      ascites, acute kidney injury and survival. The other outcomes such as bleeding, rebleeding,
      infection and other risk factors will be also analyzed.
    
  