
    
      3 Dimensional (3D) Camera system is a new technique introduced into laparoscopic surgery
      field, adding the depth perception. Even if in the first 2000' the old 3D camera had negative
      results in terms of quality of images, thanks to technological progress the new 3D systems
      have reached high quality.

      This new technology has been widely tested in pelvic trainer, not yet in live surgery.
      Moreover effects on surgeons visual work load are unknown.

      Aim of the present study is to evaluate the potential superiority of 3D laparoscopic
      technique on 2D one in terms on postoperative complications and oncological radicality (in
      case of neoplastic disease).

      Secondary aim is to study the possible major visual stress on surgeons brain caused by 3D
      camera rather than 2D videos.

      ENROLLMENT All patients affected by neoplastic or inflammatory colorectal disease are
      enrolled in the study.

      Preoperative, intraoperative e postoperative data are collected dividing all the patients
      according the camera system used during the operation: 2D group vs 3D group.

      Preoperative data: sex, age, date of birth, id, date of admission, past medical history
      Intraoperative data: date of surgery, pathology, site of pathology, type of surgery and
      duration, intraoperative blood loss, other intraoperative problems, loop ileostomy,
      colostomy, drain positioning, intensive care unit admission Postoperative data (at 30th
      postoperative day): complications according to Dindo-Clavien scale (Dindo-Clavien
      classification of surgical complications), type of complications, transfusion, reoperation,
      other treatments, histology specimen report.

      At the end of every operation, the 1st surgeon has to fill in the NASA (The National
      Aeronautics and Space Administration) task load index and the Simulator Sickness
      questionnaire.

      Number of participants: 350 Years necessary: 2
    
  