
    
      Background: One of the most difficult issues in the care of asymptomatic patients with severe
      valvular heart disease, particularly mitral regurgitation, is the timing of the surgical
      intervention. Unlike the stenotic lesions, regurgitant lesions often progress insidiously,
      causing left ventricular damage before symptoms develop. Current criteria for surgical
      intervention include left ventricular dimensions and left ventricular ejection fraction. The
      clinical problem is that once these morphologic criteria are fulfilled, the prognosis has
      already worsened, even if surgery is performed promptly. In addition, the onset of symptoms
      may be difficult to detect because of physical inactivity or under-reporting. In some
      patients, it may be unclear whether symptoms are related to valvular heart disease or other
      conditions.

      Natriuretic peptides including B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) and NT-proBNP may be more
      sensitive markers of left ventricular damage than morphologic studies such as
      echocardiography. The use of BNP or NT-proBNP levels may help timing the surgical
      intervention before irreversible left ventricular damage has occurred. Previous experience
      with BNP and NT-proBNP testing in patients with valvular heart disease is limited, albeit
      promising.

      Aim: To test the hypotheses that:

        -  Elevated BNP/NT-proBNP levels reflect early left and right ventricular dysfunction
           indicating imminent congestive heart failure and cardiac decompensation, and call for
           surgical intervention.

        -  The BNP/NT-proBNP level is a more sensitive marker of ventricular damage than
           ventricular dimensions and left ventricular ejection fraction.

        -  Low BNP/NT-proBNP levels indicate a low event rate with medical therapy and may
           therefore reassure a "wait and see strategy".

      Patients and methods: The prospective cohort study is designed to enrol 200 patients with
      severe mitral regurgitation and followed over a 4-year period. Natriuretic peptides including
      BNP and NT-proBNP will be measured in addition to detailed clinical, electrocardiographic,
      and echocardiographic assessment prospectively and repetitively in patients with severe
      mitral regurgitation during routine consultations at 6 months intervals. Our primary analysis
      (longitudinal study) will focus on the prognosis in asymptomatic patients. In addition, a
      sub-study will also include symptomatic patients with severe mitral regurgitation whether or
      not they are scheduled to undergo valvular surgery (cross sectional study) in order to obtain
      more reliable data regarding BNP/NT-proBNP levels in patients with a formal indication for
      valvular surgery. The treating physician will remain blinded to the BNP/NT-proBNP values. In
      this cohort study, we will try to identify a BNP/NT-proBNP cut-off values that predict major
      adverse cardiac events including cardiac death, congestive heart failure, myocardial
      infarction, or persistent left ventricular systolic dysfunction at 6 months after valvular
      surgery.

      Clinical Significance: The use of BNP/NT-proBNP levels in the detection of early left
      ventricular dysfunction and damage may improve the timing of cardiac surgery and therefore
      the long-term management of asymptomatic patients with severe mitral regurgitation.
    
  