
    
      The overall goal of this project is to address the postulate that the optimal molecular
      signature for the common disorder obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is change in relevant
      biomarkers during the sleep period. In sleep apnea, events lead to sleep fragmentation and
      cyclical deoxygenation/reoxygenation. It is proposed that these changes will lead to
      molecular consequences can be detected by assessing biomarkers in blood. To determine which
      changes are due to OSA and which to circadian/sleep mechanisms, studies will be done in
      patients with OSA before and after effective treatment with Continuous Positive Airway
      Pressure (CPAP) and also in controls of similar visceral adiposity without OSA. Multiple
      assessments of biomarkers will be made before, during and after sleep. Since it is proposed
      that the magnitude of these dynamic changes across the sleep period will be affected by
      degree of visceral obesity and be greater in OSA subjects with cardiovascular comorbidities,
      studies will be done in 4 groups of subjects: lean and obese with and without such
      morbidities. In assessing biomarkers the primary outcome variables will be: urinary
      isoprostanes (oxidative stress); plasma tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFα) (inflammation);
      plasma norepinephrine (sympathetic activation); and free fatty acids. Secondary biomarkers
      will be: Interleukin 6 (IL-6), urinary norepinephrine; urinary normetanephrine; glucose,
      Intercellular Adhesion Molecule (ICAM), leptin. To complement assessment of circulating
      biomarkers, an approach utilizing a cellular window will be used. Monocytes will be separated
      from each blood sample (before, during and after sleep) and RNA extracted. Expression of key
      genes will be assessed by RT-PCR and microarray studies will be performed in a subset of
      subjects to assess changes in expression of all genes as a result of OSA. A particular focus
      will be investigating differences between individuals with OSA with and without
      cardiovascular comorbidities. Three aspects will be evaluated: a)whether individuals with
      comorbidities have more oxidative stress and inflammatory change for equivalent degrees of
      OSA than individuals without such comorbidities; b) whether individuals with comorbidities
      have lower levels of protective mechanisms-melatonin (an anti-oxidant secreted during sleep),
      IL-10 (antiinflammatory); c) different gene variants based on a genetic association study
      using a recently developed CV SNP array. Finally, data will be used to determine whether
      there is a diagnostic urine and/or blood test for OSA.
    
  