
    
      Quality improvement (QI) interventions can be seen has having a 'hard core', the clinical
      processes or practices that are the focus of improvement, and a 'soft periphery', the
      improvement methods that will enable change to occur. In the SMARTER trial, family carers
      will be trained to perform basic vital signs monitoring and document the results. Nursing and
      medical teams looking after patients on the wards will retain full responsibility for patient
      care throughout all phases of the trial. The nursing team will be provided with an identical
      observation chart for all their ward patients at the beginning of the trial and will be given
      training on how to use them and how to respond to deteriorating vital signs.

      During the intervention period, in addition to the nurses' vital signs monitoring, family
      members will be asked to perform basic vital signs monitoring. Participants will be given
      clear guidance on when to alert staff to potential danger signs.

      The soft periphery is the training programme and resources designed to assist staff to
      rapidly and effectively train these skills combined with ongoing maintenance strategies to
      ensure the compliance with the intervention is maintained throughout the intervention period.
      We will use the Medical Research Council (MRC) Complex Intervention framework to guide the
      development and evaluation of our intervention. Previous empirical work on task-sharing and
      relevant theory will be used to design the intervention and associated programme theory
      (Phase 1 of the MRC framework), with an iterative co-design process used to further develop
      these and test how the intervention works in practice (Phase 2).

      Intervention training sessions will last 30 minutes and will be held twice a day over a
      period of six months. Carers will be welcome to attend as often as they wish. Carers will be
      given practical training to assess the following vital signs: heart rate, respiratory rate,
      conscious level (AVPU scale) and arterial oxygen saturation (SpO2) in accordance with trial
      standard operating procedures. An important component of the training package will be
      ensuring carers know how to wash their hands before and after contact with their patients.
      The study team will ensure that handwashing facilities are available on the ward for use by
      carers. Carers will record vital signs on a basic observation chart every 4 hours after
      surgery. They will compare results with colour posters displayed throughout each ward,
      providing guidance on how and when to notify nursing staff of abnormal vital signs.

      Carers will have access to the following equipment throughout the trial: pulse oximeter,
      digital wall clock, colour coded guidelines on wall, observation charts, clipboard and pen.
      Although poor numeracy and literacy are common in eastern Uganda, most patients will have a
      carer who is able to read a digital clock and write numbers. The observation chart will be
      designed to be very simple to use. Carers will be encouraged to attend the training sessions
      each day to ensure their skills and knowledge are refreshed. After the third post-operative
      day, the trial intervention will end although participants may choose to continue monitoring
      vital signs and attending training sessions if they wish. It is acknowledged that carers may
      have to change throughout the day due to conflicting family or work commitments. Carers will
      be encouraged to remain available to monitor their patients for the duration of the study
      period (72 hours). Medical and nursing staff on the wards will undergo training in how to
      respond appropriately to abnormal vital signs.
    
  