
    
      This diagnostic accuracy study is an investigator-initiated trial to evaluate the value of a
      smart watch-based iECG for detection of cardiac arrhythmias.

      iECG tracings will be recorded simultaneously, starting and ending at the same time as the
      standard 12-lead ECG, using the built-in sensors of a smart watch (Apple Watch Series 4) with
      the market version of the ECG application (Apple Inc., California). Participants will be
      advised to lie down in a supine position and breathe spontaneously. All recording will be
      done by trained study personnel.

      All iECG and 12-lead ECG recordings will be presented in PDF format as our references. Saved
      formats will be transferred to our Telemonitoring Center for further analysis and processing.

      Results from a 12-lead ECG will be considered as the gold standard for the measurement of
      heart rhythms and the arrhythmia diagnosis. All 12-lead ECGs recordings will be analyzed by 2
      blinded cardiologists and will be categorized as "Sinus rhythm", "High or low heart rate",
      "Atrial fibrillation", or "Inconclusive". Besides, cardiologists will report ECG wave's
      characteristics as well as any other possible diagnosis including "Superior ventricular
      tachycardia", "Ventricular tachycardia", "Atrial flutter", and "other types: other possible
      arrhythmias". In the case of uncertainties, a third cardiologist will be consulted, blinded
      for initial diagnoses.

      The iECG recordings (test index) will be interpreted and reported in two different ways:

        1. By using HealthKit Framework (Apple Watch and Apple iPhone applications): After a
           successful iECG recording with the Apple watch, iECGs will be transmitted by the ECG
           application to the iPhone. The Health App (Apple Inc., California) will receive, process
           and store the iECGs on the iPhone and will present one of the following results on the
           iPhone screen automatically: "Sinus rhythm", "High or low heart rate", "Atrial
           fibrillation", or "Inconclusive". Besides, the mean heart rate will be recorded, which
           will be automatically calculated by the Health App.

        2. By cardiologist: All iECGs will be analyzed by 2 blinded cardiologists. They will report
           their findings in the following categorize: "Sinus rhythm", "High or low heart rate",
           "Atrial fibrillation", or "Inconclusive". Besides, they will report ECG wave's
           characteristics as well as any other possible diagnosis including "Superior ventricular
           tachycardia", "Ventricular tachycardia", "Atrial flutter", and "other types: other
           possible arrhythmias". In the case of uncertainties, a third cardiologist will be
           consulted, blinded for initial diagnoses.

      ECG wave's characteristics: The following variables will be measured as the iECG and 12-lead
      ECG waves' characteristics. Three randomly chosen heartbeats will be considered to measure
      each wave or interval, and the mean of these 3 measurements will be used for statistical
      analysis.
    
  