
    
      Recently, astronauts in long-duration spaceflight have been found to have a syndrome
      consisting of swelling of the optic nerve, impaired vision, and elevated cerebrospinal fluid
      pressure (also known as intracranial pressure [ICP]) via lumbar puncture (LP), which is
      similar to the syndrome of idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH). In astronauts, this
      syndrome is called Visual Impairment/Intracranial Pressure (VIIP). It is not possible to
      perform an LP on astronauts in space. Noninvasive methods of estimating ICP exist but have
      not been tested against continuous ICP methods in a patient cohort that is physiologically
      similar to that of astronauts.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine the validity, reliability, accuracy, and
      precision of two noninvasive methods of ICP measurement (tympanic membrane displacement (TMD,
      Marchbanks Measurements Systems, UK) and distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) in
      comparison to a reference standard, invasive ICP measurement, in human subjects undergoing
      diagnostic ICP monitoring.

      The two noninvasive methods are based on the responses of the inner ear and middle ear to
      changes in ICP. The first method is TMD, which measures tiny movements of the ear drum, and
      the second is DPOAE, which is routinely used for newborn hearing screening.

      Adults with hydrocephalus or pseudotumor cerebri who have been recommended on the basis of
      standard clinical criteria to have ICP monitoring either by insertion of a temporary spinal
      catheter or by insertion of a needle into an existing shunt reservoir are eligible.

      After insertion of the spinal catheter or the needle in the shunt, subjects will undergo
      testing with the TMD and DPOAE in the lying, sitting, standing, and head-down tilt (10
      degrees) position. In addition, testing will be performed during sleep, when normal
      fluctuations of ICP occur.

      Diagnostic decisions will be based on the standard invasive ICP monitoring only, and not
      based on the noninvasive ICP monitoring.
    
  