
    
      The trial is designed as multi-centre, non-randomized, single-group with a primary endpoint
      of death of convalescent plasma recipient in seven days. We are planning to recruit 300 donor
      patients who recovered from COVID-19 and who offer to take part in an experiment based on the
      informed consent form . The recovery criteria involve normality of body temperature for more
      than 3 days, resolution of respiratory tract symptoms, and two consecutively negative results
      of SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR assay test. The donor's blood will be collected after four weeks
      post-onset of illness. 600 ml ABO-compatible plasma sample will be harvested during apheresis
      from each donor and each sample will be divided and stored as 200 mL aliquots. The plasma
      recipients are adult patients diagnosed with COVID-19 according to the WHO Interim Guidance
      with confirmation by real-time RT-PCR assay The inclusion criteria to receive plasma assume
      to meet at least one of following : respiratory distress with tachypnoe ≥30 breaths per
      minute, oxygen level less than 94% in resting-state, partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) ≤ 80
      mmHg. Patients who meet the criteria receive one dose (200 mL) of ABO compatible inactivated
      convalescent plasma with a confirmed neutralization activity. The recipient are going to
      undergo detailed clinical evaluation along with the assessment of biochemical parameters,
      complete blood count and inflammation indicators. The study involves a comprehensive
      assessment of the serological response of patients with different course of SARS-Cov-2
      infection, as well as an analysis of the impact of the level of antibodies in the donor's
      plasma on the clinical response in patients with COVID-19. In addition, a comprehensive
      metabolomic analysis of donor and recipient blood was planned to identify prognostic and
      predictive factors. The endpoints include the safety of convalescents plasma transfusion, as
      well as the improvement of clinical symptoms and laboratory parameters.
    
  