
    
      ADHD is one of the most frequently diagnosed conditions in childhood and at least half of
      patients have symptoms that persist into adulthood. It is important to seek effective
      treatments for ADHD because children with ADHD often do not reach their full potential and
      are at increased risk of other psychiatric difficulties in childhood, adolescence and
      adulthood, including disorders of mood, anxiety, conduct and substance misuse.

      Increasingly the available evidence suggest that ADHD may be the result of abnormal levels of
      certain chemicals and altered brain function. Standard treatment with stimulant medications
      are aimed at the chemical imbalance and whilst they may help some children, they are of
      limited benefit in others and of no benefit in more than a quarter of children. Parents are
      often reluctant to consider medication due to concerns over side effects and the unknown
      longer term effects of these drugs on their children's developing brains and bodies. Non-
      drug treatments can provide an alternative and/or adjunct that may overcome some of the
      concerns about the long-term side effects of drugs. Furthermore, the latest guidelines from
      the National Institute of Clinical Excellence (NICE, 2008) recommend that medication should
      only be used as a first-line treatment in severe cases of ADHD. In all other cases it is
      advised that children receive a group treatment programme and that parents or carers receive
      parent training and education on ADHD. Whilst these guidelines have been welcomed for
      promoting alternatives to medication for treating ADHD,concerns have been raised about the
      feasibility and efficacy of the recommended group interventions for children and individual
      treatments may be easier to implement and more effective for these children. Therefore,
      although there are a number of treatments for ADHD, they have limitations in terms of
      efficacy, tolerability, side effects and practicability. There is therefore a clear rational
      to investigate new treatments that may be superior in efficacy or valuable as additional or
      alternative treatments.

      Several individual, non-drug interventions for ADHD have emerged over the last thirty years.
      These include at home parental guidance, classroom based teacher intervention, behavioural
      therapy, herbal treatment and nutritional supplements. Neurofeedback training appears one of
      the most promising because the technique directly targets brain functioning in key areas.
      Neurofeedback training (NTx) uses signals directly from the brain to make subjects aware of
      brain function. It is an established treatment in epilepsy, migraine and stroke
      rehabilitation. Abnormal brain function (electrical and blood flow) has been consistently
      demonstrated in ADHD and may therefore be targeted with neurofeedback. These findings have
      formed the basis for considering NTx as a potential alternative to medication in the
      treatment of ADHD.

      Compelling evidence from recent controlled studies indicate that NTx that uses electric brain
      signals (EEG) is a useful treatment in ADHD and that the effects last for at least 6 months.
      Near infrared spectroscopy neurofeedback (NIRS) neurofeedback training (NIRS NTx) is a newer
      alternative to EEG NTx. It is easier to administer and may require fewer treatment sessions.
      NIRS can determine changes in brain activity by measuring changes in the amount of oxygen in
      the brain. Rather than requiring subjects to alter the pattern of electrical brain activity,
      NIRSNTx trains subjects to alter blood flow in specific brain areas. Abnormal brain blood
      flow has been demonstrated in ADHD and typically, these abnormalities include reduced
      activity of brain areas just behind the forehead.

      NIRS NTx is a low cost technique and it can be applied at home, clinic or school. NIRS can
      safely be applied to the head because the low energy light used for the technique do not
      cause damage to underlying tissues and is less than 5% of the exposure that occurs in
      ordinary midday sunlight.

      NIRSNTx is performed using a laptop computer, spectroscope, sensor headband and headphones.
      Typically, patients watch a film on the computer screen whilst wearing the sensor headband
      and headphones. The headband applies two light sources (red and infrared) and a sensor to the
      skin overlying the brain area of interest. No special preparation of the skin is necessary.
      The lights shine through the skin and skull into the brain, where it is absorbed in different
      quantities depending on the amount of oxygen carried in the blood. Some of the light that is
      not absorbed is reflected back to the sensor. This signal is analysed in the spectroscope and
      data are sent to the computer where it is interpreted by software that generates the
      feedback. Increased blood flow results in positive reinforcement (the film clip advances) and
      reduced blood flow results in negative reinforcement (the film clip stops and a monotone
      auditory signal is heard). Subjects learn how to spontaneously increase blood flow to the
      brain region of interest to enjoy uninterrupted viewing of the film clips. Consequently, NIRS
      can provide realtime biofeedback to subjects regarding blood flow in specific brain areas.

      A typical session of NIRS NTx involves 10 minutes of training at two brain sites. In view of
      known haemodynamic changes in ADHD and the functional neuroanatomy of attentional control,
      these sites would be the right and left prefrontal areas. Treatment sessions are offered once
      or twice weekly for between 15 and 48 sessions. There are no published tolerability data, and
      available reports come from personal communications with clinicians. The only side effect
      reported is mild headache that is short lived and self-limiting, immediately after training
      or on the day following, in around 10% of patients. Clinical observations suggest this
      predicts a good response to NTx.

      Neurofeedback treatment mechanism The human brain has a lifelong capacity to adapt to changes
      by reorganising itself. This ability is called plasticity and partly works through changes in
      bloodflow. Examples of plasticity in adults include finding that brain activation leads to
      brain growth, rewiring of neurons following stroke, larger brain areas dedicated to moving
      the fingers of musicians, and enlargement of certain brain areas in London cab drivers.
      NIRSNTx may act in part by enhancing the brain's capacity for plasticity.

      In summary, available evidence suggests that NIRS NTx appears safe and capable of targeting
      specific brain areas that show reduced activity in ADHD.
    
  