
    
      Intravenous (IV) administration of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) is the
      only approved therapy in patients with acute ischemic stroke presenting within 3 hours of
      symptom onset. Approximately 17-30% of ischemic strokes are found on awakening. Since stroke
      onset cannot be determined for patients who awake with stroke, they are de facto ineligible
      for thrombolytic therapy. Nevertheless, it is possible that some patients suffered their
      stroke within a few hours prior to become awake, and may thus be good candidates for
      thrombolysis. Combined diffusion- (DWI) and perfusion- (PWI) weighted MR imaging (MRI) is
      able to identify hypoperfused but still viable brain tissue, the potentially salvageable
      ischemic penumbra (PWI-DWI mismatch). A recent study has examined 34 patients with wake-up
      stroke and a median National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of 13 (range 6 to
      22) with DWI and PWI. The authors found that 73% of patients presenting with non-lacunar
      stroke within 3 hours of waking from sleep had a PWI-DWI mismatch with larger hypoperfused
      areas. This imaging pattern may be associated with potential benefit from thrombolysis beyond
      the current 3-hour window. Induced or spontaneous reperfusion of brain areas with initial PWI
      hypoperfusion has been associated with reduced infarction and a favourable clinical outcome.
      A phase IIa placebo-controlled safety and pilot efficacy trial of abciximab in patients with
      acute ischemic stroke treated within 24 hours from symptoms onset found that abciximab caused
      no symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage and showed a trend toward a higher rate of patients
      with minimal residual disability1. Thus, abciximab may be an attractive therapy option in
      patients with wake-up stroke and a PWI-DWI mismatch.

      The purpose of the prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled multicenter
      pilot study is to evaluate the effectiveness of abciximab on rescuing the hypoperfused brain
      tissue, as assessed by MRI, and the relative safety of abciximab in patients with wake-up
      stroke.
    
  