
    
      Sleep breathing disorders are a frequent and serious health problem in the Polish population.
      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder. The essence of OSA is repeated episodes
      of airway obstruction that occur repeatedly during sleep, resulting in a decrease in the
      level of partial oxygen in the blood. Increased tension in the upper respiratory muscles and
      throat vibrations often result in very loud snoring. Apnea episodes end with awakenings that
      cause sleep fragmentation, deep sleep deficiency, and REM phase. Such episodes occur
      repeatedly, over a dozen or even several dozen times per hour of sleep. The consequence of
      episodes of obstruction and fragmentation of sleep is ineffective, restless sleep,
      pathological daytime sleepiness, falling asleep against your own will, awakening with a
      feeling of stopping breath, shortness of breath or choking. Sleep fragmentation and
      repetitive episodes of hypoxia result in poor quality of life, chronic fatigue and an
      increased risk of traffic accidents. The direct consequences of apnea are blood hypoxia,
      increased heart rate and increased blood pressure. Common complications of OSA are
      hypertension, stroke, arrhythmias, coronary artery disease, pulmonary hypertension and heart
      failure. Untreated OSA increases the risk of premature death, especially in men under 50
      years of age, contributing to the development of vascular endothelial dysfunction and an
      increase in cardiovascular risk.

      The causal relationship between bruxism and apnea has not been clearly established so far.
      There is also a lack of research on the contribution of genetic factors to the emergence and
      severity of both conditions.The project will be implemented at the Sleep Laboratory at the
      Clinic of Internal, Occupational Diseases and Hypertension of the Medical University of
      Wrocław, which has a technical room with three computer stations, three polysomnographic
      devices. About 100 patients will be examined at the Department of Internal Diseases,
      Occupational and Hypertension and Clinical Oncology because of suspected bruxism during
      sleep. The full polysomnographic examination with video recording will be directed to
      patients from the Chewing Organ Dysfunction Clinic operating at the Department of
      Experimental Dentistry at the Medical University of Wrocław, who will be interviewed and have
      a comprehensive external and intra-oral examination according to Diagnostic Criteria for
      Temporomandibular Disorders (DC / TMD) and based on the guidelines of the American Academy of
      Sleep Medicine International Classification of Sleep Disorders, probable bruxism during sleep
      will be diagnosed. Polysomnograms will be evaluated in 30-second folds, according to standard
      sleep criteria. PSG results will include data on sleep latency, total sleep time (TST) and
      sleep performance (%) as well as assessment of the N1, N2, N3 and REM phases. Respiratory
      pathological events will be assessed according to the American Sleep Academy standards. Apnea
      will be defined as no airflow through the airways for more than 10 seconds. Shortness of
      breath will be defined as a reduction in respiratory amplitude by more than 30% for more than
      10 seconds, with subsequent blood desaturation by more than 3%, or with subsequent awakening.
      The activity of the masticatory muscles during the examination will be assessed on the basis
      of EMG recording from electrodes placed on the chin and symmetrically in the vicinity of the
      masseter muscles attachments. As episodes of bruxism, episodes of rhythmic activity of the
      masseter muscles, often accompanied by grinding or knocking noises and characteristic
      movements in the orofacial region occurring after a minimum interval of three seconds from
      the last muscular activity, will be qualified. Bruxism episodes will be assessed
      quantitatively using the BEI (Bruxism Episodes Index) rating the number of bruxism episodes
      per hour of patient's sleep, and qualitatively for phase, tonic and mixed episodes. The
      results will then be analyzed for the incidence of RMMA directly related to bruxism episodes
      and their relationship to sleep apnea episodes, changes in blood pressure and heart rhythm to
      determine time and cause-effect relationships.

      In addition, we will carry out the following surveys: ISI Insomnia Severity Scale, KPS sense
      of stress questionnaire , TEC Traumatic Experience Checklist. , mini COPE stress management
      questionnaire, CECS Courtauld Emotional Control Scale, AIS Accteptance of Illness Scale ,BAI
      Beck Anxiety Index, Short Questionnaire for Measuring the Big Five IPIP-BFM-20, McGill Pain
      Questionnaire, GCSP Graded Chronic Pain Scale. , PHQ-9 Patient Health Questionnaire,
      Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index PSQI, STOP-Bang Apnea Risk Questionnaire, Beck Depression
      Inventory, PSS-10 Perceived Stress Scale -10, HIT-6 Headache Impact Test,GAD-7 Generalized
      Anxiety Disorder ,MIDAS scale for assessing functioning disorders in migraine.

      Each patient will also be subjected to genetic blood laboratory tests to determine the
      occurrence of specific genotypes and phenotypes occurring in patients with bruxism.

      The tests will be carried out in accordance with the CONSORTated (CONsolidated Standards of
      Reporting Trials) guidelines for RCT (Randomized Controlled Trial). Expected effects:

        1. Assessment of the incidence of bruxism during sleep in patients with breathing disorders
           during sleep

        2. Determination of changes in sleep structure in patients with bruxism.

        3. Assessment of possible genetic basis in patients with bruxism

        4. Assessment of psychosomatization in patients with bruxism.

        5. Assessment of the level of anxiety and pain felt in patients with bruxism.
    
  