
    
      In recent years, a distinct group of healthcare-associated pathogens (HPs) has become highly
      prevalent among hospital inpatients worldwide. Clostridium difficile, vancomycin-resistant
      enterococci (VRE), and multi-resistant gram-negative bacteria (MRGN) today are an immediate
      threat to hospitalized patients in Western countries, given inferior outcomes and prolonged
      treatment associated with such infections.

      There are two key clinical strategies to prevent transmission and reduce the overall
      incidence of infections by Clostridium difficile and other gut-derived HPs. Infection control
      (IC) measures act by avoiding in-hospital transmissions using various interventions,
      including hand hygiene, contact isolation and environmental cleaning/disinfection. Antibiotic
      stewardship (ABS) on the other hand aims at reducing selective pressure by ascertaining
      adequacy of treatment duration, dose, and selection of antibiotics.However, there is a
      scarcity of studies showing effectiveness of these strategies in actually reducing nosocomial
      infection by HPs. Single room contact isolation has deleterious implications, i.e. increased
      cost, decreased patient contacts and quality of life, but has not been proven effective for
      most HPs. Current ABS concepts are usually not aimed at the patients with the highest
      antibiotic consumption and the highest risk of contracting nosocomial infection by HPs, e.g.
      patients with neutropenia following chemotherapy.

      ABSOLUTE is a comprehensive clinical study programme assessing IC/ABS measures to reduce
      Clostridium difficile infections (CDI) on high-incidence HP/CDI wards in a stepped-wedge
      cluster-randomized trial. The study will focus on known departments with high incidence of
      CDI, i.e. a) hematology/oncology, b) other departments/wards demonstrating above-average
      infection rates, which will be identified throughout previous study by the German Center for
      Infection Research (DZIF). This design was chosen as high-risk groups allow optimal resource
      utilization by expedited observation of target outcomes and because there is a translational
      gap towards implementing established strategies of infection control and ABS in critically
      ill patient groups.

      Each partner site will identify eight observation wards. To allow measurement of secondary
      endpoints relevant to the IC/ABS bundle, especially safety, at least three of the sites
      should include their hematology/oncology department into the analysis. The other
      wards/departments will be selected based on CDI epidemiology. Incidence of CDI on candidate
      study wards/departments should exceed the 75 percentile based on R-Net (DZIF study) data
      collected during the preparation phase. The study coordinators will make the ultimate
      decision on the participating wards based on discussion with the local team of investigators.
      Besides the above-mentioned entry criteria, knowledge of current practices and
      approachability of the ward and the related staff may be regarded during the discussion. In
      total, each site will perform the analysis on at least ten wards of at least three
      departments.

      Infection control measures for Clostridium difficile are well established and can be easily
      applied into hospital routine. This work package can therefore start ahead of the ABS bundle
      with measures aimed at reducing transmission of Clostridium difficile. The infection control
      bundle will include staff training, hand hygiene programs, disinfection measures, and contact
      isolation. Physicians will be discouraged to prescribe proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) where
      not explicitly needed. The bundle will be defined based on current literature. During the
      preparation phase of the study, investigators and other personnel from each site will receive
      central training courses in infection control measures targeted at reduction of effective
      Clostridium difficile transmission. It will be their task to train local staff (ward
      physicians, nurses) for compliance with the infection control bundle. For implementation, the
      investigator will adapt the bundle to specific local needs, discuss with the responsible
      department heads and ward staff, perform training and disseminate standards of care. The
      following indicators of process quality will be measured be the investigator in collaboration
      with the local hygiene staff: compliance observations (contact isolation, hand hygiene),
      education assessment (surveys), and PPI consumption.

      Throughout the ABS work package, the investigators will develop and implement an ABS bundle
      specifically designed for patients at the highest risk of developing hospital-acquired
      infections, i.e. those treated on hematological/oncological wards. Potentially useful ABS
      measures even in critically ill patients are early reduction of exposure based on
      microbiological results, timely cessation of anti-infective treatment, thoughtful
      implementation of screening measures and biomarkers, defined approaches to patients known to
      be allergic to penicillins, and vigorous enforcement of clinical and microbiological
      diagnosis of infection focus. The study hypothesis is, that the consumption of glycopeptides,
      carbapenems, daptomycin, tigecycline, and linezolid can be significantly reduced without
      jeopardizing patient outcomes. Reduction of these antibiotics will save last resort
      antimicrobials for documented breakthrough infections, reduce colonization and blood stream
      infections (BSI) with VRE and extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing gram-negatives
      (ESBL), and reduce the incidence of CDI.

      As a first step, the investigators will guide a consensus process to develop specific ABS
      guidelines for hematology/oncology wards. They will develop this guideline primarily as
      German S2k (consensus) guideline, but will also seek publication in an international
      peer-reviewed journal. For the consensus process, relevant German medical societies and
      groups will be invited to send delegates. External experts will be invited to participate in
      the process and comment on the guideline as needed. The consensus process will consist of a
      kick-off face-to-face meeting with discussion and distribution of work packages, monthly
      telephone conferences and finally, a consensus meeting. The guidelines will contain advice on
      specific strategies to avoid excessive or wrong usage of anti-infectives and also on quality
      indicators of appropriate antibiotic use.

      All study sites will receive comprehensive training in the defined ABS criteria as part of a
      3-day course program. In addition, sites without established ABS groups or trained ABS
      experts will receive standard three-week training by the ABS Initiative
      (www.antibiotic-stewardship.de). Afterwards, implementation of the ABS measures will start.
      Antibiotic stewards will develop local standards of procedure based on the provided training
      and guidelines. They will then train the responsible staff and disseminate guidelines as best
      suited for the local work environment, e.g. as pocket cards, posters, or electronically.
      Point-prevalence investigations will assure adherence to guidelines.
    
  