
    
      STUDY DESIGN:

      This in vivo and in vitro observational gene association study will investigate the
      functional relevance of SNPs in the NR3C1 gene in selected populations. A subgroup of the EPR
      will be genotyped to identify novel SNPs in the NR3C1 gene. The most promising SNPs for
      functional relevance in in vitro assays will be examined. Individuals with and without
      functionally relevant, novel SNPs will be recruited for further study. In part 1, lymphocytes
      from these participants will be isolated, exposed ex vivo to corticosteroids, and gene
      expression profiles in response to this stimulus will be compared. In part 2, in vivo effect
      of these SNPs in steroid responsiveness will be evaluated by performing a modified low dose
      dexamethasone suppression test comparing by genotype. The study design is innovative as a
      gene association study in the sense that participants are recruited on the basis of genotype
      and then the phenotype of each participant is observed.

      STUDY DURATION:

      It is anticipated that the study will require 48 months to complete participants study
      visits.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      Investigate in vivo the role of hGR SNPs (hGR9beta A3669B, hGR N363S) in steroid
      responsiveness by performing a modified dexamethasone suppression test and comparing
      responses by genotype.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVE:

      Investigate the role of hGR SNPs (hGR9beta A3669B, hGR N363S) in human steroid responsiveness
      by comparing (across genotypes) gene expression profiles of isolated macrophages and
      lymphocytes exposed ex vivo to corticosteroids.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINT:

      Measure the change in serum cortisol levels after modified dexamethasone suppression test.

      SECONDARY ENDPOINT:

      Measure gene expression fold changes by microarray analysis after ex vivo glucocorticoid
      exposure of macrophages and lymphocytes; validation of affected RNA (elevated or decreased
      expression) through PCR analysis.
    
  