
    
      Any patient referred to the breast cancer and genetic risk counseling clinics in either of
      the two sites will be eligible to participate as long as they meet the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria. The research assistant in each site will meet with the patients and
      explain about the study goals and procedures and ask them to participate in the study. Those
      interested will be enrolled into the study after obtaining informed consent. For those who
      refuse to participate, reasons for refusal will be requested and catalogued. All study
      participants will be followed and the study measures will be tracked at Days 0, 30, 180 and
      365. In addition, health care utilization (ER Visits, Hospitalizations, clinic visits,
      screening tests and procedures) will be tracked both through the electronic medical records
      and patient interviews (as some patients may seek care in other hospitals for emergencies
      etc.). Investigators currently do follow-up phone interviews routinely with our patients.
      Study measures will be administered as described above. For those who drop out from the
      study, reasons for withdrawal from the study will be explored and catalogued.

      Procedures for Treatment Compliance and Treatment Non-completers:

      (i) Compliance Procedures: Investigators will monitor degree of compliance with whether study
      measures were completed on Days 0,7,30 & 365 intervention. Analyses will be done following
      the intent-to-treat principle.

      (ii) Treatment Non-completers: For those who drop out from the study after Day 0, reasons for
      withdrawal from the study will be explored and catalogued. They will be asked for feedback
      about the study intervention and satisfaction with the experience (or the lack thereof).

      Procedures for Data Collection: The participants will have the option of submitting the data
      in person or by phone to the project research associate. The PI will meet with the study
      personnel at least on a weekly basis to continuously monitor their performance and to ensure
      adherence to study methodology.

      There are risks, discomforts, and inconveniences associated with any research study. These
      deserve careful thought. Participants should talk with the Protocol Director for any
      questions. Risks of answering the survey instruments and interview questions are minimal and
      may occasionally cause distress.

      Audio recording of the patient interviews. Investigators will create verbatim transcripts to
      be analyzed using qualitative methods. Recordings will be stored for a period of 20 years and
      then erased.
    
  