
    
      Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder that results in abnormalities of social and language
      development and is associated with rigid and repetitive behaviors. Although there is strong
      evidence of heritability, the involved genes have not been identified. The prevalence of
      autism spectrum disorders may be as common as 1 in 166. The average concordance rate in
      monozygotic twins is 70% suggesting that environmental factors play a role in the disease.
      Subgroups of autistic children seem unusually sensitive to infections, immunizations and
      dietary factors, but none of these factors has been causally identified with the disease.
      Nevertheless, autoimmunity has been considered to play a role on the basis of indirect
      evidence. There is no evidence-based efficacious treatment for autism.

      There is a subgroup of children with autism that appear to develop typically for a period of
      time, and then lose skills, or regress. A recent study by Vargas and co-workers at Johns
      Hopkins has demonstrated that the regressive subtype of autism is associated with chronic
      brain neuroinflammation as exemplified by activation of microglia and astroglia and the
      abnormal production of inflammatory cytokines and growth factors assayed in both tissue
      samples (brain banks) and CS. The authors remarked that these responses were similar to those
      seen in some neurodegenerative disorders such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and that
      chronic microglia activation appears to be responsible for a sustained neuroinflammatory
      response that facilitates the production of multiple neurotoxic mediators. Chronic neuroglial
      activation could be the result of an abnormal persistence of a fetal development pattern. In
      this scenario neuroglial activation could play a role in initiating and in maintaining the
      pathology. Alternatively, neuroglial activation may only be a secondary response to the
      initiating causal factor(s) and not a direct effector of injury. Since neuroglial activation
      requires the nuclear translocation of the pro-inflammatory transcription factor NF-kappa B,
      and since inhibitors of NF-kappa-B with good CNS penetrance are available, the role of
      neuroinflammation in initiating and sustaining the autistic condition can be probed.

      The antibiotic minocycline is a powerful inhibitor of microglial activation, apparently
      through blockade of NF-kappa-B nuclear translocation. Minocycline is neuroprotective in mouse
      models of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Huntington's disease and has been recently
      shown to stabilize the course of Huntington's disease in humans over a 2-year period.

      To evaluate the possibility of benefit in autistic children, we propose to conduct an
      open-label trial of the anti-inflammatory antibiotic minocycline, an agent that reduces
      inflammation by blocking the nuclear translocation of the proinflammatory transcription
      factor NF-kappa-B. Minocycline is Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved for treatment
      of a variety of infections and has been widely used for the treatment of adolescent acne.
      Minocycline is currently in phase III trials for the treatment of Huntington's disease and
      amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

      This proposal is for an initial 6-month, single-arm, off label, open-label study (with a 3
      month extension phase offered to responders) that will evaluate dose safety and efficacy of
      minocycline in 10 children, ages 3 to 12 years, with a primary diagnosis of autism and a
      history of developmental regression. The subjects will be evaluated by a
      diagnostic/behavioral assessment, and the extent of neuroinflammation judged by CSF
      cytokine/chemokine profiles before and after the 6-month treatment. Subjects will also be
      given 0.6 mg/kg vitamin B6 twice a day as a prophylactic for possible minocycline induced
      nausea and vomiting. If the results of this feasibility study are encouraging, we expect to
      conduct a double-blind, placebo-controlled trial of minocycline therapy.
    
  