
    
      participants will be recruited through advertisements in the traditional and on-line press,
      and via mental health care workers in local clinics. The psychiatrists in the study team will
      also have the option to access to the waiting list of outpatient clinics at the Shalvata
      Mental Health Center, and recruit patients (who's intake appointment in the outpatient clinic
      is expected to take place in more than 2 months) to the study via phone or face to face in
      the clinic. If a subject is already taking antidepressant treatment he can be recruited
      immediately to the study. If a subject is not taking an antidepressant treatment, and in his
      examination he is diagnosed with depression, the investigator will advice him to approach an
      outpatient clinic and start taking antidepressant medication. If the subjects refuses to use
      medications he will be recruited to the study medication-free.

      Patients will be invited to participate in the study and the following wording will be used:

      "we invite you to participate in a novel mind-body study harnessing placebo effects for the
      treatment of depression. In the study you will recieve, either immediately or following a
      waiting period, placebo (inert) tablets. There will be no active component in the tablet, but
      there is a good chance that it will alleviate some of the depressive symptoms. Furthermore,
      recent scientific evidence suggests that placebo tablets can initiate healthy responses even
      if a person knows they are placebos".

      Each participant will provide signed informed consent. Each subject will receive a letter to
      his personal physician or psychiatrist in the community/hospital. Additionally, the study
      team will also contact the personal physician and inform him of the study. Subjects will
      continue their psychiatric follow-up and treatment as usual during the whole period of the
      study. If the study team recognized a suicidal deterioration the personal
      physician/psychiatrist will be notified immediately via phone. If a subject is currently
      without psychiatric follow-up, he will examined during the assessment points (every 2 weeks)
      of the study protocol by one of the physicians of the study team.

      Before the first session, each participant will be randomized to one of two possible
      interventions: either 8 weeks of open label placebo, or 4 weeks of waitlist followed by four
      weeks of open label placebo.

      The randomization procedure will be stratified to account for two groups of subjects: those
      currently on a stable dose of medication, and those currently receiving no medication.
      Therefore, each time a subject from one of these groups is randomized to one of the two
      interventions (open label placebo or wait list), the next subject from the same group will be
      assigned to the other intervention. By this method, we will obtain the same proportion of
      medicated and unmedicated patients in each of the two intervention arms.

      At the first session, the participant positive expectation and commitment will be promoted by
      discussing with the participant the following four points: (a) in research, placebos have
      been found to be safe in terms of side-effects and roughly 80% as effective as
      antidepressants; (b) recent research suggests that a patient can benefit from a placebo even
      when he knows that he is taking a placebo; (c) placebos appear to promote automatic
      self-healing processes, possibly through classical conditioning ; just taking tablets can
      cause the release of neurotransmitters and activate specific regions of the brain related to
      depression] (d) placebo-treated patients who adhere to the tablet regimen have better
      outcomes, and therefore the placebos should be taken faithfully, and (e) positive
      expectations enhance placebo effects, but it is perfectly normal to have doubts or disbelief
      and won't interfere with the effect.

      At the end of the first session, the researcher will open an envelope which will reveal to
      researcher and participant to which group the latter has been randomized. Both treatment arm
      and no-treatment control will have identical patient-provider interactions and be of equal
      length. Those in the waitlist group will be encouraged to continue in the study.

      The placebo will be a colored tablet. Each participant will be enjoined to take two capsules
      in the morning, and two in the evening.

      After four weeks, the placebo group will continue with a second four week period of placebo
      treatment, and the waitlist group will start to receive 4 weeks of placebo treatment.
    
  