
    
      After informed consent is received, a neurological examination will be performed and multiple
      screening assessments will be conducted including a tDCS and MRI safety screening. If the
      participant passes the initial screening portion, speech and language diagnostic testing will
      be conducted during the same visit (Visit 1). During the next visit (Visit 2), participants
      will undergo a second baseline assessment of naming ability and assessment of connected
      speech. On that visit, participants who have no contraindication for MRI (and agree to have
      MRI) will be randomized to (1) functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) electrode placement or
      (2) structural electrode placement. All participants who have no contraindication will have
      structural and resting state functional connectivity MRI (rsfcMRI). Those randomized to fMRI
      electrode placement will also participate in the naming paradigm during the MRI. The third
      visit will include electrode positioning and tDCS treatment administration. Participants will
      receive 15 sessions (Visits 3-17) of tDCS + SALT administration. At the beginning of Visit 3,
      eligible participants will be randomized to receive either A-tDCS (1 milli amp (mA)) or
      sham-tDCS (placebo) for 15 sessions (20-minutes per each 45-minute behavioral treatment
      session) over the course of three weeks. A computer-delivered naming treatment will be
      coupled with the stimulation. The computer-delivered treatment task will be 45-minutes in
      total length, so that it will commence at the same time as the tDCS administration and
      continue for another 25-minutes after the tDCS has ceased. To assess cardiovascular arousal,
      blood pressure and heart rate will be measured before and after each session. Additionally,
      discomfort ratings will be recorded following the end of each session using the Wong-Baker
      FACES Pain Rating Scale and a weekly neurological exam will be administered by a neurologist.
      Neither the participant nor the clinician monitoring and setting up the treatment will have
      knowledge of the treatment condition (A-tDCS versus sham). Utilizing a computerized picture
      naming assessment, all participants will be assessed at several different time points
      throughout the experiment: twice immediately before and twice the week immediately following
      the fifteenth and final treatment session; twice at five weeks follow-up after the end of
      treatment; and twice at 20 weeks after the end of treatment. Participants who agree to
      participate in the MRI portion of the study (and have none of the additional exclusion
      criteria for MRI) will have structural and rsfcMRI at Visit 2, following the 15th treatment
      session (Week 1 after the end of treatment), and at 5 weeks after the end of treatment.
    
  