
    
      About 5% of all patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus require treatment in the ICU. The
      main reason for admission to the ICU is acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, which in most
      cases is associated with the need for mechanical ventilation. The progression of lung damage
      affects not only alveoli but also endothelium of the pulmonary vessels. Occurring
      endotheliopathy is caused by direct infection with SARS-CoV-2 virus and activation of the
      immune system leading to an increased inflammatory reaction. Damage to the endothelium
      barrier with concomitant cytokine storm lead to activation of the coagulation system and
      formation of microthrombotic events in the vascular bed, resulting in thromboembolic
      complications and development of multiorgan failure. The reflection of the above
      pathophysiological phenomena in laboratory tests is a significant increase in the
      concentration of D-dimers. At present, no specific markers of endotheliopathy in patients
      with SARS-CoV-2 are known.

      Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a peptide hormone that plays a key role in regulating the function of
      the endothelium, by modulating its integrity and permeability, it also has an effect on the
      vascular muscle, leading to vasodilation. Recently, the role of ADM has been intensively
      studied, including in sepsis. Several studies have confirmed an association between elevated
      ADM levels and poor prognosis in sepsis and septic shock. In these studies, measurements of
      various adrenomedullin precursors and free, biologically active adrenomedullin
      (bio-adrenomedullin, bio-ADM) were performed. The role of bio-ADM in the course of COVID -19
      remains unclear.

      The aim of the study is to determine the baseline concentration of bio-ADM and to determine
      the dynamic of the concentration changes in three measurements in patients with COVID-19
      during ICU treatment. Additional measurement of bio-ADM will be performed as standard
      monitoring in patients suspected of septic complications of the course of COVID-19.
    
  