
    
      Immune cell therapy is considered one of the most promising anti-cancer strategy in many
      human cancers. Compared to the destructive methods such as surgery, radiation, and
      chemotherapy, anti-cancer immune therapy is safer and less toxic method in the treatment of
      human cancer patients.

      Among the immune cell therapy, autologous adoptive immune cell therapy is a method to
      transfer the immune cells derived from peripheral white blood cells and expanded and
      stimulated with various cytokines and tumor specific antigens in cancer patients. Recent
      development of the technique to expand immune cells ex vivo make autologous adoptive immune
      cell therapy much more feasible and popular. However, immune cell therapy showed response of
      below 10% currently in several clinical trials. The reason of poor response is that the
      adopted immune cells have to overcome the highly immune compromised environment in advanced
      or recurrent cancer patients.

      The low-dose radiation, defined as the radiation below the therapeutic dose range, is known
      to increase the immune response in many human cancer patients. Despite the exact mechanism is
      not well known, the 'danger signal' and the decrease of T-regulatory cells by low-dose
      radiation are the possible mechanism of enhanced immunity by low-dose radiation. So, the
      combination of low-dose radiation and immune cell therapy can be a attractive strategy to
      recurrent or advanced cancer patients who are resistant to conventional treatment.

      A challenging clinical trial performed in recurrent melanoma cancers, Dr. Rosenverg reported
      around 70% response rate with combination of low-dose radiation and adoptive immune cell
      therapy. However, the feasibility of combination of low-dose radiation and immune cell
      therapy is still unknown in many human cancers.

      This study is to investigate the feasibility of combination of low-dose radiation and
      autologous immune cell therapy in recurrent cervical cancer which is resistant to
      conventional palliative treatment. The cervical cancer, highly responsive to radiation,
      becomes resistant to radiation in case of recurrent disease. We hypothetize that if the
      low-dose radiation can reverse the immune compromised environment, adoptive immune cells
      derived from the autologous peripheral blood immune cells will be highly effective in
      recurrent cervical cancers.
    
  