
    
      Background:

      Neurogenic thoracic outlet syndrome (NTOS) is a condition caused by compression and
      irritation of the brachial plexus serving the upper extremity. NTOS most frequently occurs in
      relatively young, active and otherwise healthy individuals and can have a tremendous impact
      on work, social and personal life. The diagnosis and therapy of NTOS still remains disputed.
      This is partly because diagnosis is largely clinical and subjective in nature, with no
      definitive (diagnostic) imaging or diagnostic studies available. As a result, disparities in
      the definition have produced different opinions regarding diagnostic standards for TOS.
      Furthermore, given the controversy surrounding the definition and diagnosis of TOS, conflict
      exists regarding the optimal treatment approach for this condition.

      Studies in the last years, have shed light on some of the controversies in diagnosing and
      treating NTOS. Many patients that benefit from thoracic outlet decompression (TOD) do not fit
      the historical diagnostic criteria. Those patients (up to 90%) with disputed NTOS have shown
      improvement of symptoms and functionality after TOD surgery.

      Recently, several studies have been published about outcome after TOD surgery for NTOS. These
      large, multicenter studies show a very low complication rate, ranging from 0-2%, with an
      extremely low risk of nerve injury.

      These studies however report on heterogenous populations, diagnosed without any
      internationally validated diagnostic criteria. They hint beneficial results for TOD in NTOS
      patients, however the level of evidence they provide is low. Critics have wondered if the
      improvements - reported in these trials - are attributed to surgery, or are merely due to
      coincidence, selection bias, conservative treatment or time (rest).

      The society of vascular surgery published reporting standards in 2016 to produce consistency
      in diagnosis, description of treatment and assessment of results to allow more valuable data
      to be reported. The investigators believe that a randomized controlled trial - using the
      reporting standards- could demonstrate the actual added value of a TOD (first rib resection
      with partial scalenectomy and neurolysis).

      Objective:

      The objective of this study is to determine the value of TOD (first rib resection with
      partial scalenectomy and neurolysis) on functionality and quality of life. This will be done
      by randomizing patients who already received conservative physiotherapy into surgery or
      continued conservative therapy (physiotherapy and pain relief). After 3 months, the patients
      with continued maximum conservative therapy will be offered surgery as well if complaints
      persist. The effect of TOD will be examined by following the change in functionality and
      quality of life compared to conservative physiotherapy. The durability of these effects on
      functional assessment and quality of life will also be examined by following patients for 5
      years.

      Study design:

      Single center randomized controlled trial

      Study population:

      All patients diagnosed with NTOS refractory to conservative physiotherapy treatment (based on
      criteria produced by the reporting standards) and considered to benefit from TOD in a
      multidisciplinary TOS-consensus group are considered candidates for this study.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized into surgery (TOD) versus conservative physiotherapy. The group
      randomised for conservative physiotherapy will be offered surgical therapy after 3 months if
      complaints persist.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Primary endpoint is DASH SCORE. This endpoint will be measured with the DASH questionnaire
      (Disability of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand) Secondary endpoints will be the score on the CBSQ,
      VAS scale and SF 12. These endpoints will be measured with the CBSQ questionnaire
      (Cervical-Brachial Symptoms Questionnaire), VAS scale (Visual Analogue Scale for Pain) and SF
      12 (Short Form 12 questionnaire)

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      All patients are operated with the same technique and by the same operator. There is a delay
      of 3 months for half of the subjects (control group), which is relative due to the early
      operation (in comparison with the existing waiting list for regular TOD of around 3 months)
      of the group that is randomised for TOD. There is no denial of 'optimal medical treatment'
      for any of the participating subjects.
    
  