
    
      Infantile hemangiomas (IH) are among the most common, benign vascular tumors of infancy with
      an estimated prevalence of 4-5% of the population. IH are not found at birth but become
      evident within the first few weeks of life. They are characterized by a rapid proliferative
      phase that can last up to 4-6 months or longer and then a period of minimal or absent growth
      before an involutive phase where they may resolve with minimal or no scarring over multiple
      years. Although frequently thought of as benign lesions, hemangiomas can occur in locations
      to cause functional impairment of vital organs, can lead to ulcerations, scarring or
      disfigurement, and can lead to life-threatening complications. Management of these
      problematic IH includes laser, long-term systemic corticosteroids, interferon, Vincristine,
      surgery, and most recently systemic propranolol. Pulsed-dye laser is the only treatment
      approved by the FDA; it has been useful for superficial hemangiomas but has little effect on
      subcutaneous or deep-seated hemangiomas. The proposed therapeutic effects of propranolol are
      vasoconstriction, decreased expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGR) and basic
      fibroblast growth factors (bFGF) genes through downregulation of Raf/mitogen-activated
      protein kinase pathway, and apoptosis of capillary endothelial cells. For periorbital lesions
      that may cause amblyopia or anisometropia, topical Timolol has been reported to be of
      benefit. There is one retrospective review that is proof of concept that shows that topical
      timolol is safe and effective treatment for 6 cases of IH.

      The advantage of a topical therapy is the decreased risk of systemic side effects compared
      with oral or intravenous administration. The disadvantage is that limited penetration may
      preclude effectiveness for the thicker or deeper lesions.

      Being of low birth weight as well as prematurity are known risk factors for IH. In the
      premature infant development clinic at the University of Texas Health Science Center in San
      Antonio infants less than 1500 grams birth weight are followed for three years following
      discharge from the Newborn Intensive Care Unit (NICU); approximately 16% of these infants
      have hemangiomas. Therefore the investigators find it reasonable to start treatment with a
      topical beta blocker at an early stage of hemangioma to prevent the growth and proliferation
      and hence the possible severe effects associated with growth and thus impairment of vital
      organs/tissues.
    
  