
    
      Research; planned as randomized controlled. The research is planned to be carried out in a
      faculty of Nursing, which provides service with 1 department of a university with 38.482
      student capacity, continuing education with 15 faculties, 1,600 academic 1.152 administrative
      staff in the city center of Konya.

      The population of the study is all female students who have been studying since 2018-2019
      academic year. The population of the study is all female students who have been studying
      since 2018-2019 academic year.

      The sample size of the study will be composed of female students who have the complaint of
      dysmenorrhea as a result of the pre-test and who agree to participate in the study.

      The power analysis was used to determine the number of cases that required pelvic floor
      exercise and control groups for the study. In the study of Gamit et al., It was accepted that
      the mean pain decreased from 6.10 (1 ± 35) to 4.6 with a 1.5 decrease. Considering the data
      losses to be experienced during the study, 30 female patients were planned to be included in
      each group (Potur and Kömürcü 2014).

      Working Group: Before randomization, Dismenorrhea Diagnosis Form will be applied to women
      students who agree to participate in the study according to the sample selection criteria and
      general information about the study will be given and their general consent will be obtained
      for participation in the study. In accordance with the sample size determined by power
      analysis, random assignment to experimental and control groups will be made. Block
      randomization system will be used.

      Once randomization has occurred, it is not possible to blind the participants or health
      professionals. However, in the analysis phase of the data, the blind of the statistician and
      the writing of the report will be made.

      Data Collection Technique and Tools Participation Criteria Form (Dysmenorrhea Diagnostic
      Form), Data Collection Form, Dysmenorrhea Follow-up Form, Visual Analogue Scale (VAS), Health
      Related Quality of Life Questionnaire (Short Form-36) (SF-36).

      Data collection forms were created by the researcher in the light of literature .
    
  