
    
      Curcumin is a constituent of the spice turmeric, which is one of the primary ingredients of
      curry powder. Curcumin has been shown to interfere with colon carcinogenesis in a variety of
      chemical and genetic rodent models. It has also been shown to have a strong inhibitory effect
      on the growth of colon cancer cell lines. There is considerable evidence that the effects of
      curcumin are mediated by changes in signal transduction. There is an extensive body of work
      showing effects on several signaling pathways, including the beta-catenin and NF-κB pathways.
      Although curcumin has been viewed as an ideal chemopreventative agent in colon cancer for
      many years, its application has been impeded by important issues with drug delivery and
      bioavailability in the reported clinical trials of this compound.

      Work from the James Graham Brown Cancer Center published recently suggests that using
      exosomes as a delivery vehicle leads to overcoming all the major obstacles of using curcumin
      as an anti-inflammatory agent, including increased stability, solubility, and bioavailability
      of curcumin. The work was further extended to define the resource that can supply a large
      quantity of exosomes with a maximum binding capacity of curcumin. Emerging data indicate that
      exosomes derived from many fruits release exosome-like particles, strongly bind to many
      hydrophobic drugs including curcumin, and are taken up by the intestine cells as well as the
      immune cells in the intestine. These results suggest that these fruit-derived exosomes are
      potentially used as a delivery vehicle to treatment of intestinal diseases. Moreover, both
      fruit exosomes and curcumin should not generate any side-effects since they are consumed by
      humans daily.

      In this clinical trial, the effect of exosomally delivered curcumin on the immune modulation,
      cellular metabolism, and phospholipid profile of normal and malignant colon cells in subjects
      who are undergoing surgery for newly diagnosed colon cancer will be characterized. In
      selected subjects, the effect of exosomally delivered curcumin on the production of
      cytokines, the changes of immune cells, and glucose metabolism by administration of
      13C-glucose prior to surgical resection will also be characterized.
    
  