
    
      Persistent pain following breast cancer surgery is increasingly recognized as an important
      clinical and public health issue due to the large number of women affected, the powerful
      negative impact that persistent pain has on emotional and physical functioning and its
      financial costs. Most of the more than a quarter of a million women newly diagnosed with
      breast cancer in the U.S. this year will undergo surgery as a part of curative treatment. The
      prevalence of persistent pain following surgical removal of the affected breast (mastectomy)
      or more limited surgeries (lumpectomy) is high, ranging from 25-60% across studies. Unlike
      acute post-operative pain, which is a normal response to surgical trauma, persistent pain at
      or near the surgical site has an uncertain multifaceted etiology, and no satisfactory
      pharmacological treatment. A critical question is whether key pain-related psychosocial
      factors are drivers of the continuing burden of persistent pain, and whether they could be
      ameliorated by non-pharmacological intervention. The research planned under this award will
      provide a first critical test of the hypothesized driving role of pain catastrophizing in
      persistent pain after breast cancer surgery. It also will explore the role of two other key
      psychosocial variables that may contribute to the burden associated with persistent pain
      after breast cancer surgery: self-efficacy for engaging in valued activities and
      psychological inflexibility. We have developed, manualized, and pilot tested a pain coping
      skills training intervention that specifically targets the needs of women with persistent
      pain following breast cancer surgery (Targeted PCST) and aims to reduce pain catastrophizing,
      increase self-efficacy for engaging in valued activities, and decrease psychological
      inflexibility. We propose a multiple-site, randomized clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy
      of the Targeted-PCST intervention. The study will be conducted in diverse oncology clinics
      affiliated with Duke University/Duke Cancer Network and the University of Pittsburgh/UPMC
      Hillman Cancer Center. Participants (N=564) will be randomized to either receive: 1)
      Targeted-PCST, 2) a general health education intervention (control), or 3) enhanced usual
      care (control). Participants will complete assessments pre-intervention and at 3 months
      (post-intervention), 6 months follow-up, and 12 months follow-up. Study aims are: Aim 1:
      Examine the impact of Targeted-PCST on persistent post-surgical pain severity and
      interference (i.e., PEG score), emotional distress (anxiety and depression), and
      cancer-specific distress. Aim 2: Investigate the impact of Targeted-PCST on pain
      catastrophizing, pain self-efficacy, and psychological inflexibility, and evaluate these
      variables as possible mediators of the benefits of Targeted-PCST. Aim 3: Evaluate the impact
      of Targeted-PCST on pain sensitivity and central sensitization, and explore whether changes
      in these variables mediate group differences in pain severity and interference.
    
  