
    
      FINFIB 2 is an observational investigator-driven study that seeks to examine current
      treatment practice for atrial fibrillation (AF) in Finland. It will produce important
      information such as whether the introduction of the new agents has taken place in accordance
      with the treatment guidelines in different parts of Finland.

      Working hypothesis is that the treatment of AF has improved since the introduction of new
      antiarrhythmic drugs and anticoagulants. However, the investigators also expect to find out
      that there are geographical differences in the use of these agents. The expect outcome is
      that the investigators will identify these differences and be able to better homogenize the
      treatment of AF in different parts of the country and different levels of the health care
      system.

      The study data will be obtained in the form of a cross-section sampling over two weeks. All
      patients with ECG-diagnosed AF who attend emergency clinics for examination or treatment of
      arrhythmia or other cardiac diseases during the study period will be included. The
      investigators estimate the number of patients will be about 1000. Aside from background
      information, risk data (e.g. CHA2DS2VASc), symptoms (EHRA classification), medication,
      examinations and the choice of treatment, the only data recorded about each patient with AF
      will be date of birth and gender. The patients will be divided into four groups according to
      type of AF: 1. New onset AF, 2. Paroxysmal AF, 3. Persistent AF, 4. Permanent AF. The data
      will be obtained by the local study doctor using online, protected data collection program.
      The data will be stored on a secured server, which can be accessed for data entry by the
      investigators at the study centers. The database is not a personal data register, as identity
      codes will not be stored at any point and individual patients cannot be identified later
      through the database. Only the investigator group will have the rights to use the database.
    
  