
    
      Pulmonary metastasectomy is a surgical practice that poses many aspects of debate: standard
      approach has historically been represented by open thoracotomy, but video-assisted thoracic
      surgery (VATS) became an appealing alternative due to the lower surgical impact on the
      patient. Some authors blame the minimally invasive approach for pulmonary metastasectomy as
      less effective from an oncologic point of view since lung palpation is hampered, leading to
      reduced ability to identify unexpected nodules and potential impairment of surgical
      radicality.

      Indeed, several papers demonstrated a suboptimal sensitivity of computed tomography (CT) and
      positron-emission tomography (PET) in detecting lung metastases and discover of further
      unexpected nodules at thoracotomy are not an uncommon eventuality.

      A few authors demonstrated the utility of intraoperative lung ultrasound performed through a
      VATS approach (VATS-US) in identifying lung nodules. However, the real effectiveness of this
      technique has never been prospectively compared with the current gold standard represented by
      open thoracotomy and lung manual exploration. Aim of our study is to assess the
      non-inferiority of VATS-US compared with manual palpation to identify lung nodules during
      pulmonary metastasectomy.

      The study design is a monocentric non-inferiority diagnostic crossover trial, based on the
      execution of intraoperative lung ultrasound (VATS-US) in patients undergoing pulmonary
      metastasectomy with radical intent. Aim of the study is to assess the non-inferiority of the
      ultrasonographic investigation on the lung parenchyma performed via a thoracoscopic approach
      in identifying lung nodules compared with manual organ palpation by thoracotomy.

      Study design After general anesthesia administration patients will be intubated with a double
      lumen tube and positioned in a standard lateral decubitus. Thereby the target lung will be
      excluded from ventilation and deflated. After creation of 2-3 thoracoscopic ports the lung is
      explored under thoracoscopic vision with a laparoscopic ultrasound probe (Esaote LP323,
      Esaote, Genova, Italy) by a surgeon with experience on the use of lung ultrasound. Data
      regarding number, size, depth and lobar localization of nodules are registered on a data
      collection paper. The surgeon who performed the investigation therefore leaves the operative
      room and another surgeon, blind to the previous phase findings, performs an anterolateral
      thoracotomy and an accurate palpation of the lung. Suspicious nodules are therefore resected
      and sent for histology. Data on number and localization of excised nodules are registered on
      a separate collection paper. Results from both phases are then compared and matched with
      histology report.

      Thoracotomy will be performed extending the length of the utility port. The others 1-2 hole
      are eventually used for insertion of chest drainage tubes, that in our institution are
      routinely positioned following any intervention within the pleural space. Consequently, no
      adjunctive incision will be performed for the execution of VATS-US compared with a standard
      thoracotomy approach. Only after nodules resection the two surgeons will compare their
      findings in order to make sure that any nodule identified at VATS-US but not at thoracotomy
      has not been omitted. The execution of the ultrasonographic investigation will require an
      appropriate lung deflation. Therefore, in some cases air aspiration from the target lung with
      a small catheter inserted through the endobronchial tube will be required, as previously
      described in other studies.

      In order to guarantee patients' safety, they will never be left unattended during all phases
      of the intervention, and execution of any required urgent procedure for rare intraoperative
      complications will never be delayed, including those that may interfere with the execution of
      the ultrasonographic exam. It has been calculated that operative time will be extended of
      about 20-30 minutes to allow the execution of VATS-US.

      No extra procedure or drugs administration will be required for the study. Only nodules that
      will be considered suspicious by the second surgeon during the thoracotomic phase or after
      discussion between the two operators will be excised, as expected in the standard practice.

      The investigators will collect data regarding patients' features (age, biometric
      measurements, preoperative lung function tests data, lung comorbidities), preoperative CT
      scan findings (number, size and localization of lung nodules), ultrasonographic findings
      (number, size, depth, localization and shape of lung nodules), number and localization of
      nodules excised at thoracotomy, histology report data (histological nature, size, depth of
      lung nodules), time of surgery and of VATS-US, incidence of post-operative adverse events.

      Sample size and statistical analysis Sensitivity and specificity of VATS-US will be
      calculated compared with manual palpation. The inter-rater agreement will be measured by
      calculating Cohen's kappa coefficient. Continuous data will be summarized as mean and
      standard deviation or median and twenty-fifth to seventy-fifth percentiles in case of
      non-normal distributions. Normality will be assessed by using Shapiro-Wilk test. Categorical
      variables will be reported as counts and percentages. Comparisons will be carried out using
      paired t-test, Wilcoxon signed ranks test and McNemar test where appropriate.

      STATA software (release 14 StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA) will be utilized for
      analysis.
    
  