
    
      Objective. The overall objective of this study is to investigate the genetic, immune, and
      neuroimaging profiles that may increase a person s risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS)
      in order to identify and validate predictive biomarkers in populations at risk for this
      disorder.

      Study population. There will be three study populations:

        1. Individuals at risk for developing MS As part of the Genes and Environment in Multiple
           Sclerosis (GEMS) study, we plan to recruit up to 1000 first-degree relatives of MS
           patients. GEMS is a study aiming to recruit 5000 individuals that is being led by our
           collaborators at Columbia University Medical Center. For the purposes of this study, a
           first-degree relative may be a parent, sibling, or child between 18 and 50 years of age
           but must not carry a diagnosis of MS. The first-degree relative must have the ability to
           provide consent and be willing to participate in the study. Two potentially overlapping
           subsets of these individuals will undergo detailed testing at the NIH:

             1. The cross-sectional subcohort will consist of up to 150 participants with combined
                genetic and environmental risk scores (GERS), defined in the protocol, in the
                highest and lowest 20 percent of the entire study population. Selected participants
                may be invited for follow-up studies based on data obtained at baseline if symptoms
                develop.

             2. The NINDS longitudinal subcohort will consist of up to 10 participants, ages 18 to
                40,who express willingness to be followed for 20 years at the NIH, whose GERS falls
                in the top 20 percent of the entire study population, and who have a first-degree
                relative with MS who is participatipate

        2. MS patients - We plan to recruit up to 1000 MS patients whose first-degree relatives are
           enrolled this study. These participants either: (A) will be evaluated under other
           Neuroimmunology Branch Clinic protocols and will not undergo separate evaluation under
           this protocol; or (B) will send us medical records confirming their MS diagnosis via
           mail/fax/secure email, without the requirement to participate in another NIH protocol.
           The purpose of including this cohort in the current study is to allow access to their
           clinical, biological, and imaging data for comparison with first-degree relatives, if
           available, and to confirm that existing GEMS participants have a first-degree relative
           diagnosed with MS.

        3. Healthy volunteers - We plan to recruit up to 80 healthy volunteers, ages 18-50, who do
           not have a known first-degree relative with MS. The purpose of including this cohort in
           the current study is to allow quantification of the degree and extent of abnormalities,
           including abnormalities of the blood-brain barrier, in individuals at risk for
           developing MS. Without imaging data obtained from healthy volunteers, there is no way to
           determine whether subtle clinical and neuroimaging findings in the at-risk cohort are
           truly abnormal, or to correctly threshold and quantify the observed abnormalities.

      Design. This is a prospective cohort natural-history study. All GEMS participants will
      complete the following study procedures, which can be performed offsite: informed consent;
      study questionnaire; saliva sample; and blood draw. The questionnaire will be repeated 1 year
      after enrollment.

      There will two additional substudies conducted at NIH: a cross-sectional substudy and a
      longitudinal substudy. Participants in these substudies will be evaluated with clinical,
      radiological, and laboratory procedures. Participants in the cross-sectional cohort will
      undergo evaluation at the NIH at a single time point (with optional longitudinal follow up),
      whereas participants in the longitudinal cohort will undergo evaluation at the NIH for 20
      years. There will be an interim analysis 5 years after the 50th participant is recruited to
      the longitudinal cohort, and the study of this cohort may be terminated if we have not
      observed the development of MS-related radiological or laboratory abnormalities in any of the
      participants. Participants with MS will provide informed consent to allow access to their own
      research data, but the data themselves will be (or will have already been) collected under
      other Neuroimmunology Clinic clinical protocols.

      NIH is a unique site within the overall GEMS study, for the following reasons: (1) It is the
      only site at which imaging is being performed, as part of the cross-sectional and
      longitudinal substudies; (2) GEMS participants seen at NIH may undergo additional procedures
      that are not part of the overall GEMS study; (3) Data from participants in the NIH substudy
      will be directly linked to data from their own relatives with MS.

      Outcome measures. For participants in the overall GEMS study, the primary outcome measure is
      the GERS itself, as most participants in this cohort will not undergo further testing. For
      participants in the cross-sectional cohort, which consists of individuals at highest and
      lowest risk for MS, the primary outcome measure is the presence or absence of lesions on
      T2-weighted brain MRI that meet the 2010 MRI criteria for dissemination in space - a finding
      that, in this population, may well be related to MS. For participants in the longitudinal
      cohort, the study endpoint is a clinical diagnosis of MS according to the same 2010 criteria.
      Secondary outcome measures include: (1) The age at which participants develop MS-related
      abnormalities on brain imaging studies, abnormalities on laboratory testing, and clinical
      symptoms and signs; (2) The time lag between defined exposures (for example, infectious
      mononucleosis) and the appearance of MS-related radiological, laboratory, and clinical
      abnormalities; (3) The time lag between the appearance of asymptomatic radiological and
      laboratory abnormalities and the onset of clinical symptoms; and (4) Additional exploratory
      clinical, imaging, and biological data in the crosssectional that may suggest subclinical MS
      disease activity.
    
  