
    
      Regain of function and improvement of motor skills is a major challenge in motor disorders in
      which spinal cord functions play a key role. The growing development of non-invasive brain
      stimulations in the past decade led to significant progress in the understanding of neuronal
      abnormalities in patients with movement disorders that opens up new vistas for experimental
      treatments. However, these treatments are currently limited due to their high cost and lack
      of possibility to use in outpatients. Recently, trans-spinal direct current stimulation
      (tsDCS) has emerged as a novel tool to modulate non-invasively spinal cord excitability. This
      may be an excellent alternative to epidural stimulation, the sole technique available up to
      now to alter spinal functions in an invasive fashion. The overall goal of this study is to
      assess the potential of tsDCS to restore spinal cord functions in patients with primary
      orthostatic tremor (POT), a disorder with little or no current therapeutic resources and high
      disability for patients.

      Using a crossover, randomized, double-blinded approach, cathodal (2mA, 20 min) or sham tsDCS
      (with the active electrodes over the thoracic level and the reference electrode on the right
      shoulder) will be delivered to 15 patients with POT. The maximal time in upright position
      determined by a force platform, the cortical excitability assessed by transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (input / output curve of the tibialis anterior muscle and short-latency afferent
      inhibition) and EMG activities of lower extremity muscles will be measured before (PRE),
      immediately and 30 minutes after current offset (POST0 and POST30 respectively). Cathodal and
      sham tsDCS will be delivered in two different sessions with a washout period of at least 7
      days. The investigators anticipate that cathodal tsDCS but not sham tsDCS will be able to
      modulate both sensory and motor functions in POT and will, in turn, lead to functional
      improvement.
    
  