
    
      1. Development methodology This study will be a randomized controlled and will be conducted
           according to the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki regarding
           experiments on human beings. This work was submitted to the Ethics Committee, with the
           approval number: CAAE: 21317113.4.0000.5243. To ensure the quality of this randomized
           study, guidelines RCT-CONSORT checklist will be followed.

        2. Selection of volunteers / sample The sample will consist of 30 human alveolar socket.
           Selected volunteers must agree to participate in the study signed an informed consent
           form and being willing to follow the guidelines and proposed timelines. The volunteers
           will be treated at the Dental Clinical Research Center of the Fluminense Federal
           University. The 30 teeth involved in this study should provide an indication of tooth
           extraction without treatment possibilities, determined by clinical and radiological
           examination.

        3. Pre-Surgical Treatment Dental and medical case histories will be conducted on all
           volunteers. Initially, volunteers will be selected and diagnosed by clinical examination
           and periapical radiographic or cone beam tomographic to assess the need for tooth
           extraction. All volunteers will undergo basic periodontal therapy and oral hygiene
           instructions. Volunteers who have a risk factor for bacterial endocarditis will be
           medicated with Amoxicillin 2g single dose one hour before the procedure, and for those
           allergic to penicillin, will be prescribed 600g single dose of clindamycin one hour
           before procedure, as recommended by the American College of Cardiology. Laboratory
           tests, including blood pressure measurement, complete blood count, lipid profile,
           coagulation profile and complete fasting glucose will be required for all volunteers.

        4. Surgical Procedures Plaster study models are made by molding with alginate in all
           volunteers, to enable construction of the measuring guides (templates) in acrylic. Also
           intraoral photographs will be held. Volunteers will undergo local anesthesia (2% with
           epinephrine Mepvacaína - 1: 100.00) for extraction of teeth. In all cases, the
           extractions will be performed in a minimally traumatic manner and without lifting flap
           with the aim of preservation tissues. Incisions intra-sulculares the free surfaces
           (buccal / lingual) and proximal (mesial / distal) will be performed with a scalpel blade
           15C aiming the disruption of the periodontal fibers. The dislocation of the tooth will
           be conducted with a forceps, with subsequent removal of the tooth socket. After
           extraction, a rigorous inspection and curettage of the socket for the removal of
           granulation tissue will be held, followed by irrigation with sterile saline.

           Performed after extraction, will start to make themselves venous blood of volunteers
           himself for a qualified professional with the goal of achieving the PRF membrane. For
           this, will be collected with a sterile without anti-coagulant about 10 ml of blood from
           the median cubital vein (arm) syringe. It will be led immediately into a test tube and
           centrifuge for which will be calibrated to 2700 rpm for 12 minutes. After processing,
           three phases are arranged within a test tube. The fibrin clot is obtained between the
           layers of acellular layer of plasma and red blood cells. The same tube is carefully
           collected and manipulated to form a membrane which is sutured with 5.0 absorbable
           synthetic yarn (Vycril - Johnson & Johnson). The sutures are removed seven days after
           the procedure.

           The remaining fifteen sockets (control group) are not filled with any biomaterial (only
           clot). Volunteers will be instructed to rinse their mouths twice daily for 15 days with
           chlorhexidine gluconate 0.12%.

           Queries review will be conducted in the first week for suture removal and the subsequent
           second and fifth weeks.

        5. Clinical Evaluation Prior to the extraction of both groups, the bands of keratinized
           gingiva buccal and lingual measures are the muco-gingival line to the gingival margin,
           with support from the UNC-15 periodontal probe, positioned on a template (stent )
           acrylic resin. Furthermore, measurements of the gingival margin of the template, track
           keratinized gingiva and the measurement from the edge of the template edge bony ridge
           will be held in the regions mesial, buccal and distal of the buccal and lingual
           surfaces. For the evaluation of the thickness of the tissues, a surgical caliper located
           at 5mm from the gingival margin is used. The data collected will be immediately recorded
           by an assistant. Clinical evaluations will be performed prior to extraction (T1) and 120
           days (T2).

        6. Histomorphometric analysis At T2, an implant will be installed in the socket region. The
           surgical bone obtained during the discharge procedure for implant placement through a
           trephine measuring about 3mm in diameter, will be collected. It will be stored in
           buffered formaldehyde, decalcified in EDTA, dehydrated in ethanol and embedded in
           paraffin. Serial sections including the central portion of the bone cylinder will be
           prepared parallel to the long axis, with the standard microtome in 5mm. The sections are
           stained with hematoxylin and eosin. The analysis of the new tissue formed is evaluated
           in Leitz microscope equipped with image capture system. Morphometric measurements are
           evaluated to determine the proportion occupied by mineralized bone (lamellar bone,
           immature bone), osteoid tissue (connective tissue matrix rich in collagen and partially
           mineralized), bone marrow (adipocytes and vascular structures), fibrous tissue and
           tissue residual (tissue elements unidentified artifacts of preparation).

        7. Micro-computed tomographics Representative non-decalcified samples will be scanned at a
           resolution of 18 x 18 x 18 voxels μc3 using a micro-Pxs5-928EA cone beam CT. The GEHC
           MicroView Plus ® Analysis software (GE Healthcare), will be used to create
           three-dimensional reconstructions (3D) bone tissue from the scan. The tissue to be
           analyzed is represented by all or fragments of tissue biopsy samples. The value scale in
           grayscale will be used in each biopsy by a single calibrated examiner and anonymous. The
           value of the average grayscale will be calculated and used as the representative to
           evaluate bone volume (BV) and the mineral content of the tissue value. The tissue
           mineral density will also be calculated.

        8. Statistical analysis The results express the mean ± 95% CI. Mann-Whitney tests will be
           conducted. Will be considered as significant differences when P < 0.05. Nominal data
           will be evaluated by chi-square test. Alternatively, in case of no associates (extreme)
           values, the Fisher exact test will be used. Continuous variables are expressed as mean
           and standard deviation and analyzed for normal distribution using the Shapiro-Wilk test.
           The Student t or Mann-Whitney tests will be applied for normal and non-normal
           distribution, respectively.
    
  