
    
      Background:

      Sudden cardiac death (SCD), also termed sudden cardiac arrest (SCA), accounts for
      approximately 15 percent of the total mortality in industrialized countries. In Europe, the
      incidence of out-of-hospital Emergency Medical Services (EMS) attended sudden cardiac arrest
      (SCA) is estimated to 81.6/100 000 person-years, 52.5 % of which is presumed to have a
      cardiac cause [1]. Coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most common underlying heart disease
      associated with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) [2]. SCD is the initial presentation of
      CAD in 15 percent of CAD-patients [3]. Furthermore, it is also the most frequent mechanism of
      death in patients with known CAD, accounting for 40-50 percent of CAD-mortality [4]. Compared
      to healthy subjects the incidence of SCD is six- to tenfold higher in the presence of
      clinically recognized heart disease [5], and cardiomyopathies represents the second largest
      cause of SCD [6]. Despite early advanced cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) provided by the
      EMS the mortality rate remains high [1]. Due to the dramatic consequence of SCA,
      understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms and early identification of etiology is
      essential to improve outcome.

      SCA due to VF may be the presenting symptom of acute myocardial ischemia or may be a
      consequence of scarring due to a previous myocardial infarction (MI). Cardiac troponin (c-Tn)
      is the most commonly used biomarker for diagnosing an acute myocardial infarction (AMI) [7].
      Although earlier detection of AMI may be obtained by the introduction of high sensitivity
      (hs)-cTn assays, there still remains a troponin-blind period very early after symptom onset
      [8, 9], with the need for serial blood sampling to diagnose or exclude an AMI [7, 9].
      Furthermore, there are challenges related to the specificity of elevated levels of hs-cTn
      [10, 11]. Therefore, measurement of hs-cTn in a single blood draw in the ambulance or at
      admission may not provide sufficient information for the diagnosis of AMI among patients with
      OHCA.

      Lately, several studies have demonstrated an incremental diagnostic value of copeptin when
      added to conventional cTn or hs-cTn for early detection of AMI [12, 13]. Copeptin levels peak
      early (0-1 h) after symptom onset and are already increased at the time of first medical
      contact in the ambulance for patients with MI [8]. Copeptin used in combination with hs-cTn
      may therefore improve the diagnosis of AMI in very early presenters, and help differentiating
      the underlying cause of SCD.

      Copeptin has also been demonstrated to be an independent predictor of adverse events
      following MI [14] and is shown to be associated with outcome after OHCA [15, 16]. Less is
      known about the prognostic value of troponins in patients experiencing a cardiac arrest (CA).
      Higher values of hs-cTnT are seen in one-year non-survivors as compared to survivors of OHCA,
      although not shown to be an independent predictor of 12-months survival [10]. In our study,
      the objective will be to evaluate the diagnostic and prognostic utility of hs-cTnT and
      copeptin in SCA patients.

      Patients with heart failure are at increased risk for ventricular arrhythmias and SCD. B-type
      natriuretic peptide (BNP) and N-terminal proBNP (NT-proBNP) have been demonstrated to be
      useful diagnostic tools to rule out both chronic and acute heart failure [17]. Little is
      known about the natural course of natriuretic peptides during a SCA event, but BNP is
      demonstrated to be an independent predictor of long-term mortality [18], as well as survival
      to hospital discharge after OHCA of cardiac origin [19]. There is also a well-documented
      association between BNP or NT-proBNP and the short- and long-term risk of death in patients
      with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) [20, 21]. In our study, we intend to investigate the
      diagnostic and prognostic utility of NT-proBNP sampled during or immediately after OHCA.

      The overall survival rate after OHCA is low. Even in successfully resuscitated patients
      admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), the prognosis remains poor. Former studies have
      shown a marked activation of blood coagulation, with a concomitant inadequate activation of
      the endogenous fibrinolytic system, in resuscitated OHCA-patients [22-25]. Intravascular
      clotting and "no reflow" in the microvasculature represent a barrier to successful end-organ
      perfusion and may influence the outcome in cardiac arrest (CA) patients [26]. Understanding
      the pathophysiological mechanisms of CA is important to guide management and improve outcome.
      Plasma thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) complexes, fibrin monomers (FM) and D-dimer are used as
      specific markers of activated blood coagulation. Previous studies have shown markedly
      increased TAT-levels in patients with nontraumatic OHCA [22, 23]. Admission TAT is also shown
      to be a useful prognostic marker in resuscitated OHCA patients and is independently
      associated with survival after resuscitation from CA [24]. D-dimer levels are found to
      increase after CA and CPR [22, 27]. Accordingly, Adrie et al. [28] demonstrated high
      admission levels of D-dimer in all OHCA patients. Furthermore Szymanski et al. [29] reported
      higher D-dimer concentrations on admission to be a strong and independent predictor of
      mortality in OHCA patients. In our study, we intend to study the activation of blood
      coagulation, including both the extrinsic- and the intrinsic coagulation pathways, during and
      immediately after SCA with regard to outcome.

      Most interventions to date do not directly affect the transient pathophysiologic event
      initializing potentially fatal arrhythmias. Instead, they attempt to alter and prevent
      underlying disease like CAD. Animal studies have shown that fish oils are protective against
      ischemia-induced VF [30]. Support for these data comes from the Physicians' Health Study
      [31], which is a prospective study of 20 551 men aged 40 to 84, free of cardiovascular
      disease at baseline, with a follow-up period of 11 years. As compared to consumption of fish
      less than once a month, fish intake at least once per week was associated with a reduced risk
      of SCD (RR 0.48). In the same study there was no reduction in the risk of total myocardial
      infarction, non-sudden cardiac death or total cardiovascular mortality, and the protective
      effect of fish was suggested to be due to a reduction in fatal ventricular arrhythmias. It
      has been hypothesized that the lower risk of SCD with higher fish intake may be related to
      the long-chain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) EPA and DHA found in fish. Consistent
      with this hypothesis are the observations from the physicians' Health Study [31] that the
      risk of SCD was significantly lower in subjects with blood n-3 FA levels in the highest as
      compared to the lowest quartile. The same potential effect of fish oils to protect against
      SCD was illustrated in the randomized, open-controlled GISSI-prevention study [32]. Patients
      with a recent myocardial infarction receiving n-3 FAs supplements had a significant lower
      incidence in the combined endpoint of death plus nonfatal infarction and nonfatal stroke at
      42 months (12.6 versus 13.9%). After adjustment for risk factors, all of the observed benefit
      was due to a 20 % reduction in the risk of death, mostly due to reduction in SCD. However, a
      study of 200 patients secured with an ICD (implantable cardioverter defibrillator) following
      an episode of ventricular tachycardia (VT) or VF, has not shown a reduction in the recurrence
      of these arrhythmias after supplementation with EPA/DHA. In that study there was actually a
      trend toward a higher incidence of VT/VF in patients randomized to EPA/ DHA substitution
      [33]. In that setting the underlying mechanism for the generation of VF might, however, not
      be ischemic.

      The exact mechanism by which FAs might protect against serious cardiac arrhythmias is not
      known. They are important constituents of cell membranes and may affect several
      electrophysiologic properties, such as resting potential, action potential, repolarization
      and refractory period. Alterations in cellular calcium concentration can contribute
      significantly to changes in both impulse generation and impulse conduction in myocardial
      cells. Incorporation of n-3 fatty acids in the cellular membrane is shown to affect membrane
      fluidity which in turn may have an influence on calcium entry or removal. An alternative
      mechanism may be changes effected by n-3 FAs on myocardial production of eicosanoids. In
      particular the inhibition of thromboxane A2 (TXA2) production is likely to be of significant
      pathophysiological benefit, since TXA2 is shown to be implicated in myocardial ischemia and
      arrhythmogenesis [34].

      A recent study by William S. Harris et al. [35] has shown that levels of EPA/ DHA in cell
      membranes of red blood cells (RBC EPA/ DHA) highly correlate with the cardiac EPA/ DHA level.
      The RBC response to supplementation was also very similar to that observed in the heart.
      Therefore RBC EPA+ DHA may serve as a useful surrogate of cardiac omega-3 fatty acid status.
      The investigators expect n-3 FAs to exert a membrane stabilizing effect during an ischemic
      episode, and hypothesize that patients suffering VF during the initial phase of their first
      AMI presentation have lower levels of RBC EPA/ DHA than matched controls.

      Over the last years vitamin D is another dietary supplement found to be associated with
      cardiovascular disease. This fat-soluble vitamin, primarily derived from sun-exposure and
      fatty fish, has been demonstrated to influence cardiac contractility and myocardial calcium
      homeostasis [36], and insufficiency of this vitamin may have deleterious effects on cardiac
      autonomic functions as evaluated by heart rate turbulence and heart rate variability [37]. In
      prospective studies, severe vitamin D deficiency has been strongly associated with total
      mortality, cardiovascular events and SCD [38-42]. In one study of 3299 patients who were
      routinely referred to coronary angiography, the authors demonstrated hazard ratios for death
      due to heart failure and for SCD of 2.84 (1.20-6.74) and 5.05 (2.13-11.97), respectively,
      when comparing patients with severe vitamin D deficiency [25(OH)D <25 nmol/liter)] with
      persons in the optimal range [25(OH)D ≥ 75 nmol/liter] [43]. Demonstrated effects on
      electrophysiology,contractility, and cardiac structure suggest that vitamin D deficiency
      might actually be a causal factor for development of cardiac diseases. The pronounced effect
      on SCD found in several studies might be an indication of a possible protective effect of
      high vitamin D-levels against ventricular arrhythmias. This is, however, not well studied and
      the optimal cut-off-value for protection is not well defined. Therefore, a comparison of the
      25-OH-vitamin D levels between different OHCA categories of patients, with and without an
      acute coronary event, may be appropriate.

      Statistical methods

      Statistical analysis will be performed using the statistical package SPSS (Statistical
      Package for the Social Sciences). A statistically significant level of p < 0.05 will be
      applied for all tests.

      EPA/ DHA and vitamin D in the different clinical patient categories will be compared to
      controls collected from the RACS (Risk markers in the Acute Coronary Syndromes) database
      (NCT00521976).

      Ethics and confidentiality

      The present study is conducted in accordance with the Helsinki Declaration of 1975 and later
      revisions and accepted by the Regional Board of Research Ethics as well as the Norwegian
      Health Authorities. Analytic data will be related to patient number and not to patient
      identity. According to Norwegian regulations, the family of non-survivors will be informed by
      the attending physician and the inclusion of patients needs to be documented in the hospital
      records. The family of the deceased is entitled to object to the use of any biological
      samples for research purposes. Patients regaining consciousness and mental capability during
      their hospital stay will be asked personally for a written informed consent. For the
      remaining survivors the next of kin will be asked for permission on behalf of the patient. If
      either the patient or the family refuses participation, blood samples already collected at
      resuscitation and admission will be destroyed.
    
  