
    
      The Serratus anterior Plane (SAP) Block has proven to be an effective component of multimodal
      analgesic regimens for a variety of thoracic procedures. It is designed to block primarily
      the thoracic intercostal nerves and to provide complete analgesia of the lateral part of the
      thorax and it may be a viable alternative to paravertebral blockade and thoracic epidural
      analgesia and may be associated with fewer side effects. It's straight forward to perform,
      with high success rate and minimal incidence of complications.

      It was reported prolonged numbness over the area supplied by the lateral cutaneous branches
      of the T2-T9 spinal nerves using only 0.4 ml.kg-10.125% levobupivacaine. This is remarkable,
      because alternative techniques such as intercostal, interpleural and thoracic paravertebral
      block require relatively high concentrations and volumes of local anesthetics to produce
      similarly prolonged, multi-dermatomal thoracic analgesia.The duration of Serratus plane block
      is limited to the effect of administered local anesthetics (LAs). However, recently adjuvants
      such as epinephrine, ketamine and clonidine are added to LA solution in concentrations
      advocated for other peripheral blocks to prolong the effect of block with promising results.

      Evidence supporting the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in skin and muscles
      have led to the use of magnesium sulphate (MgSO4) (NMDA antagonist) via different routes for
      brachial plexus block and via neuraxial route. Until date, no study has been done to evaluate
      the role of MgSO4 as an adjuvant in SAP block. Therefore, the investigators intended this
      study to evaluate the role of MgSO4 as an adjuvant to bupivacaine in ultrasound (USG)-guided
      SAP block for postoperative analgesia in patients scheduled for modified radical mastectomy.

      While the key requirement for successful regional anesthetic blocks is ensuring optimal
      distribution of local anesthetic around nerve structures, ultrasound guidance enables the
      anesthetist to secure an accurate needle position and to monitor the distribution of the
      local anesthetic in real time.
    
  