
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To conduct a dose-escalation study to determine safety and compliance of varying
      lyophilized black raspberry (LBR) delivery vehicles (a gummy confection and a nectar) at two
      different doses.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To precisely quantify changes in the content and distribution of black raspberry
      phytochemicals and their metabolites in the blood and urine and correlate these
      concentrations with prostate tissue phytochemicals.

      II. Measure the ability of black raspberry gummy confection and nectar in altering hormonal
      patterns (lower insulin-like growth factor-1 [IGF-I], higher insulin-like growth
      factor-binding protein 3 [IGF-BP3], lower androgens) consistent with reduced prostate
      carcinogenesis and in parallel with an enhanced capacity to quench reactive oxygen.

      III. Investigate histopathologic, immunologic, and molecular biomarkers associated with
      prostate carcinogenesis that may serve as surrogate endpoint biomarkers and provide
      information regarding their ability to be modulated by black raspberries.

      IV. Determine if consumption of black raspberries alters molecular markers in the human
      prostate including: (a) neuroendocrine markers such as IGF-I and IGF-BP3, (b) signal
      transduction markers such as phosphatase and tensin homologue (PTEN) and phospho-AKT, and (c)
      angiogenesis regulators such as (vascular epithelial growth factor (VEGF).

      V. Collect and store plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from each patient
      to assess systemic markers of inflammation and immune response.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of lyophilized black raspberry gummy confection and
      nectar. Patients are assigned to 1 of 7 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients follow a regular diet for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.

      ARM II: Patients follow a low polyphenol diet for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.

      ARM III: Patients follow a low ellagitannin diet for 4-6 weeks and then undergo
      prostatectomy.

      ARM IV: Patients follow a low ellagitannin diet and receive lower-dose black raspberry gummy
      orally (PO) daily for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.

      ARM V: Patients follow a low ellagitannin diet and receive higher-dose black raspberry gummy
      PO daily for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.

      ARM VI: Patients follow a low ellagitannin diet and receive lower-dose black raspberry nectar
      PO daily for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.

      ARM VII: Patients follow a low ellagitannin diet and receive higher-dose black raspberry
      nectar PO daily for 4-6 weeks and then undergo prostatectomy.
    
  