
    
      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the hemostatic activity of OBI-1 to control
      a bleeding episode in hemophilia A patients with inhibitors who are experiencing a non-life
      and/or non-limb threatening bleeding episode.

      The secondary objectives of this study will be to assess the:

        -  safety of OBI-1,

        -  serial anti-OBI-1 and anti-human factor VIII (fVIII) inhibitor antibody responses
           following therapeutic administration of OBI-1, and

        -  pharmacokinetics of OBI-1 administered to control a bleeding episode.

      After qualifying for the study at a Screening visit, patients will come to the investigator
      for treatment of a qualifying bleeding episode. After baseline blood samples are taken for
      inhibitor titer, a Loading Dose of OBI-1, calculated to inactivate the inhibitor, will be
      administered intravenously. After a blood sample is drawn to measure inhibitor titer and
      fVIII level, a Treatment Dose of 50 U/kg is administered. Serial blood samples will be drawn
      for fVIII levels for pharmacokinetics. At 6-hour intervals, additional Treatment doses, at
      increasing dose levels up to 150 U/kg, may be given if needed. Follow-up safety evaluations,
      beginning at Day 14, are scheduled; inhibitor titers against human fVIII and OBI-1 will be
      measured to assess continuing eligibility.

      A second qualifying bleeding episode will be treated as the first, but without
      pharmacokinetic samples. If the patient's inhibitor titer against OBI-1 rises to > 20 Bu,
      further treatments with OBI-1 will be suspended until the titer decreases to 20 Bu or lower.
      Third and subsequent treatment episodes may be self-administered by the patient, under strict
      supervision of the investigator, in home care.

      The study will continue until at least 12 patients have received at least 24 treatments,
      unless the Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) recommends a change in dosing calculations
      sooner.
    
  