
    
      Childhood Obesity (CO) prevalence in the United States has tripled in recent decades, and
      nearly 30% of children aged 6 to 11 are overweight or obese. CO is a serious public health
      problem, and is associated with both immediate and long-term health problems (e.g.,
      hypertension, type 2 diabetes, asthma) and psychosocial problems (e.g., social isolation,
      depression, eating disorder symptomatology). Furthermore, CO is a significant risk factor for
      adult obesity with several prospective studies showing that, if untreated, about half of
      overweight grade-school children remain obese as adults. Fortunately, children respond
      favorably to family-based behavioral weight loss treatment (FBT), the most well-established
      intervention for the treatment of overweight in children 7 to 12 years old. Weight loss
      treatments for overweight children have been associated with significant physical and
      psychosocial health benefits; however, despite initial success with lifestyle interventions,
      considerable relapse often occurs once treatment ends. Clearly, CO is a significant public
      health problem, and long-term maintenance of weight loss remains a priority to stem the
      increased costs to the individual and society. Therefore, we propose to conduct a multi-site
      randomized controlled trial with overweight children (N=241) and their parents (N=241) [for a
      total N=482]. All participants will complete 4 months of FBT and then be randomized to one of
      three, 8-month maintenance conditions: (1) Weight Maintenance Therapy, who will receive SFM -
      Low Dose [LOW] (16 sessions over 8 months), (2) Intensive Weight Maintenance Therapy, who
      will receive SFM - High Dose [HIGH] (32 sessions over 8 months), or (3) Current Standard of
      Care, who will receive Weight Maintenance Education (16 sessions over 8 months). Relative
      weight and associated outcomes will be assessed at 0 (pre-weight loss), 4 (post-weight loss),
      12 (post-maintenance treatment),18 months and 24 months. Additionally, brief assessments will
      be conducted at four points during the course of maintenance treatment to measure presumed
      mediators.
    
  