
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare the incidence and severity of acute and chronic swallowing dysfunction in
           stage III or IV head and neck cancer patients receiving concurrent chemoradiation with
           or without amifostine

      Secondary

        -  To assess the relative incidence and severity of acute and chronic xerostomia in stage
           III or IV head and neck cancer patients receiving chemoradiation with or without
           amifostine.

        -  To assess the relative incidence and severity of mucositis and mucositis-related
           inflammation in stage III or IV head and neck cancer patients receiving chemoradiation
           with or without amifostine.

        -  To assess the effects of dysphagia, xerostomia, and mucositis-related inflammation on
           nutritional, physical, and functional status

      OUTLINE: Patients undergo intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) and concurrent chemotherapy
      comprising carboplatin and paclitaxel weekly.

      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (standard of care): Patients are further divided into 1A or 1B.

             -  Arm IA: Standard of care plus standardized nutrition therapy (SNT)

             -  Arm IB: Standard of care plus standardized nutrition therapy plus low weight
                resistance training (LWRT).

        -  Arm II (amifostine): Patients are further divided into 2A or 2B.

             -  Arm IIA: Amifostine 500mg diluted in 2.9 ml injected 30-60 minutes prior to each
                radiation dose plus standardized nutrition therapy

             -  Arm IIB: Amifostine 500mg diluted in 2.9 ml injected 30-60 minutes prior to each
                radiation dose plus standardized nutrition therapy plus low weight resistance
                training

      In all arms, patients undergo swallowing function, dietary, body composition, muscle, and
      physical and functional performance measurements at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months
      post-therapy. Quality of life, salivary production, fatigue, and symptoms (including
      swallowing/eating foods, appetite, weight loss/nutrition, pain, and speech/communication) are
      assessed at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months post-therapy. Anthropometric measurements are
      also performed at the above time points and at mid-therapy.

      Blood samples and buccal rinses are collected at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months
      post-therapy for biomarker studies and for proteomic and genomic analysis by liquid
      chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 1, 3, and 6 months.
    
  