
    
      History and current related studies The internal fixator is difficult to completely fit the
      bone surface at the site of complex long bone fracture, which reduces the firmness of
      fixation. From a safety point of view, the establishment of a digital three-dimensional
      measurement model is undoubtedly a very reliable and intuitive way. Digital three-dimensional
      models are established after CT scan, and these models can greatly reflect the site and
      degree of fractures, and reduce anatomical parameters, with high degree of simulation and
      feasibility.

      Adverse events

        1. The investigators will record adverse events, including screw loosening and falling off,
           steel plate fracture and bending, joint stiffness, delayed healing or non-healing,
           peripheral nerve injury and infection.

        2. If severe adverse events occur, investigators will report details, including the date of
           occurrence and measures taken to treat the adverse events, to the principle investigator
           and the institutional review board within 24 hours.

      Data collection, management, analysis and open-access

        1. Data collection: Case report forms with demographic data, disease diagnosis,
           accompanying diseases, drug allergy history, and adverse events will be collected,
           processed using Epidata software (Epidata Association, Odense, Denmark), collated, and
           then recorded electronically by data managers using a double-data entry strategy.

        2. Data management: The locked electronic database will be accessible and locked only by
           the project manager, and will not be altered. All data regarding this trial will be
           preserved by the Affiliated Hospital of Qinghai University, China.

        3. Data analysis: The electronic database will be statistically analyzed by a professional
           statistician who will create an outcome analysis report that will be submitted to the
           lead researchers. An independent data monitoring committee will supervise and manage the
           trial data, ensuring a scientific and stringent trial to yield accurate and complete
           data.

        4. Data open access: Anonymized trial data will be published at www.figshare.com.

      Statistical analysis

        1. Statistical analysis will be performed using SPSS 19.0 software, and will follow the
           intention-to-treat principle. Normally distributed measurement data will be expressed as
           mean ± standard deviation, and minimums and maximums. Non-normally distributed
           measurement data will be expressed as lower quartile (q1), and median and upper quartile
           (q3).

        2. Fisher's exact test will be performed for comparison of total efficacy and the incidence
           of adverse reactions preoperatively and 6 months postoperatively. Mann Whitney U test
           will be used to compare Harris score, Visual Analogue Scale, operation time and hospital
           stay between the two groups. The significance level will be α = 0.05.
    
  