
    
      Chronic pain represents an epidemic in the United States and a serious public health problem,
      particularly among adults over the age of 55. In the Veterans Health Administration (VHA),
      nearly 50% of patients seen in primary care settings report disabling pain symptoms.
      Persistent pain in older adults is often associated with disability, emotional distress, and
      increased health care utilization and cost. Since an increase in the number of older adults
      is anticipated over the next two decades, the problem of chronic pain in this age group will
      take on increased importance.

      Although cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) aimed at improving coping skills is now commonly
      employed within interdisciplinary pain management programs, access to these interventions is
      often limited due to the distance from clinical care and disabling impact of pain. In
      addition, the dropout rate in studies of face-to-face CBT for chronic pain further detracts
      from its impact in pain management. A telephone-delivered version of CBT for chronic pain
      overcomes these barriers to access.

      To examine the effectiveness of this approach, a two-arm randomized clinical trial was
      conducted with 98 individuals, 55 years of age and older, who suffered from chronic pain,
      recruited from a primary care clinic at the VA Medical Center in San Francisco and affiliated
      VA Community-based Outpatient Clinics (CBOCs) in Santa Rosa, San Bruno, Ukiah, and Eureka. In
      Study Arm 1, patients received telephone-based cognitive behavior therapy (T-CBT); and in
      Study Arm 2, patients received pain education (T-ED) matched with Study Arm 1 for amount of
      contact time. Patients in both groups received 12 sessions of telephone-based individual
      therapy over a 20-week period. Pain management outcomes were measured at mid-treatment (10
      weeks), post-treatment (20 weeks), and at 3-month (32 weeks) and 6-month (46 weeks)
      follow-up. Outcome variables included measures of pain symptoms, physical limitations,
      coping, emotional distress, and health-related quality of life. The study hypothesis,
      assessment methodology, and intervention procedures were based on the cognitive-behavioral
      model of chronic pain
    
  