
    
      Squamous Cell Carcinoma of the skin (SCC) affects people in high numbers worldwide. While a
      yearly increase of over 2 million patients, who develop cancer, is recorded, organ transplant
      recipients (OTR) have a 60- to 100-fold higher risk of developing skin cancer. In OTRs, skin
      cancer is the most frequent tumor that appears, whereas 95% are nonmelanoma skin cancer
      cells: squamous cells or basal cell carcinomas. All OTRs need to be treated lifelong with
      immunosuppressants in order to prevent the rejection of the transplanted organ. However, this
      immunosuppressive treatment leads to a decrease of immunity, and therefore, cancer cells are
      able to proliferate easier.

      Several studies show that the incidence of skin cancer parallels the length and depth of
      immunosuppression. The appearance of CD4 in OTRs with cutaneous carcinomas is significantly
      lower compared to those without skin lesions. Various findings have shown a positive
      correlation of the period of exposure to immunosuppressants and the risk of skin cancer.
      However, little is known about the dose or the type of drug is responsible for skin cancer.
      The uptake of three immunosuppressive medicaments compared to the uptake of two results in a
      3-fold increased risk of developing cancer. The consequence of the immunosuppressive therapy
      is reversible; patients who stop immunosuppressive treatment often show a decrease in skin
      cancer. The highest risk for organ rejection is during the first three months after
      transplantation. Therefore, an increased dose of immunosuppressors is used during this time.

      In addition to cancer, a high increase of viral infections and reactivations is seen in OTRs.
      Over 90% of the population carries herpesviruses. The risk of viral infection and
      reactivation is much higher in OTRs. While inducing a decrease in immunosurveillance,
      herpesvirus can spread easier.

      Herpesvirus infections due to the eight human herpes viruses (HHV) are more frequent by
      immunosuppression in OTRs. Once a patient is infected with one of the human herpesvirus types
      (Herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2, varicella-zoster virus, Epstein-Barr virus, human
      cytomegalovirus, human herpesvirus 6 and 7, or Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus), the
      virus is able to establish a latent, non-productive infection and maintains the capacity for
      a life-long reactivation. Due to the decrease of immunity, OTRs are highly susceptible to
      activate this latent herpesviral infection, which is a critical aspect of the
      immunosuppressive treatment. The risk of the reactivation of Cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr
      virus in OTRs is much higher compared to the general population.

      Taking the above discussed findings together, the investigators hypothesize that viral
      infections and reactivations correlate positively with skin cancer in OTRs. Furthermore, the
      investigators think that viral reactivation and infection can be used as a marker for a later
      incidence of skin cancer. While virus infections and reactivations appear early, OTRs become
      affected by SCC in the early and in the late period after the transplantation. The
      investigators thus aim to analyze existing data from the STCS and its nested studies to test
      these hypotheses: To assess the correlation of viral replication and skin cancer in organ
      transplant recipients and to assess viral replication as predictor for skin cancer. The
      investigators are interested in all data available from other studies of the STCS and to
      divide all organ transplant recipients e.g. for CMV in four groups: no replication, a larger
      group who show asymptomatic viral replication, some of them with viral syndrome and the ones
      with proven disease.
    
  