
    
      Thermoregulation is a major problem for low birth weight infants. The EPICure study showed
      that 36% of infants born between 24 and 25 weeks gestation had an admission temperature less
      than 35 degrees Celsius. Hypothermia is associated with increased risk of morbidity and
      mortality. The HeLP trial hopes to address these issues with the use of a polyethylene
      occlusive wrap applied immediately after delivery to infants born at less that 28 weeks
      gestation. Forty-five centers are currently involved in this study. Infant enrollments began
      in December 2004.

      Primary outcome: To determine if polyethylene occlusive wrap applied immediately after
      delivery to infants born between 24+0 and 27+6 weeks gestation results in decreased mortality
      compared with the conventional method of drying. Because of increased mortality and variable
      center specific resuscitation practices, infants born at less than 24 weeks gestation will be
      randomized as part of a separate Pilot Study and centers may choose if they wish to
      participate in this group or not. Secondary outcome: The key secondary outcome will be
      axillary temperature taken on introduction into a warm environment in the NICU. We will also
      record clinically important variables including: acidosis, hypotension, hypoglycaemia,
      seizures, patent ductus arteriosus, respiratory distress syndrome/chronic lung disease,
      necrotizing enterocolitis and head ultrasound results. Length of stay and cause of death at
      discharge will also be recorded. Long-term follow-up is critical to our understanding of the
      implications of any new intervention. As such, we ask parents from hospitals who agree to
      participate in the follow-up study for permission to contact them approximately 18 months
      after birth.

      Preterm infants meeting the eligibility criteria will be randomly assigned within three
      gestational age strata (less than 24 weeks, 24+0 to 25+6 weeks gestation, and 26+0 to 27+6
      weeks gestation) to either the occlusive skin wrap group or the standard of care (non-wrap)
      group.
    
  