
    
      Delirium is a major problem in critically ill patients, affecting almost half of this
      population. Delirium is associated with substantial persistent impaired cognition and
      psychiatric comorbidity, attributable mortality, and increased healthcare costs. Family
      members of critically ill patients are also at risk for developing adverse consequences
      including anxiety and depression. One strategy that may help both patients and families is to
      engage family members in the detection of delirium. The Facilitated Sensemaking model (of
      family member/patient engagement in critical care) is the theoretical framework underpinning
      the proposed work. Facilitated Sensemaking engages families by providing opportunities to
      participate in communication, decision-making, and bedside care, with the understanding that
      a sense of purpose derived from active participation in care can serve as a protective
      mechanism to reduce stress-related complications among families of critically ill patients,
      known as Post-Intensive Care Syndrome-Family. Family delirium detection may result in earlier
      and more accurate recognition of delirium and meaningful family involvement, and therein the
      potential for better patient and family outcomes. Family-administered tools to measure
      delirium exist, but they have not been explored in the intensive care unit (ICU) context; the
      ICU is unique in terms of the patient population served and the invasiveness of therapies
      employed. We propose to evaluate the validity and reliability of using family-administered
      tools to detect delirium in critically ill patients and to explore perceptions and
      experiences of family members' participation in the detection of delirium.

      Aim 1: To assess the validity and reliability of the Family Confusion Assessment Method
      (FAM-CAM) and Sour Seven to detect delirium in critically ill patients (Phase 1).

      Aim 2: To explore stakeholder (former ICU patients and family members, nurse, physician)
      perceptions and experiences of family-administered delirium detection in critically ill
      patients (Phase 2).
    
  