
    
      Spinal Cord Injury (SCI) affects a person's ability to move and feel sensation from the body.
      SCI is also an indirect cause of a persistent pain, called Central Neuropathic Pain (CNP).
      This pain typically develops several months after the injury.

      In 30% to 40% of SCI patients, severe CNP affects their everyday living including sleep and
      mood. Medical treatment of CNP is moderately effective and costly, both to the patient and to
      the health care system.

      In a previous study, some characteristic 'signatures' of brain waves that are related to CNP
      were defined. Based on this, a novel treatment for CNP based on neurofeedback was developed
      and clinically tested on five SCI patients. Electroencephalograph (EEG) was used to record
      patients' brain waves and shown to patients on a computer screen in a simple graphical form
      (e.g. bars). Patients were trained to change their brain activity at will and, as a
      consequence, their pain was reduced. Costly laboratory devices were used and once the study
      was over, an adequate alternative could not be offered to patients.

      In this study, a cheap, portable, wireless and user friendly, Conformité Européenne (CE)
      marked EEG device will be used to train 10 patients to self-administer the therapy in the
      comfort of their homes. Participants will be given initial training to use the equipment then
      will be asked to use the system at home for 3 months - initially, 3-5 times a week then,
      if/when pain subsides, at least once a week or as required.

      The primary purpose of the study is to determine whether a portable system for
      neuromodulation is a useful tool for administering therapy for pain (intensity of pain will
      be measured by the visual numerical scale (VNS)).

      The secondary purpose of the study is a quantitative analysis of changes in the brain
      activity due to therapy, as measured by EEG; patients' perspective of the home based
      neuro-therapy (assessed by questionnaires and one-to-one, semi-structured interviews).
    
  