
    
      Type of study: multi-center, randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled
      therapeutic clinical trial.

      Number of centers: 13 centers : Clermont-Ferrand, Paris (Fondation Rothschild et APHP),
      Toulouse, Lyon, Amiens, Bordeaux, Narbonne, Lille, Strasbourg, Nîmes, Marseille, Besançon.

      Medical product Botulinum toxin type A, 200U (BOTOX ® 200 Unités, Allergan)

      Patients

      Patients eligible for inclusion will be randomized to one of the two groups:

        -  Experimental group: 60 patients will receive 2 injections of Btx A (BOTOX - Allergan),
           one on D0 and one at 12W (into each splenius capitis).

        -  Control group: 60 patients will receive 2 injections of placebo, one on D0 and one at
           12W (into each splenius capitis).

      Study Performance Patients will be injected twice, with an interval of 12 weeks (D0 and 12W).
      On D0, patients will receive 75U of Btx A (BOTOX ® - Allergan) in each splenius capitis; at
      12W, patients will receive the same dose as on D0 (if the first injection is effective
      according to the CGI- improvement by at least two points), or a higher dose (100U) (if the
      first injection is ineffective according to the CGI- non improvement or improvement by less
      than two points).

      Patients will be assessed at baseline D0, 6 weeks (6W), 12 weeks (12W), 18 weeks (18W) and 24
      weeks (24W) after D0 as follows:

      Visit 1 (baseline):

        -  Signature of an informed consent form.

        -  Demographic and clinical characteristics (sex, age, disease duration, treatments).

        -  Clinical evaluation:

        -  Neurological evaluation: Fahn-Tolosa-Marin Tremor Rating Scale (TRS), Tsui Scale.

        -  The Quality of life in Essential Tremor (QUEST), the Essential Tremor Embarrassment
           Assessment (ETEA).

        -  Accelerometer recording and videotape recording.

      Visits at 6W, 12W, 18W and 24W

        -  Clinical evaluation:

        -  TRS.

        -  CGI.

        -  QUEST / ETEA.

        -  Accelerometer recording and videotape recording.
    
  