
    
      A substantial portion of individuals seeking behavioral and pharmacological treatment for
      smoking cessation drink excessively with many reporting significant alcohol problems.
      Although these at-risk and problem drinkers are unlikely to choose abstinence from alcohol as
      a goal, many make substantial reductions in their drinking during and after their quit
      smoking attempt. Thus, the context of smoking cessation treatment offers a unique and
      valuable opportunity in which to apply brief interventions and pharmacotherapy to catalyze
      change in excessive drinking in a population with markedly elevated risk for negative health
      outcomes. In our recent randomized clinical trial, standard smoking cessation treatment that
      incorporated a brief alcohol intervention showed promise in reducing drinking as well as in
      improving smoking cessation outcomes among heavy drinkers. However, these effects were
      relatively modest, especially among the heaviest drinkers, indicating that further study is
      warranted of methods to address heavy drinking in smoking cessation including the use of
      relevant pharmacotherapy. Naltrexone, in particular, shows promise for this purpose.

      The overall aim of this project is to test the efficacy of naltrexone as a pharmacotherapy
      for excessive drinking when delivered to at-risk or problem drinkers who are seeking smoking
      cessation treatment. The proposed clinical trial uses a between-subjects design in which 300
      at-risk or problem drinkers seeking treatment for smoking cessation will be randomly assigned
      to receive either daily 50 mg naltrexone or placebo. Medication will be initiated 2 weeks
      prior to participants' smoking quit date and continue for 10 weeks. All participants also
      will receive transdermal nicotine patch and a counseling and medication management
      intervention that provides advice for smoking cessation, advice regarding the effects of
      heavy drinking on both smoking cessation and health, and monitoring and encouragement of
      compliance with medications. Drinking and smoking outcomes will be assessed at 2, 8, 16, and
      26 weeks after participants' smoking quit date. The primary aim of the study is to test the
      hypothesis that naltrexone will result in greater reductions in heavy drinking relative to
      placebo. The secondary aim will test whether naltrexone results in superior smoking outcomes
      relative to placebo, and tertiary aims will examine interrelationships among motivation for
      changing drinking, compliance with naltrexone, and drinking and smoking outcomes.

      This study represents the first of its kind to provide naltrexone in conjunction with an
      opportunistic brief alcohol intervention for at-risk and problem drinkers not seeking alcohol
      treatment. Testing the potential benefits of naltrexone among at-risk and problem drinkers
      who smoke is of very high significance for public health efforts to reduce the markedly
      elevated rates of morbidity and mortality observed in this large, yet relatively understudied
      group.
    
  