
    
      Background/Significance:

      Hypotension is common and predicts worse outcomes. Arterial hypotension, defined as an
      arterial systolic blood pressure (BP) less than 90 mmHg in adults, represents the hallmark of
      critical illness. Accurate arterial BP measurement is essential to deliver effective
      treatment, to guide resuscitation, and to assess interventions. Non-traumatic hypotension has
      been documented in as many as 19% of Emergency Department (ED) patients and those patients
      with hypotension have a 10-fold increased risk of sudden, unexpected in-hospital death.(1)
      Early hypotension is associated with increased mortality in survivors of cardiac arrest,
      stroke, and STEMI,(2-4) stressing the need for a tool to rapidly and accurately identify BP
      trends in order to effectively direct resuscitative measures. Additionally, Doppler waveforms
      may provide additional clues of impending hemodynamic deterioration before overt hypotension
      or shock ensues.

      Disadvantages of the current system - The current initial standard for BP measurements in
      most hospitals is via an automated non-invasive BP device that uses oscillometric technology.
      This method has numerous limitations including non-continuous monitoring, missing or delays
      in identifying hypotensive episodes, inaccuracy or inability to measure BP due to various
      reasons including inaccurate cuff size or severity of hypotension. In one study, 34% of
      patients had a BP discrepancy of ≥ 20 mmHg with the oscillometric device compared to
      intra-arterial BP monitoring due to incorrect cuff size.(5) Oscillometric devices are
      sufficient for use in many clinical situations; however, notable exceptions include patients
      that are severely hypertensive, hypotensive, with arrhythmias, after trauma, and other
      critical clinical scenarios, whereby manual auscultatory BP measurement is preferred.(6) Even
      in non-critically ill patients, validation data of oscillometric measurements has been called
      into question.(7) The alternative to oscillometric devices is an intra-arterial catheter.
      Although accurate, intra-arterial catheters are invasive, technically difficult to insert,
      expensive, time-intensive, painful, and with risks including bleeding, infection, and
      neurovascular injury. Current guidelines for management of critically ill patients suggest
      intra-arterial BP measurement is preferred over automatic oscillometric non-invasive BP
      measurement. Despite this, in a recent survey of intensivists, 73% used non-invasive BP
      measuring devices in hypotensive patients.(8) For the above reasons, researchers have been
      investigating newer technology to replace the oscillometric technology; examples include
      Doppler and photoplethysmographic devices.(9;10) Newer technology- The research and
      application of Doppler technology for measuring BP is in its infancy and has yet to be fully
      realized. The benefits of such a device would include an accurate, non-invasive means to
      measure BP in critically-ill patients. Due the high-risk of missing hypotension, the
      possibility exists to commercialize the prototype for broader clinical use in non-critically
      ill patients as well. The accuracy of Doppler velocimetry is one important advantage. In an
      animal study comparing three indirect BP measuring instruments- a Doppler ultrasonic
      flowmeter, an oscillometric device, and a photoplethysmograph- to direct arterial pressure in
      cats, the Doppler and photoplethysmographic devices had the highest overall accuracy. (10) In
      clinical practice, when the initial automatic oscillometric BP device is unable to obtain a
      measurement due to hypotension, the manual Doppler technique is a common practice due to its
      reliability and referenced in one study as the "gold standard".(11) However, accurate
      systolic BP measurement is only one parameter of the device. The Doppler signal received from
      the arterial flow through the vessel has incredible potential to identify strength of pulse
      and other auditory queues. This has been well established in peripheral arterial disease,
      with descriptive terms used such as monophasic, biphasic, or triphasic pulses identified by
      Doppler. The novel device has the potential to identify a "sick" pulse as determined by
      changes in the Doppler waveform prior to hypotension ensues, as often, hypotension is very
      late in the course of the disease process. To date, there is no automatic
      sphygmomanometer/Doppler apparatus available.

      This project will provide data to further the development of a novel blood pressure
      monitoring device that will enable non-invasive and near-continuous blood pressure monitoring
      and other hemodynamic information on critically-ill patients. Data from healthy volunteers
      using a standard 8MHz (fetal) Doppler probe have already been collected in a companion
      protocol in place at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte (UNCC).

      Research Strategy:

        1. Significance Identification of shock states before overt clinical evidence of shock
           (i.e., hypotension) is challenging. Determining whether Doppler-measured arterial
           waveforms can serve as a useful marker to identify hemodynamic compromise before shock
           ensues is unknown.

        2. Approach Hypothesis: Doppler waveform patterns in critically-ill hypotensive patients
           have a unique and identifiable pattern.

      Objectives:

        1. Doppler waveforms will be collected from the brachial arteries of critically-ill
           patients that present to the ED with overt evidence of shock.

           This pilot study will allow us to obtain Doppler measurements in critically-ill patients
           for comparison to non-critically-ill patients collected previously in an IRB-approved
           study conducted at UNCC by the Co-PI.

           Doppler signal measurements will be obtained from 20 critically-ill patients with
           evidence of shock (i.e., hypotension with SBP < 90) in Emergency Department at Carolinas
           Medical Center. Eligible patients will be identified from the Code Sepsis clinical
           protocol alert by PCL currently utilized for other departmental studies or by direct
           report from the PI while working in the ED. Patients or a legally authorized
           representative will be approached for informed consent. The 8MHz Doppler probe, (fetal
           ultrasound probe), will be applied to the brachial artery, and the position adjusted
           until an adequate signal has been obtained. Doppler wave form data will be collected
           over the course of a few minutes. It is anticipated that the patients will experience
           minimal to no discomfort throughout this process.

           Expected technical difficulties and how we will overcome them: The technical
           difficulties will include ensuring consistent measurements, as the data will be
           collected by the investigators and clinical research staff.

        2. Develop a computer algorithm that will distinguish "healthy" from "sick" Doppler
           waveforms.

      Waveform characteristics from the ED patients will be compared to previously collected
      waveforms from normal volunteers. A computer algorithm will then be developed to identify
      distinguishing features between these waveforms (independent of blood pressure). We will use
      a similar power analysis as done by Holt et al.(11)

        1. Algorithm Development: We will use MATLAB (The MathWorks, Inc) to analyze the Doppler
           signals obtained from the hypotensive/shock patients and compare them to prior obtained
           healthy patient data in order to identify unique wave characteristics of patients in
           shock.

        2. Filtering: Optimum filtering software will be designed and perfected by the PIs, as
           required by the quantified audio piezo-electric signal, to determine most reliable and
           accurate Doppler waveform.

      Sample Size Calculation Previous studies have used a power analysis that determined 18
      observation sets (a set being one intra-arterial BP measurement and one Doppler BP
      measurement) to detect a difference of 10% (deemed clinically significant by investigators)
      between intra-arterial and Doppler BP with a SD for difference of 7.8 mmHg and an alpha of
      0.05 using a two-sided one-sample t-test.

      A power analysis was not performed for this pilot study. A sample size of twenty adult
      subjects (with Doppler recording during of < or = 5 minutes) was chosen to ensure sufficient
      observations. Further statistical techniques to improve association will be implemented as
      described in the initial prototype description.
    
  