
    
      Invasive ExPEC disease (IED) is defined as an acute illness consistent with bacterial
      infection that is microbiologically confirmed by the isolation and identification of E. coli
      from blood or other normally sterile body sites, or by the isolation and identification of E.
      coli from urine in a patient with signs and symptoms of invasive disease and no other
      identifiable source of infection. Adults aged 60 years or older have an increased risk of
      developing IED. To date, there is no vaccine available to prevent IED. ExPEC10V is a 10
      valent vaccine candidate in development by Janssen R&D for the prevention of IED in adults
      aged 60 years and older. A Phase 3 clinical study is planned to investigate the efficacy and
      safety of this vaccine. To obtain insight in the feasibility and design of the Phase 3 study,
      a pilot study is required.

      This pilot study is a prospective, multicenter, observational study conducted in a maximum of
      eight countries in Europe, North-America and Asia. Participant recruitment will be done in
      primary care. In each participating country a local primary care network encompassing
      approximately 40,000 persons and a local hospital, where patients are referred to in case of
      a suspicion of IED, will participate in this study.

      Database screening at the primary care centers will be performed to identify and invite
      potential eligible study participants. Upon consent, each study participant will be followed
      for a period of maximum 12 months after enrollment in the study. At baseline, demographic
      data and medical history data will be collected. During the follow-up period, any referral of
      study participants to a hospital for any reason including IED will be collected. IED
      identification and Medical Resource Utilization (MRU) during the follow-up period will be
      performed by regular telephone calls with all study participants. At the end of the study,
      the primary care files will also be checked for MRU. If a participant is diagnosed with IED
      and admitted to the hospital, the following data will be collected: medical history and
      treatment received 90 days prior to the IED, clinical and laboratory data, data on the
      treatment and outcome of IED and data on MRU related to IED. Data will be collected on Day 1
      of IED diagnosis (signs/ symptoms) and Day 28 after IED diagnosis.
    
  