
    
      The ABC02 treatment regime was established in 2010 following publication in the New England
      Journal of Medicine and has since become the standard of care treatment of bile duct cancers
      otherwise known as cholangiocarcinomas, as well as gallbladder cancer. The treatment consists
      of gemcitabine and cisplatin given synergistically. This combination has been shown to yield
      an overall survival advantage of 3.6 months compared to when gemcitabine is given on its own,
      with additional improvements in performance status and tumour control in patients.

      Currently, the ABC02 regime includes a long hydration schedule based on previous use of high
      doses of cisplatin and perhaps historically the lack of efficacious antiemetics. Cisplatin is
      often associated with severe nausea and vomiting that lead to dehydration. In fact, cisplatin
      is a direct nephrotoxin, owing to its pro-inflammatory action in the kidneys and being able
      to cause immediate vasoconstriction of renal microvasculature on administration, and this
      coupled with its effect to induce dehydration due to nausea and vomiting, prevented the
      inclusion of cisplatin into many combinational regimens. 50% of patients in initial studies
      were found to suffer from nephrotoxicity on cisplatin and thus the administration of
      intravenous saline to combat this effect by inducing diuresis has also been standard of care
      when giving cisplatin chemotherapy. However, it is still not known what the optimal hydration
      solution and procedure are as there are no studies comparing either of these factors.

      Akynzeo is a mixture of both a 5HT3 blocker palonosetron and a neurokinin 1 inhibitor
      netupitant. Together the drugs are able to combat nausea and vomiting during the acute phase
      and delayed phase after chemotherapy. The introduction of 5HT3 blockers cut the incidence of
      acute nausea and vomiting in chemotherapy patients considerably, but in fear of the
      historical nephrotoxicity, copious volumes of IV saline remains part of the regime. This
      entire procedure takes 8 hours for delivery and risks fluid overload often requiring diuretic
      management.

      For reference: gemcitabine is an antimetabolite and works by imitating a pyrimidine and
      replacing the cytidine in nucleic acid during DNA replication. By doing so, gemcitabine halts
      tumour growth as actual nucleosides cannot be attached to this faulty nucleoside and this
      results in apoptosis. Cisplatin on the other hand is an alkylating agent and kills cancer
      cells by binding to DNA and interfering with its repair mechanism; upon binding to DNA it
      further attracts other DNA repair proteins to irreversibly bind to the structure distorting
      its shape and inducing apoptosis.
    
  