
    
      Being overweight or obese can cause insulin resistance (IR), which is defined as reduced
      responsiveness to insulin by the cells of various tissues or organs. IR at midlife increases
      the risk of developing Alzheimer s disease (AD). We recently discovered novel biomarkers of
      brain IR (altered Tyr and Ser phosphorylated forms of insulin receptor substrate 1; IRS-1) in
      plasma exosomes enriched for neuronal origin. Moreover, IR is associated with AD biomarkers
      including deficits in resting state brain activity and cognitive performance. Calorie
      restriction is defined as consuming fewer calories than what is considered normal without a
      lack of nutrients. A certain type of calorie restriction, in which one consumes 500-600
      calories a day for two consecutive days, followed by non-restricted eating for 5 days (5-2
      CR), has been shown to lower peripheral insulin resistance effectively. Effects of CR and
      lowering peripheral IR on brain IR and cognition are unknown. The goal of this exploratory
      pilot study is to provide proof-of-concept that 5-2 CR at midlife can reverse brain IR, lower
      peripheral IR, improve cognitive performance, and increase brain activation at rest and
      during tasks. Specifically, we will study the effects of 8 weeks of 5-2 CR versus a control
      dietary intervention on brain and peripheral IR, memory and executive function, resting state
      default mode network activity, brain metabolism, and AD biomarkers. Forty overweight to obese
      women and men (between 55 and 70 years of age) will be randomized 1:1 into 5-2 CR and control
      groups. In the 5-2 CR group, participants will be offered healthy living dietary counseling
      at baseline, which they will be instructed to implement for five days/week. For each of the
      other two consecutive days/week, they will consume two shakes (Boost , CWI Medical),
      providing a total of 480 Kcal/day. In the control group, participants will be offered healthy
      living dietary counseling at baseline, which they will be asked to implement for every day of
      the week. Participants will undergo screening including a history and physical examination,
      calculation of Body Mass Index (BMI, which must be greater than or equal to 27) and a blood
      draw for insulin and glucose to determine whether they have insulin resistance. If
      participants meet eligibility criteria, they will continue with a baseline visit involving
      anthropometric measures, questionnaires, tests of cognitive function, brain MRI, blood draws
      for plasma and peripheral blood mononuclear cells, and lumbar puncture for cerebrospinal
      fluid biomarkers of AD. After 8 weeks, we will collect the same measures. To assess and
      reinforce compliance with their respective diet, participants will come into the clinic every
      2 weeks to discuss compliance, measure their body weight and perform blood draws for
      measurement of ketones to objectively confirm energy restriction for the 5-2 CR group. We
      will also contact participants every week to further ensure compliance. To assess the effects
      of the diets on physical activity, participants will be asked to wear an accelerometer for 96
      hours before and after they are on the diet.
    
  