
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether progression-free survival with z-endoxifen hydrochloride (HCl) relative
      to that with tamoxifen (tamoxifen citrate) is prolonged in postmenopausal women with local
      advanced or metastatic estrogen receptor (ER) positive/Her2 negative breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the safety profile of each of these agents in this patient population.

      II. To assess whether the tumor response rate (as determined using the Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] criteria) among those randomized to z-endoxifen HCl differs
      from that among those randomized to tamoxifen.

      III. To estimate the median progression-free survival time for those who receive z-endoxifen
      HCl after disease progression with tamoxifen.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine whether ER alpha alterations (defined as either ER activating mutations or ER
      amplification) are associated with longer progression-free survival (PFS) or higher response
      rates in the z-endoxifen HCl arm compared to the tamoxifen arm.

      II. To determine changes in lipid profiles comparing tamoxifen and z-endoxifen HCl.

      III. For each treatment, to evaluate changes in markers of bone formation and absorption
      after 12 weeks (4 cycles) of treatment.

      IV. For all patients and by treatment arm, to determine whether progression-free survival
      differs with respect to the sensitive to endocrine therapy (SET) index.

      V. To examine whether deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) alterations as measured by Foundation
      medicine in all coding exons of 287 cancer-related genes as well as 78 polymorphisms in 34
      absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion (ADME)-related genes are associated with
      longer PFS or higher response rates in the z-endoxifen HCl arm compared to the tamoxifen arm.

      VI. To assess whether the molecular characteristics identified in the tumor biopsies are
      detectable in the circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and/or cell-free DNA (cfDNA).

      VII. For each treatment arm: to examine changes in ER expression on CTCs, changes in estrogen
      receptor (ESR) mutations or amplification in CTCs or CfDNA and explore the impact of these
      changes on PFS and response rates.

      VIII. To further characterize pharmacokinetics, pharmacogenetics and metabolism of
      z-endoxifen HCl and tamoxifen.

      IX. To determine the impact of the concentrations of tamoxifen and its metabolites on PFS in
      the tamoxifen arm.

      X. To determine the impact of the concentrations of z-endoxifen HCl and its metabolites on
      PFS in the endoxifen arm.

      XI. To determine the impact of genetic variation in the enzymes responsible for tamoxifen and
      z-endoxifen HCl metabolism.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive z-endoxifen hydrochloride orally (PO) on days 1-21. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive tamoxifen citrate PO once daily (QD) on days 1-21. Courses repeat
      every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients with
      disease progression and bone metastases may cross over to Arm I and receive z-endoxifen
      hydrochloride starting no later than 28 days after documentation of disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up yearly for up to 5 years.
    
  