
    
      Format of intervention:

      The program contains the following components:

      Four multiple family group sessions:

        -  Session 1: Understanding the illness

        -  Session 2: Treatments and community resources

        -  Session 3: Coping with the illness

        -  Session 4: Reducing stress in the family

           2. Two individual consultation sessions with the group leader (occurring before and
           after the group) The principal investigator will conduct all group and individual
           sessions. Since the intervention is brief, emphasis is placed on introducing concepts
           and helping relatives learn how to obtain more information for themselves, rather than
           on practicing and adopting all skills that are introduced. Materials are provided to
           read between sessions to supplement the didactic presentations and allow maximum time
           for relatives to discuss how topics relate to their personal experiences. In addition,
           group members are asked each week to report on how they applied strategies discussed in
           the group and whether or not they found them to be effective.

      Subjects:

      The participants in this study will be a minimum of 50 adult relatives of individuals with
      schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Up to three relatives per family may participate
      in the program. Groups will contain between 4 and 10 people from a minimum of three families.

      Procedure:

      Assessments, consultations, and groups will take place at McLean Hospital or the Freedom
      Trail Clinic to prevent external environmental influences from affecting data collection and
      to ensure that the interviews will be held in a confidential location. A wait-list control
      design will be used to evaluate the efficacy of this intervention. Clients will be assessed
      initially on a number of dimensions (specified below) by a trained, reliable research
      assistant. These clients will be randomly assigned to either an intervention (psychoeducation
      right away) or a wait-list control condition . The psychoeducation program will consist of
      four weekly, 2 ½ -hour multifamily group sessions and two individualized pre- and post-group
      consultation sessions. Clients in the control condition will receive psychoeducation after
      the intervention group has completed the program. Upon completion of the psychoeducation
      program, a research assistant will re-evaluate relatives in both the intervention and the
      wait-list control group. To minimize interviewer bias, this research assistant will be blind
      to which condition (intervention or wait-list) the clients were assigned.

      Measures:

      Self-report instruments and audiotaped structured interviews included in the pre- and
      post-intervention assessments will measure knowledge about schizophrenia, coping strategies,
      perceived burden, expressed emotion, attribution of illness symptoms and behaviors, quality
      and use of social support network, and depression and anxiety among participants.
      Participants will also be asked to provide demographic information such as age, ethnicity,
      socioeconomic status, relationship to patient (e.g., parent, sibling), and living situation
      (whether or not participant resides with patient). Participants who do not live with patients
      will be asked to identify the number of hours per week spent in caregiving activities (e.g.,
      assistance with activities of daily living or providing companionship). In addition, the
      post-intervention assessment will include some measures of client satisfaction. (Copies of
      all measures are attached).

      Specific hypothesis:

      Compared to wait list control subjects, subjects who have participated in the intervention
      will show decreased levels of perceived burden, depression, anxiety, high expressed emotion,
      and attributions of control. Furthermore, they will exhibit increased knowledge regarding the
      illness, use of community resources, and perceived social support.

      10. Duration of the study and the subject's involvement in the study: Subject participation
      in this study will be approximately 6 weeks for the intervention group and 12 weeks for the
      wait list group. Subjects in the intervention group will come to McLean 6 times (two
      interview and consultation sessions and four educational sessions). Subjects in the wait list
      group will come to McLean 7 times (this includes one additional interview session after the
      wait list period, before starting the group). The duration of the study is expected to be at
      least 1 year. We would like to continue recruiting subjects until a least 50 subjects have
      participated.
    
  