
    
      In our Phase 1 trial which concluded in 2019, 9 children affected by refractory or relapsed
      leukaemia were enrolled at Great Ormond Street Hospital or UCLH. Participants received
      infusion of a tumour cell targeting antibody to deliver irradiation to the bone marrow and
      sites containing leukemic blasts prior to BMT. The aim of the Phase 1 study was to identify
      the dose limiting toxicity and maximum tolerated dose of targeted radiotherapy, and it was
      found that this treatment was well tolerated with minimal infusion-related side effects.

      The current study will enrol a larger cohort of children (aged 0.5 - 18 years) who will
      receive 90Yttrium administered at an infused activity to target the optimal absorbed dose to
      the bone marrow. Patients will be treated at GOSH and UCLH and followed up for 12 months
      post-BMT to evaluate safety and efficacy of targeted radiotherapy with a reduced toxicity
      conditioning regimen prior to BMT.

      PURPOSE AND DESIGN OF THE STUDY Children with high risk or relapsed leukaemia have a poor
      prognosis with an increased risk of relapse after standard bone marrow transplant. There is
      an urgent need to offer a different therapeutic strategy for children with such poor risk
      diseases.

      There is evidence that targeted radioimmunotherapy prior to a stem cell transplantation is a
      feasible and effective treatment that delivers high dose radiation to the bone marrow and
      spleen (where leukaemia resides),while sparing other tissues and organs from its toxicity.
      Since leukaemic cells are generally radiosensitive, this approach might increase
      leukaemia-free survival, while reducing transplant-related morbidity and mortality.

      Our previous phase 1 radio-immunotherapy study demonstrated that radio-immunotherapy is
      non-toxic, but can elicit myelosuppression, with potential for better disease eradication.

      This protocol offers a novel and non-toxic therapeutic strategy to children with poor risk
      leukaemia and aims at reducing the risk of disease relapse after transplant.

      RECRUITMENT and CONSENT Children with poor risk leukaemia who fulfill the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria of this study might be recruited in this trial. Patients and/or their
      parents will receive appropriate information from one of the investigators regarding the
      rationale of this study, the possible risks and benefits and the alternatives to taking part.
      Patients and/or their parents will be given an age appropriate information sheet and consent
      form and they will be given the time to think about this.

      INCLUSION/EXCLUSION CRITERIA Children enrolled in this study must be affected by high risk or
      relapsed/refractory leukaemia, with a high risk of disease relapse after conventional
      transplant. Children eligible for this treatment must also be clinically fit for an
      allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, according to clinical and laboratory
      parameters, which have been specified in details in the protocol.

      RISKS, BURDENS AND BENEFITS Patients eligible for this trial are affected by high risk or
      relapsed/refractory leukaemia and have an indication to an allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation. Stem cell transplantation carries a significant risk of morbidity/mortality,
      due to: a)the toxicity of the preparative regimen, b) the posttransplant immunodeficiency
      with high risk of opportunistic infections, and c) the possible occurrence of graft versus
      host disease. The use of radioimmunotherapy in the context of a reduced toxicity conditioning
      regimen prior to the transplantation has proved to be feasible and safe in adult and
      paediatric studies, without a significant increase of the treatment related toxicity when
      compared to standard conditioning regimen.

      Moreover, higher doses of radiation delivered to patients with leukaemia generate a better
      leukaemia response and this approach in children with poor risk leukaemia is promising.

      Children undergoing this treatment will be carefully followed up and haematological
      (prolonged cytopaenia, stromal damage) and nonhaematological (mucositis, liver and kidney
      damage)toxicity will be monitored and recorded.
    
  