
    
      Study Population Babies born at this hospital with a gestational week of <30 were included in
      the study. Patients were excluded in the presence of a major abnormality or known congenital
      metabolic disease in the mother or baby, and the presence of chronic liver, kidney or
      gastrointestinal system disease in the mother, or if the family did not give consent. A
      record was made of the gender and birth weight of the babies and gestation week, maternal
      age, gravidity, status of vitamin intake and use of vitamin A during pregnancy, and antenatal
      steroid administration in the mothers. A record was made of the presence of early membrane
      rupture (EMR) diagnosed during the present pregnancy of the mother, preeclampsia/eclampsia,
      pregnancy-induced hypertension, urinary infection, gestational diabetes mellitus and anemia,
      if present. We recorded also neonatal mortality and morbidity such as respiratory distress
      syndrome, retinopathy of prematurity, necrotizing enterocolitis, intraventricular hemorrhage,
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia,

      Sampling and Test Study Method Umbilical cord blood was drawn at birth in all babies included
      in the study by experienced individuals using a vacutainer. Approximately 6 ml of venous
      blood was also drawn from the antecubital region of the mothers immediately after the birth
      in a biochemistry tube, and centrifuged for 10 minutes at 4500 rpm after the completion of
      coagulation, and the sera were separated. Serum samples were frozen and stored at -80° until
      the analysis was performed. For the analysis, serum samples were thawed in appropriate
      circumstances and all analyzes were performed at the Medical Biochemistry Laboratory of
      Atatürk University at a single session.

      In the serum samples, the retinol levels were analyzed using ELISA kits from the Bioassay
      Technology Laboratory ( E1548 Hu Jiaxing, Zhejiang, China), RBP levels were analyzed using
      ELISA kits of Elabscience (E-EL-H1581 Texas USA) following the standard protocol suggested by
      the manufacturer at the Dynex automated ELISA reading device (Dynex Technologies
      Headquarters, Chantilly, USA). The measurement range of the kit for retinol and RBP was
      2ng/ml- 800 ng/ml and 0,07 - 100 ng/mL, respectively.

      The formula "umbilical cord retinol/maternal retinol x100" was used for the calculation of
      placental retinol passage rate in order to show the percentage of maternal retinol passing to
      the umbilical cord .

      Retinol deficiency was evaluated according to the WHO data. A level of < 20 µg/dl was
      accepted as a deficiency. The level of deficiency was accepted as < 200 ng/ml since the unit
      used in this present study was ng/ml.
    
  