
    
      This is a prospective study to survey the stress upon anesthesia personnel and verify causes
      and risk factors to their stress. A message of persuading is conducted among the anesthesia
      personnel in university, municipal and private hospitals. We ask participants to voluntarily
      response all items in questionnaires of the SST and SAST.

      We launch a communication channel with the anesthesia personnel at www.nmac.in.th and require
      that qualified participants register and express their intention to join this research
      project. Each registered participant receives an identification number and a log-in password
      to the website containing the SST and SAST courseware database. The program is interactive,
      with personal files for each participant on each test along with other details like code,
      password, date-month-year, test scores, and log-in periods and time.

      We introduced the 20 questionnaires of the SST courseware, to the developed system via
      http://www.dmh.go.th/test/stress/ before performing it under the research approach via
      www.nmac.in.th website. The findings revealed that the system operating units were flexible
      to participants' interactive behavior, instruction and responsiveness. Access to the system
      through the website provided ready access to the information, was user-friendly, and was
      stable. In addition, the tools were objective, covered complete details, and were clear, with
      elements of the subject content in proper order.

        1. SST courseware comprises of 60 questionnaires with scoring through five choices: most
           stressful (5), highly stressful (4), moderately stressful (3), mildly stressful (2), and
           no stressful (1).

           In addition, the tests underwent verification for content validity and had index of item
           objective congruence (IOC) determined by experts; with > 0.8 in Cronbach's alpha
           reliability coefficient; r > 0.27 in concurrent validity through calculation of Pearson
           Product moment correlation against an electromyogram biofeedback.

        2. SAST courseware comprises of 6 sections with scoring through visual analog scale and
           allowing open-ended opinions. The questionnaires had undergone quality analysis and
           verification for conciseness, accuracy, and clarity, as well as content and structural
           validity by three doctorate educational experts with at least a decade of teaching
           experience. The questionnaires' IOC was 0.79. The open-ended questionnaire is composed
           of the following sections: (1) background data: age, gender, experience in anesthesia;
           (2) working data: working time, overnight job, numbers of call; (3) personal data:
           sleeping time; (4) patient safety issues: frequency of various situations involving
           unsafe actions, occurrence of operating room events; (5) attitudes toward production
           pressure: depression, fatigue, confusion, tension/anxiety, and anger; and (6) ratings of
           sources of production pressure.

      We ask participants to voluntarily response all items in the SST and SAST. However, they have
      rights not to answer any questions that put them in an awkward position.

      Target group: Providing the data approximates to 1,000 anesthesiologists and 3,000 nurse
      anesthetists who have formally performed patient care. Participation is voluntary, without
      any honorarium, their only benefit is self-awareness of stress. Whether or not they
      participated does not affect their careers in any way.

      Target group size: Two hundred and eighty six out of 1,000 anesthesiologists and three
      hundred and fifty three out of 3,000 nurse anesthetists are qualified as the final study
      group.

      Procedure: After participants log in with their codes and passwords given to them, they then
      study the www.nmac.in.th website at their leisure for the content of the SST and SAST
      designed through questionnaires. Their scores are immediately provided with the completion of
      a testing courseware and their individual profiles updated as well. Those feeling overwhelmed
      by the conditions are allowed to withdraw from the project anytime.

      During this research, we are willing to answer queries about the project procedure and
      monitor individual participants' progress through the website while keeping confidential the
      data about individual participants.

      Information analysis:

        1. A psychologist assesses the individual stress, which expressed as mean and standard
           deviation. All associated factors are compared by the chi-square test. Statistical
           significance is defined as p < 0.05.

        2. Information from an open-ended questionnaire: This information yields mean and standard
           deviation values along with content analysis for use in our subsequent discussion.
    
  