
    
      Patients with EGOO have difficulty swallowing and/or chest pain. Previously we were not able
      to distinguish this disease from achalasia. Achalasia is a disease which is characterized by
      a progressive difficulty with swallowing. It is caused by failure of relaxation of the lower
      esophageal sphincter (sphincter between esophagus and stomach) along with an essentially
      aperistaltic esophageal body.

      However, EGOO patients have abnormal lower esophageal sphincter relaxation with some
      preserved peristaltic activity. Because they have some peristalsis, these patients are not
      diagnosed with achalasia.

      Currently, a new diagnostic method, known as high-resolution manometry (HRM), can identify
      EGOO patients. EGOO patients usually do not respond well to medical treatment and surgery is
      required in most cases to reduce the pressure of lower esophageal sphincter muscles. This
      procedure is called "Heller myotomy".

      Recently, a new endoscopic method for reducing lower esophageal sphincter pressure has been
      developed. This method, per-oral endoscopic myotomy (POEM) is now being performed clinically
      throughout the world, including Johns Hopkins Hospital. The technique utilizes a flexible
      endoscope to tunnel beneath the esophageal surface layer and cutting muscle fibers of the
      lower esophagus and upper stomach. POEM is an alternative to invasive surgery with fewer
      complications. POEM is performed safely at Johns Hopkins Hospital for achalasia patients.
      Outcomes of POEM have been excellent with greater than 90% positively responding to
      endoscopic myotomy. Patients with EGOO are being diagnosed more often due to increased use of
      HRM. They respond poorly to endoscopic therapies but well to surgical myotomy. POEM is the
      endoscopic equivalent to surgical intervention and represents a less invasive approach to
      treating these patients.
    
  