
    
      Non-celiac gluten sensitivity (NCGS) is a condition where intestinal and extraintestinal
      symptoms are triggered by gluten ingestion in the absence of celiac disease and wheat
      allergy. Despite the great interest in NCGS, much remains unknown about the pathogenesis.
      Some studies seem to suggest that wheat components other than gluten (i.e. amylase/trypsine
      inhibitors, ATIs) can cause the symptoms, and therefore the term "non-celiac wheat
      sensitivity" (NCWS) has been proposed instead of NCGS. NCWS pathogenesis has been attributed
      to very different mechanisms: innate or adaptive immunity, incomplete digestion and/or
      absorption of fermentable oligosaccharides and disaccharides, monosaccharides and polyols,
      and, finally, psychological effect. In addition, it is believed that this condition is
      worldwide increasing, due to the evolution of wheat breeding (i.e. consumption of wheats with
      high gluten content), and that ancient wheats are better tolerated by NCWS patients than the
      modern ones. Therefore, the aim of the study is to determine whether the common belief
      regarding the fact that ancient wheats are better tolerated by NCWS patients than the modern
      ones is confirmed by scientific data, and to identify the wheat kernel components triggering
      this pathology. The availability of wheat materials with opposite characteristics, such as
      the period of development (ancient vs. modern), or the technological properties (cultivars
      with weak glutens vs. strong gluten), or the presence/absence of specific ATIs polypeptides,
      will allow to define the role played by these factors. The researchers take into
      consideration different tetraploid wheat genotypes derived from the Italian breeding activity
      carried out during the 20th century in comparison with landraces, primitive and old wheat
      cultivars previously cultivated and used mostly in Southern Italy for pasta and bread
      production, together with an experimental genetically modified (GM) wheat line expressing a
      lower amount of ATIs. For the purpose of the study, the collection has been subdivided into 5
      groups, according to the breeding period. Wheat genotypes will be also evaluated for several
      parameters: protein content, gluten index, quantitative analysis of ATIs proteins by Mass
      Spectrometry, etc. The project has two objectives, related to the influence of wheat
      consumption on health: 1) extraction and testing of total kernel proteins, in order to
      evaluate the inflammatory response to gluten and non-gluten proteins by peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC) and immunocytes extracted by the rectal mucosa of NCWS patients and
      healthy control subjects, and 2) clinically testing two wheat genotypes, selected on the
      basis of the previous in vitro studies, showing the highest and the lowest in vitro
      inflammatory response, in order to verify their effect in triggering NCWS symptoms.
    
  