
    
      1. Study design It is a quantitative study of double-blind randomized crossover clinical
           type with inductive approach and documentation of technical and direct observation with
           measurements in the laboratory.

           In order to assess the bioavailability of intraoral fluoride week after the use of
           fluoride toothpastes containing Nanoencapsulated Fluoride, it will be collected biofilm
           samples 1h and 12 h after brushing; and unstimulated saliva in times of 3, 15, 30, 45,
           60 minutes and 12 hours after. The data will be obtained by physical and chemical
           analysis of the samples of fluoride (F). Therefore, the study will consist of two
           interrelated steps: a clinical phase for biofilm collection and saliva; and laboratory
           stage for fluoride analysis in the samples.

           Will be conducted pilot test with three participants before the start of the study.

        2. Sample Size The sample size calculation was performed using fluoride concentration data
           in dental biofilm previous study and taking effect size difference between the
           experimental dentifrice (100% Nanoencapsulated Fluoride ) and positive control of at
           least 3.4 ppm of F- in biofilm after 12 hours, namely, 25%. Admitting experimental
           protocol with beta error of 10% alpha error of 5%, one-tailed and statistical power of
           90%, the sample size was calculated for 6 people. For the calculation we used the Excel
           software and mathematical formula for clinical trials of superiority given. Adding
           sample loss resulted in 12 people.

        3. Experimental Dentifrice For this study will be used four toothpastes: 50%
           Nanoencapsulated Fluoride, 100% Nanoencapsulated Fluoride, Free sodium fluoride, Without
           fluoride. The toothpaste, made available by the company from Brazil are packed in the
           same packaging and have the taste of mint. Except wash out the tubes with toothpaste
           will be identified by letters (A, B and C) by an independent researcher. The letters
           code will not be revealed to the participants nor the researcher who will accompany
           them. These will be drawn at random for daily use for seven days in four times, giving
           an interval of one week wash-out between them.

           In these periods of wash-out will use a toothpaste without fluoride. In the end, all
           study participants will use the 5 experimental dentifrice at different times.

        4. Clinical phase The participant will be informed about the study and after its
           acceptance, he/she will initiate the study. Initially will be clinical examination in
           order to report the presence of any of the exclusion criteria already listed. After
           verifying the absence of these criteria, there will be a dental prophylaxis pumice for
           removal of this biofilm and in some cases may be made supragingival scraping. The
           patient will be advised not to make use of any fluoride product during the experiment.
           At first, volunteers are instructed to use a toothpaste without fluoride (wash out) the
           first week, in order to equate the study participants and eliminate any potential
           carryover effects of toothpaste used previously.

           The participant will get a tube of toothpaste and will be instructed to brush their
           teeth for 1 minute and rinse with 10 mL of water twice a day (morning and night). On the
           seventh day, the participant will be instructed to brush only the occlusal surfaces of
           your teeth, to allow biofilm accumulation of flat surfaces. When going to bed, you are
           warned not to eat or drink (except water) as well as not brushing your teeth until the
           next day. On the following morning, approximately 12 hours after the last brushing and
           fasting, the first dental biofilm sample and unstimulated saliva is collected. It will
           be used to remove biofilm Hollenback vestibular faces, interproximal, palatal and
           lingual right hemiarch and deposited in a pre-weighed Eppendorf tube in an analytical
           balance. To saliva collection, the participant, at rest, will be instructed to spit for
           a minute in a graduated glass tube. After that, the participant will brush the occlusal
           surfaces for 1 min and rinse with 10 mL of water. Soon after, will new collection of
           saliva and plaque. Saliva samples will give up in times of 3, 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes
           after brushing, while the biofilm left hemiarch will be collected one hour after
           brushing. After the collection will be offered at breakfast organized by researchers
           participating in the crown of that research center.

        5. Laboratorial phase Samples will be evaluated through physical-chemical analysis of
           fluoride using calibrated fluoride electrode. Samples will be analyzed for fluoride
           concentration using ion-specific electrode after diffusion facilitated with hexamethyl
           disiloxane (HMDS). The calibration curve is made for each analysis. All analyzes will be
           done in triplicate and be submitted for validation.

        6. Data analysis The study data will be analyzed by inferential statistics considering p
           <0.05.
    
  