
    
      This clinical study is looking at a vaccine called AST-VAC2. AST-VAC2 has been designed to
      potentially help the immune system attack the cancer. This is a new vaccine which looks
      promising in laboratory studies but it has never been tested in man.

      Dendritic cells occur naturally in your body as part of the immune system however these
      dendritic cells have a special role in finding proteins in the body which are associated with
      cancer and it is hoped that the vaccine will train the immune system to recognise these
      proteins and attack the cancer.

      Some cancers tend to have more of a certain type of protein (part of the body's building
      blocks that make up cells) called 'hTERT' and it has been shown in laboratory studies (and
      also studies in patients using a similar type of vaccine), that targeting hTERT can lead to
      destruction of cancer cells by the immune system. AST-VAC2 will target the hTERT protein.

      Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) is another type of protein. An HLA pre-screening test will be
      able to show if a person is positive or negative for a specific HLA protein (AST-VAC2 can
      only work with some types of HLA), as being positive for the protein may mean there is a
      better chance of the vaccine attacking the cancer. Patients who are positive for the specific
      HLA type will be asked to consent to the vaccine arm i.e. to receive the study vaccine. Those
      patients who are negative for the HLA type will be asked to consent to a control arm and will
      not receive the study vaccine.

      The study is in two parts, Part 1 (safety cohort) is to ensure that the vaccine can be given
      safely and to see if there are any initial signs of how it works in the body by performing
      tests on blood and tissue samples. Patients with advanced NSCLC will be asked to participate
      in Part 1.

      Part 2 (expansion cohort) is to continue looking at the safety of the vaccine but also how
      the vaccine works in a group of patients at a different stage of disease. Patients in the
      adjuvant setting will be asked to participate in Part 2.

      Control groups will be recruited for both Parts 1 and 2 of the study.
    
  