
    
      The study will be conducted between 15.12.2020 and 15.03.2021. Patients over the age of 18
      who applied to the emergency department with any complaint and whose blood glucose level> 300
      mg / dl in the examinations (as the finger tip and / or blood biochemistry examination
      parameter) performed in case of clinical necessity will be included in the study. Patients or
      their relatives (for patients who are unable to give consent) will be asked to read and sign
      the informed consent form if they accept it. Patients' age, gender, history, whether they are
      diagnosed with diabetes, medications used, vital signs, complaints of admission to the
      emergency room, hospitalization and definitive diagnosis will be recorded. The study form for
      the followed-up patients will be added to each patient's file and filled in by the physicians
      in the patient's follow-up.

      The following parameters will be included in the work form;

        1. Age of the patient

        2. Gender

        3. Biography

        4. Presence of diabetes diagnosis, drugs used, if any

        5. Other medications

        6. The complaint of applying to the emergency room

        7. Whether treatment for hyperglycemia is applied in the emergency department, what
           treatment is applied

        8. How much IV fluid and / or insulin therapy is applied

        9. Duration of stay in the emergency department

       10. Results of routine blood tests

       11. Weight

       12. The trend of blood glucose levels in patients treated for hyperglycemia

       13. Presence of acute complications due to hyperglycemia

       14. Application and discharge BG levels

       15. Whether there are classical symptoms of DM before admission to the emergency department

       16. Whether hypoglycemia develops or not

       17. Was medication prescribed for DM at the time of discharge?

       18. Whether he was hospitalized or not. Patients will be called 30 days after leaving the
           emergency room (ER). Within this period, whether they applied to the emergency service
           again, if they did, the application complaint, the diagnosis of ER discharge, and the
           treatment method used will be questioned.
    
  