
    
      Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) with multi-organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) are
      common debilitating postoperative complications, which also result from shock and trauma.
      However, despite the use of ECMO, mortality rate among hypoxia patients remains high in such
      critical care conditions. Corticosteroid therapy inhibits ongoing inflammation and abnormal
      deposition of collagen. However, intravenous administration of corticosteroids may be harmful
      because it may increase the risk of associated neuromyopathy in critically ill patients.
      Although intrapleural instillation of steroids has been employed in several pleural
      diseases,little is known about the therapeutic effects of this treatment method on ARDS in
      combination with MODS. Therefore, in the present pilot study, the investigators hypothesized
      that timely initiation of intrapleural steroid instillation (IPSI) will positively influence
      ventilation in and survival of patients with ARDS in combination with MODS.

      The investigators conducted a retrospective study on ninety-two of the 467 ECMOs performed
      between 2005 and 2009 were on ARDS patients. Analyses of gas exchange, tidal volumes, airway
      pressures, respiratory frequency, and vasopressor and sedation requirements were performed
      before and after intervention.

      The indication for IPSI was unresponsive severe ARDS in combination with MODS when all the
      other treatment modalities such as intravenous steroid administration, nitric oxide
      inhalation, high-frequency oscillatory ventilation, or ECMO performed within 2 days were
      unsuccessful.

      An experienced team performed thoracic catheterization of the patients under ultrasound
      evaluation. Patients with severe pleural adhesion were considered unsuitable for IPSI. The
      dosage of the intrapleural steroid was determined on the basis of the chest radiographic
      examination, inspired oxygen concentration, and positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) of
      the ventilator.
    
  