
    
      Retina specialists treat many diseases of the posterior segment of the eye by the delivery of
      medications via intravitreal injections. Many of these medications are monoclonal antibodies
      that need to be injected monthly. Endophthalmitis is a sight threatening complication of
      intravitreal injections. Limiting this complication is of primary importance in any injection
      protocol. The gold standard antiseptic used in intravitreal injection is Povidone-iodine
      (PI). PI is used to clean the surrounding ocular adnexa and is used in a 5% dilution on the
      ocular surface.

      PI has been shown to be corrosive to the cornea, delay healing, and cause patients
      significant discomfort post injection especially for those with dry eye. Non-steroidal
      anti-inflammatories, topical anesthetics, and anticholinergics have been shown to decrease
      post injection discomfort1, but these measures are expensive, do not protect against corneal
      irritation and do not improve the healing capacity of the eye. There is a need for a cost
      effective measure that can reduce corneal irritation and improve healing due to the effects
      of PI. Punctal plugs are FDA approved for the treatment of dry eye. They increase lubrication
      of the eye by blocking the drainage of tears into the lacrimal sac. Our study would like to
      investigate the efficacy of punctal plug insertion in the prevention of dry eye symptoms
      caused by PI following intravitreal injection.

      It has been shown that PI is toxic to the cornea at increasing concentrations. Once in
      contact with corneal epithelium it releases free iodine radicals causing cytotoxicity and
      apoptosis of cells. This makes it an effective antiseptic for Ophthalmologic procedures, but
      also causes significant destruction of the healthy corneal tissue2. It has also been shown in
      rabbits that calf serum is protective against PI induced corneal damage by providing an
      additional organic substrate for the PI to bind3. It is possible that natural tears can have
      a similar effect.

      Punctal plugs are an extremely cost effective and widely used device to increase the volume
      of tears on the ocular surface. They block the lacrimal puncta and canalicular system that
      drains into the nasolacrimal duct, thereby inhibiting drainage of the natural tears into the
      nasal atria. In patients with dry eye who receive intravitreal injection punctal plugs may be
      useful in reducing corneal irritation by increasing the volume of natural tears on the ocular
      surface, which provides an additional organic substrate for the PI solution to bind. This has
      the potential to decrease the corrosive effects of the PI on the cornea, reduce healing time,
      and reduce pain in patients with dry eye.

      Investigators will be performing a case crossover study. First patients who consent will be
      asked to complete an Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI). Those whose score indicates a
      diagnosis of dry eye will eligible for the study. Three to five days after their intravitreal
      injection, patients will be contacted over the telephone and asked to complete the OSDI. At
      their next visit, one month later, a punctal plug will be inserted before their second
      injection. Three to five days after their second injection, they will be asked to complete
      the OSDI over the telephone. At their third visit they will receive an intravitreal injection
      and three to five days after they will be asked to complete a final OSDI. If patients are
      receiving bilateral intravitreal injections, and the OSDI survey indicates dry eyes
      bilaterally, then only one of the eyes will be randomly chosen for plug insertion. The other
      eye will then be used as a control. There will be no blinding.
    
  