
    
      Progression of GO from mild-moderate to severe disease:

      Criteria for start of treatment with corticosteroids, retrobulbar irradiation, or orbital
      decompression are severe soft tissue swelling (NO SPECS class 2c), risk of corneal ulcers
      with or without exophthalmos, double vision within 30 degrees, and optic nerve dysfunction.
      Patients who progress will be followed until the end of the study with the ongoing randomized
      treatment.

      Withdrawal criteria:

        1. Patients may withdraw from the trial at any time without any consequences for their
           future treatment.

        2. Patients may be withdrawn from the trial at the discretion of the investigator if judged
           to be non-compliant with trial procedures or due to safety concerns.

        3. Patients must be withdrawn from the trial if they become pregnant or develop congestive
           heart failure, renal insufficiency, coagulopathy, gastric ulcer, inflammatory bowel
           disease, diabetic retinopathy, diabetic nephropathy, severe myopathy, or rhabdomyolysis.

      Laboratory investigations before randomization:

      TSH, fT4, fT3, TRAb, TPOAb, p-glucose, HbA1c, creatinine or cystatin C for estimation of GFR
      according to the routines of the individual study centers. Biobank samples for analysis of
      potential markers of ophthalmopathy, DNA (buffy coat), RNA (whole blood), serum, and plasma
      according to separate sampling instructions.

      Clinical appointments and treatment of ophthalmopathy:

      Endocrinologist and ophthalmologist judge the presence of ophthalmopathy in patients with
      Graves´ disease and asses inclusion and exclusion criteria before randomization to treatment
      with or without simvastatin.

      The activity of ophthalmopathy is judged according to CAS (clinical activity score) and
      registered by the ophthalmologist:

      Spontaneous retrobulbar pain 0. No 1. Yes Painful eye-movements 0. No 1, Yes Eye lid erythema
      0. No 1. Yes Conjunctival injection 0. No 1. Yes Chemosis 0. No 1. Yes Swollen caruncula 0.
      No 1. Yes Eye lid edema or swelling 0. No 1, Yes Sum (points)

      In parallel, evaluation with modified CAS is performed and registered by the ophthalmologist:

      Spontaneous retrobulbar pain 0. No 1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe Painful eye-movements 0. No
      1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe Eye lid erythema 0. No 1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe
      Conjunctival injection 0. No 1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe Chemosis 0. No 1. Mild 2. Moderate
      3. Severe Swollen caruncula 0. No 1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe Eye lid edema or swelling 0.
      No 1. Mild 2. Moderate 3. Severe Sum (points)

      Severity is judged by the following parameters and registered in the ophthalmologist´s
      protocol: vision, sense of colour, eye papillae edema, eye protrusion, impaired eye
      movements, corneal ulcers.

      Judgement of thyroid function and ophthalmopathy is performed by an
      endocrinologist/ophthalmologist at inclusion and after 3 and 6 months. The ophthalmologist
      who evaluates activity and severity of ophthalmopathy is not aware of which treatment arm
      (simvastatin or control) the patient has been randomized to (single-blind design).

      Patients are photographed at each visit and every fifth photograph of ophthalmopathy status
      is sent to the other centers for evaluation of selected parameters in CAS to evaluate the
      inter-observer variation.

      All patients who fulfill the inclusion criteria and lack exclusion criteria and have signed
      informed consent will be randomized to treatment simvastatin 40 mg 1x1 or no additional
      treatment for 6 months. Drugs for treatment are prescribed for 3 months and repeated at
      control visits. Information on collection of drugs is checked with lists obtained from the
      pharmacy.

      Thyroid treatment:

      Patients with Graves ´ hyperthyroidism are treated with ATD. This can be done with the block
      and replace approach or by titration of ATD according to the local tradition as long as
      euthyroidism is achieved during the study period (normal fT4 and fT3 with TSH below the upper
      limit of the local reference interval).

      Patients with clinical ophthalmopathy at diagnosis can be included no earlier than 2 months
      after treatment with ATD and only if biochemical or clinical euthyroidism has been achieved.

      Patients who have stopped medication with ATD can be included at the earliest after 2 months
      and only if clinically and biochemically euthyroid.

      Patients who have been treated with radioiodine can be included 6 months after radioiodine if
      euthyroid. In case of hypothyroidism, patients must be treated with L-thyroxine and be
      clinically and biochemically euthyroid before inclusion.

      Patients who have had thyroidectomy can be included when euthyroidism has been achieved with
      L-thyroxine.

      Statistical considerations and study design:

      The primary evaluation variable is change in CAS after 6 months. If it is assumed that the
      spontaneous change without treatment is -0.6 and if the treatment groups improvement in CAS
      is -1.9, 34 patients in each group are needed to achieve 80 % power at significance level of
      0.05. The basis of this calculation is a study on the effects of selenium treatment in
      patients with mild to moderate ophthalmopathy (Marcocci 2011).

      The investigators will stratify for smoking at randomization which will be performed in
      blocks of 6 within each participating center.

      The secondary exclusion and lost to follow-up rate of patients is estimated to 10 % during
      the study period. The investigators therefore plan to include a total of 80 patients. The
      following reasons are expected to cause secondary exclusion/ loss of patients:

        1. Side effects of treatment

        2. Lack of compliance or safety routines not being followed

      Ethics:

      All patients will receive written information on treatment alternatives, possible
      side-effects of any drugs used, and the aim of the study which has been approved by relevant
      ethics committees.

      Publication and authorship:

      The primary results will be reported in an appropriate medical journal after discussion with
      the participants of the study and authorship can be claimed if the participant has included
      at least 10 % of the total number of patients.

      Visit schedule:

      S = Screening tests, TSH, fT4, fT3, TRAb, TPOAb, Hb, fasting- p-glucose, HbA1c, eGFR
      (creatinine and cystatin C), ASAT, ALAT, ALP, GT, CK, cholesterol, triglycerides R = Routine
      tests, TSH, fT4, fT3, Hb, eGFR, CK, ASAT, ALAT, ALP, GT, cholesterol, triglycerides, TRAb,
      anti-TPO B = Biobank samples according to separate instructions C = Clinical control - vital
      signs, physical examination, eye status O = Ophthalmologist - eye status, OCT of conjunctive
      Q = Quality of life questionnaire (SF36,ThyrPro and GO-QoL)

      Time 0 S, B, C, O, Q 3 months S, B, C, O, Q 6 months S, B, C, O, Q
    
  