
    
      Welfare and health technology are often directed at solving problems and meeting the needs of
      societies' most vulnerable groups often not familiar with computers.

      The research and innovation programme Food´n´Go - Empower aims to develop, test and implement
      health technology solutions for involvement and increased empowerment of elderly patients and
      their relatives. The focus is on frequent issues for this group of patients, in this phase
      focusing on nutrition and physical activity. Later, the solution will include pain
      management, management of sleep problems, medication management, prevention of confusion and
      coordination of the treatment and care course across sectorial borders. The technology is a
      tablet- computer, operated by the patient by means of a number of app-like software
      applications.

      In the summer 2013 the programme received a grant from the Capitol Region's
      Public-Private-Innovation (OPI) pool for design and development of the prototype. In 2014 the
      prototype for nutrition was tested in a feasibility study. Usability and acceptability was
      tested in the patients' own home, as well as the effect of the nutrition intervention, after
      discharge from hospital (see protocol 10/16/2014).

      The results were promising, and the aim is now to test the technology for supporting both
      nutrition and physical activity across sectorial boundaries. The elderly patient will operate
      the tablet during admission and after discharge, continuing the efforts aimed at nutrition
      and physical activity during the stay at a rehabilitation centre 5 to 6 weeks after
      discharge. The working hypothesis is: Functional ability and nutritional status will be
      stabilized or improved, and readmissions and dependency of municipal services will be
      reduced.

      The aim of this study is:

        1. to test if an adjusted version of the Food´n´Go technology through active involvement of
           the elderly patient can prevent weight loss and loss of muscle strength during
           hospitalization and after discharge

        2. to develop and test the technology in relation to stability, applicability and
           acceptability
    
  