
    
      There is no standard therapy for advanced human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)
      -negative breast cancer patients after failure of taxanes and anthracycline-containing
      regimens at present. Pemetrexed is a multitargeted antimetabolite. Its efficacy in metastatic
      breast cancer has been confirmed in several small sample size studies and meta-analyses. Its
      response rate (RR) is about 30%, and will be higher in HER2-negative breast cancer. However,
      there is no study focused on this subtype of breast cancer. Bevacizumab is also an effective
      alternative for metastatic breast cancer. Several studies indicate that the combination of
      bevacizumab and chemotherapy could improve both RR and overall survival, but its use is
      confined by its severe side effect and far from adequate treatment. Recent years, a lot of
      studies have assessed the efficacy of metronomic chemotherapy. Metronomic therapy refers to
      the chronic administration of low doses of cytotoxic drugs at close, regular intervals. It
      could promote the apoptosis of tumor endothelial cell , continuously inhibit tumor
      angiogenesis, and exhibit a significant superiority of low toxicity, reduced cost and
      prolonged combination therapy period. According to reports in literature, the expression of
      anti-angiogenic biomarkers, such as,vascular endothelial growth factor(VEGF)-A, VEGF-C,
      soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (sVEGFR)-1,
      sVEGFR-2,thrombospondin-1(TSP-1), platelet factor 4 (PF-4) might be concerned with the
      efficacy of metronomic therapy. Since there are no reported clinical trials according to
      metronomic bevacizumab in HER2-negative breast cancer, the investigators come up with this
      study. In this study, the investigators try to make a comparison of the efficacy and safety
      of low-dose-bevacizumab and pemetrexed with treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in
      metastatic breast cancer after failure of taxanes and anthracycline-containing regimens, to
      validate the correlative biomarkers and to find an optimal choice for previously treated
      metastatic breast cancer patients.
    
  