
    
      Background and rationale:

      Nailfold capillaroscopy (NC) is a diagnostic investigation used in the routine clinical
      setting for the differential diagnosis of connective tissue diseases, such as Systemic Lupus
      Erythematosus (SLE). Among SLE clinical manifestations, vascular involvement is a common
      feature and a variable prevalence of NC abnormalities has been reported in SLE: typical NC
      changes, as well as non-specific variations as observed in healthy subjects.

      At this very moment literature is interspersed with different descriptions of capillaroscopic
      features in SLE, and it has not been clearly defined the role of NC in SLE patients. It has
      been suggested that the presence of major capillary abnormalities may reflect the
      microvascular systemic involvement in SLE, and it may correlate to the disease activity.

      Against this background, the EULAR study group on microcirculation in rheumatic diseases
      planned an international multicenter study.

      Objective:

      To investigate the role of NC abnormalities in the assessment of SLE patients.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint:

      -To compare the frequency of major capillary abnormalities in patients with SLE and healthy
      controls.

      Secondary endpoints:

        -  To compare the frequency of major capillary abnormalities in patients with active and
           non-active SLE / active SLE and healthy controls / non-active SLE and healthy controls.

        -  To study the association of different capillary parameters and the status of subjects
           (SLE / active SLE / non-active SLE / healthy controls).

      No. of subjects:

      Total entered: 364 ; Cases (SLE): 182 ; Controls: 182.

      Variables

      NC assessment: presence of major capillary abnormalities; NC parameters/mm: number of
      capillaries, presence of hairpin, tortuous, crossed, bushy, ramified, enlarged, giant
      capillaries, microhemorrhages, architecture disorganization, visibility of the subpapillary
      venular plexus; presence of scleroderma patterns, normal patterns.

      Clinical assessment: all subjects: date of birth, gender, race. SLE: age at disease onset,
      disease activity (SLEDAI-2000) and damage index (SLICC-DI), presence of antinuclear
      antibodies, anti-dsDNA, anti-Extractable Nuclear Antigen antibodies, lupus anticoagulant,
      anticardiolipin/beta2glycoprotein I antibodies, Raynaud's phenomenon, Hypertension, active
      smoke, diabetes mellitus, ongoing and cumulative dose steroid treatment, ongoing
      immunomodulatory/suppressive treatment.

      Statistical methods For the primary endpoint and similar secondary endpoints, McNemar test
      (matching design) and a conditional odds ratio (OR). For other secondary endpoints, the
      Fisher's exact test and an OR, and a conditional logistic regression model (matching design)
      and non-conditional regression model and OR as appropriate.
    
  