
    
      Background:

        1. Burden: Burden: Diarrhea is one of the leading causes of under-five childhood mortality
           and accounts for 8% of 5.4 million global under-5 deaths. Co-morbidity of severe acute
           malnutrition (SAM) and shock in children with diarrhea is associated with increased
           mortality. Nearly half of the patients admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of
           Dhaka Hospital of icddr,b present with sepsis. Data demonstrates that about 43% of
           children progressed from severe sepsis to septic shock despite receiving recommended
           treatment. The death rate was found to be as high as 40% and 69% in children with severe
           sepsis and septic shock respectively with co-morbidities such as severe malnutrition.

        2. Knowledge gap: The conventional management of SAM children with features of severe
           sepsis recommended by WHO include administration of boluses of isotonic saline followed
           by blood transfusion in unresponsive cases with septic shock. However, a recent African
           study reported significantly higher mortality among children with features of severe
           sepsis when they were treated with boluses. To date, no study has evaluated
           systematically the effects of inotrope or vasopressor or blood transfusion in children
           with dehydrating diarrhea (for example, in cholera) and SAM having shock and
           unresponsive to WHO standard fluid therapy.

        3. Relevance: If this randomized trial signifies survival benefit from a blood transfusion,
           inotrope or vasopressor in the management of fluid refractory shock in children with
           severe acute malnutrition and cholera or other dehydrating diarrheas, then this approach
           would be a good candidate for implementation in the management of such children
           especially in developing countries

      Hypothesis: We hypothesize that the death rates will be significantly lower in children with
      SAM, dehydrating diarrhea and fluid refractory shock who will be treated with dopamine or
      adrenaline compared to blood transfusion, after treatment failure with WHO standard bolus
      intravenous fluid therapy.

      Objectives: To reduce mortality of the SAM children presenting with diarrhea and fluid
      refractory shock who will receive WHO standard fluid therapy followed by dopamine or
      adrenaline, compared to those receiving blood transfusion after WHO standard fluid therapy.

      Methods: This will be a randomized, three-arm, controlled, non-masked clinical trial in
      children 1- 59 months old with SAM and fluid refractory shock. It will compare the efficacy
      of WHO-recommended fluid resuscitation followed by dopamine or adrenaline administration
      versus WHO recommended fluid resuscitation followed by blood transfusion. After parental
      written informed consent, children, in addition to usual supportive care, will be allocated
      to the study interventions following randomization.
    
  