
    
      Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) is an emerging field for diabetes management. CGM allows
      providers to individualize therapy by looking at real time glucose levels, detect changes in
      blood glucose and raise awareness for hypo- and hyperglycemic events.[1] Some CGM devices can
      be placed on the patient's arm to monitor blood glucose every few minutes. The data is then
      sent to a monitor for visualization. There are multiple Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-
      approved devices for continuous glucose monitoring. The FDA considers a device to be accurate
      if 99% of blood glucose measurements are within 20% of lab results and if 95% of blood
      glucose measurements are within 15% of lab results.[2]

      The accuracy and precision of CGM devices is improving with several products gaining FDA
      approval. CGM data has been deemed accurate for self-use to adjusted insulin dosage,
      detection of hypoglycemia and determining the clinical response to therapy. However, events
      of low glucose readings and false alarms have been reported.[3]

      An analysis conducted of the reports to the FDA Manufacturer and User Facility Device
      Experience (MAUDE) database since 2015 revealed over 25,000 complaints of CGM device
      inaccuracy.[4] Although CGM devices are researched extensively, there are no studies
      confirming that the measurements amongst the right arm and left arm are the same.

      Intermittent fasting is an eating pattern in which individuals alternate between a period
      (~16 or more hours) of eliminated or restricted food intake, and a period of normal food
      intake. It has gained popularity in the public due to proposed health benefits including
      reductions in weight, cholesterol, and blood glucose.[6] There is published evidence that
      suggests beneficial effects of intermittent fasting on body fat. In an 8-week study, a
      significant decrease in fat mass was observed in the intermittent fasting group compared to
      the free-living group (-16.4 vs -2.8%).[8] However, this is the only human study assessing
      time-restrictive intermittent fasting and its effects on body fat, and there remains a
      shortage of high-quality evidence. We would like to further expand existing research by
      assessing the effect of short-term intermittent fasting on body fat.

      This study is a controlled, prospective trial that aims to evaluate the difference in glucose
      readings between the right arm and left arm using continuous glucose monitors. In addition
      this study aims to evaluate the difference in percent body fat between short-term
      intermittent fasting and a free-living diet. Subjects will follow their designated diet for
      12-14 days. The study will assess any changes in glucose levels, body fat percent, body mass
      index (BMI), weight, body composition before and after this 12-14 day study.
    
  