
    
      The aim is to decrease the prevalence of pregnancy and birth-related complications
      (pregnancy-induced hypertension (PIH), gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), caesarean section
      (CS), and large-for-gestational-age babies (LGA)). These complications occur in 26% of
      pregnancies with normal start BMI and adequate weight gain, in 34% in normal start BMI but
      excessive gestational weight gain and in up to 66% in obese class III (BMI≥40kg/m²) combined
      with excessive gestational weight gain. Moreover, as the prevalence of maternal obesity
      continues to rise, increasing numbers of children are exposed to an 'obesogenic intrauterine
      environment'. Obesity in pregnancy has therefore the potential to result in an
      'intergenerational cycle' of obesity through in utero programming.

      The investigators focus on women with excessive weight gain during their 1st pregnancy as
      currently, half of them do not return to their pre-pregnancy weight before the next
      pregnancy. This results in a complication rate as high as 42% (PIH, GDM, CS, LGA). The
      investigators target a healthy BMI at start of pregnancy by intervening during the
      pre-conception period- and an adequate weight gain during pregnancy by intervening during
      pregnancy in these women. The intervention will be evaluated in a randomized controlled trial
      including 1,100 women.

      The proposed intervention combines face-to-face coaching with the use of a mobile App
      (so-called 'inter-act' app) connected to medical devices (scale and pedometer). The app
      monitors women's weight, eating behaviour, physical activity, mental wellbeing, and provides
      continuously coaching through positive behavioral change techniques. The 'inter-act' App
      covers after the 1st delivery breast-feeding support, while during pregnancy, the gestational
      weight gain guidelines of the Institute of Medicine (IOM) are included.

      Drop out of less motivated women is avoided as the time points of the four pre-conception
      coaching sessions coincide with the existing postnatal follow-up visits for neonates
      (Governmental vaccination scheme through the organisation " Kind & Gezin"), and the three
      pregnancy coaching sessions coincide with the three routine ultrasound scans during normal
      pregnancy (KCE Guidelines).

      Each year, there are 8,900 singleton pregnancies in Flanders in whom the mother had excessive
      gestational weight gain in the prior pregnancy. The current rate of at least one of the four
      major pregnancy and birth-related complications (PIH, GDM, CS, LGA) in the 8,900 pregnancies
      is 42%. If the complications rate reduces with 1/4, this involves more than 900 pregnancies,
      and reduces costs related to caesarean sections, gestational diabetes, obesity in mother &
      child.
    
  