
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of entospletinib administered in combination with
      obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia/small
      lymphocytic lymphoma (CLL/SLL) and non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL), and identify the dose for
      phase 2 expansion. (Phase I) II. To evaluate the efficacy of entospletinib in combination
      with obinutuzumab in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL/SLL, as measured by complete
      response (CR) rate. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Objective response rate (ORR, defined as complete remission, complete response with
      incomplete marrow recovery, partial remission and nodular partial response). (Phase II) II.
      Event free survival defined as the interval between the date of first study treatment and the
      date of objective signs of disease recurrence, subsequent anti-leukemic therapy, or death,
      whichever is first reported. (Phase II) III. Safety and tolerability of entospletinib in
      combination with obinutuzumab by adverse events (AEs). (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Peripheral blood B-cell depletion and recovery. II. Preliminary assessment of the
      predictive value of minimal residual disease (MRD).

      III. Pharmacodynamics effects of in vivo administration of entospletinib on NFkappaB
      activation and expression of anti-apoptotic proteins in CLL cells.

      IV. Association of established biomarkers (chromosomal abnormalities, immunoglobulin heavy
      chain [IGHV] mutational status, p53 mutational status) with response (ORR and event-free
      survival [EFS]) to entospletinib (ENTO) in combination with obinutuzumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory CLL.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of entospletinib followed by a phase II
      study.

      Patients receive entospletinib orally (PO) either once a day (QD) or twice a day (BID) on
      days -7 to -1 (run-in phase) depending on the assigned dose level. Patients also receive
      obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on days 1, 2, 8, and 15 of the first cycle and on day 1 of
      all subsequent cycles. Treatment with obinutuzumab repeats every 28 days for up to 6 cycles
      and daily treatment with entospletinib continues every 28 days for up to 12 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unexpected toxicity. Patients who do not receive MRD may
      continue receive entospletinib beyond 12 cycles with approval from the treating physician and
      sponsor-investigator in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 12 months
      then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  