
    
      Mastocytosis is a disease characterized by excessive numbers of mast cells in skin, bone
      marrow and internal organs such as liver, spleen and lymph nodes. Its genesis appears to be
      related to somatic mutations in c-kit, the receptor for mast cell growth factor. Although
      most patients present with the indolent form of the disease, approximately one-third of the
      patients have an associated hematologic disorder such as a myeloproliferative state or
      myelodysplastic syndrome. Patients with advanced forms of the disease, including those with
      an associated hematologic disorder have a poorer prognosis than those with indolent disease.
      There is no treatment known to cure or improve the natural course of mastocytosis. Since mast
      cells arise in the bone marrow from a CD34+ progenitor, bone marrow transplantation may offer
      the only hope for a cure.

      In this protocol, we propose to treat patients with advanced forms of mastocytosis with an
      allogeneic stem cell transplant from an HLA-identical sibling, using a low intensity
      non-myeloablative regimen. This approach has the advantage of decreasing the
      transplant-related toxicity while allowing adequate immunosuppression to establish stem cell
      and lymphocyte engraftment. Donor derived CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes, which are important in
      killing of leukemic cells by mounting a "graft versus leukemia" effect, should be useful in
      the elimination of aberrant mast cells and their progenitors, that is "graft-versus-mast cell
      effect". This mechanism may be particularly relevant in mastocytosis as point mutations of
      c-kit may constitute an antigenically distinct T-cell target for recognition by the engrafted
      donor cells.

      The primary end point of this study is regression of mastocytosis. The secondary end points
      are engraftment, hematologic response, degree of donor-host chimerism, incidence and severity
      of acute and chronic GVHD, transplant related morbidity and mortality, relapse, disease free
      survival, and overall survival.
    
  