
    
      Ghana and other countries in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) are experiencing an epidemic of
      cardiovascular diseases (CVD) propelled by rapidly increasing rates of hypertension requiring
      implementation of evidence-based interventions. However, persistent barriers to the uptake of
      evidence-based interventions in low resource settings including Ghana exist at the systems,
      organizational and provider levels. At the systems level, lack of leadership support and
      shortage of staff limit effective uptake of evidence-based hypertension interventions. At the
      organizational level, the organizational culture, particularly the organization's readiness
      or openness to change may influence the use of evidence-based hypertension interventions. At
      the provider-level, implementation climate, lack of training, the culture of individual
      practices, and provider's knowledge, self-efficacy and attitude towards the evidence-based
      intervention limits uptake and sustainability of evidence-based interventions. The ubiquity
      of CHPS zones in Ghana, and their growing involvement with implementing healthcare in every
      community, with outreach to every doorstep, presents a unique opportunity to evaluate the
      effectiveness and impact of scaling up evidence-based task-shifting strategies for
      hypertension (TASSH) control for adults in community settings. Using a mixed methods
      (quantitative-qualitative) design, the investigators will evaluate practice facilitation (PF)
      in 70 CHPS compounds utilizing the TASSH program.

      The specific aims are as follows: (1) to identify practice capacity for the adoption of TASSH
      at CHPS compounds and develop a culturally tailored PF strategy using qualitative methods;
      (2a) Evaluate in a stepped-wedge cluster Randomized Controlled trial (RCT), the effect of the
      PF strategy vs. Usual Care (UC), on the uptake of TASSH (primary outcome) across the CHPS
      compounds at 12 months;(2b) Compare in a stepped-wedge cluster RCT, the clinical
      effectiveness of the PF strategy vs. UC on systolic BP reduction (secondary outcome) among
      adults with uncontrolled hypertension at 12 months; (3) Evaluate the mediators of the uptake
      of TASSH across the CHPS zones at 12 months; and (4) Evaluate the sustainability of TASSH
      implementation across the participating CHPS compounds at 24 months (one year after
      completion of the trial). Outcomes will be measured every 12 months in all clusters. Guided
      by Damshroeder's Consolidated Framework for Implementation Research (CFIR) and Glasgow's
      Reach Effectiveness Adoption Implementation and Maintenance (RE-AIM) framework, the goal of
      this project is to improve the uptake of evidence-based task-shifting strategies for
      hypertension control (TASSH) in CHPS zones in Ghana. This proposal is a collaboration between
      the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kintampo Health Research Center, New
      York University (NYU) School of Medicine and Saint Louis University.
    
  