
    
      Keratoconus is a common bilateral progressive corneal ectatic disease causing visual
      impairment by inducing irregular astigmatism and corneal opacities. This disorder typically
      begins during teenage years. Patients with severe forms may need a corneal transplantation.
      The CXL procedure, described in 1998, allows to halt or to slow down the disease progression
      and may avoid other surgeries, e.g. transplantation. This technique creates links between
      collagen fibrils in order to rigidify the corneal stroma. The corneal stroma is soaked with a
      riboflavin solution (vitamin B2) before being exposed to ultraviolet-A (UVA) radiations. In
      the current standard CXL, the central corneal epithelium must be debrided to allow the
      penetration of riboflavin into the cornea, with a risk of side effects, such as pain for the
      first two post-operative days, temporary loss of visual acuity during the first three months,
      and serious complications such as infections and stromal opacity due to corneal scarring
      Transepithelial crosslinking is a non-invasive technique in which benzalkonium chloride is
      used to enhance the penetration of riboflavin into the cornea. To improve the reaction, a
      device provides oxygen to the corneal surface. The transepithelial technique could allow
      intrastromal riboflavin diffusion, while keeping the corneal epithelium on, conserving the
      efficiency of the standard procedure without the complications induced by epithelial
      debridement.

      Patient with progressive keratoconus will be included and treated with the transepithelial
      procedure. The follow-up will last for one year. Every follow-up visit will evaluate the
      security of the procedure and its efficacy to stop or slow down the progression of the
      disease. Interrogatory and slit lamp examination will be performed to investigate the
      potential adverse effects of the procedure.
    
  