
    
      Painful small fiber sensory neuropathy (SFN) is relatively common and a disabling medical
      condition. It is the most common type of painful sensory neuropathy in patients older than 50
      years of age. It is defined as a neuropathy that exclusively or predominantly affects the A-δ
      (small myelinated) and nociceptive C (unmyelinated) nerve fibers and their functions. The
      neuropathic pain associated with SFN is described by the patients as burning ("feet are on
      fire"), sharp ("knife-like, jabbing or pins and needles"), shooting, and aching pain in the
      toes and feet. The feet are described as tingling, numb, or feeling tight, wooden or dead.
      The pain is disabling and often exacerbated at night interfering and disrupting the sleep
      pattern. Allodynia and cramps may also occur. Some patients also describe pressure induced
      pain in their feet with standing and walking. The autonomic nerves may be involved leading to
      increased or decreased sweating, facial flushing, skin discoloration and erectile dysfunction
      in up to 40% of males. On examination there is a dramatic mismatch between the symptoms and
      observable deficits in SFN. Only abnormal findings are the loss of pinprick and temperature
      sensations in feet that may extend up to the knees. Touch sensation may be diminished but
      other sensations are usually preserved. By definition, patients with SFN are allowed to have
      minor involvement of large fibers distally with reduced vibration in toes but the ankle
      reflexes are usually preserved.

      This study will be of a crossover design thus minimizing the number of subjects needed. Each
      patient will act as his/her own control. Previous studies of pregabalin have shown that the
      desired effect is achieved by eight weeks of treatment. Therefore each patient will start on
      either placebo or pregabalin. They will be assessed on this treatment arm for eight weeks.
      There will be a two-week drug tapering and washout period before switching treatments,
      followed by re-assessment for an additional eight weeks. This design minimizes the amount of
      time that the patient will be treated with placebo.
    
  