
    
      Polyetheretherketone (PEEK) is a synthetic, tooth colored polymeric material that has been
      used as a biomaterial in orthopedics for many years due to its lower Young's (elastic)
      modulus (3-4 GPa) being close to human bone. PEEK can be modified easily by incorporation of
      other materials. For example; incorporation of carbon fibers or glass fibers can increase the
      elastic modulus up to 18 GPa which becomes comparable to those of cortical bone and dentin so
      the polymer could exhibit good stress distribution . Moreover, tensile properties of PEEK are
      also analogous to those of bone, enamel and dentin making it a suitable restorative material
      as far as the mechanical properties are concerned.

      BioHPP PEEK is 20% ceramic reinforced, semicrystalline, thermoplastic and radiolucent polymer
      for extreme durability especially for frameworks for fixed and removable dental prostheses.
      It has many advantages as low density, light weight, shock absorber, biocompatible and
      venerable with composite resin.

      BioHPP PEEK can be fabricated via CAD/CAM technology by milling PEEK blanks. It is also can
      be pressed by using granular or pellet-shaped PEEK. Three-unit PEEK fixed partial denture
      manufactured via CAD-CAM has been suggested to have a higher fracture resistance than pressed
      granular- or pellet-shaped PEEK dentures.

      The fracture resistance of the CAD/CAM milled PEEK fixed dentures is much higher than those
      of lithium disilicate glass-ceramic (950N), alumina (851N) , zirconia (981-1331N). The
      abrasive properties of PEEK are excellent. Despite of significantly low elastic moduli and
      hardness, abrasive resistance of PEEK is competitive with metallic alloys .

      BioHPP PEEK can be used under resin composite as a coping material. Because the mechanical
      properties of PEEK are similar to those of dentin and enamel, PEEK could have an advantage
      over alloy and ceramic restorations . A variety of procedures have been suggested to
      condition the surface of PEEK in order to facilitate its bonding with resin composite crowns.
      For example, air abrasion with and without silica coating creates a more wettable surface.
      Etching with sulphuric acid creates a rough and chemically altered surface which enables it
      to bond more effectively with hydrophobic resin composites .

      Due to these unique physical and mechanical properties, BioHPP PEEK is a promising material
      for dental application and it has been proposed for other prosthodontic applications such as
      fixed prostheses and removable prostheses .
    
  