
    
      In the investigators' previous QL protocol, FWH20080093H, the investigators documented that a
      military-tailored QL was associated with high rates of sustained smoking cessation. The
      proactive QL produced superior cessation rates at a one year follow-up compared to a reactive
      QL. Unfortunately, even with high rates of cessation, a large number of participants (the
      majority of participants) fail to remain quit at follow-up. Civilian QLs have observed the
      same marked decay of sustained cessation rates from the end of treatment to the one year
      follow-up.

      An opportunity exists to reengage these smokers who relapse or fail to quit by the end of QL
      treatment. Civilian QLs use one of two treatments, Recycling (repeat the smoking cessation
      counseling) or Rate Reduction (cut down over time), as the primary methods for treatment
      reengagement. Unfortunately, these methods of reengaging the relapsed/failed to quit smoker
      have not been systematically evaluated. As such, we propose to randomize participants who
      relapse or fail to quit by the end of the intervention to either (1) repeating the proactive
      QL (Recycle); (2) smoking reduction with the goal of eventual cessation (Rate Reduction); or
      (3) the choice of Recycle or Rate Reduction (Choice). Efficacy will be established by
      assessing both point prevalence and continuous abstinence at a 12 month follow-up.

      All participants (approximately 1900) are consented to follow-up treatment reengagement since
      we do not know a priori who will quit and who will not quit/relapse. The investigators
      anticipate, based on the investigators' QL study that about 30% will quit and remain quit
      based on the eight-week proactive QL and about 70% will either not quit or relapse (n≈1300).
      Those that are smoking at the three-month follow-up are stratified (based on whether they
      quit and relapsed vs. not quitting at all in the Proactive QL based upon self-report) and
      randomized to the three treatment reengagement strategies (Recycle, Rate Reduction, or
      Choice), each one lasting 8 weeks. Then, at one year follow-up, the investigators will assess
      both point prevalence and continuous abstinence. Since we are intervening on those that
      initially failed to quit or relapsed, continuous abstinence will be defined from the point of
      the last treatment reengagement intervention (one year from that point).
    
  