
    
      1. Screening for eligibility; Enrollment/baseline: Patients are referred to UCSF urology
           clinic for urethroplasty. Participants commonly come to the clinic having already had
           imaging of their stricture, completed the appropriate PROMs, uroflowmetry and post-void
           residual urine volume measurement. The patient usually leaves the initial clinic visit
           with a scheduled surgery. Thus, both screening and enrollment will be done at the
           initial clinic visit. If the patient agrees to enroll and signs the consent form, they
           will then be randomized.

        2. Randomization: The PI will contact the research assistant by email or telephone and
           communicate the random identification number of the subject and receive the random
           assignment to ventral or dorsal graft. This will usually occur after the initial clinic
           visit but certainly before the surgery date. Patients will not be blinded as to their
           assignment. Surgeons, out of necessity, will not be blinded as well.

        3. Treatment/intervention period: Patient will undergo urethroplasty using standard
           approach and graft will be placed ventrally or dorsally, as assigned. Most patients go
           home the same day after surgery. A catheter will be left in the urethra for 2-4 weeks as
           is standard approach for buccal graft urethroplasties.

        4. Follow-up (there will be no extra clinic visits, questionnaires, or tests beyond that
           which the investigators normally do for all patients undergoing urethroplasty):

             1. 2-4 weeks: urethral catheter removal and urethrogram to document well-healed suture
                line

             2. 3 and 12 months post-operative clinic visit:

           i. cystoscopy ii. PROMs and additional post-operative questionnaires iii. Uroflowmetry
           and post-void residual urine volume c. Annual visits after year 1: The investigators
           will typically follow patients annually with no end date after urethroplasty. For
           publication purposesits has been set to 1 year as the study end date but the
           investigators will continue to see the patients outside the study protocol after year 1
           (so that participants receive the same care as people not in the study) and will perform
           the following: i. Cystoscopy, if indicated based on abnormalities in ii or iii ii. PROMs
           and additional post-operative questionnaires iii. Uroflowmetry and post-void residual
           urine volume

        5. Data Safety and Monitoring Both ventral and dorsal buccal mucosa graft are standard of
           care and all surgeons in this study have performed at least 50-100 of each of these
           surgeries. Investigators do not anticipate adverse events that are not well known in the
           literature. Urethroplasty is generally a low risk surgery. Still, any AEs will be
           monitored by the surgeon and communicated to Dr. Jeremy Myers at The University of Utah,
           which serves as the coordinating center for this study.
    
  