
    
      HD SAGA:

      The study would propose to use the Rhythmia Ultra High Density (UHD) mapping system (Boston
      Scientific) firstly to generate scar maps to determine if the results are comparable with
      previous work using lower density systems. Scar maps would be acquired in 3 groups of
      patients. The first group would be Redo-persistent AF ablation cases as these patients would
      have expected LA scar (iatrogenic and non-iatrogenic) from their previous ablation procedure.
      De novo persistent AF patients who would be expected to have non-iatrogenic scar. De novo
      paroxysmal AF patients who would be expected to have no or minimal scar. In redo AF patients,
      the validity of the scar maps would be further explored by undertaking re-isolation of veins
      based on discontinuities in the pulmonary vein isolation lines. If this is proven to be
      effective, it would demonstrate that the scar picked up by the system is genuine and may also
      suggest a more effective use of UHD systems for redo-pulmonary vein isolation (PVI).

      In the ablation phase, we would be assessing the effect of ablation on the localised ablation
      characteristics of the tissue to assess how this is affected by ablation. From previous work,
      using conventional, wide area impedance measurements, there is a notable plateau in the
      impedance drop with ablation suggesting a point beyond which there is minimal efficacy gain
      from further ablation. One would expect this would be even more apparent with localised
      impedance.

      Original Hypothesis - mapping phase An UHD mapping system can be utilised to generate
      automated, rapid, high density atrial scar maps in AF to guide a scar-based ablation
      strategy.

      Original Hypothesis - ablation phase Localised Impedance will fall during ablation and this
      fall will plateau, suggesting a biophysical target for ablation

      There is a small body of literature addressing contact mapping of atrial scar but this has
      mainly relied on lower density mapping approaches. UHD mapping systems offer the advantage of
      true high-density mapping with improved signal to noise ratios that one would predict will
      lead to the generation of more accurate maps. These advantages are also such that one would
      predict scar maps in AF would be more accurate. Extending the scar maps to incorporate the RA
      is also novel in this context and would give an insight into the degree to which AF is a
      bi-atrial fibrotic cardiomyopathy. As the use of UHD mapping is novel, it is important to
      establish how relevant criteria used in lower density, lower fidelity mapping systems are
      when the newer system is used, especially in defining scar.

      No clinical studies have been published assessing localised impedance.

      Protocol Fifteen patients listed for persistent AF ablation would be recruited including
      redo-ablation patients (aiming for 5 de novo and 10 redo patients). All these patients would
      be in AF at the time of the procedure. A further 5 patients with paroxysmal AF would also be
      recruited. Procedures would be performed on uninterrupted anticoagulation with a
      pre-procedural TOE as dictated by local guidelines. Moderate sedation or general anaesthetic
      procedures would be included. Intravenous heparin would be used to maintain the ACT at a
      therapeutic level throughout the study. All mapping would be undertaken using the Orion high
      density multipolar mapping catheter with the Rhythmia system. The ablation catheter used
      would be the IntellaNav MiFi Open Irrigated Temperature Ablation Catheter.

      An RA scar map would be obtained using WCT as a reference. Double transseptal access would be
      obtained and the mapping and ablation catheters passed into the LA.

      An LA scar map would be taken with the mapping catheter. For paroxysmal AF cases in sinus
      rhythm, this would be the only LA map taken. For patients in AF, maps would be taken in AF
      and then in sinus rhythm. In redo cases, the veins which the scar map suggests are likely to
      be reconnected would be noted (based on discontinuities in the wide area circumferential
      ablation (WACA) lines). The mapping catheter would then be used to confirm the presence of
      electrical reconnection of each vein. The patient would then be cardioverted if in AF and the
      mapping process repeated using a WCT reference. With all maps, the aim would be complete LA
      coverage. For the sinus rhythm maps, the LA will be divided into 5 sites: roof, posterior
      wall, inferior wall, septum, anterior wall bordering left atrial appendage. Within each of
      these sites, the pacing threshold will be assessed at 3 locations incorporating a spread of
      bipolar voltages.

      Following the mapping phase, the case would then proceed as per the operator's standard
      methodology. The aim would be to collect at least 30 static study ablation points as
      discussed above. Vein re-isolation would be performed without any catheter measuring
      electrical activity in the vein, purely based on the scar map, targeting discontinuities in
      the WACA lines. Ablations would be static rather than drag ablations and at each point, the
      electrogram from the MiFi electrodes would be recorded at the start and end of ablation.
      Pacing would be performed during ablation and the impedance value at which pacing capture was
      lost would be noted. Following this ablation, the mapping catheter would be utilised to
      establish if the vein has been electrically disconnected based on the scar map.

      At the end of the case, in sinus rhythm, scar maps of the RA would be taken. In sinus rhythm,
      pacing would be undertaken as for the LA at the following sites: anterior wall, posterior
      wall, septum and lateral wall.

      The scar maps would be exported offline to allow quantitative analysis, as would the
      electrogram and impedance data. The analysis would be performed using the Matlab programming
      environment.

      The scar analysis will exclude any portions of the LA distal to the WACA lines. The initial
      step will be to give a low voltage zone percentage. The next step will be to identify
      congruent low voltage zones and give advice regarding the ablation strategy for these -
      whether this involved delivering lines, for instance for a large posterior wall scar, and if
      the ablation needs to be extended to other inexcitable structures to prevent leaving a narrow
      conducting isthmus.

      Study Follow up There would be no additional follow up for this study - the participants'
      follow up will follow the normal clinical practice at University Hospital Southampton.

      HD SAGA S:

      Protocol:

      Twenty patients will be recruited for the HD-SAGAS cohort, all with persistent AF who will be
      in AF at the time of the procedure. These can be de novo or redo procedure patients.

      Procedures would be performed on uninterrupted anticoagulation with a pre-procedural imaging
      as dictated by local guidelines. Moderate sedation or general anaesthetic procedures would be
      included. Intravenous heparin would be used to maintain the ACT at a therapeutic level
      throughout the study. All mapping would be undertaken using the Orion high density multipolar
      mapping catheter with the Rhythmia system. The ablation catheter used would be the
      Stablepoint catheter.

      An LA scar map would be taken with the mapping catheter. The first map would be collected in
      AF. Following this, at 5 locations in the LA, aiming for a spread of voltages and locations,
      the contact force would be increased from 0-40g and the LI noted. The patient would then be
      cardioverted and a map taken in sinus rhythm with right atrial pacing. With all maps, the aim
      would be complete LA coverage. After cardioversion, at the same spots assessed in AF, the
      contact force would again be increased from 0-40g and the LI noted once more. Pacing
      thresholds would also be checked at these locations with a stable contact force of 10-20g to
      ensure good contact. The pacing phase could be after the ablation phase depending on rhythm
      stability.

      Following the mapping phase, the case would then proceed as per the operator's standard
      methodology. The operator will be allowed to use whichever powers they wish to during
      ablation. Sites of acute reconnection would be noted.

      At the end of the case, in sinus rhythm, pacing thresholds would be assessed in 5 areas in
      the LA, aiming for a spread of areas and voltages.

      HD SAGA H:

      The study would use the HD Grid catheter and Precision mapping system from Abbott. The HD
      Grid catheter has a unique arrangement of electrodes that allows for 3D electroanatomical
      maps to be generated between bipoles of different orientations. Following this a novel
      algorithm (HD Wave) provides the the point with largest amplitude. This abrogates the
      directional limitations of conventional bipolar mapping. Thus smaller more accurate areas of
      scar could be seen with the left atrium as has been generated in previous studies in the left
      ventricle.

      Hypothesis The use of HD Wave mapping and the best duplicate algorithm will lead to more
      reliable voltage maps in AF - both throughout the LA body and in the PVI lines. The gold
      standard to compare with here will be the sinus rhythm maps.

      Primary comparison:

      Sinus rhythm HD wave versus AF HD wave map Scar volume PVI gaps

      Secondary comparisons:

      Scar volumes and PVI gaps Sinus rhythm HD wave versus conventional AF HD wave versus
      conventional

      Protocol 20 patients listed for redo ablation of persistent AF, in AF at the time of
      procedure. All procedures would be performed using the precision mapping system.

      The operator would collect a voltage map of the left atrium using the HD Grid catheter in AF.
      Following this, the patient would be cardioverted and another map collected with the same
      mapping catheter during CS proximal pacing.

      The procedure would then proceed as per usual care. Subsequent to the procedure, the mapping
      functions would be applied to the data by Turbo mapping.

      Sites of PV reconnection would be noted based on the ablations performed by the operator.
    
  