
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and efficacy of gefitinib, trastuzumab (Herceptin®), and docetaxel,
           in terms of time to disease progression, in patients with HER2/neu-overexpressing
           metastatic adenocarcinoma of the breast.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the objective tumor response rate in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Correlate expression and/or degree of phosphorylation of epidermal growth factor
           receptor, HER2/neu, c-fos, Akt, ERK½, P13K, p53, p21, and p27 with outcome in patients
           treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, multicenter, dose-escalation study of docetaxel followed by a
      phase II study. Patients are stratified according to trastuzumab (Herceptin®)-naive vs
      trastuzumab-failure.

        -  Phase I: Patients receive oral gefitinib once daily on days 2-14. Patients also receive
           trastuzumab* IV over 30-90 minutes and docetaxel IV over 1 hour on day 1. Courses repeat
           every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Trastuzumab is given at a higher dose (loading dose) in course 1 and then at a lower
      dose in subsequent courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive docetaxel at dose level 1. If no dose-limiting toxicity (DLT)
      is observed in the first cohort of 3 patients, the dose of docetaxel remains the same. If 1
      DLT is observed in the first cohort of 3 patients, 3 additional patients are added (for a
      total of 6 patients) to dose level 1. If no further DLTs are observed at dose level 1, the
      dose of docetaxel remains the same. If 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience DLT at dose level
      1, the dose of docetaxel is considered above the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and is
      subsequently reduced. If 2 of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience DLT at the reduced dose of
      docetaxel, the study is stopped.

        -  Phase II: Patients receive docetaxel at the MTD and gefitinib and trastuzumab as in
           phase I.

      Patients are followed for survival.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3-76 patients will be accrued for this study within 26 months.
    
  