
    
      Thyroid nodules are common and although most are benign and remain relatively static in size,
      some can grow and become large and cause local symptoms over time. In such scenario,
      thyroidectomy is usually indicated. However, surgery is not only associated with
      complications but also with high cost and general anesthesia. As a result, there has been a
      growing interest in exploring less invasive, non-surgical technique for benign thyroid
      nodules. For solid or predominantly-solid (<30% cystic areas) thyroid nodules, thermal
      ablation techniques have been shown to be highly effective in causing nodule shrinkage and
      alleviating symptoms in the long-term. To date, numerous thermal ablation techniques have
      been described and they include radiofrequency ablation (RFA), percutaneous laser ablation
      (PLA), microwave ablation and more recently, high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU). HIFU
      is now considered the least invasive technique as there is no need for needle insertion into
      the target lesion during treatment. It works by utilizing focused ultrasound energy to
      generate heat and induce thermal ablation beneath the skin and other tissue layers. Recent
      studies (including several from our group) have shown that it is effective in not only
      inducing significant nodule shrinkage but also in alleviating nodule-related symptoms.

      However, despite its overall success, approximately 10 - 15% of solid or predominantly solid
      nodules do not shrink adequately (i.e. <50% shrinkage from baseline in the first 6-12
      months). Although the exact reason why some nodules do not respond remains unclear, it is
      noted that the majority of these less responsive nodules are larger in size / volume and so,
      a second or reapplication of ablation might be required to cause further shrinkage and
      improvement in symptoms [11]. However, the role of HIFU reapplication in nodules with
      less-than-adequate response (<50% at 6 months) remains undefined. As a result, the present
      study is aimed to the feasibility and safety of HIFU reapplication in nodules with shrinkage
      <50% of baseline volume 6 months after single-session HIFU treatment.
    
  