
    
      With compromised bone marrow function, patients with aplastic anemia (AA) and/and hypoplastic
      myelodysplastic syndrome (hMDS) are at an increased risk of invasive fungal infection.
      Moreover, the use of antithyocyte globulin (ATG), a part of standard first line treatment for
      AA/hMDS, increases the risk of fungal infection due to its antilymophocytic effects. It has
      been reported that fungal infection occurs most often in the first few weeks after initiation
      of ATG treatment, and the reported incidence of fungal infection overall varies from 9~80%
      for AA/hMDS patients. Among them invasive fungal infection accounts for 6-20% depending on
      reports. Such being the case, antifungal prophylaxis is recommended for AA/hMDS patients
      undergoing ATG treatment. More specifically, the British Committee for Standards in
      Haematology (BCSH) recognized the threat of increased invasive fungal infections in AA
      patients, and stipulated the use of mould (aspergillus) active azole, "preferably
      itraconazole or posaconazole" as prophylaxis. Unfortunately however, though many centers have
      adopted their own practice schemes, and antifungals have been routinely administered in the
      context of investigational regimens, there is no consensus as to which antifungal agent
      should be used.

      Considering Aspergillus sp has remained the most common fungal isolate in AA patients for the
      past 20 years, it is only rational that an antifungal agent with broad spectrum, covering
      both yeast and fungi, be used in this context. Posaconazole, a triazole antifungal agent, not
      only has a broad coverage spectrum but also associated with predictable and reliable systemic
      bioavailability. Also for patients, once daily dosage is both pragmatic and convenient.
      According to meta-analyses of prophylactic antifungal agents use (published in 2007),
      fluconazole diminished the risk of fungal related mortality compared to placebo (RR 0.49, 95%
      CI: 0.32-0.75, P=0.0009). More importantly, when compared to fluconazole, posaconazole
      prophylaxis yielded even lesser fungal related mortality and significantly decreased invasive
      fungal infection rate. Considering the fact that posaconazole is already being used for acute
      myeloid leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndromes patients undergoing induction treatment,
      it is only natural that posaconazole be used for AA/hMDS patients, who are at higher risk of
      developing invasive fungal infection compared to AML.
    
  