
    
      In this study, 30 patients aged 50-75 years who were immobilised for >1 week and were
      conscious but did not have sitting balance were evaluated. Before this study was initiated,
      approval was obtained from the XXX University Ethics Committee (number 2018-40016-46, dated
      24/04/2018). The inclusion criteria for the study included having undergone surgical
      procedures leading to immobilisation or having a disease affecting the musculoskeletal
      system, being conscious and not having sitting balance. The exclusion criteria included
      co-operation, orientation and cognitive impairment.

      Patients were divided into two groups: control group, in which a conventional physical
      therapy programme was applied, and experimental group, in which a physical therapy programme
      supplemented by the James lift system was applied. Randomisation was performed according to
      the hospitalisation order of the patients.

      Conventional physical therapy was administered to the control group and was aimed at
      achieving sitting balance in the first phase; once sitting balance could be achieved, we
      aimed at achieving standing balance in the second phase. Once standing balance was also
      achieved, supported and unsupported ambulation was commenced in the final phase.

      In addition to the conventional treatment programme in the experimental group, orthostatic
      blood pressure was checked at the early stage before the patients gained sitting balance.
      Once the patients gained standing balance using the lift, they were administered walking
      training.

      Conventional physical therapy was administered to both the groups and included passive and
      active assisted joint range of motion exercises, sitting balance, standing balance,
      electrotherapy (20 min of electrical stimulation on bilateral quadriceps and muscles) and
      ambulatory training.

      Pre- and post-treatment evaluations included age, height, weight, duration of hospital stay
      and day of initial mobilisation. Clinical and Rivermead mobility indices were used as the
      primary outcome. The Barthel index, which assesses daily living activities, and
      hospitalisation period were evaluated as secondary outcomes.

      The James 150 lift system is a hydraulic system made of steel pipes with a carrying capacity
      of 150 kg and is designed to keep the patients in an upright position. It is a hydraulic
      transport system with a short installation time, including an electric lift arm, 24-Volt
      motor, wired remote control, emergency button, mechanical emergency lowering, extensible
      undercarriage pedal, swivel castors and rear-wheel brakes. When a patient is required to be
      switched to the upright position, he/she is supported by Velcro sheaths in the thoracolumbar
      area, knees are locked with knee supports, feet are switched to the dorsiflex position using
      the foot pedal and the patient is brought to the upright position. During this time, the
      patient grips the lift handles with his/her hands for support. The patient is protected
      against falling during the lifting process by the brake-lock system.

      The Rivermead mobility index reflects basic mobility activities. The questionnaire consists
      of 15 questions, of which 14 are self-reported items and one is a direct observation item.
      "Yes" answers are given 1 point. The index is scored between 0 and 15 points, where 15
      indicate normal mobility, whereas ≤14 indicate impaired mobility.

      The clinical mobility scale evaluates the level of mobility and is scored between 0 and 3
      points. It includes the following items: upright posture, walking, gait, sitting, stair
      climbing, hand-held appliances and wheelchair and time usage. It is scored between 0 and 24
      points, and higher scores indicate increased mobility.

      The Barthel index scores daily life activities. The total score can range between 0 and 100
      points, with each question score ranging from 0.5 to 10 points. The sub-topics covered
      include feeding, bathing, grooming, dressing, bowel care, bladder care, toilet use, transfer
      (bed to chair and back), mobility (on levelled surfaces) and stair climbing. Higher scores
      indicate improved independence of the patient.
    
  