
    
      This study aims to examine through the use of qualitative telephone interviews who will seek,
      and who is most likely to benefit from, genetic counseling for psychiatric disorders. The
      specific aims are to identify themes related to perceived risks, benefits, and possible
      motivations for seeking genetic counseling among families affected by bipolar disorder; to
      use those themes to generate a starting point for a conceptual framework to guide further
      research; and to use those themes to improve clinical genetics services currently in
      practice.

      None of the few available studies on genetics and bipolar disorder evaluate interest in
      genetic services in the absence of genetic testing (e.g., family-history-based risk
      assessment, education about etiology, psychological support) even though those elements will
      continue to be relevant even if genetic testing becomes available. Only one study asked any
      questions about psychiatric genetic counseling in the absence of testing-a study on
      schizophrenia in which one such question was posed. In most of the available literature, the
      focus is on highly predictive testing scenarios that are not relevant in current practice,
      and may never be relevant. In addition, most studies test the researchers' preconceived
      notions of risks and benefits, without allowing participant input. More research will
      facilitate the integration of genetic counseling for psychiatric disorders into the genetics
      clinic.

      This is a qualitative study using telephone interviews that will be taped and transcribed. We
      plan to interview 15 to 25 adults affected with bipolar disorder and 15 to 25 unaffected
      adult siblings. We will use a semi-structured interview guide that will allow the integration
      of new elements and the modification of existing elements. We will use data reduction and
      coding to synthesize the most important themes.

      This study will result in themes that can be tested in a larger, more representative sample,
      allowing us to test hypotheses about interest in psychiatric genetic counseling. This study
      also will provide preliminary data about anticipating, through the use of realistic
      scenarios, the point at which individuals are more likely to embrace psychiatric genetic
      counseling; and beginning to understand, in a broader perspective, what may increase or
      decrease interest in genetic counseling and risk assessment based on family history for
      complex disorders. More immediately, this study will provide a description of the experience
      of living with risk in the family that should be of interest to genetics professionals.
    
  