
    
      Objective: Drugs of abuse have cognitive and affective effects that may contribute to the
      inception and maintenance of their use. In order to measure these effects, psychological
      tests suitable for use both in and outside the fMRI scanner need to be developed and
      validated. Thus, the objective of this protocol is to allow for the development, assessment
      and refinement of cognitive and affective tasks and determination of their practical
      feasibility and efficacy for both MRI and non-MRI application.

      The design and piloting of psychological tests and fMRI tasks specifically designed for an
      adolescent population allows the investigators to determine if the tests/tasks measure
      theorized cognitive constructs and result in measurable and interpretable fMRI data in
      adolescents. At this time, the protocol is not enrolling adolescents.

      Study Population: This minimal-risk protocol will employ volunteer participants aged 18-55,
      who must be generally healthy and male or non-pregnant female. In order to ensure
      applicability to relevant groups, both drug and non-drug using volunteers as well as those
      recruited from clinical populations will be used to validate task design and parameters.

      Design: Participants may pilot tasks outside and/or inside the MRI scanner, depending on the
      aspects of task development requiring verification. Tasks developed de novo will undergo both
      steps. Modifications to previously published MRI tasks may require only one of the steps.
      Task designs may also use transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) applied either on
      the bench or in the MRI scanner.Upon their successful verification, specific experimental
      manipulations will be performed under separate, hypothesis driven protocols.

      Outcome measures: Our goal is to determine if the tasks developed reliably and appropriately
      measure specific cognitive constructs and behaviors thought to be associated with specific
      brain systems and, also if they yield measurable and interpretable fMRI results, and/or if
      they are able to be combined with the application of tDCS.
    
  