
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

             1. Background: Dissociative Disorders are frequent, but poorly understood and
                under-diagnosed [Foote et al., 2006; Spiegel, 2006], especially in psychiatric
                emergency units [Lazignac et al., 2005]. The management of this is commonly mixed
                up with psychotic, depressive and anxiety disorders.

                The treatment of the dissociative disorders remains controversial. The
                psychotherapeutic guidelines proposed by International Society for the Study of
                Dissociative Disorders (ISSD) were recently adapted for the French speaking users
                [Damsa et al., 2005]. There is no consensus on which antipsychotic or
                antidepressant would be preferable for those patients who suffer from dissociative
                disorders, accompanied by depressive or psychotic symptoms. We have a very good
                clinical experience with quetiapine and escitalopram for this specific group of
                patients.

             2. Rationale for this study; Clinical [Lazignac et al., 2005] and neurobiological
                [Kelley-Puskas et al., 2005] reviews on dissociative disorders emphasize the value
                of a first open label study on the effects of specific combined psychotherapy and
                pharmacotherapy in patients with dissociative disorders [Damsa et al., 2006].

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

             1. Primary objective

                  -  The efficacy of specific combined psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy in
                     patients with dissociative disorders, in terms of favorable outcome (DES
                     scale).

             2. Secondary objectives

                  -  The efficacy of specific combined psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy in
                     patients with dissociative disorders, in terms of DES and CGI-I scales values.

                  -  The effects of the combined treatment on depressive features [Hamilton
                     Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and the Montgomery and Asberg Depression Rating
                     Scale items for suicide (MADRS)].

                  -  The occurrence of possible extra-pyramidal side effects (Barnes Akathisia and
                     the Simpson and Angus Rating Scales).

                  -  The therapeutic alliance and clinical outcome (Helping Alliance Questionnaire
                     of Luborsky), [Luborsky, 1976; Luborsky et al., 1996].

                  -  The relationship between serum lipid levels and depressive symptoms.

                  -  Tolerability and adverse effects of the quetiapine.

        3. STUDY PLAN AND PROCEDURES

             1. Study design. Open single arm 'pilot' clinical trial in patients with dissociative
                disorders, admitted to the psychiatric emergency unit of Geneva (general capacity:
                20-30 patients/day). Patients will be interviewed according to Dissociative
                Experiences Scale (DES) and, if their score is 30 or higher, the Structured
                Clinical Interview for DSM-IV Dissociative Disorders (SCID) will be administered.
                When the outcome on the SCID is positive, the patient can be included in the study.
                The Clinical Global Impression Improvement Scale (CGI-I), HDRS and the MADRS items
                for suicide will be administered at entry and after 3 and 8 weeks.

                The patients will be treated by a psychiatrist who has experience with the use of
                the specific combined treatment for dissociative disorders [Damsa et al., 2005].
                The psychiatrist decides on the antidepressant/antipsychotic medication. In our
                unit the first choice for this indication is quetiapine (400 mg/d) for
                antipsychotic treatment, and escitalopram (10 mg/d) as antidepressant. The
                quetiapine schedule is 50-100-200-300-400-600 mg/d (min. 300 mg), then 300-600
                mg/d.

                Therapeutic alliance will be assessed, both by the patient and the therapist
                (Luborsky scales) at the end of the first interview, and at 3 and 8 weeks. Serum
                lipids levels will be measured in blood samples [Agargun et al., 2004].

             2. Selection of study population

                  -  Inclusion criteria: written informed consent, DES-score greater than 30 and
                     DSM-IV criteria for dissociative disorder (SCID), 18-65 years, able to comply
                     with the study requirements, good physical health (medical history and
                     physical examination). Female patients of childbearing potential must have a
                     negative urinary pregnancy test.

                  -  Exclusion criteria: pregnancy/lactation, suicidal behavior requiring
                     hospitalization or borderline personality disorder, substance dependence,
                     psychotropic or cholesterol-lowering medication, intolerance or lack of
                     response to the study medication, unstable or inadequately treated medical
                     illness (angina pectoris, hypertension, congestive heart failure), involvement
                     in the planning and conduct of the study, participation in the present study
                     or in another drug trial within 4 weeks prior enrolment in study or longer in
                     accordance with local requirements, cytochrome P450 3A4 inhibitors and
                     inducers, absolute neutrophil count (ANC) equal or less than 1.5 x 109/L,
                     unstable Diabetes Mellitus (DM) or opposition of physician responsible for
                     patient's DM.

             3. Discontinuation of subjects from participation

                  -  Criteria: subject free withdrawal at any time, safety reasons, severe
                     non-compliance to protocol, subject lost to follow-up, development or discover
                     of exclusion criteria, neutrophil count of less than 1.0 x 109/L [Adverse
                     Event (AE) specially assessed].

                  -  Procedures: subjects who discontinue will be asked on reason for
                     discontinuation. If possible, they should be assessed by investigator. The
                     investigational medication will be returned by the subject.

             4. Treatments

                  -  Identity of investigational product

                  -  Doses and treatment regimens quetiapine will be used, only if patients need an
                     antipsychotic. Escitalopram (10 mg/day) will be used, only if patients need an
                     antidepressant.

           Labeling of medication is in local language and complies with local regulatory
           requirements.

           The administration of investigational and other medication must be recorded the
           appropriately.

        4. OUTCOME VARIABLES

             1. Primary Variable: Proportion of patients experiencing 20% DES score reduction at 8
                weeks.

             2. Secondary Variables:

                  -  Change in DES score at 3 and 8 weeks.

                  -  Dichotomized DES score (into less than 25 and equal or greater than 25)

                  -  CGI-I score at 3 and 8 weeks

                  -  Barnes Akathisia and Simpson-Angus Rating Scales, Helping Alliance
                     Questionnaire of Luborsky, Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HDRS) and
                     Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale items for suicide (from baseline to
                     3 and 8 weeks)

                  -  Cortisol and Lipids

                  -  Adverse Events

             3. Derived Efficacy Variables:

                  -  Favorable outcome (at least 20% reduction of DES scores).

                  -  Partial remission (at least 15% reduction of CGI scores).

             4. Safety measurements and variables: Cardiac frequency and blood pressure.

        5. DATA MANAGEMENT. The data will be confidentially treated and will be kept in a locked
           room.

        6. STATISTICAL METHODS AND SAMPLE SIZE

             1. Description of analysis populations:

                  -  The safety population consists of all patients who have taken at least one
                     quetiapine dose.

                  -  The intention-to-treat (ITT) population consists of all patients who have
                     taken at least one quetiapine dose and who have at least one baseline
                     assessment and one post-baseline DES assessment.

                  -  The Per-Protocol (PP) population is a subset of the ITT population, and
                     consists of patients who have no major protocol violations or deviations.

                  -  Each patient will represent one observation.

             2. Statistical analysis:

                  -  The primary variable: proportion of patients who experience at least 20% DES
                     score reduction at 8 weeks for 95 % confidence interval.

                  -  the change in DES score, in SAS, BARS, HAM-D and Luborsky scales and in CGI-I
                     will be analyzed by a model of analysis of covariance (ANCOVA).

                  -  Changes in MADRS suicidal items scores will be illustrated by descriptive
                     statistics.

                  -  The relationship between therapeutic alliance and clinical outcome and between
                     serum lipid levels and suicidal behavior will be analyzed by repeated measures
                     ANOVA.

                  -  The DES score will be dichotomized into less than 25 and equal or greater than
                     25 and presented in frequency tables for each visit.

                  -  Changes in physical examination values and laboratory values will be shown in
                     shift tables.

                  -  Adverse events will be summarized and shown in frequency tables.

             3. Determination of sample size: As this is a single-arm, open labeled pilot study, no
                formal sample size calculation is performed. In the expected sample size of 30
                patients, for the proportion of patients achieving a 20% reduction in DES score,
                the confidence interval can be estimated between -18 and +18%; the drop-out
                patients will be replaced.

        7. ETHICS The study protocol, including the Informed Consent Form, was approved by the
           local IRB Ethical committee and by the Swiss Medic Authority.

           The principal investigator is responsible for informing the IRB or IEC of any amendment
           to the protocol in accordance with local requirements.

           The study will be performed in accordance with ethical principles of the Declaration of
           Helsinki and are consistent with ICH/Good Clinical Practice, and with local regulatory
           requirements.

           Informed consent: The principal investigator at each centre will ensure that the subject
           is given full and adequate oral and written information about the nature, purpose,
           possible risk and benefit of the study. Subjects must also be notified that they are
           free to discontinue from the study at any time. The subject should be given the
           opportunity to ask questions and allowed time to consider the information provided.

           No study specific procedures or investigations will be performed before the subject has
           signed and dated the informed consent.

           The principal investigator(s) will store the original, signed Informed Consent Form. A
           copy of the signed Informed Consent Form will be given to the subject.

        8. QUALITY CONTROL AND QUALITY ASSURANCE The study will be monitored by a designated
           monitor and the investigator will permit trial related audits, IRB/IEC review and
           regulatory inspection(s). The investigator will provide direct access to source
           data/documents for all quality control activities.

        9. PUBLICATION POLICY Two months after study completion, abstracts for congresses and
           presentations will be available. Four months after study completion, a first draft of
           the manuscript will be available.

       10. FINANCING AND INSURANCE Partial financed by AstraZeneca Insurance: Zürich Versicherung

       11. PROCEDURES IN CASE OF EMERGENCY, OVERDOSE OR PREGNANCY Procedures in case of medical
           emergency: The principal investigator is responsible for ensuring that procedures and
           expertise are available to handle medical emergencies during the study. A medical
           emergency usually constitutes a SAE and should be reported as such, see Section 4.
    
  