
    
      Globally mental health conditions are of rising concern due to increased contribution to the
      global burden of disease. Mental health wellbeing cannot be determined by only the absence of
      mental disorders but also determined by related socio-economic, biological and environmental
      factors. Mental health disorders refer to a set of medical conditions that affect a person's
      thinking, feeling, mood, ability to relate to others, and daily functioning. According to the
      World Health Organization mental disorders comprise a broad range of problems, with different
      symptoms.

      Depression is the most prevalent mental illness in the perinatal period, with research
      suggesting that around 10 to 14% of mothers are affected during pregnancy or after the birth
      of a baby. The key symptoms of depression include persistent sadness, fatigue and a loss of
      interest and enjoyment in activities. A number of studies have shown that many women who have
      postnatal depression have symptoms of depression in pregnancy, and can be identified in
      antenatal period. Better antenatal detection of depression therefore offers an opportunity
      for earlier intervention to address the illness and reduce the risk that will cause longer
      term problems for the mother or her baby.

      Public services are failing to tackle perinatal mental disorders effectively due to lack of
      mental healthcare providers. To achieve Sustainable Development Goal (SDG), mental health
      services must be available at the community level in low socioeconomic country like
      Bangladesh. Moreover, due to lack of necessary training the healthcare providers at primary
      and secondary level, the patients with mental health problems cannot get adequate services to
      meet the requirements. Again they fail to refer the severely ill patients to the appropriate
      referral centre. Mental health issues are the vital for maintaining quality of life of people
      in developing countries like Bangladesh.

      In Bangladesh there is a strong community-based healthcare network such as union health and
      family welfare centers at the union levels, community clinics at community levels to provide
      essential healthcare services especially for mother and child. Along with this the community
      health workers also provide maternal services through satellite clinics, out-reach centers
      and home visit. It is evidenced that community based intervention like counseling and
      psycho-social therapy by the non-mental health specialists such as community health workers
      compared to the usual maternal care is associated with the reduction of symptoms of common
      perinatal mental disorders. So, maternal healthcare services are the appropriate ones for
      providing primary mental healthcare services. There is needed to provide basic mental
      healthcare services along with maternal healthcare services from the community level health
      centers as well as by the community health workers for improving perinatal mental health
      status in Bangladesh. Objectives of this study are a) to develop a draft package of
      community-based primary mental healthcare services, b) to find the feasibility of the
      developed package for delivering with the maternal care services, c) to test the efficacy of
      the package of community-based primary mental healthcare services and d) to document the
      healthcare seeking behavior for perinatal mental disorders.

      Methods The investigators will conduct a mixed method study to develop a package of
      community-based primary mental healthcare services (CBPMHC). Initially a draft package of
      services will be developed. Then, piloting will be done as cluster randomized control trial
      to test the efficacy of the package. The draft CBPMHC services package will be the
      intervention.

      The study will take place at Sadar Upazila (sub district) of Rajbari district in Bangladesh.
      The upazila consists of 14 unions and 294,701 populations. There are one upazila health
      complex, 34 community clinics, 42 health assistants and 45 family welfare assistants in the
      upazila. Moreover, for the qualitative part of the study additional two groups i.e community
      healthcare provider and community stakeholders will be the study population.

      i) Development of draft package of community-based primary mental healthcare services as
      intervention The investigators will conduct multi-stakeholder consultative workshops at
      national and local level by engaging the professional bodies (psychologists, psychiatrists,
      and obstetricians), health program mangers, researchers and policy makers, community health
      workers; community stakeholders etc. A training module will also be developed related to this
      package.

      Description of the package The package will consist of psycho-educational communication about
      pregnancy complications, danger signs, birth preparedness; psycho-social counseling including
      information about the risk factors for developing perinatal mental disorders; a psychological
      component and strategies (e.g. increasing positive thinking and pleasant activities,
      improving self-esteem and self-care) etc.

      ii) Cluster randomized trial Cluster randomized controlled trial will be done to test the
      efficacy of the CBPMHC package. The unit of assignment will be the cluster which will be
      defined as the catchment areas of each community clinic. Among all the clusters in the study
      upazila, 22 clusters will be selected randomly for control trial. Again randomization will be
      done among the selected 22 clusters to assign each 11 clusters in intervention group and
      control group. Then required number of pregnant mothers will be enrolled as intervention
      group and control group. The trained community health workers will deliver the package of
      community mental healthcare services to the pregnant women of intervention group along with
      the routine maternal care.

      Sampling The investigators used incidence of depression among 23.4% mother in rural
      Bangladesh found in a population based study. It was assumed that it will be decreased up to
      15.7% that means difference between intervention and control group will be about 7.7 and
      intra-cluster correlation of 0.006. Sampling was estimated according to the calculation of
      fixed numbered clusters with flexible cluster size. Thus for a two-arm cluster randomized
      trial, where a minimum number of cluster is 11 in each arm, minimum 55 respondents per
      cluster is required at 80% power and 95% CI and 5% precession by using the following formula
      n= {2(Zα/2 + Zβ) 2 P (1-P)}/( P1 - P2) 2 Where, n = sample size, P1=incidence of outcome in
      comparison group= 0.234 P2= incidence of outcome in intervention group= 0.157 P= Pooled
      incidence = (P1+ P2)/2 Zα/2 = 1.96 (for α= 0.05 for 95% confidence interval) Zβ = 0.84 (for β
      = 0.20 for 80% power) So, the number of sample is (55x11)=605 participants in each arm and
      total number of sample size is 1210.

      Inclusion criteria of the study participants

        -  Permanent resident of the study area

        -  Pregnant women aged >18 years

        -  Upon taking informed consent Exclusion criteria from the study

        -  Temporary resident of the study areas

        -  Severely ill patients (documented by registered physician with prescription)

        -  Refusal to take part in the study Intervention Pregnant women of first trimester will be
           enrolled as study participants through home visit. The trained community health workers
           will provide CBPMHC package of services to the mothers of the intervention arm during
           each routine antenatal care (at least 4) ANC visit. The pregnant women of the control
           arm will be provided only routine antenatal care. The intervention period will be whole
           pregnancy period.

      Data collection: Socio-demographic and obstetric characteristics will be collected from all
      the study participants using semi-structured questionnaire. Mental health status (anxiety and
      depression) of the participants will be measured by using Bangle validated tools such as
      Edinburgh Postnatal Depression Scale (EPDS) rating scale is (0) for as much as I always
      could, (1) for not quite so much now, (2) for definitely not so much now, (3) for not at all,
      for depression, postnatal blue and Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS), and rating
      scale is (0) for did not apply to me at all, (1) for applied to me to some degree, or some of
      the time, (2) for applied to me to a considerable degree, or a good part of time, (3) for
      applied to me very much, or most of the time for anxiety. Then another assessment on mental
      health status will be done among the both groups of mothers. icddr,b field team will collect
      data through visiting the mothers at their households. Comparison will be done between the
      intervention and control groups to find the efficacy of the developed package of primary
      mental healthcare services.

      Follow-up and monitoring: During the implementation of the study periodic monitoring and
      supporting supervision will be continuing. The service delivery will be supervised and
      monitored by an efficient team. Follow-up of the pregnant women will be done along with
      motivation for getting at least 4 antenatal care visits. Community support groups existed
      surrounding the community clinics will be engaged in motivating the pregnant women coming at
      the community clinics for antenatal care visits. Also check-list will be used for keeping
      record.

      Data Analysis: All the data of both intervention and control groups will be entered in the
      computer and necessary cleaning, editing and collation will be done. Data will be analyzed by
      using SPSS software (Version 21.0). Descriptive statistics will include frequency, mean,
      median and SD. To find out efficacy of the intervention relevant test of significance (both
      parametric and non-parametric) will be done. Socio-demographic characteristics will consider.
      Association between socio-demographic characteristics and the perinatal disorders will be
      tested by using chi-square test and logistic regression by considering total score as for
      DASS, (0-7) is normal, (8-9) is mild, (10-14) is Moderate, (15-19) is severe and 20+ is
      extreme to measuring anxiety. And EPDS for depression while less than 8 for depression not
      likely, 9-11 for depression possible, 12-13 for Fairly high possibility of depression and 14
      and higher for probable depression iii) Qualitative data collection and analysis: For
      documentation of healthcare seeking behavior for perinatal mental disorders, the
      investigators obtain data by using in-depth interview (IDI) and focus group discussion (FGD).
      All the tape recorded interviews and interview-notes will then be placed in organized
      transcripts. After reviewed transcription, the investigators will use Atlas ti 5.2 software
      for analysis. Triangulation and analyses will be done manually.

      iv) Limitation of the study: As there is time constraint and limitation of fund the follow-up
      period has been shortened. But this study will generate knowledge on the effect of community
      based mental healthcare package for reduction of anxiety and depression symptoms among the
      mothers.

      v) Ethical Assurance for Protection of Human rights Ethical clearance has been obtained from
      the institutional review board (IRB) of icddr,b. The Ethical review committee follows
      international ethical standards to ensure confidentiality, anonymity, and informed consent.
      Enrollment in the study will be done only after obtaining informed consent. The investigator
      will assure to the participant's information use will safe form bad uses.
    
  