
    
      Aggressive T-cell lymphomas (ATCLs), including peripheral T-cell lymphoma and T
      lymphoblastoid cell lymphoma/leukemia, represent 10% to 15% of non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHLs)
      in adults(1). ATCLs show a worse prognosis than that of B-cell lymphomas. Myeloablative
      allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) may be the only way to cure these patients,
      but the recurrence of the primary disease after transplantation is still an important
      prognostic factor (2). Optimizing the conditioning regimen is always the research hot topics
      in hematology fields. Polyclonal antithymocyte globulin (rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin,
      r-ATG) are currently used to prevent graft-versus -host(GVHD) disease in allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation, and also widely used for the prevention and treatment of acute rejection
      after solid organ transplant because of its strong immunomodulatory effects. ATG is used in
      allogeneic SCT for the prophylaxis of graft versus host disease by in vivo T cell depletion,
      including the complement-dependent cytotoxic response, antibody-dependent cell-mediated
      cytotoxicity, the opsonophagocytic role of phagocytic cells and induced apoptosis(3). But
      some scholars reported the ATG delayed immune reconstitution and hematologic reconstitution
      and leaded to the increase of the incidence of virus and fungal infections after
      transplantation. But it is often curable and does not affect the overall survival and quality
      of life of the patients (4). Because of its strong immune suppression and regulation, also on
      the basis of the above facts, ATG as GVHD prophylaxis is generally limited to the unrelated
      donor, or human leukocyte antigen（HLA）-mismatched related donor transplantation. But There
      are many issues still need to be studied. ATG has shown efficacy in preventing acute
      GVHD（aGVHD) in allo-SCT, but its efficacy in chronic GVHD (cGVHD) and long-term outcomes
      remains controversial. A systematic review and meta-analysis from Du k et al（5） reported that
      prophylactic use of ATG exerted a favorable effect in reducing cGVHD without survival
      impairment in a long term, although a higher relapse rate is a major threat. Does the ATG
      also have the killing effect on the tumor cells of the lymphatic system? The vitro studies
      have confirmed this point recently. Grüllich(6) et al and the investigators study(7) both
      found that ATG can inhibit the proliferation and induce high level of apoptosis in the human
      lymphoblastic cell lines, such as Jurkat, Daudi, DG-75 , and myeloblastic cell lines K562,
      HL-60, KG1, and U937. ATG also has pro-apoptotic activity against the majority of primary
      leukemia cells, particularly those cells from lymphatic origin. In addition, ATG will not
      result in apoptosis of normal hematopoietic cells. Low-dose ATG can also stimulate normal
      hematopoietic colony growth. Therefore, ATG may be used as anti-lymphocyte tumor
      bio-therapeutics (such as rituximab) to increase the role of chemo-radiotherapy in the
      conditioning regimen. And ATG can remove the residual tumor lesions, which reduced the rate
      of tumor recurrence after transplantation. The result of our retrospective study in our
      hospital had already be published in blood cancer journal. We used the ATG as the part of the
      conditioning regimen and to evaluate the long-term antileukemia effect, the safety and
      complication in the patients with highly aggressive T-cell lymphomas. Twenty-three patients
      were enrolled into this study. At the time of transplant, six patients reached ﬁrst or
      subsequent complete response, three patients had a partial remission and 14 patients had
      relapsed or primary refractory disease. The conditioning regimen consisted of ATG, total body
      irradiation, toposide and cyclophosphamide. The complete remission rate after transplant was
      95.7%. At a median follow-up time of 25 months, 16 (69.6%) patients are alive and free from
      diseases, including nine patients in refractory and progressive disease. Seven patients died
      after transplant, ﬁve from relapse and two from treatment-related complications. The
      incidence of grades II-IV acute graft-vs-host disease (GvHD) was 39.1%. The maximum
      cumulative incidence of chronic GvHD was 30%. The most frequent and severe
      conditioning-related toxicities observed in 8 out of 23 patients were grades III/IV
      infections during cytopenia. Thus, ATG based conditioning is a feasible and effective
      alternative for patients with highly aggressive T-cell tumors（8）. In view of this convincing
      result, we designed a multi-center, open, randomized controlled clinical study.

      As noted earlier, a higher relapse rate may be a major threat after ATG use（5）.In China, the
      conventional dose of 2.5mg/kg/day, 2-3 days of Thymoglobulin is commonly used as GVHD
      prophylaxis in the unrelated donor, or HLA-mismatched related donor transplantation but not
      in the HLA matched related donor transplantation (9). In order to observe the anti-tumor
      effect of this conditioning regimen in the aggressive T-cell lymphomas patients(complete
      remission, partial remission), we designed a multi-center, open, randomized controlled
      clinical study. The donors are all HLA matched related donors. In the therapy group, we added
      in the Thymoglobulin dose in the conditioning regimen for four days 10mg/kg. We expect that
      this ATG based conditioning regimen does play anti-tumor effect, reduce primary disease
      recurrence after transplantation, improve disease-free survival (DFS) and overall survival
      rate (OS) , as well as reduce the incidence and severity of GVHD, but the incidence of
      infection need to be observed.

      Reference:1. Rudiger T, Weisenburger DD, Anderson JR et al. Peripheral T-cell lymphoma
      (excluding anaplastic large-cell lymphoma): results from the Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma
      Classification Project. Ann Oncol 2002; 13:140-149.

      2. Armitage J, Vose J, Weisenburger D. International peripheral T-cell and natural
      killer/T-cell lymphoma study: pathology findings and clinical outcomes. J Clin Oncol 2008;
      26: 4124-4130 3. Mohty M .Mechanisms of action of antithymocyte globulin: T-cell depletion
      and beyond. Leukemia. 2007 Jul;21(7):1387-94. Epub 2007 Apr 5 4. Baumann H, JudithD, Zey C et
      al. Antithymocyte globulin Fresenius or San gstat (Genzyme) as part of the conditioning for
      unrelated donor HSCT: emerging differences in posttransplant immune reconstitution. Bone
      Marrow Transplant, 2004; 33: S51.

      5. Du K, Hu Y, Wu K, Huang H et al. Long-term outcomes of antithymocyte globulin in patients
      with hematological malignancies undergoing myeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell
      transplantation: a systematic review and meta-analysis.Clin Transplant. 2013
      Mar;27(2):E91-E100.

      6. Grullich G, Ziegler C, Finke J et al. Rabbit Anti T-Lymphocyte Globulin Induces Apoptosis
      in Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cell Compartments and Leukemia Cells, While Hematopoietic
      Stem Cells Are Apoptosis Resistant. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant, 2009, 15:173-182.

      7. Huixia Liu, chun wang, Youwen Qin,et al. Polyclonal Rabbit Antithymocyte Globulin induces
      apoptosis and has Cytotoxic Effects on human Leukemic Cells.Clinical Lymphoma, Myeloma &
      Leukemia 2012,12: 345-54 8. J Yang, C wang, Y Cai,et al.Anti-thymocyte globulin could improve
      the outcome of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients with highly
      aggressive T-cell tumors.Blood Cancer Journal (2015) 5, e332; doi:10.1038/bcj.2015.54 9.
      Jacobsen ED, Kim HT, Ho VT，et al. A large single-center experience with allogeneic stem-cell
      transplantation for peripheral T-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma and advanced mycosis
      fungoides/Sezary syndrome. Annals of Oncology 2011( 22): 1608-1613
    
  