
    
      To be completed by University of Botswana Research team:

      The investigators will sample from the Dept. of Obstetrics and Gynecology (OB/GYN) at
      Princess Marina Hospital IDCC. Newly-diagnosed pregnant HIV+ women are referred to OB care at
      Ministry of Health (MOH) antenatal clinics and receive HIV care at the IDCC for continued
      ART. To account for expected drop out (~10%), ~220 participants will be recruited. All
      participants will be randomized to receive MME (the HIV-stigma intervention) or TAU
      (treatment as usual) from week 28-36 of their pregnancy. The investigators will initiate MME
      in the antenatal period because the cultural practice of botsetsi (below) could impede
      implementation post-partum. All participants will have PMTCT by initiation of ART before week
      32. Adherence to ART, antenatal and PP care, and viral load testing will be tracked from week
      28 of pregnancy to 16 weeks PP (~week 56 for full-term babies).

      Procedures. To account for expected drop out (~10%), ~220 participants will be recruited,
      resulting in MME and TAU groups of ~100 with complete data at week 56. For the MME
      (intervention) arm, the investigators will enroll 9-10 women per group on a rolling basis to
      comprise ~12 intervention groups total; ~1 MME group will be initiated per month.

      Intervention & Assessment Procedures. One advantage of our study is that, whenever possible,
      the investigators augment self-report measures with objective measures from medical records
      (i.e., for infants, birth-weights, APGAR scores at birth; for antenatal treatment, an
      Antenatal/delivery record tracking antenatal visits that is filled out by doctors; for ART,
      CD4 count and Viral load data from the integrated patient management system). Fidelity
      assessments for each session will be evaluated by Ho-Foster. Control Description: Control
      condition participants will receive TAU, including using free ART and antenatal services as
      they wish. Control condition participants are assessed on all 'Primary outcomes' at the same
      time points as the intervention group.

      Follow-up Assessment (Months 18-22): Mothers' Postpartum (PP) adherence (56 weeks) serves as
      a key outcome. The investigators examine a set of exploratory, infant birth outcomes that may
      result from improved antenatal care and ART adherence. The investigators use an "Under 5
      (years old) card" that is filled out by a doctor to track infant's developmental outcomes
      which is carried by the mother. Child outcomes include: APGAR score, preterm delivery,
      mortality (at <16 weeks), birthweight, vaccination record, and mother-to-child-transmission
      of HIV (MTCT). The investigators will call each participant at 4 months' time and ask to meet
      in person to review their "Under 5 card" to record infant outcomes at both: a) time of birth;
      b) 16 weeks PP.
    
  