
    
      Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) is the most common type of leukemia in the western world.
      In Egypt, CLL is the most common subtype of leukemias

        -  the National Cancer Registry reported over 80% of lymphoid leukemias are CLL . It is the
           most common types of leukemia diagnosed in adult.
           ChroniclymphocyticleukemialymphocytesareclonalCD19-positiveBcells characterized by the
           accumulation of CD5 positive monoclonal B cells in peripheral blood. Bone marrow
           aspiration shows lymphocytic replacement of normal marrow elements, lymphocytes comprise
           25-95% .Trephine biopsy reveals nodular, diffuse or interstitial involvement by
           lymphocytes

        -  Both the International Workshop on Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (IWCLL) and European
           Society of Medical Oncology guidelines also require persistence of lymphocytosis for
           longer than 3 months

      The most important prognostic factors in CLL are clinical staging systems developed by Rai
      and Binet

      . These systems based on clinical examination e.g. lymphadenopathy and organomegaly,
      peripheral blood findings (platelet
      andhaemoglobinvalues),markersoftumorload(thymidinekinaseand B2-microglobulin), expression of
      specific proteins in CLL cells; CD38, CD49d & ZAP-70, genetic abnormalities quantified by
      FISH which include del(13q), tri12, del(11q), & del(17p) and genetic parameters.including
      immunoglobulin heavy chain variable gene segment (IGHV) mutational status. Finally,
      prognostication in patients with CLL should not only address disease progression and overall
      survival, but also response to therapy. The biological rationale in calculating PLR stems
      from the increase in the lymphocyte count and reduction in the platelet count often
      encountered in the advanced stages of CLL. Therefore, we hypothesized that the ratio using
      both the platelet and lymphocyte counts may have a prognostic role in patients with CLL.
      Neutrophil-monocyte ratio(NMR) was found to be higher in untreated patients than in patients
      who received treatment . and therefore it will be used to prove its relation with disease
      severity and itsprognosticvalues. It is important to highlight that using these indices, is
      simple, cheap, easily measured and reproducible and can be integrated into our daily clinical
      practice as prognostic marker of CLL
    
  