
    
      Congenital adrenal hyperplasia in its severe salt-wasting form is a challenge in order to
      maintain sodium balance. The pathophysiology of this impaired sodium balance is still poorly
      investigated as well as its therapeutic management, notably in the neonatal period. Consensus
      practice guidelines have been established for hydrocortisone replacement therapy, in order to
      maintain negative feedback on the pituitary-adrenal axis to prevent from virilization and
      excessive growth velocity. However, mineralocorticoid substitution and sodium supplementation
      is currently empirically adapted based on weight gain and renin levels. There is significant
      need for improvement of this essential part of CAH treatment. Particularly, CAH patients have
      higher risk of adverse cardio-vascular outcomes, which could relate to an excessive
      glucocorticoid and/or mineralocorticoid exposure in early infancy rather than to the genotype
      of the patient.

      A clinical human study in classical CAH neonates, using Liquid Chromatography coupled to
      tandem Mass Spectrometry LC-MS/MS technology will assess prospectively plasma and urinary
      steroid profiling (precursors and substitute hormones, notably Fludrocortisone dosages)
      during the first six months of life, before and under treatment; and in correlation with
      genotype.

      Thirty neonates (boys and girls) diagnosed with a severe form of CAH and followed in one of
      the 5 following French reference tertiary centers: Robert Debré Hospital, Paris; Necker
      Hospital, Paris; Bicetre Hospital, Le Kremlin-Bicetre; Trousseau Hospital, Paris; Lyon
      Hospital, , will be included in the study and will be followed for a period of six months.
      The duration of inclusion will be 24 months.

      Genotyping will be processed for all children in Lyon.This project will lead to a better
      understanding of sodium handling and steroid secretion and excretion profiles in CAH
      neonates, in order to improve management of mineralocorticoid replacement.
    
  