
    
      The aim of this study is to demonstrate that ultrasound-guided rete testis aspiration is a
      safe and effective method to flush and aspirate rare sperm from the testes of men with
      azoospermia (no sperm in the ejaculate). Current methods to recover sperm from men with
      azoospermia range from invasive and time consuming micro testicular sperm extraction
      (microTESE) to fine needle aspiration (FNA), which is less invasive and less time consuming,
      but also less effective because it is a blind approach. This approach is less invasive; it
      involves the percutaneous insertion of a hypodermic needle into the rete testis space. This
      approach is also not blind because the needle is accurately positioned under ultrasound
      guidance into the rete testis space that is contiguous with all seminiferous tubules (where
      sperm are made). The investigators will first perform the experimental ultrasound-guided rete
      testis flushing and aspiration on both testis. If sperm is found, no standard of care
      procedure (TESE, microTESE etc) will be performed. If sperm is not found, the participant can
      choose whether or not to proceed with a standard of care procedure. In cases were
      participants have previously tried a standard of care procedure, they may not want to do that
      again if the experimental procedure does not work. For the ultrasound-guided rete testis
      flushing and aspiration, the investigators will flush and aspirate the tubules with 500ul of
      physiological saline and Optison ultrasound contrast agent in sterile 0.9% saline (routinely
      used in clinics). Presence of sperm in the aspirate will be determined. The investigators
      hypothesize that sperm recovery using the ultrasound-guided rete testis injection/aspiration
      approach will at least as effective as the standard of care approach employed in the Magee
      male fertility clinic and it will be less invasive.
    
  