
    
      People diagnosed with cancer must learn to cope with loss of meaning and empowerment which
      compromises quality of life. Questions regarding "Why me?", along with universal existential
      concerns about death, search for meaning, and sense of control over one's life, often
      constitute the principal source of overall suffering. Since there is no single and
      identifiable cause for cancer, those existential questions are commonly observed among
      patients who demand specific interventions to properly address this central issue. The
      existential approach can be used to help patients find meaning in the midst of a crisis. It
      addresses a central issue of survivorship in cancer.

      The conceptual model explains the relation between being exposed to a stressful and traumatic
      life event such as cancer and the risk of progressing toward adjustment difficulties which
      compromises quality of life and existential integrity. Cancer constitutes a major stressor
      involving significant losses that confronts the person's beliefs system. A set of therapeutic
      strategies can help to cope with this inevitable challenge: 1) cognitive-behavioral
      strategies; 2) direct existential intervention; and 3) social support through
      supportive-expressive strategies. Adjustment first involves cognitive reframing of the
      perception of the situation (situational meaning). Cognitive reframing also contributes to a
      readjustment of personal beliefs and values (global meaning and existential dimension).
      Existential strategies enable to further this process by including cognitive (beliefs, sense
      of coherence, expectations), motivational (choice, goal setting, and goal driving) and
      affective dimensions. The expressive-supportive strategy promotes active listening and
      non-judgmental support to encourage expression of emotions. The use of these active coping
      strategies (meaning-based) to the threatened-life challenge enables optimization of
      existential and global quality of life, as opposed to employing passive strategies such as
      avoidance.
    
  