
    
      Main Study

      Consent to this ethics' main programme will permit collection of routinely collected data and
      use for research activities. Patients may be recruited at any point along their disease
      continuum (e.g. time of initial diagnosis, before/after a new treatment intervention, at time
      of disease flare or stable state).

      Patients with established disease who are recruited to the study during their follow up
      appointments will have pre-existing results and clinical documentation. These retrospective
      data may also be collected where possible using information documented in case-notes and/or
      hospital information systems.

      Some study-specific information will also be collected.

      In addition to the main study, participants will be offered the opportunity to consent to
      participate in one or more sub-studies which include the additional research procedures
      (entitled 'basic biological' and 'synovial biopsy'). It will be possible for patients to
      participate in more than one sub-study.

      The sub-studies aim to explore the mechanisms that may underlie change over the disease
      continuum, not just at disease initiation. In particular, the researchers would wish to
      obtain samples and imaging that coincide with a change in disease profile as well as with
      loss of disease control. Acquiring pre- and post-treatment blood/tissue samples and images
      would allow the investigation of changes in disease pathogenesis, the role of specific
      therapies, and identification of treatment response indicators. The researchers would
      therefore ask the permission of some individuals to obtain samples or images at additional
      time-points to coincide with events along their disease continuum.

      Basic Biological sub-study

      This sub-study will facilitate identification of prognostic markers of disease, mechanism and
      predictive markers of drug response. As part of an in-house investigation of biomarkers and
      mechanisms, DNA, serum, plasma, synovial joint fluid, and urine may be collected and stored.
      Patients will have the opportunity to consent separately to the genetic (DNA) component.

      A maximum of 75mls of blood may be taken to enable the range of experimental studies. The
      samples will be taken at relevant clinical time points related to diagnosis, disease profile,
      disease activity state and/or treatment related time points; thus samples may be taken at one
      time point or repeated depending on the individual study objective and status of the patient.

      Synovial biopsy sub-study

      Patients will be asked to consent to a synovial biopsy of an affected joint to provide
      synovial tissue for research purposes. Synovial joint fluid may also be collected as part of
      the biopsy procedure. This will be performed by a trained clinician within our department by
      ultrasound-guidance. Depending on the research question being addressed, biopsy may be taken
      at time of diagnosis; or before and after starting a new drug treatment; or at time of a
      change in disease activity/flare (that may/may not lead to change in therapy). If repeat
      biopsy is taken, this is typically 3 or 6 months after starting a new therapy; or may be a
      later time point if evaluating for change in disease characteristics and tissue biology over
      time.
    
  