
    
      Introduction: The increasing rates of overweight and obesity in the world population have
      worried health professionals about their quality and life expectancy. Intervention methods
      such as weight management programs can promote eating behaviors more suited to the energy
      needs of these individuals.

      Objectives: To evaluate the impact of the meal time administered on the body weight of adult
      individuals of both sexes, overweight and obese.

      Experimental design: randomized controlled trial. Place of research: Hospital de Clínicas de
      Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

      Participants: Adults of both sexes. Materials and methods: Individuals will be invited to
      participate and will receive a free and informed consent form. If they agree, anthropometric
      data, blood pressure, waist diameter will be measured; venous blood samples will be collected
      and stored for glucose, total cholesterol, triglycerides, HDL-cholesterol, urea, creatinine
      and ALT in serum.

      Intervention: Wait at least 20 minutes after finishing the first portion of meals, previously
      considered sufficient by the individual before serving again. The control group will also
      serve the dish the same way, but you can serve additional portion without waiting.

      Measurements: The Kolmogorov-Smirnoff tests will be used to evaluate the distribution of
      continuous variables, and Student's t test, Mann-Whitney, and chi-square test, when
      appropriate. Values of p less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant.

      Expected results: Adults randomized to receive the intervention will gain weight loss,
      decrease in anthropometric markers and risk factors for cardiovascular diseases.

      Project cost / benefit: Low cost and risk study that will contribute to the development of
      actions and programs related to the reduction of risk factors due to overweight and disease
      prevention.
    
  