
    
      Objectives

      The purpose of this protocol is to study the phenotypic spectrum and the pathophysiology of
      tremor syndromes by performing small behavioral, electrophysiological and neuroimaging
      sub-studies. The protocol includes techniques with minimal risk (standard clinical
      evaluation, MRI, EEG, peripheral nerve stimulation, single and paired pulse TMS) and certain
      sub-studies may involve healthy volunteers. This protocol aims to study neurophysiological
      and behavioral outcomes in defined groups of patients with tremor syndromes, to inform future
      hypothesis-driven and confirmatory studies, which will be developed and submitted as separate
      protocols. For this purpose, we aim to conduct 1) pilot sub-studies, 2) individual patient
      investigations, 3) technical development studies.

      Study population

      We intend to enroll up to 300 patients with essential tremor and other isolated action tremor
      syndromes, as well as 150 healthy volunteers.

      Design

      This is a non-hypothesis driven study involving standardized phenotyping After patients and
      healthy volunteers complete a screening visit, patients will undergo a standardized
      phenotyping visit including clinical rating scales as well as electrophysiological
      tremorworkup. Patient and healthy controls may then be enrolled in sub-studies, and if a
      substudy leads to results of interest, a separate protocol will be submitted with a priori
      hypotheses, specific study design and power analysis adapted from the pilot or exploratory
      sub-studies performed in the present protocol.

      Outcome measures

      Outcome measures applied in this protocol involve methods for tremor phenotyping such as
      clinical rating scales and questionnaires, electrophysiological tremor studies, videotaped
      exam, as well as digitizing based tasks. During the sub-studies focused on the
      neurophysiological characterization of tremor syndromes, the following outcome measures will
      be applied: EMG: we will analyze tremor signals using spectral analyses, coherence analyses,
      and in combination with accelerometry, EEG, MEG, and TMS to explore tremor-networks. MRI: we
      will analyze measures such as the amplitude of the BOLD signal (fMRI); tractography between
      seed and target regions of interest (using DTI); morphometry of brain regions (using VBM);
      and different neurotransmitter levels in brain regions of interest (using MRS). EEG and MEG:
      we will quantify measures such as corticomuscular coherence, event- or task-related
      potentials, synchronization/desynchronization, and coherence between sensors or sources
      located close to the brain areas of interest. TMS: we will analyze measures such as MEP
      amplitude and central conduction time, as well as measures of cortical excitability and
      inhibition paradigms. Behavioral measures: we will quantify measures of voluntary movement
      involving tremor, reaction times to initiate movements, EMG patterns, movement kinematics
      (position, velocity, acceleration, curvature), eye movement. Actigraphy: We will quantify
      continuous recordings of motion sensors involving multiaxial accelerometers and gyroscopes.
      Furthermore, we may measure autonomic data during the course of experiments (such as blood
      pressure, skin co ductance, and respiratory rate) which would correlate to the outcome
      measures.
    
  