
    
      Experimental Design. This is a prospective, randomized and controlled clinical trial designed
      to evaluate the clinical and radiographic outcomes 12 months after two treatment modalities
      of IBDs: PRF + ABG into defects in the test subjects( TS); EMD + ABG in the control subjects
      ( CS). The patients enrolled exhibit unfavourable IBDs and all experimental sites will be
      accessed with a simplified papilla preservation flap ( SPPF) procedure. The filling material
      (ABG) is common to both treatments: therefore, the investigation will focus on the addictive
      effect of PRF used in place of EMD. EMD is chosen as the active control ( AC) as it is
      currently considered as the biological "gold standard" agent for the treatment of IBDs.

      A non-inferiority trial ( NIT) is designed to prove that using PRF instead of EMD could
      achieve a similar result, reducing the treatment's cost and allowing the clinicians to use
      autogenous material only.

      An AC (comparator) is present, but the investigators do not include a third experimental arm,
      a group of IBDs treated using Open Flap Debridement ( OFD) alone, as it is widely accepted in
      NITs.

      The estimate of the AC effect vs. placebo is assumed from a recent meta-analysis, by the
      Lower Bound of a 95% Confidence Interval ( CI) of the mean of EMD + ABG, while an OFD
      estimate from the corresponding 95% CI Lower Bound is adopted by Venezia (2004). The
      difference between estimates is set as the added benefit of the AC and as a ground for the
      assay sensitivity.

      Study Population. 44 patients affected by moderate-to-severe chronic periodontitis, will be
      selected for the study. Each patient will participate in the study with a single experimental
      site. The participants will receive verbal and written information and they will sign a
      consent form approved by the Ethical Committee of the G. D'Annunzio University of Chieti -
      medical faculty. The study protocol is in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki of
      1975, revised in Tokyo in 2004. Four months before the surgical treatment, all 44 patients
      will undergo SRP by ultrasonic instruments and hand curettes and motivational instructions on
      oral home care.

      Non-inferiority margin. A reliable estimate of the expected clinical attachment level ( CAL)
      gain from an EMD + ABG treatment is drawn from a recent meta-analysis, reporting on 548 IBDs
      in 434 patients.

      The CAL Gain Median was M=3.76 (SD=1.07) with 95% . Prudently the CI Lower Bound (3.48 mm) is
      chosen as estimate of EMD + ABG CAL gain.

      By literature, CAL gain obtainable by OFD surgical treatments alone is 2.47 mm. The
      differential effect of using EMD amounts about 1 mm.

      In accordance with the 95% - 95% method (the Fixed Margin approach), a magnitude equal to the
      AC's expected effect (1 mm) is chosen for the M1 margin, to guarantee the new treatment's
      efficacy. For clinical relevance, a second M2 margin is prefigured to preserve at least a
      further 50% (0.5 mm) of the comparator's effect. Both M1 and M2 will be adopted for the
      secondary outcomes.

      Sample Size and Randomization. Not knowing a priori whether the collected data will meet the
      assumptions and the conditions making sensible an analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), the sample
      size will be initially calculated for an analysis of variance (ANOVA).

      With one-tail , an α == 0.05, a power 1-β = = 0.90 and a SD = = 1.07 mm 1, a sample size of
      20 patients per group is needed to detect the margin M1 = 1 mm in CAL gain between the
      groups.

      Assuming that it will became possible to conduct an ANCOVA, the sample size sufficient to
      detect an M2 margin will be calculated. If to detect a ∆M1=1 mm with ANOVA a total sample
      size of N=40 will be required, adjusting for baseline values allowed to halve the margin
      (∆M2=0.5) adding only 2 more patients.

      Each defect will be assigned a defect number and will be randomly allocated to one of the two
      treatment regimens. Assignment will be performed by a custom made computer-generated table.
      To conceal allocation, opaque envelopes will be assigned to the specific experimental site
      and will be opened during surgery.

      Clinical Measurements.Complete oral and periodontal examinations will be performed for each
      patient 3 months after SRP. These included FMPS, FMBS, PPD, CAL, and gingival recession ( GR)
      for six sites per tooth (mesiobuccal, mid-buccal, disto-buccal, mesio-lingual/ palatal,
      mid-lingual/palatal, and disto-lingual/palatal sites). Clinical measurements at experimental
      sites will be recorded using a University of North Carolina (UNC-15, HuFriedy, Chicago,
      Illinois, USA) periodontal probe. The measurements will be taken immediately before surgical
      treatment (baseline) and 1 year after treatment, by the same experienced examiner, who will
      be masked to the treatment..

      Radiographic Measurements. Preoperative and 3- 6- 12-months postoperative intraoral
      standardized radiographs will be taken by the paralleling technique using an individual
      film-holder device consisting of a bite block rigidly connected to an acrylic dental splint
      to achieve identical film placement at each evaluation. Pre- and postoperative radiographs
      will be evaluated by two experienced clinicians who will be masked with respect to the
      provenience of the radiographs and the clinical measurements. The positions of alveolar crest
      level and of the bottom of the defect distance and will be marked by a pencil on the
      radiographs and bottom of the defect will be measured by a millimeter grid. Linear distances
      between the most coronal interproximal alveolar crest level and the bottom of the defect will
      be obtained by counting the grids.

      Surgical Technique. All the surgeries will be performed by the same experienced clinician.
      Both in TS and CS, after local anaesthesia, mucoperiosteal SPPFs will be raised. The flap
      will be extended to the teeth mesial and distal to the tooth to be treated and, if necessary,
      mesial and distal vertical releasing incisions will be performed to allow more visibility and
      defects accessibility. After flap elevation, vestibular flap mobility will be tested to
      ensure that primary closure of the wound could be achieved through tension -free suturing.
      The granulation tissue adherent to the alveolar bone will be removed to provide full access
      and visibility to the root and bone surfaces; SRP will be performed, but no osseous
      recontouring. Autogenous corticocancellous BG material will be collected using bone scrapers
      in both the TS and CS adjacent areas.

      Then, root surfaces in the CS will be conditioned for 2 minutes with 24%
      ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) and then thoroughly rinsed with saline solution.
      Before EMD application, single internal mattress suture at the defect- associated interdental
      area to reach primary closure of the papilla in the absence of any tension will be prepared
      by 4-0 sutures and left loose to apply EMD and the ABG. EMD will be applied to the entire
      root surfaces of the CS as well as to the alveolar bone; then, ABG will be applied
      alternatively with EMD into the IBD according to the "sandwich" technique until the IBD will
      be completely filled. Finally the flap will be repositioned and sutures completed by
      interrupted sutures.

      In the TS, after the defect debridement, the PRF membrane cut into small pieces and mixed
      with the ABG will be placed within the IBDs until they will be completely filled. Then the
      other two PRF membranes in each patient will be adapted over the grafted defect extending
      over the periphery of the defect in the buccal and lingual directions in order to cover all
      the graft and recontour the bone architecture. Finally the flap will be repositioned and
      horizontal mattress and interrupted sutures will be carried out.

      Data Processing. Since direct comparisons about single outcomes is the trial's scope, a
      multiple univariate analysis is chosen.

      The primary outcome of the study is CAL gain at 12 months. Changes in PPD, GR and bottom of
      the defect distance are secondary outcomes.

      Relying on previous studies and literature reporting a ρ between baseline- and gain-score in
      the order of 0.7. an ANCOVA (on gain scores with baseline scores as covariate) is designed as
      the main analysis. Furthermore, by virtue of the expected correlation, sample size could be
      reduced to ¼.

      Nonetheless, an ANOVA is performed as well, both for comparison and as a reference in sample
      size calculation.

      Non-inferiority is assessed by mean of CI of the main outcome's gain-scores difference
      between the two treatments. For the non-inferiority to be established, the CI Upper Bound
      should neither touch nor overrun the margin. Secondary outcomes will be analyzed similarly.
    
  