
    
      Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS) due to deficiency of pulmonary surfactant is common in
      preterm newborns. Early treatment with surfactant improves oxygenation, reduces the need for
      subsequent mechanical ventilation, decreases the incidence of pulmonary air leaks and chronic
      lung disease and it also reduces mortality in extremely premature newborns. Optimal treatment
      of RDS includes surfactant therapy and avoidance of invasive mechanical ventilation by using
      nasal continuous positive airway pressure modes (NCPAP or NIPPV). The current standard method
      of surfactant delivery requires tracheal intubation and at least brief positive-pressure
      ventilation, as in the INSURE (Intubation-Surfactant-Extubation) approach. Because tracheal
      intubation causes pain and vagal-mediated physiologic instability in neonates, premedication
      with atropine and a narcotic is recommended. However, narcotic premedication increases
      respiratory depression, which may require sustained mechanical ventilation, thus contributing
      to the failure of INSURE. In a recent trial at our center, standard pretreatment with
      morphine and atropine was associated with failure of INSURE in more than 2/3 of patients.
      Consequently, we have recently changed our standard premedication for INSURE to the
      combination of atropine and remifentanil (a rapid onset, short-acting narcotic). The
      Laryngeal Mask Airway (LMA) is a commercially available, less invasive artificial airway that
      does not need to be inserted into the trachea; it is FDA-approved for use in neonates;
      preliminary data suggest that it can be used for surfactant administration, which in our
      trial was associated with a lower failure rate than the morphine plus INSURE approach.

      The main objective of this study protocol is reduce the need for endotracheal intubation and
      mechanical ventilation in preterm neonates with mild to moderate RDS needing rescue
      surfactant therapy by instilling surfactant though an LMA. A second objective is to compare
      the efficacy of surfactant administered via LMA versus endotracheal tube (ETT) in decreasing
      the severity of RDS. Additionally, we will further evaluate the safety of surfactant
      administration via LMA.

      The primary hypothesis is that surfactant therapy delivered via LMA is not inferior to
      surfactant therapy delivered via transient intubation (INSURE technique) with short-acting
      narcotic premedication for mild to moderate RDS in preterm neonates.

      This randomized controlled trial will include babies with mild-to-moderate RDS, less than 48
      hours of age, with gestational age 27 0/7 to 36 6/7 weeks, treated with NCPAP (or other NIPPV
      modality) ≥ 5 cm H2O and FiO2 between 0.30 and 0.60 for at least 2 hours to maintain oxygen
      saturation by pulse oximetry (SpO2) 90-95%.

      After informed consent is obtained, babies are randomly assigned (from sealed, opaque,
      consecutively numbered envelopes), to "ETT" or "LMA" groups. The "ETT" group is managed
      according to our current INSURE approach to surfactant therapy (endotracheal intubation
      following premedication with atropine + remifentanil), whereas the "LMA" group will be
      pre-medicated with atropine before LMA insertion for surfactant administration.

      Both groups will receive Infasurf (3mL/kg) instilled in 2 aliquots via their respective
      airway, followed by PPV for at least 5 minutes. The artificial airway will be removed and the
      patient returned to NCPAP/NIPPV by 15 minutes, if spontaneous respirations are adequate.
      Indications for surfactant re-dosing and mechanical ventilation will be equivalent for both
      groups. Babies will continue or initiate assisted ventilation via ETT if any of the following
      occurs:

        -  Persistent apnea;

        -  Severe retractions;

        -  Inability to wean FiO2 < 60%

      Criteria for re-dosing with surfactant:

        1. Within 8 hours after first dose of surfactant:

           • FiO2 20% higher than the baseline FiO2, after excluding other obvious causes of
           respiratory insufficiency such as pneumothorax.

           If early re-dosing of surfactant is needed in patients of either group, it will be
           administered via ETT (i.e., LMA patients will be intubated, and will receive the dose of
           surfactant via ETT)

        2. Beyond 8 hours of the first dose of surfactant:

             -  FiO2 is ≥ 60%, or;

             -  FiO2 is ≥ 30% associated with worsening clinical signs of RDS.

      If late re-dosing is needed in patients of the LMA group, use of the LMA is permitted for the
      second dose. In the ETT group, all doses are given via the ETT.
    
  