
    
      COVID-19 has been declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization and is
      responsible for hundreds of thousands of deaths worldwide.

      Early reports from China suggested an overall cardiac arrhythmia incidence of 17% in patients
      hospitalized for COVID-19. A higher arrhythmia rate (44%) was observed in patients with
      COVID-19 admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). However, details of the type and burden
      of arrhythmias in this population have not been elucidated.

      Myocardial injury is common in patients with COVID-19, accounting for 7%-23% of reported
      cases in Wuhan, China. Among COVID-related myocardial injury, etiologies vary and can include
      myocarditis, myocardial infarction, sepsis-related myocardial injury, and/or stress induced
      cardiomyopathy. Myocardial injury is associated with high risk of developing all types of
      arrhythmia including atrial fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia, ventricular
      tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, and variable degrees of heart block. Sudden cardiac
      death was also reported.

      The pathophysiology of COVID-19-related myocarditis is a combination of direct viral injury
      and cardiac damage due to the host's immune response. Although the pathophysiology of
      arrhythmias is still speculative, clinicians should provide prompt monitoring and treatment.
      The long term impact of COVID-19 myocarditis remains unknown

      Meanwhile, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) imaging is an integral test in the diagnosis of
      myocardial injury. It can safely be used as a first-line diagnostic tool in the workup of
      myocardial injury associated with COVID-19.

      Investigators believe that proper diagnosis and management of COVID 19 related arrhythmias
      and their etiology can lead to both in-hospital and long term reduction of morbidity and
      mortality of this dangerous presentation of the disease.
    
  