
    
      The well-established role of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in carcinogenesis and
      tumor angiogenesis has led to the development of agents that target this pathway. Anti-VEGF
      agents the VEGF monoclonal antibody bevacizumab, and the small molecule VEGF receptor
      tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Angiogenic factors play a key role in the maintenance of lung
      integrity and normal endothelial function. Endothelial dysfunction has been implicated in
      hypertension, proteinuria and retinopathy. One of the major issues of anti-VEGF agents is its
      long-term toxicity especially taking into account the lack of adequate knowledge in this area
      and the possibility of prolonged periods of therapy in non-progressing patients. Hypertension
      and proteinuria are commonly seen in patients treated with anti-VEGF agents. In addition, we
      have also observed in a relatively high frequency of pulmonary air-filled lesions in patients
      with malignancy in the lung treated with an anti-VEGF agent. Objectives of this exploratory
      study are to 1) determine the effect of anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) on
      endothelial function 2) determine endothelial dysfunction as a marker of early response and
      as an indicator for the development of hypertension and proteinuria 3) characterize the
      effect of anti-VEGF therapy on the pulmonary function of patients with malignancy (primary or
      secondary) involving the lung in patients treated with anti-VEGF agents. Pharmacodynamic
      endpoints to be assessed are: blood pressure, brachial artery reactivity, retinal
      microvessels, microalbuminuria and proteinuria, pulmonary function, assess the effects of
      anti-VEGF therapy by assessing brachial artery reactivity, retinal vasculature and pulmonary
      function in a subset of patients receiving anti-VEGF therapy. The development of markers of
      endothelial dysfunction may result in the early identification of patients who are
      non-responders or develop toxicity from anti-VEGF treatment.
    
  