
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine pain relief in cancer patients with painful metastatic disease involving
           bone following treatment with cryoablation as compared to radiotherapy (RT).

        -  To compare the impact on quality-of-life following cryoablation or RT in patients with
           painful metastatic disease as measured using the validated Brief Pain Inventory (BPI)
           and Short Form (SF)-8.

        -  To determine change in analgesic use following therapy.

        -  To determine the frequency and severity of complications following treatment of painful
           metastases involving bone with either cryoablation or RT.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to size of the
      indexing lesion (≤ 5 cm vs > 5 cm), location of the target lesion (pelvis vs extremity vs
      vertebral body vs other), primary cancer type (melanoma or renal cell carcinoma vs other),
      and severity of pain (i.e., worst pain score in the last 24-hour period) (4-6 vs 7-10).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (percutaneous cryoablation): Cryoprobes are inserted percutaneously under CT scan
           or ultrasound guidance, to the malignant soft tissue-bone interface. Patients undergo
           ablations using a freeze-thaw-freeze cycle lasting approximately 10-5-10 minutes,
           respectively.

        -  Arm II (external-beam radiotherapy): Patients undergo external-beam radiotherapy
           comprising either a single 8 Gy dose or 20 Gy/5 fractions administered over 1 week.

      Patients are contacted via phone on days 1 and 4 post treatment, weekly in weeks 1-4, every 2
      weeks in weeks 6-24, and then every four weeks in weeks 28-36. Patients undergo pain and pain
      interference with daily life assessment at baseline and at these time points. Patients who
      elect to have repeated treatment (either radiotherapy or cryoablation) within the first 6
      weeks after the initial treatment are removed from the study. Patients who fail to achieve a
      2-point reduction in worst or average pain (in a 24-hour period) during weeks 6-20 after
      initial treatment and patients who report a return of pain (i.e., pain ≥ the worst pain in a
      24-hour period reported at baseline) for 2 consecutive time points are offered the
      alternative treatment (radiotherapy or cryoablation, whichever the patient was not randomized
      to receive at initial treatment)*.

      NOTE: *Patients who refuse to receive the alternative treatment are taken off study.
    
  