
    
      Peripheral blood (up to 600 mL) will be collected from a subject after obtaining a written
      informed consent and completing the 1st registration. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      (PBMCs) and plasma are obtained from the blood, and T cells contained in the PBMCs are
      transduced with anti-CD19 CAR gene by using SFG-1928z retroviral vector. Anti-CD19 CAR
      expressing T cells (CD19-CAR-T) will be expanded using a medium containing autologous plasma.
      After the T cells pass in quality control tests, the subject will go into 2nd registration.
      Subjects will be hospitalized and administered Cyclophosphamide on Day -2 or Bendamustine on
      Day -3 to Day -2 intravenously as Pre-treatment, and then subjects will receive 1st infusion
      of CD19-CAR-T on Day 0 and Day 1 (Day 1：1/3 dose, Day 2：2/3 dose) as a split dose. In case
      the sufficient cell number of CD19-CAR-T is manufactured, DLT is not observed after
      CD19-CAR-T infusion, certain clinical effect is observed and additional treatment is
      preferable, the necessity of 2nd infusion will be assessed. In the case that 2nd infusion is
      necessary, it is allowed to infuse at appropriate timing.

      This study is conducted based on the 3+3 dose escalation scheme. Three subjects are enrolled
      in each group of Dose Level. If one of the 3 subjects show DLT during DLT assessment period,
      another 3 subjects will be added; therefore, decision as to whether the next Dose Level can
      follow or not is made based on the results obtained from the total of 6 subjects.

      The investigator assesses the tumor shrinkage effect of CD19-CAR-T in accordance with
      "Revised response criteria malignant lymphoma", at 12 week after the 1st infusion of
      CD19-CAR-T (or at the time of termination). The investigator also assesses the safety during
      the follow-up period. Long-term follow-up study is conducted at frequency of once a year for
      15 years after the 1st infusion of CD19-CAR-T in reference to guidelines of FDA.
    
  