
    
      This protocol is designed to facilitate the recruitment, screening and registry of Military
      Service Members (SMs) and individuals eligible for care in the Department of Defense (DoD)
      healthcare system. This protocol will serve as an entry point for SMs, retirees and other
      beneficiaries, to facilitate their participation in Center for Neuroscience and Regenerative
      Medicine (CNRM)-sponsored clinical research studies at participating CNRM sites.
      Specifically, this protocol will be comprised of an initial evaluation of participants, to
      include questionnaires, a blood draw, and neuroimaging. This evaluation will enable
      investigators to direct participants to CNRM-sponsored natural history, observational, or
      interventional protocols that are most relevant to the individual interests and needs of each
      participant. Other approved CNRM protocols may continue to recruit participants directly into
      their respective studies, and may refer participants to this study.

      The objective of this protocol is to develop a broad-spectrum military subject recruitment
      database that will collect and store preliminary data on research participants who are
      interested in and potentially eligible for current and future CNRM sponsored studies. The
      effectiveness of the recruitment methods utilized in this protocol will be evaluated to
      determine the most successful outreach approaches and recruitment tools for the enrollment of
      participants, including both active and reserve component SMs along with others who are
      eligible for care in the DoD healthcare system, who have experienced traumatic brain injury
      (TBI), psychological health (PH) concerns, or are interested in participating in studies as
      controls. Control participants may include (i) those with exposure to primary blast without
      the development of TBI, (ii) those with physical injuries without experiencing head injury,
      and (iii) healthy participants (non-injured, non-TBI, non-PH).

      This protocol will serve four purposes: (i) provide a centralized resource to identify and
      screen individuals in order to facilitate their participation in ongoing CNRM studies, (ii)
      for participants who provide informed consent to do so, to confidentially and securely
      collect, store, and disseminate to other CNRM investigators existing personally identifiable
      information (PII), existing protected health information (PHI) and data collected as part of
      research under this protocol, (iii) provide a mechanism for following and contacting subjects
      for participation in future CNRM studies, and (iv) assess the impact of TBI and PH issues
      upon structural and functional imaging measures to provide a more comprehensive overview of
      participants being referred to other CNRM studies.

      Research Design:

      This is an "umbrella" cohort study designed to facilitate recruitment of military SMs and
      others eligible for care in the DoD healthcare system in order to collect preliminary data
      pertaining TBI, postconcussive syndrome (PCS), posttraumatic stress (PTS), and/or other PH
      concerns, along with comparable data on relevant control groups. Important control
      comparisons are a) those with exposure to primary blast without the development of TBI, b)
      those with other types of physical injuries without head injury exposure, and c) healthy
      controls. These control comparisons are necessary to address pertinent research questions on
      PCS and PTS. Based on the information provided by each participant, as well as their
      preferences expressed during their initial contact with study staff, each may either be
      directly referred to appropriate CNRM protocols, informed that he/she is not eligible for any
      other actively enrolling CNRM studies at this time, or proceed with full participation in
      this enrollment protocol.

      Methodology/Technical Approach:

      Over a 5-year period, this protocol seeks to enroll up to 2000 male and female SMs as well as
      others who are also eligible for care in the DoD healthcare system with signs and symptoms of
      TBI, PCS, PTS or PTSD and/or other PH concerns, or relevant controls (up to 25%, or 100 per
      year, may have exposure to primary blast without known development of TBI, physical injuries
      without evidence of head injury, and healthy controls). Up to 400 subjects per year over the
      next five years will be enrolled through either the standard or the abbreviated pathway and
      will undergo study procedures at the participating sites: Fort Belvoir Community Hospital
      (FBCH), including the Intrepid Spirit One and Brain Assessment Research Laboratory (BARL);
      Uniformed Services University of the Health Science (USUHS), including the Clinical Research
      Unit, (CRU) Clinical Psychophysiology and Psychopharmacology Laboratory (CPPL); and Walter
      Reed National Military Medical Center (WRNMMC), including Defense and Veterans Brain Injury
      Center (DVBIC) and BARL. Participants may also be enrolled in the abbreviated pathway from
      the CNRM site at Twinbrook, although other study procedures will not occur there.

      The study will be composed of two research pathways: (i) a standard pathway and (ii) an
      abbreviated pathway. Prior to enrollment, both pathways will pre-screen potential
      participants to assess eligibility for the current study and for the protocol WRNMMC 353853.
      Information on the prescreen form is collected to assist with scheduling study assessments
      such as patient interviews and placing orders for imaging and blood collection. Participants
      eligible for the WRNMMC 353853 will have the option to dual enroll into that study.
      Parenthetically, it should be noted that WRNMMC 353853 recruits inpatients from the Neurology
      and Neurosurgery Service, as well as the Neurology Clinic at WRNMMC; while the current study
      encompasses many of the same procedures as WRNMMC 353853, the intent of the current study is
      to recruit a much broader population, including healthy controls, those with primary
      psychological health concerns, and those with blast exposure who do not necessarily meet
      criteria for TBI. To facilitate accrual of our cohort, we will actively recruit from a much
      broader range of settings, including primary care, behavioral health, and orthopedics and
      rehabilitation clinics at WRNMMC, and a wide array of clinics and services at FBCH, in
      addition to using CNRM's social media and other web-based efforts. Applicable study
      procedures will depend on the pathway for enrollment, diagnostic certainty, and logistic
      considerations such as distance from participating sites, availability of scanners, and
      feasibility of transport.

      Standard Pathway: Visit procedures for this pathway will be conducted at the participating
      sites (FBCH, USUHS, WRNMMC) and will consist of informed consent, collection of PII/PHI,
      generation of a Global Unique Identifier (GUID) as detailed below in section 6.3.4.,
      structured data collection of medical history, combat-related as well as any civilian injury
      details, symptom inventory, blood collection and validated questionnaires to assess symptoms.
      Scale cards containing the potential responses for each of the questionnaires will be
      provided to participants for in-person interviews. The scales correlate to specific study
      data collection measures (questionnaires). The scale cards will allow the participant to view
      the answer choices for each measure while the study team member administers the
      questionnaires. The scale cards will ensure greater participant understanding during
      administration of the questionnaires. Additionally, this pathway will include collection of
      venous blood and a MRI of the brain for participants who consent to these elements. Visit
      procedures will also include a physical exam, neurocognitive assessments, and exit
      consultation. See section 6.3 Study Design for further detail.

      Abbreviated Pathway: Visit procedures for this pathway will consist of informed consent,
      collection of PII/PHI, generation of a GUID as detailed below in section 6.3.4., an
      abbreviated questionnaire for structured collection of a medical history, injury details, and
      validated questionnaires assessing symptoms. Scale cards containing the potential responses
      for each of the questionnaires will be mailed to participants for telephonic interviews. The
      scales correlate to specific study data collection measures (questionnaires). The scale cards
      will allow the participant to view the answer choices for each measure while the study team
      member administers the questionnaires. The scale cards will ensure greater participant
      understanding during administration of the questionnaires. Potential research participants
      will be enrolled in this abbreviated pathway by participating in a (i) telephonic interview
      or (ii) an in-person interview at Twinbrook, participating sites, or at recruitment events,
      or through some combination of these approaches. See section 6.3 Study Design for further
      detail.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this protocol is to facilitate recruitment of SMs and those eligible
      for care in the DoD healthcare system to CNRM sponsored clinical research at participating
      CNRM sites.

      Additional aims of the study are to:

        -  Use data collected through this protocol to improve recruitment methods

        -  Coordinate the enrollment of participants in CNRM studies with the greatest relevance
           and interest to them, maintain longitudinal contact, and offer those who are interested
           the opportunity to participate in subsequent CNRM studies after enrollment in this study

        -  Use data collected through the neurocognitive assessment (NIH Toolbox) to better direct
           referral to appropriate CNRM studies

        -  Establish and maintain study specific recruitment databases containing (i) identifiable
           data (PII and PHI) and (ii) coded research data

        -  Collect and provide blood and de-identified data to IRB-approved CNRM Biospecimen and
           Informatics Repositories for use in future research studies (storage procedures covered
           by USUHS IRB protocol "Biorepository and Informatics Warehousing", CNRM 004)

        -  Assessment of TBI and psychological stress impact on the brain via structural and
           functional imaging as well as diffusion tensor imaging

        -  Assess imaging and neurocognitive data for patterns that could distinguish those with
           ongoing symptoms vs. those who are more resilient after trauma
    
  