
    
      Rationale

      Poor tolerance of standard docetaxel dosage regimens used as a single agent in Asians has
      been clearly demonstrated by our group in 2 separate studies. Neutropenia emerged as the most
      prominent manifestation of chemotherapy toxicity [12, 20]. While this has been attributed to
      the lower docetaxel CL derived in our Asian patients, an optimal dosage regimen taking into
      account the extensive genetic polymorphisms associated with CYP3A4 has yet to be established.
      The use of ketoconazole as a potent CYP3A4 modulator to reduce pharmacokinetic variability of
      docetaxel did show >2-fold reduction in docetaxel dosage, but inter-individual variability in
      CL was not significantly reduced. There was also poor correlation of docetaxel CL to
      midazolam phenotyping of CYP3A4 with the addition of ketoconazole to the regimen [23]. Since
      the use of an additional modulator failed to achieve the desired reduction in pharmacokinetic
      variability, the idea of using low-dose docetaxel to predict its own pharmacokinetic
      parameters appeared feasible, safe and an appealing approach.

      The more acute toxicities of docetaxel, such as neutropenia, stomatitis, neurological
      toxicities and fluid retention are more frequently associated with the 3 weekly than weekly
      dosing schedule. This study is designed so that the less toxic weekly schedule is used for
      PK/PD correlation. This information would be utilized to derive an optimal dosage for the 3
      weekly regimen that follows since cumulative myelosuppression was not observed with previous
      weekly docetaxel for metastatic breast cancer [31].

      Currently patients with impaired liver function manifested by elevated baseline ALT/AST more
      than 1.5 more than the institutional limits of normal are not treated with the recommended
      dose of docetaxel because of impaired clearance of docetaxel. Theoretically, these patients
      may benefit from docetaxel treatment, but the dose will need to be individualized based on
      hepatic drug clearance to avoid toxicity. To determine the clinical usefulness of our
      strategy of predicting docetaxel clearance and individualised dosing based on clearance and a
      PD model, patients with a certain extent of liver dysfunction will be included into the
      study. They will be divided into 3 groups according to the level of AST/ALT and SAP, total
      bilirubin, and initial weekly doses as well as q3weekly doses will be lower than the
      recommended doses for patients with normal liver function. Previous investigators have
      reported the feasibility of using the erythromycin breath test as an in vivo probe for CYP3A
      activity and docetaxel clearance in patients with liver dysfunction (Baker SD et al
      Evaluation of CYP3A activity as a predictor covariate for docetaxel clearance Proceedings of
      ASCO 2004; 128: 2006abs).

      2.4 Hypothesis

      The hypothesis for this study is that PK/PD guided dosing of docetaxel will reduce the
      variability in docetaxel PK while achieving the maximum exposure desired within acceptable
      limits of toxicity. At this juncture, this is a novel approach in oncology to fully exploit
      the potential of using low-dose docetaxel as its own probe drug to individualise and optimise
      dosage for subsequent chemotherapy treatment without having to use other agents to modulate
      or predict drug metabolism and clearance.
    
  