
    
      The present is an observational single centre no profit study. The duration is expected to be
      12 months from September 2019.

      The study will be conducted by enrolling patients aged 18 to 80 years in intensive care with
      diagnosis of septic shock according to the Third National Consensus Definitions for Sepsis
      and Septic Shock2, with the need for infusion of vasoactive drugs to maintain a PAM > 65
      mmHg. The following will be subjected to echocardiographic examination with Sparq ultrasound
      machine (Philips Healthcare, Best, the Netherlands) and 3.6 MHz cardiology probe through
      which will be acquired the apical projections 2, 3 and 4 chambers necessary to calculate the
      global longitudinal strain (GLS) through AutoSTRAIN© (TOMTEC Imaging Systems GmbH,
      Unterschleissheim, Germany).

      During the echocardiographic examination, the Ea/Ees ratio (ventricle-arterial coupling) will
      also be calculated using the method modified on a single beat of Chen (t0) 18 using the
      IElastance® application. Patients will be monitored with the PiCCO® system (Pulse index
      Continuous Cardiac Output, Pulsion Medical systems, Munich, Germany) which measures the
      cardiac index (CI) and the Stroke Volume Index (SVI). Those with Ea//Ees > 1, cardiac index
      values < 2.5 L/min/m2 and/or Stroke Volume Index < 30 mL/beat/m2 will be considered eligible
      to enroll in the study. In these patients, dobutamine infusion will be started from 5
      mcg/kg/min following the bundles of the Surviving Sepsis Campaign at dosages that allow to
      obtain an CI >2.5 L/min/m2 and/or Stroke Volume Index >30 mL/beat/m2. With 24 hours to go
      before the dobutamine infusion starts, CI and SVI will be recalculated using PiCCO®, GLS and
      ventricle-arterial coupling index by ultrasound investigation and then levosimendan infusion
      will begin for 24 hours starting with an infusion of 0.1 mcg/kg/min in order to wean the
      patient from dobutamine infusion. Once the infusion cycle of the calcium-sensitizing drug has
      been carried out, if possible, the infusion of dobutamine will be reduced until it stops and
      CI, SVI, GLS and Ea/Ees will also be re-evaluated. The same echocardiographic evaluations and
      hemodynamic calculations using PiCCO® will be performed 72 and 96 hours after the start of
      the dobutamine infusion. All patients enrolled will be followed up by a Medical Outcomes
      Survey Short-Form 36 (SF-36) questionnaire 28 days and 90 days after discharge from intensive
      care.

      It should be noted that all the procedures described (including echocardiographic monitoring)
      comply in quantity and frequency with the normal practice of care and management of patients
      admitted to intensive care with diagnosis of cardiogenic shock during sepsis in Azienda USL
      Toscana Centro.

      In addition, the parameters measured during the echocardiographic examination are derived
      from the reprocessing of the images collected during the examination and therefore simply
      represent an in-depth examination for diagnostic purposes performed according to current
      practice at the Centre.
    
  