
    
      Background Kawasaki disease (KD) is characterized by fever, bilateral nonexudative
      conjunctivitis, erythema of the lips and oral mucosa, changes in the extremities, rash, and
      cervical lymphadenopathy. Incidence of late coronary artery aneurysms or ectasia, which may
      lead to myocardial infarction (MI), sudden death, or ischemic heart disease, decreased after
      the introduction of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. However, significant persistent
      coronary arterial lesions or aneurysms may still occur in about 1-3 % of the patients.

      Aspirin and warfarin, the recommended medication to prevent and decrease the incidence of
      coronary artery events, can't guarantee the coronary patency in these KD patients. Thus, it's
      urgent to look for an effective and safe treatment to make sure the coronary lesions will
      stabilize even regress gradually.

      Several groups studied the clinical characteristics of KD patients with coronary sequelae and
      showed there was association between elevated inflammatory markers and the persistence of
      coronary lesions. Atorvastatin (Lipitor®), a kind of statin, is a selective competitive
      inhibitor of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase. This drug had been
      safely and widely used for treatment of adult hyperlipidemia, prevention of coronary heart
      disease and familial hypercholesterolemia in childhood. In addition to the
      cholesterol-lowering effects, statins exerts diverse cellular, cholesterol-independent
      effects, including improvement in endothelial function, inhibition of neurohormonal
      activation, and reduction in levels of proinflammatory cytokines. Based on the above
      concepts, some patients with infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysms received statin therapies
      and then the growth rate of aneurysms slowed down.

      Therefore, the investigators may hypothesize that Atorvastatin is helpful in the regression
      of persistent coronary lesions in KD patients due to its effect of anti-inflammation. In
      NTUH, there are about 20 KD patients with coronary lesions persistent for many years. And the
      investigators plan to conduct the clinical trial with atorvastatin to evaluate the effects of
      Atorvastatin on the persistent coronary arterial lesions/aneurysms in children with Kawasaki
      disease including safety and efficacy.

      Methods

      There are around 20 KD patients eligible for this study. After they sign the IRB-approved
      ICF, they will be enrolled for this study. Briefly, this study is divided into three stages:
      screening & enrollment stage (I), treatment & follow-up stage (II) for 1 year and final data
      analysis stage (III). Measurements include basic vital sign, electrocardiography, liver
      function, muscle enzyme, inflammatory markers and echocardiography.

      Predicted results

      1.Oral atorvastatin therapy can effectively prevent the progression of coronary lesions in KD
      patients.
    
  