
    
      During an 18-month period, 494 primary BC patients will be recruited from the Departments of
      Oncology at Naestved and Roskilde Hospital. The women will be enrolled in the study following
      completion of primary treatment. Participants are randomized 1:1 to the intervention
      (Nurse-led follow up) or control group (physician-led follow-up) and followed for 5 years. No
      matter group assignment, all women will follow the national mammography screening programs.

      Patients who accept to participate are asked to invite a close relative, preferably partners,
      to participate in the study. Patients, who do not want to participate in the randomization
      will be asked if they are willing to participate in the study by filling out two
      questionnaires. Patients who decline to participate in the MyHealth study will be enrolled in
      the standard follow-up.

      The investigators will collect data using questionnaires, clinical databases, and national
      registers before intervention and for 5 years after inclusion both in the control and
      intervention arm. Questionnaires from validated scales are used to measure primary and
      secondary outcomes in both groups whereas Patient Reported Outcomes (PRO) are only collected
      in the intervention group. Patients who experiences relapse during the MyHealth intervention
      will not be asked to fill in the remaining outcome questionnaires or PROs since they quit the
      follow-up program in favor of treatment for recurrent disease.

      During follow-up, the patient will consult the nurse or the project physician if PROs reveal
      a need, or if the patient require a consultation. In order to ensure that treatment of
      symptoms and referral to other health professionals will meet clinical guidelines the nurses
      are instructed to follow a detailed response algorithm, which is developed by the project
      physician in collaboration with experienced oncologists.
    
  