
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine if the pathologic complete response (pCR) in the breast to neoadjuvant weekly
      paclitaxel with trastuzumab plus lapatinib (THL) is 20% greater than the pCR to weekly
      paclitaxel with trastuzumab alone (TH).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pathologic complete response in the breast and axilla, using American
      Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC) Tumor, Lymph Nodes and Metastasis (TMN) criteria (version
      6), to neoadjuvant weekly paclitaxel plus human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2)- targeted
      therapy in patients with HER2-positive operable breast cancer.

      II. To evaluate residual cancer burden (RCB) as a predictor of long term relapse free
      survival (RFS) and overall survival (OS).

      III. To document the toxicity of all chemotherapeutic regimens (THL, TH). IV. To determine
      the correlation between clinical, radiographic and pathologic response.

      V. To compare overall survival (OS), relapse free survival (RFS) and time to first failure
      (TFF) among the treatment groups.

      VI. To obtain blood, fresh frozen and fixed tumor tissue to test specific hypotheses for
      which biomarker data exist and to evaluate biomarkers in blood, serum and tissue that are
      likely to influence response to and toxicity of trastuzumab alone or trastuzumab plus
      lapatinib, when given with paclitaxel.

      VII. To determine the surgical practice patterns for breast conservation and sentinel
      lymphadenectomy in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      VIII. To determine the radiotherapy practice patterns for post-mastectomy and regional nodal
      irradiation in patients undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      IX. To evaluate pharmacogenomic determinants of toxicity.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive trastuzumab IV over 30-90 minutes and paclitaxel IV over 1 hour once
      weekly and lapatinib ditosylate orally (PO) once daily for 16 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive trastuzumab and paclitaxel as in arm I.

      ARM III: Patients receive paclitaxel and lapatinib ditosylate as in arm I. (Discontinued as
      of 6-15-11) Within 42 days after completion of neoadjuvant therapy, patients in both arms
      undergo definitive surgery (breast conservation or total mastectomy).

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and
      then annually for up to 10 years.
    
  