
    
      This prospective randomized study was carried out in a single institution from November 2016
      to June 2018.

      Patients were recruited by three spine surgeons from the same institution after eligibility
      assessment. Sixty consecutive patients were randomized equally into fluoroscopic and CT
      guided spinal biopsy groups. Randomization procedure was performed using a computer generated
      random number sequence on www.random.org. Separate individuals completed the random
      allocation sequence, patient enrollment and outcome assessment. Outcome assessors were
      blinded to group assignment.

      Data collection Clinical data collected were: patient demographics, comorbidities, infective
      parameters, tumor markers, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) findings and pre-biopsy pain
      score at rest using visual analogue scale (VAS). Intraoperative data included radiation
      exposure dosage, biopsy duration and complications encountered. Following biopsy, we recorded
      the biopsy result, 6-hourly pain score (VAS) at for 48 hours, additional analgesia
      requirement and complications.

      Radiation measurement Commercial optically stimulated luminescence dosimeters, OSLDs
      (NanoDotTM Dosimeter, Landauer Inc, Glenwood, IL) were used to measure radiation dose. Ten
      OSLDs were placed on patients and doctors prior to all biopsies over selective areas
      representing radiosensitive organs. Placements of the OSLDs were done by a single observer.
      OSLDs were processed using MicroStar OSLD reader system (Landauer, Inc. Glenwood, IL). Each
      OSLD was processed 3 times during each reading to obtain a mean value to minimize error. The
      absorbed doses were measured in centigrays (cGy). Bleaching/zeroing of the OSLDs were done
      using optical annealing system containing fluorescent lamps (Osram lumilux, 24 W, 280 ~780
      nm) in between each use of OSLDs.

      Biopsy technique Transpedicular approach with an 8-gauge T-Lok™ bone marrow biopsy needle
      (Argon Medical Devices, Athens, TX, USA) was used in both arms. 10cc 2% lignocaine was
      infiltrated prior to biopsy. Biopsy needle was tapped gently with mallet through the pedicle
      and into the lesion under imaging guidance. Trocar was then withdrawn once it reached the
      affected area. The cannula was rotated several times to disengage sample from surrounding
      tissue. Then, aspiration of samples was done using 10-ml syringe prior to retraction of the
      cannula. Tissue samples were retrieved from the cannula with the use of stylet.

      Samples collected were sent to laboratories for histopathological examination (HPE), culture
      and sensitivity (bacteriology, mycology and acid-fast bacilli), staining (Gram and
      Ziehl-Neelsen) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test for Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

        1. Fluoroscopy Guided Spinal Biopsy Arm: Fluoroscopy guided spinal biopsies were done by
           spine surgeons in the operation theatre using C-Arm fluoroscopy device
           (OECFluorostar7900Compact - GE®). C-arm image intensiﬁer was positioned until
           fluoroscopic beam was collinear with the corresponding vertebral body on AP view prior
           to insertion of biopsy needle.

        2. CT guided Spinal Biopsy Arm: CT guided spinal biopsies were done by radiologist under
           guidance of 128-slice CT scanner (SOMATOM Definition AS+, Siemens Medical Solutions USA,
           Inc.). Preliminary axial CT scanning was done in bone window (window width, WW:2500;
           window level, WL:500) at the pre-selected levels decided from previous imaging to plan
           the needle access. Biopsy was then performed under sequential CT-fluoroscopy scan.

      Post biopsy care Antimicrobials were commenced upon completion of biopsy for patients who
      were diagnosed to have spine infection. Disease progression was assessed based on clinical
      symptoms, ESR, CRP and/or MRI repeated during 6 months follow up for patients who were not
      treated for spinal infection.

      For suspected spinal tumor cases, negative biopsies that were reported to have inadequate
      sample, were repeated with the other method or other investigation modalities will be
      resorted accordingly. Patients with negative biopsy that was reported to have adequate sample
      were follow up for 6 months for disease progression.

      Sample size Sample size was determined based on accuracy of biopsy as outcome variable, in
      which the accuracy rate was 0.89. It was estimated using G*Power software (version 3.1.9.2)
      based on 2 proportions formula (Fisher's exact test). With alpha level of 0.05, 95%
      confidence interval and power of study 0.8, a minimum number of 52 patients (26 patients for
      each arm) was required for this study.

      Statistical analysis Data were analyzed with SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL (SPSS v 23). Continuous
      data were reported as mean ± standard deviation and compared using t test. Chi-squared
      testing was used for between-groups comparisons. Fisher-exact test was used for the
      comparison of diagnostic accuracy between fluoroscopic and CT guided spinal biopsy. A p-value
      of <0.05 was considered significant.
    
  