
    
      1. STUDY DESIGN & TIMELINE

           1.1 Study design The SFDT1 is an real-life non-randomized multicentric prospective study
           with limited intervention (biobanking, patient questionnaires during visits, and a
           direct-to-patient electronic follow-up).

           1.2 Timeline Participants will be actively followed-up for 30 years, with both clinical
           visits every 3 years and a regular online follow-up in-between visits through the e-PRO.

           Inclusion period: 3 years Duration of participation for each patient: active follow-up
           for 30 years Total duration of the study: 33 years

        2. SITES' PROFILE The minimum of 57 (34 for adults and 23 for children) expected recruiting
           sites are divided into three categories including university hospital centres, general
           hospital centres, and private diabetologist offices linked to hospital centers.

        3. SAMPLE SIZE The sample size calculation was performed based on our primary objective
           which is to identify new risk factors of MACE, beyond the traditional risk factors. The
           investigators based our calculation on a dichotomous outcome (MACE yes/no) with a design
           of an independent prospective cohort. The investigators expect the new risk factors to
           be associated with CV risk with a low to moderate magnitude, with relative risk between
           1.10 and 1.50. Based on our most extreme assumption (RR=1.10) and with an overall
           probability of MACE events set to 0.25 (Circulation 135 , 1522-1531, 2017) for the
           unexposed group during the 30 year follow-up, a power set to 80%, an α risk of 5%, and
           the exposed group considered as the extreme quintile group of the exposure of interest
           (glycaemic variability for instance), the required minimal number of patients is 15080.

           The investigators finally decided to target the inclusion of 15000 patients with T1D.

        4. STUDIED POPULATION 4.1 Inclusion Criteria Adults and children (age >= 6 years)

           Type 1 diabetes, defined as:

           Age at diagnosis of diabetes > 1 year and <= 35 years Insulin treatment initiated within
           the first 12 months following diabetes discovery Affiliation to the French social
           security scheme (RIPH-2 constraint) Ability to speak and read French Ability to give
           written informed consent 4.2 Non-inclusion Criteria Patient under guardianship or
           protection for vulnerable people

        5. BIAS 5.1 Investigator selection bias All diabetology care centers will be informed by
           the SFD channels (newsletter, conference, etc.) in order to limit selection bias. Any
           center can propose to join the study and its application will be evaluated upon its
           clinical research quality standards, track records and this study's inclusion and
           logistic (biobank) capacity. The objective is to include patients treated in
           universities and non university public and private centers; as well as in private
           practices.

           In this study, the investigators will not include the minority of patients with T1D only
           followed by their general practitioner.

           5.2 Patient selection bias In the centers, all patients fulfilling the inclusion and non
           inclusion criteria will be proposed to participate to SFDT1.

           Some parts of the study (e-PRO, CGM device data, Biobank, genetic analyses) will be
           optional according to the choices of the patients, inducing bias. For example, the
           oldest patients or the ones with a lower digital literacy or without digital support
           will less frequently participate to e-PRO. Therefore, confounding factors, including age
           and socioeconomic factors, will be taken into consideration to interpret the results of
           the study.

           5.3 Information bias Direct-to-patient data forms are self-reported by patients.
           Therefore, their medical accuracy and quality could be lower than those provided only by
           physicians. On the other hand, this methodology based on PROs not only allows to access
           richer information (QoL, etc.), compared to methodologies usually reported in clinical
           trials, but also at a higher frequency.

           CGM devices are not used by all patients. Consequently, glucose level real-time
           monitoring will be missing for some patients. The investigators consider this choice as
           to be the closest as possible of real-life conditions. On the other hand, the
           investigators are technically ready to manage other data formats uploaded by
           investigators from new monitoring devices.

        6. BENEFITS / RISKS Since the proposed study will be observational-like, no extra visit
           will be required and no additional data will be requested beyond the ones that are
           supposed to be collected in usual care.

      6.1 Benefits The participating patients will be clearly informed that they will not benefit
      directly but will contribute to a research effort that could make an impact on T1D care in
      the following years.

      6.2 Risks Patients will be followed in routine care. They will not run any interventional
      action beyond the biobank samples collection. However, this act is optional.

      With the project being sponsored by a non profit organisation, requiring and managing a
      consequent amount of data, on a long term, it has been designed in a privacy-by-design
      perspective with strong data securities with the support of a specialised partner (SANOÏA),
      as to bring the highest privacy and personal data security to the participants.

      Patients will be informed of their rights according to GDPR.

      burden of the disease: Delivering monthly or even quarterly questions and/or validated forms
      to patients during a significant number of years could increase the perceived and
      psychological burden of the disease.

      To manage this risk some actions are engaged: the patients' forms are actively sourced, tuned
      and tested during study conception with patients' associations involved; the patients
      actively confirm their participation to the e-PRO platform; the patients can switch off the
      invitation service that reminds them by email / SMS that he has forms to fill; the patients
      can revoke their participation to the study whenever they want to;

      STUDY CONDUCT

        1. SITES

           1.1 Sites Recruitment Prior to the start of the study, the investigators plan to contact
           all kinds of French diabetes point-of-care centers by email or mail to offer to join the
           study with the support of the French-speaking society of Diabetes.

           The investigators aim to include at least 70 sites. 1.2 Sites Activation This initiation
           will include a detailed review (20 minutes) of the protocol and study procedures.

           Each site will receive the investigator study file, which contains all regulatory
           documents, by post before the initiation visit.

           The study site initiations will be performed on site. Three centers initiation visits
           will be analysed during internal project meetings. Any adaptations in terms of content
           presented during the initiation visits will be evaluated.

           Following initiation, each center will be contacted by phone to follow-up on patient's
           recruitment.

           Each biobank capable center will receive SOPs and adequate tubes for biological sampling
           from patients for the biobank.

           The investigators of each site will be informed on the expected way of using CGM device
           web portals in the perspective of getting harmonised data.

        2. PATIENTS INFORMATION

           All patients (or caregivers for children) matching the inclusion criteria and not
           matching exclusion criteria are invited to participate during the inclusion period.

           The investigator will give the patient a "patient information sheet" and obtain the
           patient's agreement through a written informed consent.

        3. PATIENTS ENROLLMENT MODALITIES 3.1 Inclusion

           To guarantee for a smooth study execution and patient motivation, it is critical that
           the minimal set of information required to include a patient and activate its e-PRO
           portal be input in a timely manner by the investigator.

           Also, the investigators will separate the inclusion related data ("flash inclusion") and
           the baseline visit related data.

           The "flash inclusion" required data are: date of inclusion, age, gender, year of disease
           onset, name + e-mail adress + mobile number, Once this flash inclusion done, the
           platform: generates the Anonymous Patient_ID that will have to be reported in the
           "corresponding" table staying in the site in the format according to their practices;
           activates the e-PRO participation funnel, Some sites might prefer to use a "buffer" form
           in paper format. In this case they commit to fill the data online in less than 24 hours.

           3.2 Baseline visit Clinical examination The routine standardised set of physical
           measurements of the patient will be collected and recorded in a case report form from
           trained staff.

           CGM device web portal Investigators will check the appropriate data-sharing activation
           with their enrolled patients' CGM device web portal.

           Face to face questionnaires In addition to usual clinical examination, investigators or
           clinical research associates (CRAs) will use validated questionnaires or parts of them

           6.3.3 Biobank sample collection Once a participant is enrolled and has given his or her
           consent, a biological sample collection is set up.

           Trained staff will withdraw different biological samples (serum, plasma, hair, urine,
           saliva) from each participant. In children, the amount of blood collected will be
           adjusted to the patient's body weight.

           3.4 Participation to the e-PRO Investigators will collect email and mobile phone number
           of recruited patients. This information will be automatically and safely stored in a
           separate database and this will allow a robot to contact the patient to send
           "invitations" to fill their PRO forms online.

           A few minutes after inclusion, patients will receive an email with a unique URL. By
           clicking on this link, they will be asked to input a secure code (OTP) received on their
           mobile phone. By processing to this 2-channel authentication the investigators assure
           the patients' effective identity. At this step the patients define their own password to
           access to the e-PRO.

           If this procedure is not completed the patient will receive 3 reminders by email and
           SMS. In the absence of any validation within 2 weeks, the patient will be tagged as "not
           participant" to the e-PRO.

        4. PATIENT FOLLOW-UP MODALITIES

           4.1 Visits in Site

           Routine visits will be proposed every three years (±0.5 years) during 30 years during
           the active follow-up of the study.

           Each visit is made of: Clinical examination and usual care visit data (i.e.: CGM data
           retrieved if patient has a CGM or laboratory results), Face to face questionnaires,
           Biological analysis (biobank) if specifically consented, with an additional specific
           consent for genetic analyses.

           4.2 Between visits, in a direct-to-patient way When the patient actively consents with
           the confirmation funnel described in 6.3.4 then he receives regular invitations to fill
           his online forms. An "invitation" is a digital message (SMS and email) to invite the
           patient to fill his or her online form.

           These data are around the following dimensions: sex life, life with the disease,
           treatment burden, QoL, nutrition, sleep quality.

        5. END OF STUDY

           Data collection will end at the last follow-up visit of the last patient included, which
           should theoretically be after 33 years after the first included patient. The database
           will then be cleaned and frozen to initiate the final analysis phase.

        6. BIOBANK Collection of blood, saliva, hair and urine will be attempted for each
           participant at baseline. Availability of these samples will be indicated in the e-CRF.

      6.1 Blood Total amount of blood: 25 ml (below 2.5% of total blood volume) are collected in
      various preparations.

      In children, the amount of blood collected will be adjusted to the patients' body weight.

      It is not preferable to use heparin as an anticoagulant, as heparin may interfere with
      subsequent amplification of DNA by PCR.

      6.2 Urine One 5 ml tube will be collected and stored at -80°C.

      6.3 Saliva Saliva sample is stable at ambient temperature but will be stored at -80°C.

      6.4 Hair Hair will be used for research of drug exposure and toxin impregnation.

      6.5 Storage All collected samples will be stored following regulatory conservation conditions
      (-80°C).

      6.6 Circuit

      UHC and GHC will collect the full complement of biological samples and will store them in
      regulatory conditions before sending them to the central laboratory.

      Regular shipments (every 6 months):

        1. at Centre de Ressources Biologiques (CRB) Hôpital Bichat

        2. sending a sample to the laboratory of Lille for DNA extraction (genetic analysis)

      6.6.7 Genetic analyses For participants (and caregivers for paediatric patients) who
      consented to do genetic analyses, DNA extraction will be done from blood samples.

      Justification of genetic analysis : DNA microarrays will be realised. Several types of
      analysis may be considered depending on the phenotype of interest and will be studied in the
      cohort. Lately, the strategy of "genome-wide polygenic score" showed its power to cluster
      groups of patients. Moreover, the investigators can also consider rare genetic variants
      studies by exome or whole genome sequencing.
    
  