
    
      Tobacco use remains the leading preventable cause of death and illness in our society, and
      smoking rates are disproportionately high among people living with HIV. NCI, nicotine
      dependence researchers, and HIV clinicians have all called for research to evaluate targeted
      and tailored smoking cessation programs for smokers living with HIV (SLWH). Research suggests
      SLWH are largely unaware of the HIV-specific deleterious effects of smoking and often lack
      motivation and confidence in their ability to quit. For these reasons, we developed the
      Wellness Intervention for Smokers with HIV (WISH).

      Similar to standard care cessation services available to Veterans, WISH is delivered remotely
      by mobile phone (voice and text message). The program is designed for all SLWH, regardless of
      their initial motivation to quit. WISH follows evidence-based, best practice guidelines for
      nicotine dependence treatment, but is innovative in its use of a more comprehensive wellness
      approach. That is, the intervention addresses both smoking and a number of other personally
      relevant health behaviors (such as treatment engagement, medication adherence, stress and
      mood management, social support, alcohol use, etc.), making it relevant and engaging to all
      SLWH, not just those ready to stop smoking. For those not yet ready to quit, WISH is designed
      to build and strengthen motivation and self-confidence for quitting, while smokers also work
      on other personal health goals.

      Once ready to quit smoking, participants receive evidence-based cognitive-behavioral
      counseling and encouragement to access nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or other
      appropriate pharmacotherapy through usual care VA procedures. Medications will not be
      prescribed or dispensed by the study, allowing use of these standard services to be compared
      across study groups.

      In this two-group randomized trial, we will compare the effectiveness of WISH to standard
      care services offered through the National VA Quitline and the SmokefreeVET texting program
      (tobacco cessation services available to all Veterans). Participants in both study groups can
      receive phone/ text counseling and have access to pharmacotherapy through VA. Cessation
      services in both study groups will be provided and overseen by the non-VA sites that
      developed each program.

      Smoking-related outcomes will include 7-day point prevalence smoking abstinence and presence
      of any 24-hour intentional quit attempts, prolonged abstinence, and change in cigarettes per
      day. We will measure change in smoking-related knowledge, motivation and behavioral skills,
      as well as intervention reach and implementation. We will also describe comorbidities and
      explore intervention impact on markers of immune status and mortality risk using clinical
      data resources available through the Veterans Aging Cohort Study (VACS).

      If effective, WISH could meaningfully increase the reach of cessation services and reduce
      smoking among HIV+ Veterans nationwide. To support this goal, dissemination efforts are
      planned in Year 5 to share the WISH program with the National VA Quitline. Because VA is the
      largest U.S. provider of HIV care, this research has the potential for significant public
      health impact.
    
  