
    
      Introduction: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is a consensus treatment for end-stage knee
      osteoarthritis. The peri-operative rehabilitation is an important part of the outcome of such
      procedure. Previous studies have shown that there is correlation between both pre-operative
      functional status and the intensiveness of the post-operative rehabilitation to the post
      operative function of the patient.

      An important part of the peri-operative rehabilitation in TKA is the neuromuscular control
      re-education.

      A novel biomechanical device comprising of four individually calibrated elements attached
      onto foot-worn platforms was recently developed. This device is capable of bringing the
      patient to a functional bio-mechanical alignment during standing and walking, while
      simultaneously strengthening dynamic stabilizers and training neuromuscular control by means
      of controlled biomechanical perturbations.

      Objectives: The aim of this study is to evaluate the influence of pre and post operative
      training with the biomechanical device mentioned above on the functional outcome and quality
      of life of patients undergoing TKA.

      Design and Setting: Randomized, controlled and double blind prospective trial

      Patients: 120 patients who are candidates to TKA

      Interventions: Patients will randomly assigned into five groups (active, sham and control)
      and will followed for fourteen months (two moths pre-operative and twelve months
      post-operative). All groups will undergo post-operative physical therapy (PT) according to
      the standard guidelines. In addition, the active groups will be treated with the device and
      its four biomechanical elements that had been individually calibrated for each patient. The
      sham group will be treated with the same device; however, the biomechanical elements will
      have zero perturbation and will be positioned along the central longitudinal line of the
      shoe-platform. The control group will be treated only according to the standard
      post-operative protocol.

      The five groups:

        1. Pre- operative BD training and post-operative PT and BD training

        2. Pre- operative sham training and post-operative PT and BD training

        3. Pre- operative sham training and post-operative PT and sham training

        4. No pre-operative training (according to the guidelines in Israel) and post-operative PT
           and BD training.

        5. No pre-operative training (according to the guidelines in Israel) and post-operative PT
           and sham training.

      Primary Outcome Measures: Spatio-temporal measures (recorded by Gait-Rite™) and the
      Aggregated Locomotor Function (ALF) assessment.

      Secondary Outcome Measures: Pain and function questionnaire measured by the Western Ontario
      and McMaster Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) and Quality of life will be evaluated by the SF-36
      quality of life questionnaire.

      Measurements will be taken at day-1 (two months before the TKA) and at four more stations: 1
      Week prior to the TKA, Three months post the TKA, six months post the TKA and twelve months
      post the TKA
    
  