
    
      The diagnostic and interventional procedure can be conducted via contralateral or antegrade
      approach and arterial access will be obtained utilizing standard percutaneous techniques and
      devices. Baseline angiographic images will be obtained prior to the study intervention to
      confirm the presence of a peripheral arterial occlusion. These images will include the target
      lesion as well as inflow and outflow with ipsilateral run off to the distal foot. If
      angiographic imaging confirms that the subject meets enrollment criteria, the enrolled
      subject will then undergo the study procedure.

      If the investigator determines that treatment is required of non-target arterial lesions, the
      treatment may be performed during the study index procedure according to the investigator's
      standard practices using commercially available devices.

      Prior to utilization of the CapBuster system, the investigator will attempt to cross the
      target lesion CTO utilizing conventional catheters and guidewires. To minimize vessel trauma,
      attempted guidewire crossing time will be limited to no more than 5 minutes. The crossing
      time will begin when the guidewire reaches the lesion CTO cap and will end after occlusion is
      successfully crossed with confirmed wire placement in the true lumen. If successful crossing
      is achieved with a conventional guidewire, the CapBuster system will not be utilized. The
      subject will be a screen failure and will not be considered enrolled in the trial.

      If crossing attempt is not successful with a conventional guidewire, the CapBuster system
      will be utilized. A subject is considered enrolled in the study upon introduction of the
      CapBuster system into the subject's vasculature. The CapBuster support catheter will be
      inserted over a conventional guidewire and advanced until the distal tip reaches the CTO cap.
      The CapBuster 3.0 mm diameter balloon is then inflated to stabilize the system within the
      arterial vessel. The conventional guidewire is replaced with the CapBuster penetrating wire
      and, under fluoroscopic guidance, the penetrating wire is manually rotated to penetrate the
      CTO cap. The balloon pressure may be increased to ensure proper apposition with the vessel
      wall and maximize stability. Following penetration of the cap, the penetrating wire is
      replaced with a conventional steerable guidewire. Standard wire escalation techniques will be
      utilized for continued advancement of the conventional guidewire and complete crossing of the
      occlusion.

      Angiography is performed to confirm guidewire placement. Successful crossing is defined as
      guidewire placement within the true lumen proximal and distal to the target lesion without
      utilization of a re-entry device.

      After successful crossing is achieved, the target lesion may be treated per Investigator
      discretion with commercially available devices.
    
  