
    
      The study was approved by the ethics committee of the Avila Clinic. After informed consent,
      10 volunteers aged 18-60 años, ASA I, Body mass Index < 30 were included.

      The patients fasted for 8h before the protocol and they will not receive premedication. After
      arrival in the operating room, and insertion of 18-gauge intravenous cannulas placed into the
      forearm, a Ringer's lactate solution will be initiated. Oxygen therapy at a rate of 5 litres
      per minute will be administered in spontaneous ventilation. In case of hypoventilation
      (saturation (SaO2) <95% manual ventilation with a mask at 10 l/min of O2 will be
      administered. All volunteer will be monitoring with EKG, Blood pressure, Pulse Oximetry,
      Bispectral Index and Cardiac output.

      Propofol will be administered using a commercially available target-controlled infusion with
      an incorporated pharmacokinetic model developed by Schnider and Cortinez (arcomed ag, Medical
      System, Switzerland ). Each volunteer will be studied twice, that means which each subject
      then acts as their own control.

      The study will make in two stages:

      STAGE I: All volunteers will receive propofol infusion with the first model randomly chosen
      (Schnider or Cortinez) using Target Controlled Infusion device, and the initial effect-site
      target concentration of propofol will be 3 ug/ml for 20 minutes.

      STAGE II: 72 hours after stage I . All volunteers will receive propofol infusion with the
      first model randomly chosen (Schnider or Cortinez) using Target Controlled Infusion devices,
      and the initial effect-site target concentration of propofol will be 3 ug/ml for 20 minutes.

      Lost of consciousness will be evaluated by an independent observer using two different
      criteria: OAA/S score <2 (OAA/S2) corresponding to the absence of response to moderate
      prodding and loss of eyelash reflex (LOER). Time to OAA/S2 and time to LOER will be measured
      as well as corresponding brain and plasma concentrations of propofol. At the same time, BIS
      and Cardiac output values will be recording.

      After 20 minutes, the infusion will be stopped. Recovery of consciousness (ROC), which will
      be assessed every 10s until patients wake up, and the values of Ce, BIS and Cardiac Output.

      The electroencephalogram (EEG) activity will be monitored by BIS Quatro platform® electrodes
      and a BIS VISTA™ 1.01 monitor Vista the bispectral index (Covidien, USA). The information
      will be recording every 20 seconds The cardiac output will be measured using Monitor ICON ®
      Electrical Cardiometric ™

      Arterial blood pressure, heart rate, SaO2, respiratory frequency will be measured before to
      start propofol infusion and then every 3 minutes until the end of trial. A decrease in
      systolic arterial pressure ≥30 % of the basal value will be considered as hypotension, and
      heart rate <45 defined bradycardia.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS This is a prospective, descriptive and comparative study. We will use
      the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney nonparametric test applied for two independent samples
    
  