
    
      Excessive soft tissue tension (i.e.. tight muscles and associated tissues) is the most
      limiting factor in lengthening and correction of limb length deficiency. Bone lengthening is
      achieved by surgically breaking the bone and with the use of an extending device, commonly
      placed on the outside of the limb, the bones ends are distracted. One millimetre a day is
      commonly the amount of distraction, however the soft tissue increases in length at a slower
      pace than the bone which leads to soft tissue tension.

      Excessive soft tissue tension leads to:

        -  Soft tissue contractures temporary or permanent short muscles and tendons

        -  Joint subluxation or instability joints which slip out of line and are loose

        -  Pain

        -  Loss of function inability to move joints properly and difficulty walking This puts the
           joint in a very vulnerable situation and increases the possibility of subluxation. A
           similar problem arises during tibial lengthening, when the ankle takes up an equinus
           position (foot pointing down and in). Both deformities reduce the functional ability of
           the child and risk the joint becoming permanently damaged.

      Increasing pain levels accompany these deformities leading to a greater reluctance to comply
      with treatment or rehabilitation. The lack of joint mobility has further detrimental effect
      on the limb as it becomes weak and stiff.

      These events become a vicious cycle which is difficult to resolve without further
      intervention. When soft tissue tension is becoming a problem, i.e. pain levels are increasing
      and difficult to control, or the joint is under threat of instability, the first course of
      action is to slow or stop the lengthening for a few days which allows the soft tissue tension
      to decrease. The drawback with this is the potential for the bone ends to start fusing and
      prevent further lengthening once the process is resumed. To re start the process means the
      child has to have a further general anaesthetic to enable the bone to be re osteotomised (re
      broken).

      Online Form 6 Some groups of children who undergo lengthening are more susceptible to soft
      tissue tension than others and therefore prophylactic surgical measures are employed. In
      anticipation of the soft tissue tension muscles known to create problems are commonly
      selected for surgical releases. This has been shown to be an effective method for reducing
      the effects of the tension but it is not without its problems. Releases done at the time of
      surgery may heal before the lengthening is complete and may need to be repeated. Releases
      cause trauma to the muscle or tendon which then heals by scar tissue, a structure known to be
      less pliable than specialised muscle or tendon tissue. Regaining long term function can be
      compromised.

      Temporarily reducing soft tissue tension during the lengthening phase of treatment which has
      no long term consequences would be an ideal situation. Botulinum toxin has the ability to do
      this. Paley (2004) used Botulinum toxin as an adjunct to or in place of soft tissue release
      during femoral lengthening and noted that it seemed to reduce muscle spasm and pain in
      patients. Unfortunately this was not supported by any form of evaluative research.
    
  