
    
      More people live with chronic diseases and therefore it is important for the healthcare
      system to develop and organize initiatives that involve patients in their treatment.

      In Denmark dispensing and administration of medication during hospitalization is a process
      where the health staff has completely taken the responsibility from the patient, leaving
      unused resources among patients and their relatives.

      In general non-adherence to medication in patients with chronic medical diseases is a common
      problem, which contributes to adverse health outcomes, increase healthcare expenditures and
      reduce quality of life.

      One-Stop Dispensing (use of own medication, placed in bedside locker, partly or
      self-administration of medication during hospitalization), which is a medication system
      developed in United Kingdom in the 1990s, could be an important part of a shift in the
      healthcare system toward increasing patient involvement. Use of own medication and
      self-administration aims, among other things, to increase adherence and the patient's
      knowledge and understanding of their medication. One-Stop Dispensing has so far only been
      tested on elective surgical patients in Denmark, which is why this study set out to
      investigate acute hospitalized medical patients.

      To investigate the effect of the medication system One-Stop Dispensing in Danish medical
      patients the investigators planned a study including two designs. An observational before and
      after implementing One-Stop Dispensing study and a randomized controlled study for the
      intervention period.

      Enrolment for an observational part of the study will begin in April 2016 with data
      collection on patients under the traditional medication system.

      In October 2016 enrolment will then begin for the intervention period including randomization
      to a basic intervention including the elements of One-Stop Dispensing or an extended
      intervention which besides One-Stop Dispensing also include a dialogue with the patients
      about their medication during the hospitalization and at discharge. The data collection will
      end in March 2017.

      The research team will identify and verify patient eligibility. All participants will need to
      provide informed written consent. For recruitment and informed consent, project information
      will be discussed with the participants.

      Baseline variables will be collected at admission and in the intervention period prior to
      randomization. This includes questionnaire and baseline characteristics such as age, sex and
      diagnosis. The primary measure is adherence measured at baseline and 1 month after discharge.
      Knowledge of the patients' own medication will assessed by a health professional also at
      baseline and again at discharge.

      The study will end after one month follow up is completed for all the included patients.
    
  