
    
      Interesting in living liver donor (LLD) transplantation have greatly increased because of
      inadequacy of cadaveric organs and the inability to supply the growing need for cadaveric
      transplantation. Surgical procedures applied to LLD do not only physically demand organs, but
      can also cause psychological burden. Preoperative anxiety is seen in 60-80% of patients
      scheduled for surgery. It has been reported that melatonin had antioxidant, antinociceptive,
      hypnotic, anticonvulsant, neuroprotective, anxiolytic, sedative and analgesic properties. It
      was shown to administration of exogenous melatonin has been increase sedation and decrease
      anxiety in the preoperative period compared to placebo.

      The aim of this study; To investigate preoperative and postoperative anxiety levels of LLD
      and to exam the relationship between anxiety levels and endogenous melatonin levels.

      This prospective clinical study will perform at Inonu University Liver Transplant Institute.
      Anxiety of the patients included in the study will be measure with Spielberger State Anxiety
      Scale Scale (STAI FORM TX-1) in preoperative and postoperative period. It was designed to
      assess levels of state anxiety and traint anxiety, through 40 items scored by a likert-scale.
      Range of scores for each subtest is 20-80, the higher score indicating greater anxiety. A cut
      point of 39-40 has been suggested to detect clinically significant symptoms for the S-Anxiety
      scale. Patients without premedication will admit to the operating room. Before induction of
      anesthesia, the vascular access will perform and 3 mL of blood sample will take to check for
      preoperative melatonin level. Standard general anesthesia will perform to all donors. At the
      end of surgery, the patients will take to intensive care unit. After 24 hours, blood samples
      will take for post-melatonin. Plasma melatonin concentrations will measure using High
      Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) method in Inonu University Faculty of Pharmacy
      Analytical Chemistry Department research laboratory.
    
  