
    
      Despite biomedical advances, medical intervention for COVID-19 is largely limited to
      vaccinations and supportive care during the later stages of disease. While antiviral,
      anti-inflammatory, and antimalarial options have been explored for later stages of disease,
      fewer studies have been conducted on medications to reduce the risk of outpatient cases
      progressing to severe disease. Therefore, it is important that we broaden the search to
      include agents outside of our usual pharmacopeia. Integrative Medicine offers several
      promising therapeutics that are available today and warrant investigation.

      Some of the botanicals used for their possible immune modulating functions include polypore
      mushrooms. Among these, Turkey Tail (Trametes versicolor) has a long history of use for its
      immune supporting properties. An RCT examining the effects of Trametes versicolor in breast
      cancer patients detected increases in lymphocyte counts and natural killer cell functional
      activity (Torkelson et al, 2012 and Benson et al, 2019) both of which are key to host
      COVID-19 response. Further investigations into other relevant mushroom species demonstrated
      that Agarikon (Fomitopsis officinalis) can strongly induce an array of differential cytokine
      responses associated with both immune-activation and resolution of host defense- induced
      inflammatory reactions (unpublished). This homeostatic effect deserves attention for COVID-19
      given the high mortality rate associated with cytokine storm.

      This is a multi-center, randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial to
      evaluate two polypore mushrooms, Fomitopsis officinalis and Trametes versicolor (FoTv), to
      treat COVID-19-positive outpatients with mild-to-moderate symptoms assigned to
      self-quarantined and home management. This study aims to establish the safety and feasibility
      of the use of FoTv vs placebo in 66 total subjects. Subsequent trials will evaluate Chinese
      herbal medicine as well as the efficacy of FoTv in a larger study population.
    
  