
    
      Osteoarthritis causes the joints to become painful and stiff. Osteoarthritis of the knee is a
      common condition that is expected to be a lot more frequent in the next two decades. As a
      consequence, an increase of total knee replacement surgery is predicted. Total knee
      replacement surgery is offered when knee pain and stiffness caused by osteoarthritis can no
      longer be managed and these symptoms significantly impact on an individual's normal
      activities of daily living. Most total knee replacements are successful but up to 34% of all
      patients have poor functional outcomes following surgery. This leaves affected people at a
      greater risk of reduced physical activity and thus impacts longer-term general health. Poor
      outcomes are therefore of importance to patients and have a considerable financial and
      service-provision impact on National Health Service (NHS) care. While patient-related
      characteristics and their relationship to patient outcomes have been identified, few studies
      have been undertaken to determine how kinematic outcomes (how the prosthetic knee moves) are
      related to functional outcome and patient satisfaction. The kinematic outcome of a total knee
      replacement is hypothesised to relate to both the structural design (shape) of the implant
      and the surgical procedure itself. To date, no studies have investigated the kinematic
      outcomes of different total knee replacement prosthesis designs through a range of typical
      activities of everyday mobility (functional outcomes). Whilst it is known that long term
      success of total knee replacement depends largely upon correct alignment of the prosthesis
      components during surgery, no studies have looked at the anatomical alignments of the
      osteoarthritic knee prior to undergoing surgery (using Computerised Tomography (CT)
      scanning). The aim of the study is to examine relationships between movement analysis
      (kinematic and functional outcomes), patient reported outcome measures (PROMS) and CT
      measurement, both pre- and post-operatively, between two knee prosthesis including one that
      has been designed to improve functional outcomes.
    
  