
    
      I. Hypothesis

      Treatment of children during surgery employing cardiopulmonary bypass with inhaled, exogenous
      nitric oxide (iNO) delivered to the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit will:

        1. Modulate ischemia/reperfusion injury

        2. Influence endothelial dysfunction

        3. Ameliorate the bypass-triggered systemic inflammatory response

      II. Specific Aims

      Three specific aims will test this hypothesis:

      Delivery of iNO to the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit will result in a decrease in:

        1. Measures of end-organ dysfunction often associated with CPB; pulmonary function, cardiac
           injury markers, serum creatinine, and neurologic injury markers.

        2. Measures of inflammatory response, specifically IL-6 and TNFa via its antioxidant
           properties.

        3. Platelet activation and aggregation leading to reduced transfusion requirements.

      III. Introduction and Background

        -  Cardiopulmonary bypass leads to ischemia/reperfusion injury. One of the mediators of
           this injury is oxygen radical production. NO is known to bind oxygen radical species.

        -  Cardiopulmonary bypass leads to endothelial dysfunction. This is mediated through
           cell-free hemoglobin binding endogenous NO, as seen in sickle cell disease.

        -  Both of these factors, separately and in combination, perpetuate the inflammatory
           response triggered by CPB. NO affects this response by interfering with this process.
           Additionally, NO is known to affect neutrophil chemotaxis as well as platelet activation
           and aggregation, both of which further amplify the inflammatory response.

      IV. Basic Protocol Experimental Design In a prospective, randomized, controlled, blinded
      pilot trial we will compare 20 ppm of iNO delivered to the CPB circuit. Our study will target
      children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) for surgery for the correction of
      transposition of great arteries (TGA) and Tetralogy of Fallot (TOF).

      Subjects Inclusion Undergoing repair of TGA and TOF < 16 years of age Exclusion Age > 16
      years of age Pregnancy Known bleeding disorder

      Treatment Protocol Following informed consent, blood will be drawn pre-operatively for
      baseline characteristics (methemoglobin, venous saturation, CBC, S100, gene expression
      profiles, BNP, cTnI, IL-6, IL-8, lactate, TNFalpha)[Table, Blood sample for Study].
      Intra-operatively we will use a standardized anesthetic protocol unless contraindicated by
      specific patient clinical characteristics. Intraoperative measurements will include: aortic
      cross clamp time, and total cardiopulmonary bypass time. Intraoperative hemodynamic
      measurements will include: mean systemic blood pressure (MAP), central venous pressure, right
      atrial pressure pulmonary artery pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (when
      available). Blood samples will be drawn following CPB upon arrival to the ICU and will be
      analyzed as above. Repeat blood samples for each will be drawn again after 12, 24, and 48
      hours. Patients will be followed to the time of discharge. Ventilator settings, length of ICU
      and hospital stay will be recorded. All measurements in both groups will be the same. Time
      points will be referenced from the time of admission to the PICU for both groups.
    
  