
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common cancer among Canadian men. Men diagnosed with
      localized PCa are placed in low, intermediate and high-risk groups, using the prognostic
      variables including pathologic Gleason score, T-stage and serum prostate specific antigen
      (PSA). These risk groups correlate with biochemical failure-free survival and prostate cancer
      specific mortality [1]. Although PCa is prevalent, the risk of clinical or fatal PCa in a 50
      year old man is estimated at only 10% and 3%, respectively [2]. Currently, over 2/3 of men
      diagnosed with PCa are diagnosed with organ confined, low risk disease (PSA < 10 ng/ml,
      Gleason score (=GS) 3+3, cT1c) [3]. Management is dependent on tumor grade, size and stage
      and clinical parameters (e.g. life expectancy) and may range from active surveillance to
      radical therapy including definitive whole gland treatment (radical prostatectomy (RP), or
      radiotherapy). Although radical whole gland therapy is effective from an oncological
      standpoint, it may be associated with significant side effects. A more conservative approach
      in select patients may be enrollment in an active surveillance program. The concept behind
      this approach is that small volume, low grade PCa may have an indolent course and may not
      progress to biological significance in the absence of treatment in the patient's lifetime.

      Rationale for this study is to determine in a prospective cohort of patients with unfavorable
      intermediate-risk or high-risk PCa, whether PSMA PET improves the detection of lymph node and
      distant metastases as compared to conventional imaging strategies (CT abdomen and bone
      scintigraphy).

      To determine the rate of change in planned management after adding information from PSMA PET
      in patients with PCa being staged prior to primary therapy or restaged after primary therapy.

      The central hypothesis behind the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre PSMA PET registry is that
      in patients with PCa, PSMA PET will enable more accurate staging and restaging, and improve
      prognostic stratification as compared to conventional workup. Furthermore, the investigators
      hypothesize that the addition of PSMA PET to the workup of these patients will change the
      planned management in a significant proportion of patients.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine in a prospective cohort of patients with unfavorable intermediate-risk or
      high-risk PCa, whether PSMA PET improves the detection of lymph node and distant metastases
      as compared to conventional imaging strategies (CT abdomen and bone scintigraphy).

      To determine the rate of change in planned management after adding information from PSMA PET
      in patients with PCa being staged prior to primary therapy or restaged after primary therapy.

      Secondary Objective:

      To determine the clinical outcome and rate of biochemical control after therapy. For this
      purpose, information from clinical notes of routine clinical visits, results of blood tests
      (such as serum PSA) and follow-up imaging, if performed, will be collected for up to 5 years.
    
  