
    
      Rationale and Significance

      Infections with human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause cancer of the cervix, vagina, anus,
      throat, mouth, and penis. Prevention of these HPV-related cancers could be achieved by
      immunization with the nonavalent (HPV6,11,16,18,31,33,45,52,58) vaccine currently
      commercially available. However, in the U.S. approximately only 30% of females and 20% of
      males in the recommended age group receive the complete, three-dose HPV vaccine. The vaccine
      is covered under Vaccine for Children Program so the underinsured and uninsured have access.
      Furthermore, data from the Los Angeles county suggest that HPV vaccination rates among these
      groups are lower than the national average. Significant barriers clearly remain including
      knowledge of the vaccine, transportation, number of doses and concern of side effects.
      Several programs worldwide have shown that schools remain an important venue for education as
      well as vaccination. In the US, vaccination within schools remains difficult because of many
      barriers including lack of nursing, insurance reimbursement, and liability. However, the
      school remain an important access to educational formats. Barriers associated with the HPV
      vaccine uptake is the initial stigmatizing information created by anti-vaccine groups,
      providers not recommending the vaccine and not understanding the cancer prevention strategies
      (i.e. getting vaccination prior to exposure).

      Barriers to HPV vaccination

      Although the US has invested in a large national effort toward improvement of HPV vaccination
      rates, little progress has been achieved since 2006. While financial access should not be a
      barrier to vaccination for most children, some insurance plans do not cover vaccines. Several
      factors appear to influence vaccination rates: a) limited understanding of HPV and
      HPV-related diseases by parents and patients; b) parental safety concerns about the vaccine;
      c) provider discomfort talking about sexual behavior; d) providers lack of time for
      discussions about the vaccine; e) parental perception that there is no clear recommendation
      from a health care provider; f) parental belief that son or daughter is too young for the
      vaccine because they are not sexually active; and g) provider concern that there is lack of
      adequate reimbursement. In LA County, lack of knowledge that a cancer vaccine exists, lack of
      transportation, and fear of immigration status disclosure are further barriers to
      vaccination.

      We hypothesize HPV vaccine uptake will be improved through the receipt of educational
      sessions to the parents of middle school children about the importance of the anti-cancer
      vaccine, the HPV vaccine.

      Such sessions will increase knowledge about HPV vaccine availability, as well as improve the
      perceptions around HPV vaccination. Vaccination rates are lower in the Service Planning areas
      (SPA) 4 and 6 compared to SAP 5 (West LA).

      Primary Objectives

      To evaluate the ability of educational sessions about the HPV vaccine to increase HPV vaccine
      uptake, by comparing HPV vaccination rates before and after the intervention.

      Endpoints

      The primary outcome will be HPV vaccination rates. Vaccination rates will be compared between
      before (baseline) and after the intervention at the end of the observation period (12
      months). We expect to find higher HPV vaccine rates after the intervention.

      Study Design

      We will recruit 3 schools within Cedars-Sinai catchment area with whom Cedars-Sinai already
      has a Memorandum of Understanding in place: Berendo, Drew, and Carver Middle Schools in Los
      Angeles (SPA 4, SPA 6). These MOUs were obtained through the Cedars-Sinai Coach-for Kids
      Program Director, Michele Rigsby-Pauley, a co-investigator in this study. We will first
      conduct focus group interviews with parents to learn about parents' concerns about the HPV
      vaccine and to identify important messages for parents. These would also include strategies
      for dissemination of information (PTA meetings, text messages to parents, online education).
      HPV vaccination rates will be compared before and after the intervention at the end of the
      observation period (12 months).
    
  