
    
      Rhinosinusitis (RS) is a heterogenous disease, with variable etiologies, manifestations, and
      progression. Generally, RS can be divided into acute, subacute, and chronic RS, depending on
      the symptoms and duration of the disease. Most commonly, acute RS is caused by a viral
      infection (viral RS), which starts in the nasal passages and progresses to inflammation of
      the sinuses. When this inflammation of the paranasal sinuses does not resolve and lasts for
      at least 12 weeks, the disorder is broadly defined as chronic RS (CRS), which is usually
      accompanied by bacterial infections. This inflammatory disease pathophysiology is further
      subdivided into CRS with (CRSwNP) and without (CRSsNP) nasal polyps. Recently, several
      studies aimed at phenotyping the diverse pathophysiology among patients suffering from CRS
      characterized subgroups based on the presence of inflammatory clusters. CRSsNP is marked by
      pro-inflammatory neutrophilic inflammation of the nasal mucosa and a nasal cytokine profile
      that is characterized by increased levels of TGFβ1 and IFNγ and low or undetectable levels of
      IL-5. In contrast, patients with CRSwNP demonstrate eosinophilic inflammation of the nasal
      mucosa, low levels of TGFβ1, but high levels of Th2/Th17-type cytokines such as IL-17 and
      IL-5, higher levels of eosinophil cationic protein (ECP) and mast cell tryptase, and lower
      levels of IL-10.

      Currently biomarkers associated with physician diagnosed disease severity and
      patient-perceived quality of life impairments are lacking. Analysis of markers of
      inflammation in the nasal mucosa and peripheral blood leukocytes in combination with quality
      of life symptom scoring will enable us to identify biomarkers associated with CRS disease
      severity. This study will determine if biomarkers identified in the nasal mucosa and
      peripheral blood leukocytes correlate with physician diagnosed and patient-perceived disease
      severity.
    
  