
    
      This will be a double-blind, randomised, study comparing zonisamide with placebo: each arm
      will consist of 102 subjects. Zonisamide/placebo dosing will commence with a dose of 1 mg/kg.
      Further dose increases will occur at weekly intervals until a dose of 8 mg/kg is reached at
      the end of Week 8. In the event of dose limiting adverse events (AEs), during the eight week
      Titration Period, one down titration to a lower dose is permitted, this can happen at any
      point in the Titration Period. Subjects who require further down titration steps will be
      withdrawn from the study. During the Maintenance Period the dose of study medication must
      remain unchanged.

      Changes in concomitant AEDs are not permitted during the Screening, Titration or Maintenance
      Periods.

      This trial consists of the following periods:

        1. Screening Period (duration four weeks): once the Screening Visit has been performed, a
           seizure diary will be maintained to document the baseline seizure frequency in the eight
           weeks between the Screening Visit and the Randomisation Visit.

        2. Titration Period (duration four weeks): during this period, zonisamide/placebo dosing
           will commence with a dose of 1 mg/kg. Further dose increases will occur at one week
           intervals until a dose of 8 mg/kg is reached at Visit 6 (Week 8). In the event of dose
           limiting AEs during the Titration Period, one down titration step to the previous dose
           will be permitted.

        3. Maintenance Period (duration 12 weeks): during this period, randomised subjects will be
           treated with the dose of zonisamide/placebo which they were receiving at Visit 6 (Week
           8). No changes to the dose are allowed during this phase.

      Following the Maintenance Period subjects will have the opportunity to enter an open label
      extension study. This open label extension study will be the subject of a separate protocol
      and will not be discussed further at this time.
    
  