
    
      This study was first registered as NCT00826059 on January 19, 2009 under the name ImpACT-24.

      Background:

      Recruitment to ImpACT-24 was halted, the protocol was amended and then the study was resumed.
      Later, it was decided to define the first part (before the halt) as a separate study -
      ImpACT-24A, and identify the continuation of the study as ImpACT-24B. ImpACT-24B continues to
      be registered as NCT00826059, and ImpACT-24A is registered in this new record.

      Detailed Description:

      A multi-center, multinational, randomized, double blind, sham control, adjunctive to Standard
      of Care, parallel arm study with ongoing DSMB review of accumulated safety data.

      Screening:

      Treatment should be initiated between 8 and 24 hours from stroke onset. All screened patients
      will be identified by patient number and will sign the informed consent prior to any study
      procedure initiation.

      Period 1: Day 1-5

      Day 1- Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 (ISS Stimulation: Sham Control) ratio:

      Group 1: Implantation and ISS Stimulation during five consecutive days & Standard of Care
      Group 2: Implantation and Sham Stimulation during five consecutive days & Standard of Care
      The implantation will be performed by a trained physician. Stimulation/sham stimulation will
      be delivered Day 2-5 ISS / Sham Stimulation will be repeated during the following four
      consecutive days by trained personnel within 18-26 hours from preceding stimulation.

      Day 5 / Day of Discharge. Following the last ISS /Sham Stimulation, explantation will be
      performed.

      Subjects will continue with Standard of Care as needed and will be released from the hospital
      upon investigator's judgment.

      Period 2: Day of Discharge - 90±7 days During this period both groups (ISS Stimulation and
      Sham Control) will be treated according to Standard of Care either at the hospital,
      rehabilitation center or at home.

      Scheduled visits will be performed on day 30±7 and day 60 ±7, which will include safety and
      effectiveness assessments.

      Final Visit Day 90±7 days: The final visit will be performed at the study site and will
      include safety and effectiveness evaluations.

      Patients will be contacted by study personnel via telephone on Day 180±7 and on Day 360±7 in
      order to assess their quality of life status.
    
  