
    
      Diabetes affects approximately 347 million people worldwide, and by 2030 the WHO projects
      that diabetes will be the 7th leading cause of death. Diabetic foot ulcers are estimated to
      occur in 15% of all patients with diabetes, often co-existing with neuropathy and peripheral
      vascular disease which compromise the limb's ability to heal. Foot infections in this cohort
      are common, and diabetic foot ulcers serve as a portal for infective organisms to enter the
      body. Unchecked, infection can spread contiguously to involve underlying tissues, including
      bone. A diabetic foot infection is often the pivotal event leading to gangrene and lower
      extremity amputation. Diabetes accounts for over one million leg amputations every year, and
      represents 60% of all amputations in developed countries.

      Due to the potential for rapid progression of infection, and the gravity of potential
      complications, diabetic foot problems are handled aggressively in the community, with a low
      threshold for referral to secondary care. Out-patient clinics involve a multidisciplinary
      team of clinicians, podiatrists and vascular surgeons. Good foot care is taught to all
      diabetic patients, and treatment with antibiotics, debridement and revascularisation should
      occur as a matter of urgency where appropriate.

      The device to be tested mimics the effect of walking by making the foot twitch- it increases
      blood flow to the limb and exercises the leg muscles. It is hypothesised that increasing
      blood flow to the limb, much as surgical revascularisation, will aid the legs ability to heal
      and fight infection. After training, it can be used by patients on themselves and is suitable
      for out-patient therapy.

      The investigators wish to evaluate both the short- and longer-term effects of a neuromuscular
      stimulator on diabetic foot ulceration as a therapeutic intervention.
    
  