
    
      Colonoscopy is a key technique for detection and diagnosis of Lower Gastrointestinal
      Diseases. High-quality endoscopy leads to better outcomes, However, the skill level of
      different endoscopists is quite different. The rate of missed diagnosis of colorectal
      ADENOMAS was 22%, the rate of missed diagnosis ranged from 7.4% to 52.5% . A series of
      studies showed that 12.1% of patients did not have cancer during colonoscopy but were
      diagnosed with colorectal cancer (post-colonoscopy Colorectal Cancer, PCCRC) within 5 years,
      of which 71%-86% could be attributed to the negligence of the endoscopist 6, seven.
      Therefore, it is very important to improve the quality of routine endoscopic examination
      while expanding the endoscopic technique.

      The quality control index of colonoscope can reflect the operation level of endoscopy
      doctors, and it is a very important tool to ensure the quality of colonoscope. The
      examination and feedback of the quality control data of the endoscopist can effectively
      improve the detection rate of lesions and guarantee the high level of endoscopic quality. It
      is the key to guarantee the quality of enteroscopy to put forward the quality control index
      which can reflect the quality of endoscopist operation. Barclay proposed in 2006 that there
      was a significant correlation between colonoscopy withdrawal time and the rate of Adenomas in
      patients, and their findings were published in the The New England Journal of Medicine, with
      an impact factor of 70.67. Then, there were 367 papers on the study of the speed of
      enteroscopy withdrawal. Aslinia made a retrospective analysis of the correlation between the
      incidence of blindness reached by enteroscopy and the prognosis of patients, and proposed the
      incidence of blindness reached as a quality control index for enteroscopy. Other quality
      control indicators, such as bowel cleanliness and polyp detection rate, have been published
      in international well-known journals and included in the guidelines to regulate the quality
      of daily work of endoscopic physicians, which has great clinical significance.

      However, despite the above-mentioned quality control indicators, the existing endoscopic
      quality control indicators are seriously inadequate. According to a multicenter clinical
      study, current quality control indicators only reflect about 40% of the difference in lesion
      detection levels between endoscopic physicians. The existence of this phenomenon indicated
      that more quality control indexes are needed to fully reflect the quality of endoscopic
      procedures. As a quality control index reflecting intestinal preparation, intestinal
      cleanliness is a fatal defect with strong subjectivity and poor consistency among observers,
      therefore, the existing colonoscopy need more comprehensive, objective quality control
      indicators to reflect the level of endoscopic doctors, so as to ensure the quality of
      colonoscopy.

      In the past decade, artificial intelligence (AI) has made remarkable progress in the medical
      field. Andre Esteva used a deep neural network (DNN) to classify skin cancer with
      expert-level accuracy. In the field of digestive endoscopy, the project team in the early is
      made a huge breakthrough. In 2018, the artificial intelligence gastroscopy blind spot
      monitoring model developed by the project team significantly reduced the endoscopy blind spot
      in randomized controlled clinical trials, the findings were published in the journal Gut with
      an impact factor of 17.94. In 2019, the team's artificial intelligence model for evaluating
      gut cleanliness, published in the journal gastrogastrotestinal endoscopy with an impact
      factor of 7.23, showed better picture accuracy than that of the endoscopist in the human
      computer competition. In the same year, the project developed a model for colonoscopy speed
      monitoring based on Hasche perception algorithm and a model for colonoscopy slide mirror
      monitoring based on image classification, and conducted randomized controlled clinical
      trials, the model significantly improved The ability of colonoscopists to detect lesions, The
      study was published in The Lancet Gastroenterology 18 with an impact factor of 12.87.

      Based on the above-mentioned rich foundation of early work, as well as the current great
      demand in the field of quality control of enteroscopy, we intend to validate the artificial
      intelligence-based enteroscopy exit velocity, bowel cleanliness, and enteroscopy slide model
      developed by the project team through a multi-center clinical study, to evaluate the
      feasibility and accuracy of doctor's operation quality as a quality control index.
    
  