
    
      Atrial fibrillation is a common complication of cardiac surgery which is associated with
      increased morbidity, length of stay and cost. Efforts to mitigate this problem with beta
      blockers and amiodarone have been met with limited success. Observational data suggests that
      prophylactic amiodarone has been helpful in decreasing the incidence of AF as well as
      increasing its ease of management. The opportunity to use ascorbic acid for AF prophylaxis is
      attractive because of its low side effect profile, wide acceptance and low cost.

      We have designed a prospective, randomized, controlled trial using a 2 X 2 factorial design
      to determine whether prophylactic ascorbic acid alone, ascorbic acid with amiodarone, or
      amiodarone alone, when given along with beta blockers will decrease the incidence of
      postoperative AF in adult cardiac surgery in all comers as compared with beta blockers alone.

      Patients will be randomized into four groups, A, B, C, and D. All groups will receive beta
      blockers, Group A will receive beta blockers, ascorbic acid, and amiodarone, Group B will
      receive ascorbic acid and Beta blockers, Group C will receive amiodarone and beta blockers
      and Group D will receive only beta blockers.

      Success of randomization will be assessed by comparing treatment groups with respect to
      baseline characteristics, using t-tests or their nonparametric equivalent (as appropriate)
      for continuous variables and chisquare tests or Fisher's exact tests for categorical
      variables. The primary hypotheses of the effects of ascorbic acid and amiodarone on incidence
      of atrial fibrillation will be tested using chisquare tests for differences in proportions.
      No adjustment will be made for multiple comparisons since both hypotheses are pre-specified.
      We will use exploratory analyses including stratification to assess for the possibility of
      effect modification between ascorbic acid and amiodarone. If an interaction is suggested by
      these analyses, we will use logistic regression with a cross-product term as a formal
      statistical test for interaction.
    
  