
    
      Consecutive patients in each participant units and satisfied with inclusion/exclusion
      criteria will be informed the details, right, responsibility possible benefit and potential
      risks when after join in this study. Those patients who agree and sign informed consent
      document will randomized, consecutive case series sampling.

      All the patients in the study and finished sampling would and must be recorded in the Western
      China Gastric Cancer Collaboration database and assign to corresponding treatment group.

      Randomization allocation

      After intraoperative exploration and predictively D2 radical (R0) total gastrectomy is
      possible to be performed, then assigned randomly to each subject on a 1:1 basis to either the
      Roux-en-Y+Pouch group or the Roux-en-Y group.

      Surgical treatment

      Surgical approach: open total gastrectomy. Surgical treatment method: Radical total
      gastrectomy (R0); D2 lymph-node dissection (No.1, 2, 3, 4sa, 4sb, 4d, 5, 6, 7, 8a, 9, 10,
      11p, 11d, 12a,19,20); Abscission pneumogastric nerve trunk.

      Reconstruction method:

      Group A (Roux-en-Y type): closed the stump of duodenum, cut off the jejunum from the 20cm of
      Treitz ligament, esophagojejunal anastomosis (duct-to-duct / duct-to-duct, before the
      colon/after the colon), jejunum - jejunum anastomosis (duct-to-duct / duct-to-duct), the
      distance between anastomotic were 40cm-60cm; Group B (Roux-en-Y+Pouch type): closed the stump
      of duodenum, cut off the jejunum from the 20cm of Treitz ligament, pouch reconstruction a J
      pouch with a length of 15 cm was constructed by connecting the 2 Jejunal lumina, œsophago-P
      type jejunum Storage bag anastomosis (duct-to-duct / duct-to-duct, before the colon/after the
      colon), jejunum - jejunum anastomosis (duct-to-duct / duct-to-duct), the distance between
      anastomotic were 40cm-60cm

      Quality control of surgery:

      All the surgical treatments will be performed by member of Western China Gastric Cancer
      Collaboration. Quality supervision within groups to avoid the bias.

      Intraoperative photograph after the lymphadenectomy and the reconstruction of the digestive
      tract is essential.

      Follow-up and Database

      Follow-up programming:

      Postoperative follow-up and assessment will be performed by specially researchers arrange by
      each units and blind to randomize allocation; Postoperative long term follow-up will be
      conducted in 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, 12 months, 24 months, 36 months after gastrectomy;
      Face to face interview is necessary and the postoperative quality of life questionnaire is
      done by the patients themselves.

      Management of the database:

      The design of this study database was responsible for the leading units; Each cases of this
      study should and must have a uniform case reported form, include demographic data, operation
      data, pathological information and Postoperative quality of life evaluation; A file included
      in the Case Report Form (CRF) was record follow-up information last to three years after
      surgery.

      Lost follow-up:

      Three years lost follow-up rates should below 10%. Lost follow-up rate will reported in final
      reports, and cases of lost follow-up will take the intention-to-treat (ITT) method to
      analysis.

      Statistics analysis The measurement data strictly obey normal distribution are presented as
      means (±SD) and compared with single factor analysis of variance.

      The measurement data do not obey normal distribution are presented as median and compared
      with Wilcoxon test.

      Categorical data are presented percentage and compared with the Chi-square test.
    
  