
    
      Trial Design: This trial is designed as a 1:1:1 randomized, controlled, parallel design. The
      primary endpoints are change in pain score and wound healing from baseline to 1 week from the
      study start date; secondary endpoints are change in pain score and wound healing at 6 and 10
      weeks from the study start date, defecation strain score & the patient's global impression of
      improvement at 10 weeks.

      Assessments & Visits: The patient will be assessed for pain, wound healing, strain during
      defecation, impression of improvement, & adverse events at weeks 1, 6 & 10 after the study
      start date. Trained resident or research assistant (RA) will administer the questionnaires on
      pain score, strain during defecation, & patient's global impression of improvement. During
      the follow-up visits, the average score for each of the pain & defecation strain scores will
      be taken for the 3 most recent days that the patient has defecated. The patient will be given
      a paper diary to record the pain score & strain score during defecation 3 days prior to the
      follow-up clinic visit.

      Sample Size: The investigators will design this superiority trial as three-arm trials, where
      one arm is Diltiazem, second is MEBO, & last is a combination of both. Assuming that the pain
      score difference between both treatments will be 0.5 points with a 1-point standard deviation
      on the numeric rating scale (5 for DTZ & 3 for combination arm DTZ & MEBO), & using an alpha
      of 0.05 & a power of 80%, a sample size of 47 patients in each arm is needed. After
      accounting for a 30% loss to follow up, 61 patients will need to be recruited in each arm.
      The total number of patients to be recruited in the three arms is 183 patients.

      Recruitment: At the American University of Beirut Medical Center, patients with acute anal
      fissure are treated at the outpatient center (private & outpatient clinics) of the hospital
      by all the general surgeons. The patients will be introduced to the study by their attending
      physician. If the patient agrees to participate, the RA (part of the research team) will
      approach & screen the patient according to the defined inclusion & exclusion criteria. If the
      patient is found eligible for the study, the RA will discuss the study & obtain his/her
      informed consent. The expected recruitment rate is 4 patients/week. The first 2 visits of the
      patient to the clinic at weeks 1 &6 from the start date of the study are part of clinical
      care & the patient will not be reimbursed for these visits. The last visit to the clinic that
      will take place at week 10 will be for follow-up as part of the research, so the patient and
      physician will be reimbursed for transportation and professional fees, respectively, by the
      research grant.

      ASSIGNMENT OF INTERVENTIONS

      Sequence Generation: Participants will be randomly assigned to their treatment in a 1:1:1
      ratio, according to a computer-generated schedule, stratified by type of treatment (MEBO or
      DTZ), using permuted blocks of variable sizes.

      Allocation Concealment Mechanism: Random sequence generation will be selected by CRI
      biostatistician using computer software. The CRI person will hold details of the blocking &
      block sizes in a separate document unavailable to those involved in the study so ensure
      allocation concealment. The CRI person will not share the treatment intervention with study
      personnel until baseline characteristics are collected, & the patient is recruited into the
      trial. The physician will contact the CRI biostatistician & receive treatment allocation, so
      he/she can prescribe the ointment to which the patient is randomized to.

      Implementation: The CRI biostatistician, who is not involved in this study, will generate the
      randomization sequence & keep hold of it. The patient will be recruited & consented without
      any knowledge about their allocation arm. The allocation will be revealed only to the
      physician to administer the treatment.

      Blinding: The physician & the patient will not be blinded to the allocation, but the rest of
      the study team will be blinded. It is difficult to blind the physician or patient because of
      the characteristic smell of MEBO that is easily recognizable. Also blinded to allocation is
      the physician who will assess for outcomes, the RA who are collecting the data, & data
      analyst.

      DATA COLLECTION, MANAGEMENT, & ANALYSIS

      Data Collection Methods: Data on basic demographics of the study subjects, relevant risk
      factors, confounders, & indication for the type of treatment will be collected at baseline
      using protocol-specific standardized case report forms (CRF). The CRF will be completed by
      the RA directly from patients, following informed consent & prior to the administration of
      treatment. The different sections of that data will be collected at the different points in
      time of the study by questionnaires administered by the study RA to the patient. Evaluators
      are requested to fill immediately a case report form each time an outcome evaluation on a
      study subject is performed. These forms will be handed in the same setting to the RA who will
      take care of storing them. To improve retention & compliance to the study, the investigators
      will contact the patient ahead of time, & help schedule their clinic visits on time to
      collect the outcomes. When a patient fails to comply with the follow-up exams, the
      investigators will collect applicable data on the phone (Appendix C). For those who drop from
      the study, the investigators will analyze their basic demographic & disease data to determine
      whether or not those are similar to those who stayed on the study.

      Data Management: The RA will enter the data from the CRFs on the study data excel sheet
      within 1 week of its collection. The data will be manually entered twice & independently by
      the RA & another member of the study team. Data will be entered as the actual numeric values
      or categorical variables, initially. In the end, the statistician will code all the data in
      preparation for analysis. The principal investigator (PI) will perform spot checks on the
      data & will review weekly all the CRF & assessment collection sheets performed within each
      week. At AUBMC, data will be stored on the AUB intranet server on the PI's computer. All
      research members will have access to the data. The Case Report Forms will be stored in a
      locked cabinet in the PI office 3 years following the publication of study results. The
      investigators will provide an SOP detailing data management procedure to ensure consistency
      in case of a change in the study members. Audits will be performed monthly on 20% of the
      charts.

      Statistical Methods: the investigators will compare the three arms for the primary,
      secondary, & exploratory outcomes. The investigators will use the chi-square or Fischer exact
      test if the expected count of any of the outcomes is less than 5 per cell for analysis of the
      incidence of categorical outcomes (like wound healing). The investigators will use the
      independent t-test for analysis of the continuous outcomes (like pain score, defecation
      strain score, Patient's Global Impression of Improvement). The investigators will calculate
      relative risk with corresponding 95% confidence intervals to compare the incidence of the
      categorical outcomes while reporting a difference in means for the continuous outcomes. SPSS
      version 20 will be used to conduct the analysis. A 2 sided p-value will be set at 5%. The
      univariate analysis will be performed separately for the two primary outcomes & the three
      secondary outcomes at weeks 1, 6 & 10. Multivariate analysis for change in pain score & wound
      healing will be performed using linear regression and logistic regression respectively,
      controlling for age, gender, duration of the anal fissure since presentation, analgesic
      medications intake (only with pain score), defecation strain score. The investigators will
      perform both ITT & PP analysis for all outcome measures. The ITT analysis will include all
      patients randomized per arm. In case of failure of treatment in one of the arms, those who
      will switch to another arm will be still analyzed as part of the arm initially randomized to.
      Multiple imputation methods will be used to handle missing data. To assess the effect of
      missing data on the analysis, sensitivity analyses will be performed. The study
      biostatistician will perform the best case scenario, worst-case scenario, & group averages.
      The investigators will assess the baseline characteristics of those who will be lost to
      follow up, which would help understand what were the potential outcomes.

      DATA MONITORING

      Data Monitoring Committee: The DMC will be independent of the PI & funders of the trial &
      composed of a surgeon, an internist, a nurse, a biostatistician, & a representative from the
      patient advocacy office at AUBMC. The internist will have a clinical research background. The
      nurse is chosen from the inpatient floors, to make sure that there is no interaction with
      study subjects. All members should not have any conflict of interest related to the study.
      The DMC will be chaired by the internist, who has to keep a record of the meetings &
      recommendations for future reference. Since this is an investigator-initiated trial, the PI
      will appoint the DMC members. The DMC will meet every other month, at times of scheduled
      interim analysis, & upon conclusion of the study. The primary role of the DMC is to review
      accumulating data & alert the steering committee if there are alarming rates of side effects
      (SE) in any arm of the trial. This committee doesn't have executive power to stop the trial
      or modify treatment. The committee will report results to the PI. In addition, the DMC will
      keep track of the accrual rate.

      Interim Analysis: The interim analysis will be done 3 times throughout the study; upon
      recruiting quarter, two-quarters, & three-quarters of the study population. The study
      biostatistician who is blind to the treatment allocations will conduct the interim analysis &
      will use the O'Brien Fleming stopping rules. The study biostatistician will report the
      results of the interim analysis to the DMC confidentially. At each interim-analysis
      interpretation, the DMC will alert the PI if one arm is found to be beyond doubt either more
      beneficial or more harmful than the other arm. The PI will take into consideration the
      results of the interim analysis, opinion of the DMC, & various important factors to decide
      upon the fate of the trial. The chairperson of the DMC will monitor the ClinicalTrials.gov
      website for registration of new trials & for newly reported results from trials addressing
      the similar questions as this trial.

      Harms: The adverse effects can be part of the outcome measures detailed earlier in the
      protocol or other not specified SEs. Either way, any SE will be reported & the subject will
      be managed according to the standard of care or the preference of the treating physician. In
      case any adverse effects arise outside scheduled follow-up time, the patient will be seen by
      the treating physician in an extra add-on visit. Those who fail (meaning those who do not
      report any pain improvement after two weeks of treatment) from either the MEBO or the
      Diltiazem arm will be switched to the combination arm. If these patients also fail to improve
      after 2 weeks on the combination arm, then the patient will be offered surgery. If the
      patient refuses to switch to the combination arm & wishes to proceed to surgery immediately,
      then the patient will be directed to surgery. In case of failure of the treatment, which is
      after 6 weeks of treatment, the patient will undergo surgery. The patient may also undergo
      surgery in case he/she decides to stop medical therapy during the treatment period & proceed
      to surgery. There is no standard for the risk of failure of topical therapy to necessitate
      surgery. Hence, the risk of failure cannot be evaluated with the use of MEBO.

      The primary physician who is treating the patient will be responsible for the management of
      the SEs.
    
  