
    
      Aim of the study:

        1. To develop video-based tutorials to train ANMs/ASHAs/PHWs in conducting cervical cancer
           related health education, screening for cervical cancers using VIA, collection of PAP
           smears and HPV samples.

        2. To reduce the training time required by an expert to train ANMs/ASHA/PHWs as compared to
           the traditional training methods.

        3. To evaluate the efficacy of the training tool by conducting a pre-test and post-test and
           practical test for lesion identification.

        4. To assess the satisfaction levels of ANMs/ASHAs/PHWs for learning through video-based
           tutorials.

      Methodology:

      A. Creating the Tutorials

      1) The video-based tutorials will be created with the help of domain experts, Content
      generators and Animators.

      B. Conducting the Training

        1. TMH will recruit Medical Social Workers and Health Workers to provide training to 50
           ANMs/ASHAs/PHWs at their own centres.

        2. The training will be staggered into different modules, and will be completed for each
           trainee over a period of approximately 3 months.

      The investigators will also obtain images after due permissions, of the clinic, preparations
      for examination like arrangements of trolleys, preparation of dilute acetic acid, etc. and
      the cervical pictures/ videos of the patients before and after VIA after obtaining due
      consents (there will be no revealing of identity) to aid the animation and the tutorials.

      The effectiveness of the tutorials will be checked by a pre- and post- tutorial assessment
      quiz.

      Sample Size and power estimates:

      For this study, sampling method is a convenience sample of 50 ANMs/ASHAs/PHWs attached to the
      TMC, District, Municipal Hospitals and PHCs who have not learned VIA based cervical cancer
      screening before.

      Three MSWs will be appointed to co-ordinate with the respective officials of BMC, State
      Government, District hospitals etc. and explain the importance of the project.

      The Social Workers will approach different BMC hospitals in Mumbai and PHCs and district
      hospitals around Mumbai to relieve their ANMs/ASHAs/PHWs to participate in this training.
      Newly recruited PHWs in the Preventive Oncology projects will also be enrolled for this
      training.

        1. Pre training knowledge about various aspects of cervical cancer viz., causes, various
           cervical cancer screening techniques, steps required to perform VIA etc.

        2. The satisfaction level and feed back of the trainees with the course provided.

        3. Improvement in the Post training knowledge about various aspects of cervical cancer
           viz., causes, various cervical cancer screening techniques, steps required to perform
           VIA etc.

           These will be measured with the help of test scores. Each question in the test will have
           marks assigned to it based on difficulty level. (Easy 1 mark, Intermediate 2 marks, Hard
           3 marks, Very hard 4 marks). The ANMs will be assigned marks depending on the number of
           correct responses.

           The ANMs will have to take the tests before the training, immediately after the
           training, and three months after the training is complete.

           The satisfaction level with the mode of teaching will be done on a survey based on a
           likert scale.

        4. Ability to correctly identify a VIA positive lesion.

      This will be measured based on marks they score during the tests and assignments, where they
      will do an image based diagnosis of 15 VIA cases. This will also be scored based on
      observation sessions they will have with a doctor who performs VIA on 10 patients. They will
      be assessed based on the number of correct identifications of VIA lesions.

      Data entry and analysis:

      Data entry will be done in IIT Bombay and in the Department of Preventive Oncology, Tata
      Memorial Hospital, using SPSS version 18. Checks for consistency, data safety and analysis
      will be carried out at regular intervals. Both descriptive and inferential statistics will be
      generated for describing variables under the study objectives.

      Agreement of test scores, pre-training and post-training will be estimated using kappa
      statistics.
    
  