
    
      Docetaxel is a drug approved for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer in patients who
      are either newly diagnosed or have failed earlier chemotherapy. RAD001 is an investigational
      drug that has shown to have anticancer properties. It also works by weakening the immune
      system. RAD001 works by blocking some of the steps required for cancer growth. The researcher
      hopes that RAD001 may increase the anticancer activity of docetaxel.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a complete medical history and physical exam. Blood (between 1-2
      teaspoons) will be collected for routine tests. You will have scans (MRI or CT) to check on
      the status of your cancer as ordered by your primary physician. Women who are able to have
      children must have a negative blood pregnancy test. As part of the study researchers will
      also look at the tissue of your original cancer. Special stains will be done that will help
      find ways in which researchers can predict the response of your cancer to RAD001.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive docetaxel by
      vein on Day 1 over one hour. RAD001 will be given by mouth on Days 1 and 8. RAD 001 will be
      given on an empty stomach or after a light meal. You will repeat this treatment every 21
      days. Three (3 ) weeks equals 1 cycle.

      Patients who participate on the first part of this study will be enrolled in groups of 3 at a
      time. The dose of RAD001 will be increased with each new group of patients. The dose of
      docetaxel will remain the same. The second part of the study will be using the highest dose
      of RAD001 and docetaxel that was found to be safe and effective during the first part of the
      study. (***Study did not progress to second part.***)

      Dexamethasone will be given by mouth twice a day for 3 days, starting the day before you
      receive docetaxel. Dexamethasone helps decrease the risk of and control nausea, vomiting, and
      fluid retention.

      Blood (between 1-2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests at each visit. X-rays and scans
      (CT or MRI) will be done every 6 weeks to see if the tumor is responding to treatment.

      After 6 cycles of the combination, docetaxel will be stopped and you will continue to take
      RAD001 alone. However, you may be able to take more than 6 cycles of the combination if you
      are not having any side effects and is found to be of benefit by your primary doctor.

      Once you go off treatment, you will have a physical exam, including routine blood tests (1-2
      teaspoons).

      This is an investigational study. Docetaxel is approved by the FDA and commercially available
      for the treatment of breast cancer. RAD001 is authorized for use in research only. About 65
      patients will take part in the study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  