
    
      The goal of the proposed study is to examine the impact of exercise training on cognitive
      functioning in people with schizophrenia. People with schizophrenia display a broad range of
      cognitive impairments that have been identified as major determinants of poor functional
      outcome and disability, thus representing an important public health concern and a target for
      interventions. At present, available treatments offer only minimal to limited benefits to
      ameliorate these deficits. Extensive animal and human research literatures converge in
      supporting the positive influence of aerobic exercise training on cognitive functioning.
      Preliminary data indicate that aerobic exercise training is effective in improving cognitive
      functioning in people with schizophrenia. However, previous studies employed small samples,
      focused on a single or limited range of cognitive domains, and/or collected insufficient
      information on daily functioning or putative biomarkers underlying cognitive change.
      Supported by supplement funding from NIMH, the goal of the proposed study is also to explore
      the impact of exercise training on suicide risk in individuals with schizophrenia. People
      with schizophrenia are at increased risk for suicide, with approximately 40-50% of
      individuals attempting to take their own lives during their lifetime, and an estimated 5-10%
      actually being successful in completing suicide. This highly elevated risk represents a
      serious public health concern and an important target for interventions. However, available
      treatments offer only minimal to limited benefits to ameliorate this risk. Extensive animal
      and human research literatures converge in supporting the positive influence of AE training
      on a number of predictors of suicide risk including depressed mood, sleep difficulties, and
      poor cognition. Yet, at present there are no studies directly examining the impact of AE on
      suicide risk in this population.
    
  