
    
      The long-term goal is to develop effective ways to improve glycemic control in youth with
      T1D. To that end, we propose to specifically evaluate the effectiveness, feasibility, and
      usability of two new interventions in diabetes care: an automated meal detection and patient
      engagement device to promote meal-time insulin dosing behavior (AIM2DOSE) and an economic
      incentive (COIN2DOSE) to promote patient engagement with mealtime insulin dosing behavior. If
      initially efficacious, our results will serve as the basis for an R01 submission(s) to
      conduct a fully powered efficacy trial of AIM2DOSE and COIN2DOSE. This study is significant
      as omission of mealtime boluses is one of the common reasons for suboptimal diabetes control
      in youth. This project is highly innovative because it will: 1) target youth who are
      predicted by artificial intelligence to experience a worsening in glycemic control, 2) use a
      just-in-time intervention to improve mealtime insulin dosing behavior, and 3) use an economic
      incentive intervention to improve mealtime insulin dosing behavior.

      Study Design The study is an unblinded, 3-arm, randomized, controlled trial. After successful
      screening and consent, individuals will wear a blinded Dexcom G6 Pro CGM inserted 1 week
      after consent. . At the baseline visit (visit 1; day 1), participants will be randomized to
      the AIM2DOSE, COIN2DOSE, or control treatment arms and will be trained on the procedures
      appropriate to their treatment arm. . Participants will also complete baseline measures by
      questionnaire. Participants will complete procedures specific to their treatment arm weekly.
      Visit 2 will occur after 12 weeks (90 days). Participants will stop any treatment
      interventions after this visit. A1C and questionnaire measures will be completed, and
      participants will again wear the Dexcom G6 Pro CGM for 10 days (the device will be returned
      by mail post-visit). Participants will receive no treatment intervention from week 13 to week
      24. Participants will return for visit 3 at week 24. Again, A1C and questionnaire measures
      will be completed and participants will wear the Dexcom G6 Pro CGM for 10 days.

      All study participants will also have the option to participate in a focus group discussion
      (FGD) on general AI ethical issues (control group) or intervention experiences (intervention
      group).

      Parents of children who meet inclusion criteria may also elect to participate in a focus
      group.

      Study Visits Study visits may occur in-person or remotely (i.e., from home). Procedures will
      be adapted to accommodate both scenarios.

      Individuals who have been predicted via an artificial intelligence-intelligence based model
      to experience a rise in A1C in the near future (90 days) will be approached for recruitment.
      36 participants will be recruited from the Children's Mercy Diabetes Center (any clinic or
      hospital location). Based on preliminary data review of our clinic population, there were at
      least 81 individuals who met inclusion criteria who were seen in clinic in the month of May
      2019 alone. Patients will be randomized to AIM2DOSE, COIN2DOSE, or control group using a
      1:1:1 randomization scheme.

      Intervention:

      To identify an at-risk population for more intensive intervention opportunities, the
      Children's Mercy Diabetes Center now routinely uses a validated prediction model based on
      advanced machine learning (random forest method) and natural language processing to identify
      individuals who are predicted experience a rise in A1C in the next 90 days. The model
      analyzes all patients who presented for a diabetes visit in the prior week. To accomplish
      this task, the complete health record for the CMH Diabetes Center registry is analyzed. We
      will select patients from this cohort for recruitment into the present study.

      AIM2DOSE intervention: The intervention consists of a Klue app that currently works with the
      Apple Watch. Users of the app must wear the watch on their dominant hand. The app constantly
      evaluates the movement of each participant's dominant hand by analyzing signals from the
      accelerometer and gyroscope in the device. By evaluating a real-time accelerometer and
      gyroscope data, the app can accurately identify repetitive movements that are consistent with
      eating. The software detects nearly 100% of meals within the first five minutes with very few
      false positives. Furthermore, the app correctly distinguishes between sips and bites 98% of
      the time. This novel use of a commonly available "health wearable" has not previously been
      reported as an adjunct to diabetes care in youth.

      COIN2DOSE intervention: From one-week post-randomization to the 12-week study visit, youth
      randomized to this treatment arm will receive personalized feedback via monetary incentives
      for dosing insulin at mealtimes. We will define mealtimes based on hour of the day and the
      presence of a carbohydrate entry associated with the insulin bolus. Breakfast will be
      0600-1000, lunch will be 1100-1500, and dinner will be 1600-2000. Thus, we will reimburse
      youth per mealtime with at least one meal-associated (carbohydrate-associated) insulin bolus
      completed. We will offer the opportunity for youth to earn a bonus reimbursement for weeks
      during which they achieve at least 5 days of 3 mealtime insulin boluses. Finally, we will pay
      youth per week for sharing their insulin use data at least two times per week with the study
      team during the three-month treatment phase.
    
  