
    
      Patients were randomly allocated into 3 groups. Group 1 is control group. Group 2 is
      Classical Turkish Music group. Group 3 will be organized as a group listening continuously
      (Preoperative and peroperative) Classical Turkish Music (Acemaşiran Makam). Voluntary
      patients, patients without hearing problems, patients between the ages of 18 and 40, and
      patients without music phobia will be included in the study. Patients who do not want to
      participate in the study, patients with hearing problems, and patients outside the 18-40 age
      range will not be included in the study. Once the Control group has been taken to the
      patient's room, the vessel way will be prepared for operation and will be kept waiting for
      one hour. Then blood will be taken to evaluate the oxidative stress parameters (Superoxide
      Dysmotase, Catalase, Glutathione Peroxidase, Myeloperoxidase, Malondialdehyde, Nitric Oxide,
      Thiol Disulfide levels) and taken to the operation room. Group 2 patients will be taken to
      the patient's rest room and will listen to music with an MP3 headset for 1 hour. Patient's
      blood will be taken to assess the oxidative stress parameters and taken to the operation
      room. Group 3 will listen Turkish Classical Music for 1 hour in patient room, vein path will
      be opened, Patient's blood will be taken with the aim of evaluating oxidative stress
      parameters and taken to the operation room. The patients will listen to music throughout the
      operation. All patients included in the study (Gr.1, Gr.2, Gr.3 patients) will use
      remifentanil 0.5 mcg / kg, propofol 1 mg / kg on induction after taken to the operating
      table. Hemodynamics (Systolic Blood Pressure, Diastolic Blood Pressure, Heart Rate, Oxygen
      Saturation, Mean arterial pressure) and body movements of all patients included in the study
      will be recorded. Additional anesthesia and analgesia needs will be recorded during the
      operation at 1,3,5,7,10,15 minutes. Blood and follicle fluid will be taken with the aim of
      comparing the values of Oxidative Stress Parameters in blood and follicular fluid at the end
      of the operation of all the patients in the three groups included in the study. Hemodynamics
      follow-up and pain follow-ups will be recorded at 1,5,15,30, and 60 minutes in the
      postoperative resting rooms of the patients after the operation. VAS will be used for pain
      recording. The analgesic needs of the patients will be met. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      drugs will be administered to patients for postoperative analgesia. The pre-and
      post-operative oxidative stress parameters in patients blood will be compared and the
      oxidative stress parameter values of the follicular fluid of the patients after the operation
      will be compared in the three groups.
    
  