
    
      One mechanism proposed for P-APS is an early inflammatory process characterized by macrophage
      activation in both the dorsal root ganglia and peripheral nerve occurring shortly after
      paclitaxel therapy. Morphologic alterations in DRG satellite cells have been noted and
      upregulation of proinflammatory cytokines have been hypothesized as early events in the
      development of neuropathy. Therefore, it is possible that paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain
      may be mediated by pro-inflammatory cytokines. If P-APS and chronic neuropathy are indeed
      part of a continuum, the inflammatory pathway would be a reasonable target for therapy. While
      the mechanism of how paclitaxel leads to the development of neuropathy is still not
      understood, it has been hypothesized that its microtubule-stabilizing effects disrupt axonal
      transport. Intervention with an agent that is both anti-inflammatory as well as
      neuroprotective is therefore worth exploring.

      Long chain omega-3 fatty acids eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA),
      are common dietary supplements. They have well established anti-inflammatory properties which
      serve as the basis for their use in therapeutic trials in inflammatory conditions. Omega -3
      fatty acids consumption can attenuate the production of pro-inflammatory metabolites. In
      addition, it can generate local mediators that facilitate resolution of inflammation. Thus,
      if P-APS is indeed mediated by inflammation, the anti-inflammatory activity of omega 3 fatty
      acids may be one mechanism to prevent P-APS. Additionally, given its well established safety
      profile, it may be an attractive alternative to NSAIDS.

      A dose of at least 2.7 g/day of EPA and DHA have been reported to have analgesic effects in
      inflammatory conditions. The dose of 4 g/day is an FDA-approved dose of omega 3 fatty acids
      (Lovaza) for the treatment of hypertriglyceridemia and has a well-documented toxicity
      profile. On the basis of this, a dose of 4 g/day was selected for this study. Lovaza
      (omega-3-acid ethyl esters) capsules will be used. Each 1-gram capsule contains approximately
      465 mg EPA and 375 mg DHA.
    
  