
    
      Women diagnosed with cancer have to make time-pressured decisions regarding fertility
      preservation with specialist fertility services whilst planning their cancer treatment with
      oncology services. Oncologists identify a need for resources enabling them to support women's
      fertility preservation decisions more effectively; and women report wanting more specialist
      information to make these choices across service pathways. This research will develop a new
      evidence-based patient decision aid (PDA) to address this unmet need and evaluate its
      acceptability to women and services when integrated into usual cancer care pathways at the
      point of cancer diagnosis and treatment planning.

      The objectives are to:

        1. Develop a PDA for use by oncology teams to support women making fertility preservation
           choices, whilst having a recent cancer diagnosis.

        2. Assess the validity of the PDA to support women making informed decisions about
           fertility preservation before starting their cancer treatment.

        3. Evaluate the acceptability of the PDA to a) women making fertility preservation
           decisions whilst planning their cancer treatment and b) oncology and fertility health
           professionals supporting women's oncology and fertility treatment choices.

      This research employs a series of prospective, observational surveys, employing both
      quantitative and qualitative methods to develop and evaluate the PDA.

      Data will be collected during 5 time points:

        1. Face validity stage- The purpose of this stage is to assess the face validity of the PDA
           from women and health professionals. Qualitative and quantitative data collection will
           aim to explore understanding, the purpose of the PDA, and views on its utility.

        2. Evaluation Stage Baseline- Quantitative data collected from eligible women following
           their initial treatment planning consultation. Questionnaires are completed prior to
           reading the PDA.

        3. Evaluation Stage Time 1- Quantitative data collected from eligible women on arrival to
           their appointment at the Assisted Conception Unit (ACU). For those women who decide not
           to attend their appointment with the fertility expert the questionnaires will be either
           posted or handed to them at their next oncology appointment for completion, at the same
           time point.

        4. Evaluation Stage Time 2a- Quantitative data collected from eligible women following
           completion of their first round of chemotherapy.

        5. Evaluation Stage Time 2b- Qualitative interview data collected from eligible women
           following completion of their first round of chemotherapy, and from health
           professionals.
    
  