
    
      If a participant agrees to participate in this study she will be asked to undergo some
      screening tests or procedures to confirm that she is eligible. Many of these tests and
      procedures are likely to be part of regular cancer care and may be done even if turns out
      that she does not take part in this research study. If she has had some of these tests or
      procedures recently, they may or may not have to be repeated. These tests and procedures will
      include: a medical history, performance status, assessment of your tumor, blood tests,
      cardiac tests, pregnancy test and a collection of tumor tissue. If these tests show that she
      is eligible to participate in the research study, she will begin the study treatment. If she
      does not meet the eligibility criteria, she will not be able to participate in this research
      study.

      Because no one knows which of the study options is best, the participant will be "randomized"
      into one of the study groups after she has had her breast surgery: Group 1 or Group 2.
      Randomization means that she is put into a group by chance. Neither the participant nor the
      research doctor will choose what group she will be in. The participant will have a one in
      three chance of being placed in any group. Approximately 375 study participants will receive
      the study drug, while 125 study participants will receive the standard therapy of trastuzumab
      and paclitaxel.

      Group 1 participants will receive the study drug T-DM1 every three weeks by IV (intravenous
      injection) for 17 treatments (total of 51 weeks).

      Group 2 participants will receive the FDA-approved drugs Paclitaxel and Trastuzumab once per
      week by IV for 12 weeks. Then beginning week 13, participants will receive Trastuzumab only
      by IV injection every three weeks for the next 13 treatments.

      During all cycles the participant will have a physical exam and tumor assessment.

      The investigators would like to keep track of the participant's medical condition for the
      next five years after the final dose of study drug. The investigators would like to do this
      by regular visits every 6 months for 3 years after completion of study treatment, and then
      once a year for the next two years. The investigators may ask for additional follow-up by
      phone after completion of these visits.

      Participants who undergo lumpectomy (breast conserving surgery) need to receive breast
      radiation therapy to participate in this study. Participants who have undergone a mastectomy
      may receive chest wall and lymph node radiation (as determined by discussion with their
      physician). Radiation Therapy will begin after the conclusion of all study paclitaxel doses,
      and after 12 weeks fo the study drug T-DM1.
    
  