
    
      Multi-resistant bacteria (MRB) are associated with high antibiotic consumption and designated
      by WHO as one of the major threats to the world. In Denmark, the incidence of MRB is
      generally increasing, and every 20th patient admitted to Danish Emergency Department (ED), is
      infected with resistant bacteria. Respiratory tract infection is a serious condition, with 3
      million death worldwide every year, and about 20-40% of the patients with community-acquired
      pneumonia need hospitalization. Data from the ED at Hospital Sønderjylland shows that 6% of
      the patients are registered with a respiratory tract infection, including pneumonia.
      Treatment of pneumonia should be initiated within a few hours, therefore early and precise
      diagnostic is extremely important. An imprecise or delayed diagnostic will often result in
      overconsumption of broad-spectrum antibiotics, contributing to an increase in the development
      of MRB threatening future treatments possibilities. Currently, pneumonia diagnosis is based
      on clinical symptoms such as cough, expectoration, chest pain, fever or breathlessness,
      combined with an x-ray of the lungs, relevant blood tests and microbiological analyses of
      sputum samples. However, X-ray is an imprecise diagnostic tool, and sputum test responses are
      first available after 2 days. Thus, the diagnostic is challenged by unspecific symptoms,
      unsure diagnostic methods and prolonged waiting time for results of up to several days.
      Sputum can be cultivated to determine the bacterial agent. However, the sputum samples are
      often of poor quality and many patients cannot deliver a sample. A recently published Danish
      study shows, that only half of the patients at the ED have sputum samples collected for
      culturing and none of them had their antibiotic treatment adjusted based on the
      microbiological results of the sputum. Despite, the use of different microbiological analysis
      methods to detect bacteria or virus causative of pneumonia, common to the methods is that a
      representative specimen from the lower respiratory tract is crucial for optimal sensitivity
      and specificity. Despite technological advances in molecular diagnostics, identifying the
      etiology of pneumonia remains a challenge. Consequently, identification of optimal sputum
      collecting method and investigation of an alternative sputum analyses assessment is needed to
      improve specimens' suitability to identify the etiology of pneumonia.

      Clinical experience indicates that an inhalation mask with saline solution can induce a
      successful sputum sampling. Tracheal suction is often used on intubated patients in the
      intensive care unit to collect sputum, and this method has become the standard procedure at
      several ED. A compartion of the two methods has not been investigated in an ED context nor
      has the quality of the collected sputum samples and relevance for clinical practice been
      explored.

      Ensuring the optimal sputum collection is of particular relevance during the COVID-19
      pandemic. An optimal sputum collection is important to be able to determine if the pneumonia
      is caused by SARS-CoV-2 or a bacterium - especially in situations where the swab from throat
      or pharynx presents a negative result, as the method is not sensitive enough to rule out
      COVID-19 in patients with pneumonia. Accordingly, the Health Board in Denmark recommends
      tracheal suction of patients admitted with suspected COVID-19 in case of symptoms of the
      lower respiratory tract, and only in cases the symptoms originates from the upper airways a
      swab can be performed

      1.1 Hypothesis and purpose The hypotheses is that methods without suction (forced expiratory
      technique and induced sputum) are just as effective as tracheal suction for obtaining a
      representative specimen from the lower respiratory tract..

      The purpose of this study is to determine the most optimal method for obtaining high-quality
      sputum samples.

      Following research questions will be explored:

        1. What is the difference between the conventional sampling by tracheal suction comparing
           to sampling using forced expiratory or induced sputum techniques in relation to
           suitablity of collected speciments from the lower repiratory tract

        2. What is the difference between quantitative and semi-quantative culture methods in
           relation to the density of the specimens and the pathogens identified.

        3. Identification of possible adverse events during sputum collection

      Collection of sputum and adverse events After consent, the patient will be randomized in two
      groups with 1:1 allocation using permuting blocks. The software tool 'Randomized' offered by
      Open Patient data Explorative Network (OPEN) will be used.

      ORGANIZATION The project is anchored in the Research unit of Emergency Medicine, the ED of
      Hospital Sønderjylland and the Department of Regional Health Research, University of Southern
      Denmark. The project is a research collaboration between clinicians and researchers in the
      field of emergency medicine and microbiology at Hospital Sønderjylland (SHS) and Odense
      University Hospital (OUH).
    
  