
    
      In the experiment group, when suspicious parathyroid glands or lymph nodes were observed, a
      22 G needle was applied for in situ puncture at a 45 degree angle. The needle was initially
      thrust into the gland for 0.2 mm, and then we advanced the needle for another 0.2mm while
      gently withdrawing the plunger of the syringe and maintaining negative pressure. At this
      point, there has parathyroid tissue been adsorbed in the needle. Repeat this process in two
      different directions to guarantee the simple volume.

      When cell smears finished, the smears were fixed in stationary liquid within 2-4 seconds for
      5-20 seconds, and then Diff-Quik (DQ) staining technique was proceeded for rapid
      identification using Diff-Quik staining kit according to the instruction. After the following
      Diff-quick staining for 30 seconds, we can make out parathyroid cells and lymph nodes under
      high power microscope.

      In addition,PTH immunochromatographic assay kit can also be used for parathyroid glands
      detection. Using indicator paper to dip to the punctured tissue, the existance of parathyroid
      glands could be ensured.

      HE (Hematoxylin and Eosin) staining was used for pathological verification of suspicious
      nodes found during surgery. The suspicious nodes occurred in surgery were isolated and fixed
      with 4% paraformaldehyde for 12 h, embedded in parafﬁn and cut into 3-µm serial sections.
      Corresponding sections were stained with hematoxylin (BASO Diagnostics Inc. Zhuhai) for 10
      min at room temperature. Then, sections were washed with running water. Subsequently,
      sections were washed with Scott promote blue liquid for 1 min, 1% hydrochloric acid alcohol
      differentiation liquid for 20 s, and Scott promote blue liquid for 1 min. Then, sections were
      stained with eosin (BASO Diagnostics Inc. Zhuhai) for 30 s. Sections were washed with running
      water and sealed for observation. Finally, sections were observed by Image-Pro Plus 5.0
      software (Media Cybernetics, Inc., Bethesda, MD, USA).
    
  