
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Coronary artery bypass surgery, or CABS, is one of the most common surgical procedures for
      treating patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). A significant number of patients have
      accelerated atherosclerosis in the postsurgical period and require second and third
      operations. Moreover, relative to standard medical care, CABS does little to prolong life.
      The major benefit of the procedure is improving life quality. Thus, to enhance this major
      benefit of CABS, it is important to understand the factors, psychosocial as well as
      biological, that might enhance quality of life after CABS. The few available studies on the
      psychosocial aspects of recovery from CABS suggest that person variables evident prior to
      surgery are related to postsurgery quality of life. Of special interest here are gender,
      optimism, Type A, with its component behavior of hostility, and repressive style. The
      significance of these attributes derives from their theoretical and empirical relationships
      to the patient's illness representations and correspondent coping responses, and/or their
      relationship to risk for coronary heart disease (CHD). In addition to person variables, a
      number of environmental variables might also be expected to play a role in recovery.
      Variables such as socioeconomic status (SES), major life events, and quantity and quality of
      social support systems have all been shown to impact on health and illness. Moreover, from a
      slightly different perspective, the patient's illness itself can serve as an environmental
      variable impinging on the life of the person providing the primary support. Thus, it is also
      important to understand how the patient's illness impacts on the provider of the primary
      support.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      A total of 305 patients between the ages of 25 and 70 scheduled for elective surgery at a
      major local hospital were evaluated two weeks prior to surgery on the day prior to surgery,
      and one week, six months, and two and a half years postsurgery. Primary support persons were
      evaluated three times--at intake, six months postsurgery, and two and a half years
      postsurgery. Medical information was obtained that permitted examination of the influences of
      psychosocial variables on recovery. Major personality variables under investigation were
      optimism, Type A, hostility, gender, repressive style, and to a lesser extent, anxiety, and
      neuroticism. Major environmental variables included quality and quantity of social support
      and availability of a primary support person. Main outcome variables for patients included
      satisfaction with different life domains, depression, return to work, normalization of life
      style, and new and recurrent morbidity. Main outcome variables for the support person
      included perceptions of burden, depression, and life satisfaction.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  