
    
      It is widely known that physicians have rates of suicide that are far higher than in other
      professions: 70% higher for men and 250-400% higher for women. While the reasoning behind why
      this occurs has not been well elucidated, physicians do face some unique challenges including
      the responsibilities of the lives of others, a duty to always uphold the highest level of a
      moral and ethical standard, as well as being faced with both physical and emotional
      exhaustion. Trainees in particular seem at risk due to the rigors of the job in addition to
      the stress of the rapid expansion of the physical and emotional expectations put upon them.

      To the investigator's knowledge, there has yet to be any study that has shown any beneficial
      outcomes regarding burnout using a small group curriculum among physician trainees that also
      encompasses analysis of the effect of an intervention on the emotional development of
      trainees. However, there has been a randomized trial on the effect of small groups for junior
      attendings that showed decreased rates of depersonalization, emotional exhaustion, and
      physician burnout in the intervention group. The implications of such programs on the trainee
      population could result in decreased levels of physician/ trainee burnout, depression, and
      potentially even suicide, aside from providing trainees with a sense of increased job
      satisfaction.

      While many people in the scientific community judge the success of a physician by their
      medical achievements and diagnostic acumen, many patients judge the successes of their
      doctors based on empathy, communication, and bedside manner. While many resources exist to
      teach residents about the science of medicine, there does not exist to my knowledge a
      standardized curriculum to teach residents about the humanistic side of medicine and the
      importance of emotional development. Implementing such a curriculum could provide exactly
      what is missing from formal residency training as it stands now. Such a program that could be
      easily adapted to a large number of trainees would seem to be beneficial and also be in line
      with the ACGME's core competencies intended for residents to improve on patient care,
      professionalism, and interpersonal communication.

      Peer support and teamwork seem like logical coping mechanisms for a vulnerable population
      that can feel isolated, such as physician trainees. The study aims to elucidate whether the
      peer-facilitated READ-SG method is effective at reducing burnout, as assessed by the Maslach
      Burnout Inventory, the gold standard in the field of assessing burnout, as well as to gauge
      the perceived effect of each session on participants' professional development and symptoms
      of burnout.
    
  