
    
      The long-term goal of this research program is to improve speech-language outcomes in
      prelingually deaf children who receive CIs. The objective of this proposal is to investigate
      the short-term effects of a novel working memory training program on memory, learning, and
      speech-language outcomes in children with CIs. The specific hypothesis of this project is
      that completion of a behaviorally-based training program designed to increase working memory
      capacity will improve attention, working memory span, and working memory-related
      speech-language processing in a group of deaf children with CIs. This hypothesis is based on
      past research demonstrating the efficacy of working memory training programs in improving
      attention and working memory in children with attention deficits, as well as on past research
      showing an association between working memory and speech-language outcomes in children with
      CIs. Knowledge about the effects of working memory training on CI speech-language outcomes
      will provide a better understanding of the process by which children with CIs learn
      speech-language following implantation and may offer an entirely new avenue of intervention
      to improve speech-language outcomes, particularly in deaf children who show limited
      improvement following implantation.

      The specific aims of this study are:

        1. Specific Aim 1: Determine the feasibility and application of a novel, computer-based
           working memory training program when applied to children with CIs. We hypothesize that
           children with CIs will show a progression of learning in both auditory and visual
           working memory during the training program that will mirror that of normal-hearing
           children.

        2. Specific Aim 2: Determine the effect of the working memory training program on core
           attention, concentration, and working memory processes of children with CIs. We
           hypothesize that children with CIs will show improvement on both laboratory-based and
           parent-report measures of attention, concentration, and working memory processes after
           working memory training, compared to a baseline period.

        3. Specific Aim 3: Determine the effect of the working memory training program on working
           memory-related speech-language outcome measures in children with CIs. We hypothesize
           that children with CIs will show improvement on auditory working memory, verbal naming
           fluency, and word repetition after training.
    
  