
    
      In a prospective, multicenter, international, observational study design, > 100 SE labs will
      be networked with systematic clinical, laboratory and imaging data collection at the time of
      SE and with structured follow-up information at least at 6 months and 1 year, up to 3 years
      for specific protocols. For all the groups the primary aim is to evaluate the feasibility of
      several indices of SE in the evaluation of patients with known or suspected specific disease
      (1,2,3). The secondary aim is to assess the value of each of these parameters in predicting
      the functional impairment. The tertiary aim is to assess the prognostic value of SE indices
      for prognostic stratification of the disease in the medium-long-term.

      The study theater is the international network of cardiology SE laboratories, and the study
      is endorsed and promoted by the Italian Society of Echocardiography. The starting point of
      the recruitment phase was a recent electronic survey by the Italian Society of
      Echocardiography, in 2015 censoring 134 laboratories with moderate- (>100/year) to high-
      (>400/year) volume SE activities, which were precisely interrogated for interest in
      participation to SE2020. The recruitment plan forecasts 500 patients by the end of 2016, with
      doubling of the rate of enrollment in subsequent years, in parallel with the increasing
      number of recruiting labs fulfilling quality control criteria, reaching the target number of
      100 at the end of the 5-year schedule (4).

      Data collection Stress protocols are harmonized according to recent European and
      North-American scientific societies' guidelines, with semi-supine exercise recommended and
      pharmacological stress dosages up to 40 mcg/kg/min for dobutamine, up to 0.84 mg/kg in 6 min
      for dipyridamole, and up to a 4-min step of 200 microg/kg/min for adenosine. With dobutamine,
      atropine (up to 1 mg) can be administered in patients with suspected CAD (protocol 9), and it
      is associated with a higher rate of complications in those with a history of neuropsychiatric
      symptoms, reduced left ventricular function, or small body habitus. The maximal allowed
      dobutamine dose is 20 mcg/kg/min in patients with aortic stenosis, in whom higher doses are
      less safe and probably unnecessary (3). All laboratories will share a standardized case
      report form coded in a database format to facilitate retrieval and communication. For
      applications outside CAD and for CAD testing with vasodilator stress, no atropine is given on
      top of pharmacological stress. Although data collection with a dedicated project-specific
      case report form is allowed, we encourage implementing a dedicated, free ad-hoc system for
      data storage and reporting developed at the National Research Council, Institute of Clinical
      Physiology. The software provides a suitable informatics infrastructure for the SE 2020
      Italian multicenter study, with an intuitive graphic interface, eye-catching graphic format
      and convenient reporting option. It could represent the trade-off between the comprehensive
      information required by scientific standards and the smooth workflow priority of busy,
      high-volume, clinically-driven activities. The software was developed and tested in Italian
      and the translation of the last release in other languages (English, Portuguese and Serbian)
      is currently in progress.

      Data analysis Data will be expressed as mean ± standard deviation (normally distributed data,
      such as wall motion score index), median and inter-quartile (25th, 75th) range (non-normally
      distributed data, such as B-lines) or per cent frequency (categorical data, such as presence
      or absence of severe mitral regurgitation), with absolute numbers. One-sample comparisons
      will be performed using Wilcoxon test, and the chi-squared test without Fisher's correction
      for categorical data. Event rates will be estimated with Kaplan-Meier curves and compared by
      the log-rank test. Univariable analyses by Cox proportional hazards models will be performed
      to assess the association between each candidate variable and outcome. All variables with P
      <0.20 by univariable analysis will be considered as candidate variables for the multivariable
      analyses. Goodness of fit of the models will be based on C-statistics and its variants,
      adjusting for optimism using bootstrap replications (at least 1000). A receiver operating
      characteristic analysis will be used to obtain the best prognostic predictor for the
      individual SE variables. We will also analyze the data according to a clinically guided
      stepwise procedure, where the variables were included in the model in the same order in which
      they are actually considered by the cardiologist. Statistical significance will be set at
      p<0.05.

      Quality control

      It is well-known that the diagnostic performance of SE is closely related to the level of
      expertise of the cardiologist-echocardiographer performing the test, since the evaluation of
      regional wall motion is subjective and qualitative, with considerable variability even among
      experienced centers of undisputed reputation (1). The reproducibility and accuracy of wall
      motion reading can be substantially increased with limited training (2) and through
      development of conservative, pre-specified reading criteria (4). Therefore, quality control
      of the diagnostic performance in the various laboratories is a must in order to enter
      meaningful information in the data bank. The burden of quality control is on the hub center
      of the principal investigator of each subproject, where various spoke centers may converge.
      For the general project, the hub center for regional wall motion analysis is Pisa-CNR, in
      coordination with the principal investigator. There are five different levels of quality
      control, with increasing levels of complexity:

        1. Level 1, pre-requisite: a volume activity of the lab of at least 100 SE tests per year,
           which is the requirement for credentialing of SE activity by scientific societies

        2. Level 2, spoke centers read hub SE images, consisting in 20 selected studies for
           regional wall motion analysis. The concordance requires identification of test
           negativity/positivity and, in positive tests, the correct localization of the ischemic
           zone. For each test, a multiple choice 6-answer test is given. The criterion of ≥ 90%
           concordance (at least 18 out of 20 studies) is required, as previously described for
           first-generation SE multicenter studies (4).

        3. Level 3, hub centers read spoke centers studies, consisting in 20 any-quality
           consecutive studies recorded by the spoke center. The criterion of ≥ 80% concordance (at
           least 16 out of 20 studies) is required, as previously described for first-generation SE
           multicenter studies (4).

        4. Level 4, core lab reading. All centers should grant full access to images of SE studies
           entered in the data bank for audit or reading by core lab laboratory, which is the
           standard for specific subprojects such as number 10 for genetic SE, when every effort
           needs to be made to minimize variability and a single reader will analyze all studies
           acquired by different centers, as required by recommendations for small-to-medium sample
           studies, when resources allow (4).

        5. Level 5, specific protocols quality control. Although the SE quality control has proved
           to work well for regional wall motion analysis, novel SE applications involve different
           parameters, methodology of acquisition and reading criteria. Therefore, for each
           subproject, a web-based training session and quality control is organized by the
           specific hub center and principal investigator to assure consistency of data (4). The
           principal investigator of each subproject will prepare a set of 20 studies with
           rest-stress images. For each test, a multiple choice 6-answers test is given (only 1
           correct). The criterion of ≥90% concordance (at least 18 out of 20 studies) is required.
           The specific signs tested for certification are: end-diastolic and end-systolic volume
           changes (protocol 1); B-lines (protocol 2, 4, 6 and 9); left ventricular outflow tract
           gradient (protocol 3 and 10); E/e' (protocol 4); mitral regurgitation quantitative
           assessment (protocol 5); aortic stenosis quantitative assessment (protocol 5); right
           ventricular function (protocol 7); systolic pulmonary artery pressure measurements
           during stress (protocol 8); coronary flow velocity reserve (protocol 9); left
           ventricular elastance (protocol 9); global longitudinal strain (protocol 4 and 10).

      This study is also intended as a special level of voluntary accreditation and expertise in
      the specific field of interest, well above the volume activity criteria requested by
      guidelines. The accreditation process is run and certified by the Italian scientific society
      of echocardiography strictly following criteria and procedures of the European association of
      cardiovascular imaging to ensure standardization and independence of the process. When not
      otherwise specified, resting and SE measurements are performed according to the latest joint
      recommendations of European and North-American societies (4).

      Overall study design We will collect the experience of Italian, Brazilian, Hungarian and
      Serbian SE labs over the 5-year period from 2016 to 2020. In this broader framework, 10
      sub-projects will address specific patients' subsets. The target population ranges from
      250-patient samples for protocols focused on specific diseases (such as protocol 7 in
      repaired tetralogy of Fallot) to 2,500 for protocols on heart failure (number 2) to 5,000 to
      all-comers with known or suspected CAD tested with novel indices (number 9).

      Different study projects will cover the entire spectrum of disease, age and clinical status
      of current patients. The recruited participants are "the wellest of the well" (super-fit
      athletes entering project 6), the "worried well" (young first-degree relatives of patients
      with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or familiar forms of dilated cardiomyopathy or pulmonary
      arterial hypertension, in project 10), the "suspected sick" (for instance patients with
      suspected diastolic heart failure or CAD as in projects 4 and 9), up to the sickest of the
      sick (for instance, patients with advanced heart failure or valvular heart disease entering
      projects 1, 2 and 5). Some degree of overlap is unavoidably present for some projects, for
      instance with subjects eligible for project 2 who are also recruitable for project 1 (if they
      undergo cardiac resynchronization therapy) or for project 5 (if they have heart failure with
      preserved ejection fraction). Over time, patients may move from one project to another: for
      instance, first-degree relatives of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy patients with negative
      phenotype enrolled in project 10 may subsequently develop overt forms of disease and be
      enrolled in project 3. All these potential gray-zone situations will be readily identified in
      individual SE reports.

      Although the setting will be mainly the Italian cardiological community, all essential
      documents will be written in English and we plan to extend the project to other communities
      with long-standing history of cooperation and experience in multicenter trials. Brazilian,
      Hungarian and Serbian centers are already recruiting and additional laboratories from other
      countries are now entering the process of accreditation. The project is curiosity-driven,
      independent from sponsors, and clinically oriented. However, after the planning and start-up
      phase, support from public or private funding agencies or industries is possible - provided
      that it is unrestricted and does not interfere in any way with data collection and analysis.

      There is no bonus payment for subject recruitment and subject referral. Enrolled patients are
      referred to the SE lab for clinically-driven indications. Each patient signs an informed
      consent form allowing scientific utilization of data, respectful of privacy rights, at the
      time of testing. The study project was submitted by the coordinating center of the principal
      investigator on January 31, 2016 and approved in its revised form by the Rome-1 ethical
      committee on July 20, 2016 (protocol number 1487/Lazio1). Ethics committee approval will be
      sought by each participating center, as needed.
    
  