
    
      A case control study in the recruitment will be carried out from the Diabetes outpatient
      clinic of a tertiary hospital (HUVH) and from the ACE Foundation. The investigators will
      include the following groups: 1) Type 2 diabetic patients with AD; B) Type 2 diabetic
      patients with MCI; 3) Type 2 diabetic patients with normal cognitive status; 4) Non-diabetic
      patients with AD. The groups will be matched by age (± 5 years), gender, risk factors related
      to AD (APOE genotype and family history of dementia), diabetes duration and Hba1c (±1%)- the
      last two criteria apply for the three groups of diabetic patients. Inclusion criteria:
      Written informed consent obtained from the patient; Age >65years; Diabetes duration>5 years;
      HbA1c < 10%; No apparent or mild non-proliferative DR according to the International Clinical
      Diabetic Retinopathy Disease Severity Scale. Exclusion criteria: Patients with other
      neurodegenerative diseases of the brain or retina (i.e. glaucoma) or cerebrovascular
      diseases. Sample size calculation: Assuming that diabetic patients will present around 30% of
      abnormal mfERG implicit time, and considering that this figure will be up 60% in those
      diabetic patients with AD, the number of patients required in each group would be 25. This
      calculation has been performed taking into account a 2-side risk level of 0.05 and a
      statistical power of 80%. However, it should be noted that this estimation has been performed
      taken into account the variables concerning AD. Therefore, it is foreseeable that more
      patients will be needed to obtain valid results for MCI. Consequently, the investigators feel
      it reasonable to extend the sample to 35 subjects per group.

      The study will be divided into two stages (as will be further detailed): -Stage I: This will
      be the first step of the project and type 2 diabetic patients with AD and patients with
      normal cognitive status will be compared. -Stage II: Type 2 diabetic patients with MCI will
      be compared with patients with normal cognitive status or AD.
    
  