
    
      Over one million adults in the U.S. are estimated to suffer from Inflammatory Bowel Disease
      (IBD), accounting for more than 2 million ambulatory and emergency room visits annually. This
      healthcare utilization may lead to an average increase of $5,000-$8,000 in annual medical
      expenditure per patient. Reducing unnecessary medical interactions and expenditures in this
      patient group is paramount and requires individualized disease monitoring and healthcare
      screening

      One screening test that may lead to additional exams and costs is the Prostate Specific
      Antigen (PSA) test used to screen for prostate cancer. While PSA screening can reduce
      prostate cancer mortality, false-positive elevations are common, especially in the setting of
      non-malignant prostate inflammation. This research group recently reported in a large
      retrospective case-control series that after age 65, men with IBD who underwent prostate
      cancer screening at Northwestern Memorial Hospital (NMH) had higher serum PSA values than
      non-IBD controls. In addition, men with IBD had a significantly higher risk of clinically
      significant prostate cancer even when controlling for differences in PSA and other relevant
      covariates. However, whether the elevation in PSA is related to inflammation in these men
      with IBD versus a true reflection of an increased risk of prostate cancer is unclear.
      Furthermore, the interplay of IBD status and screening PSA values is currently unknown.

      This study will measure PSA values in men with IBD before, during, and following a flare. In
      addition, the effect of any PSA increase will be analyzed and correlated to the location of
      disease (rectal vs. other). Study findings may help men with IBD by identifying pitfalls in
      prostate cancer screening for this population and help to stratify and understand the effect
      IBD has on the prostatic milieu. By optimizing how men with IBD are screened for prostate
      cancer, future unnecessary healthcare encounters and expenditures may be reduced for this
      patient group.
    
  