
    
      Squamous cell carcinoma of head and neck (HNSCC) is being increasingly treated by
      multimodality approaches combining surgery, radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. Randomized
      controlled trials have demonstrated major improvements in loco-regional tumor control from
      altered fractionation radiotherapy with chemotherapy as compared with conventional
      fractionation.

      Altered fractionation schedules seek to improve the therapeutic ratio between tumor cell kill
      and normal tissue damage by exploiting the dissociation between acute and late radiation
      effects. Hypofractionated radiotherapy utilizes a small number of fractions with a larger
      dose per fraction, shortening overall treatment time compared to a conventional protocol .
      Although a shorter treatment time can be obtained by applying a higher dose per fraction, it
      might also result in a disproportionate increase in the incidence of late complications.

      In a meta-analysis of 50 trials including a total of 9615 patients, the addition of
      synchronous chemotherapy to radiotherapy for locally advanced SCCHN resulted in an overall
      survival benefit of 6.5% at five years . However, this is associated with late toxicity and
      questionable improvement in the therapeutic ratio Radiotherapy acceleration reduces the
      effect of tumor repopulation. Hypofractionated schedules accelerate treatment by employing
      fewer but larger radiation dose per fractions (>2Gy per fraction). In the meta analysis,
      treatment acceleration without total dose reduction (a category including eight trials and
      3818 patients) increased ﬁve-year loco regional tumor control by 7.3%, but there was no
      overall survival benefit . Some schedules were associated with an unacceptable increase in
      acute toxicity and consequential late effects . This is partly due to the use of conventional
      2D-planned radiotherapy and should be improved by application of highly conformed volumes,
      using intensity-modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) or 3Dconformal radiotherapy. In the
      meta-analysis, treatment acceleration with a reduction in the total dose did not improve loco
      regional tumor control . However, more than half of patients in this group received the CHART
      regimen (54 Gy in 36 fractions over 12 days), which can be criticised for an ' over
      shortening ' of the overall treatment time, where the relative onset of accelerated
      repopulation between normal mucosa (seven days) and tumor (21 days) was not fully exploited .
      For ﬁve fractions per week, the modeled optimal overall treatment time (to match early and
      late biologically equivalent doses to obtain greatest tumor effect) is in the range 20- 32
      days (approx. 3- 5 weeks) The objective of this study was to investigate hypofractionated 3D
      CRT with 62.5 Gy in 25 daily fractions over five weeks (2.5 Gy per fractions biologically
      equivalent dose to the tumor, 70.9Gy 10 and late reacting tissues, 114.6 Gy 3) with
      synchronous weekly cisplatin 40mg/m2 in patients with stage III (T1-3 N1 or T3N0).And stage
      IVA,IVB (T1-4N2 orN3)
    
  