
    
      The inflammatory processes observed in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are strongly
      linked to enhanced interleukin-1 (IL-1) activity. Increased IL-1 activity causes myocardial
      cell damage and endothelial dysfunction. The adverse effects of IL-1 on myocardial and
      endothelial cells are mediated by an enhanced nitrooxidative stress and the promotion of
      apoptotic cardiomyocyte death through increased nitrooxidative stress and inflammation.
      Anakinra, a recombinant form of human IL-1 receptor antagonist, is commonly used for the
      treatment of RA. Experimental data indicates that administration of anakinra after acute
      myocardial infarction ameliorates cardiac remodeling by reducing cardiomyocyte apoptosis.
      Moreover, in our previous studies we have shown that treatment with anakinra reduces
      IL-1-mediated nitrooxidative stress and apoptotic markers leading to an improvement in Tissue
      Doppler and speckle tracking-derived parameters of left ventricular (LV) function in RA
      patients. However it has not been defined whether inhibition of IL-1 activity by anakinra
      shows beneficial effects on endothelial, coronary, arterial and LV systolic and diastolic
      function in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).

      For this purpose, we studied 60 patients with CAD and coexistent RA (American Rheumatism
      Association criteria) as well as 20 patients with RA and without CAD. All the above subjects
      had an inadequate response to disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) and
      corticosteroids and were going to initiate treatment with IL-1 activity inhibitor (anakinra).
      All patients were on treatment with statins and cardioactive medications respectively, for
      the last 6 months. In the 20 patients with only RA, the presence of CAD was excluded with a
      non-invasive test and/or a negative recent coronary arteriogram.

      In a double-blind, placebo-controlled fashion, all patients were randomized to receive a
      single injection of anakinra(100 mg s.c.) or placebo. After 48-hours patients were crossed
      over to the alternate treatment (placebo or anakinra) and measurement of the examined markers
      was repeated. The 48h interval between the 2 consecutive studies was decided to secure a
      sufficient wash-out period of anakinra in accordance to the drug's half-life time.

      Twenty asymptomatic subjects matched for age and sex as the RA patients and with a normal
      ECG, echocardiogram, and treadmill test were selected as healthy control subjects among
      subjects attending the cardiology outpatients' clinic.

      At baseline in all RA subjects and controls as well as 3-hours after the single injection of
      anakinra in RA subjects, we assessed by means of echocardiography the following parameters a)
      the LV dimensions,fractional shortening and wall motion score index (WMSI) b) the systolic
      (Sm), early diastolic (Em) and late diastolic (Am) myocardial velocities of the mitral
      annulus by using of tissue Doppler (TDI) as well as the ratio of E wave of the mitral inflow
      measured by pulsed wave Doppler to the mean Em as an index of LV diastolic filling pressures
      c) the LV longitudinal, circumferential and radial strain and strain rate, as well as Global
      Longitudinal strain and Torsion using speckle tracking echocardiography d) the coronary flow
      reserve (CFR)after adenosine infusion to assess coronary vasomotor function e) the
      flow-mediated endothelial-dependent dilation of the brachial artery (FMD) to assess
      peripheral endothelial function f) the diameters of aorta at systole and diastole to
      calculate the aortic strain as an index of local aortic properties. At the same time periods,
      we measured in blood samples a) nitrotyrosine (NT), protein carbonyls (PC)and
      malondialdehyde(MDA)to assess nitrooxidative stress b)soluble Fas and Fas-ligand )to assess
      apoptosis c) interleukin-1b and tumor necrosis factor-a to assess inflammation
    
  