
    
      Anemia has been identified as a common complication and a widespread problem in the cancer
      population. Anemia is a condition in which a patient has below normal levels of hemoglobin,
      the substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen to all parts of the body. People with
      severe anemia may experience fatigue and shortness of breath with activity. Therefore, this
      condition can have a negative influence on a person's quality of life. Epoetin alfa and
      darbepoetin alfa, used to treat anemia in cancer patients, are genetically engineered
      proteins that stimulate red blood cell production. This study investigates treatment of
      anemia using either epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa during chemotherapy in adult patients
      with cancer. The study is intended to collect information on normal medical practice and
      routine anemia management performed at the participating centers. This is an observational,
      non-randomized, prospective, comparative, parallel-group survey performed in The Netherlands.
      Patients with various severities of disease may enter the survey as soon as either their
      epoetin alfa or their darbepoetin alfa treatment starts and will be followed until the end of
      their epoetin alfa/darbepoetin alfa treatment. Patient data are collected, on average, once
      monthly (depending on the treatment being received) and this continues until 4 weeks after
      the end of treatment with epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa. An assessment of
      cost-effectiveness will be made for both treatments. The assessment of cost-effectiveness
      will be based on the following: cancer type and status, chemotherapy and other anti-cancer
      treatment, hemoglobin levels, use of either epoetin alfa or darbepoetin alfa, use of blood
      transfusions, and serum iron levels and iron supplementation. Safety evaluations include the
      incidence of serious and non-serious adverse events. Because the study involves only
      collection of information, no treatment will be required by the Sponsor and no medication
      will be supplied by the Sponsor. Epoetin alpha and darbepoetin alpha are administered
      according to routine clinical practice.
    
  