
    
      Project background: Work is a major social determinant of health. In people with serious
      mental illness (SMI), work is associated with better wellbeing, physical and mental health,
      quality of life, and may prevent the onset of disability. Among Veterans with SMI, work is a
      protective factor against suicide.

      Most veterans with SMI are unemployed and suffer substantially worse health and recovery
      across key domains. Despite quality VHA vocational services, such as supported employment
      (SE), two-thirds or more of Veterans who receive these services experience work dysfunction.
      A probable explanation lies in unsolved cognitive and behavioral barriers, such as low
      work-related self-efficacy, ineffective coping skills, little hope that work is attainable,
      poor work motivation and sense of self.

      The Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Work Success (CBTw) intervention was designed to target
      these problems and augment VHA SE services to synergistically improve work, as well as health
      and recovery, in Veterans with SMI. In an open trial pilot, CBTw was associated with
      significant increases in hours worked and wages earned and the majority of CBTw participants
      became steady workers. Veterans also experienced improvements in symptoms, recovery, and
      quality of life.

      Project goals: Using Hybrid 1 RCT design, this project will test the effects of CBTw on
      competitive work and health and recovery outcomes over a 9-month study period at 3 VA SE
      programs. Informed by the RE-AIM framework, an implementation evaluation will examine the
      success of using SE staff to deliver CBTw, barriers and facilitators to implementation, and
      strategies utilized.

      Relevance to priorities: This project has high implementation potential and is responsive to
      the VHA priority regarding Health Equity, as it will address work functioning, an under
      studied social determinant of health. WORKWELL also holds promise to improve health and
      recovery outcomes among Veterans with SMI, another HSR&D area of emphasis. Lastly, this study
      is consistent with the goal of finding novel strategies toward suicide prevention among
      vulnerable Veteran groups, including those with SMI.

      Objectives: Aim 1: Test the effects of CBTw + SE compared to a control of psychoeducation +
      SE on work. Hypotheses: Participants in the CBTw+ SE arm will work significantly more total
      weeks in competitive jobs (primary study outcome) and will be more likely to become steady
      workers.

      Aim 2: Test the effects of CBTw + SE on health and recovery. Hypotheses: Participants in the
      CBTw + SE arm will have greater improvements on subjective recovery and health-related
      quality of life, and decreases in symptoms, suicidal ideation, and inpatient service
      utilization.

      Aim 3: Guided by the RE-AIM implementation science framework, conduct an evaluation of the
      implementation of CBTw, including examination of the feasibility of using SE staff to deliver
      CBTw, and related barriers and facilitators. The objective is to spur future wide scale CBTw
      implementation.

      Project Methods: WORKWELL is a pragmatic, Hybrid 1 design RCT. CBTw will be tested at 3 SE
      sites-Roudebush VA Medical Center, the Edward J. Hines VA Medical Center, and the VA St.
      Louis Health Care System. 276 unemployed Veterans with SMI will be randomly assigned to
      receive CBTw plus SE or a control of psychoeducation plus SE. Outcomes including total weeks
      worked in competitive jobs (primary), achievement of steady work, symptoms, recovery, health
      related quality of life, suicidal ideation, and service utilization will be assessed at
      posttreatment (12 weeks), 6 months (primary endpoint), and 9 months (to examine sustained
      effects). CBTw implementation planning, training, and consultation will be provided. CBTw
      implementation (fidelity), barriers and facilitators to implementation, and other RE-AIM
      elements will be examined using mixed methods.
    
  