
    
      Study Description: Soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) is the metabolizing enzyme of
      epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs), which may play a role in reducing neuroinflammation and
      regulating cerebral blood flow after subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH).

      Hypothesis: Pharmacologic inhibition of the sEH enzyme is safe and will result in increased
      EETs availability at the neurovascular unit, and a measured increase in the EET/DHET ratio in
      the serum and cerebrospinal fluid. This study is a double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 1b
      randomized trial to evaluate the safety and of GSK2256294, an inhibitor of soluble epoxide
      hydrolase, in patients with aneurysmal SAH.

      Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      Determine the safety of administration of GSK2256294 in patients with aneurysmal SAH.

      Secondary Objective:

      Determine the pharmacodynamic effect of administration of GSK2256294 in patients with
      aneurysmal SAH on reducing EETs metabolism and biomarkers of cerebrovascular inflammation and
      endothelial injury.

      Tertiary Objective:

      Provide preliminary estimates of clinical endpoints to inform the design of a larger trial

      Endpoints:

      Primary Endpoints:

      Determination of safety

      Secondary endpoints:

        1. Study days 7 and 10 serum EET/DHET ratios

        2. Study days 7 and 10 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) EET/DHET ratios

        3. Study days 7 and 10 serum EPOME/DPOME ratio

        4. Neuroinflammatory and endothelial injury biomarker levels from the blood and CSF at day
           7 and day 10.

      Tertiary, exploratory endpoints:

      Clinical outcomes associated with SAH including neurologic status, disposition, vital status
      and incidence of delayed cerebral ischemia.

      20 subjects will be randomized. Patients age 18 or above with confirmed ruptured aneurysms
      will be approached to provide written informed consent

      Phase: Phase 1B

      Description of Sites/Facilities Enrolling Participants: The study will take place at Oregon
      Health & Science University Hospital, with enrollment of patients admitted to the OHSU NSICU,
      a part of a comprehensive stroke center certified by the American Heart Association and Joint
      Commission for Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, with a catchment area including the
      state of Oregon, Southwest Washington and Northern California. Approximately 80-100 patients
      with aneurysmal SAH are admitted each year.

      Description of Study Intervention: Twenty patients will be equally randomized to receive once
      daily either 10 mg dose of GSK2256294 or placebo enterally for a duration of 10 days.

      Study Duration: 24 months

      Participant Duration: 90 days
    
  