
    
      Venous blood clots affect nearly a million Americans each year. Venous clots in the legs are
      called deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and are dangerous because they travel to the lungs where
      they cause blockages known as pulmonary emboli (PE). DVT and PE are called venous
      thromboemboli (VTE). Cancer is a risk factor with nearly 200,000 VTEs in cancer patients each
      year. The purpose of VTE treatment is to prevent the initial clot from spreading and to
      prevent new clots from forming. This is accomplished by thinning the blood, or
      anticoagulation. Without anticoagulation, VTEs recur and are often fatal.

      Recently, the FDA has approved 4 new Direct Oral AntiCoagulants (DOACs) for preventing VTE
      recurrence. Few cancer patients were included in the efficacy trials, and practice guidelines
      fall silent on whether switching to DOAC therapy is advisable. To fill this knowledge gap,
      the Alliance Foundation Trials LLC, a research network of academic and community practices
      across the US, is conducting a pragmatic randomized effectiveness trial.

      The overarching objective of the study is to determine the effectiveness of LMWH/ warfarin
      vs. DOAC anticoagulation for preventing recurrent VTE in cancer patients. The investigators
      will conduct a trial of 811 cancer patients followed for 6 months. The intervention strategy
      is DOAC therapy with edoxaban, apixaban, rivaroxaban, or dabigatran. The comparator is LMWH
      alone or with warfarin. Within each arm, patients can choose the agent they prefer based on
      side effects, drug interactions, and practical issues such as co-pays. The trial compares
      these two strategies in terms of treatment: 1) benefits based on VTE recurrence; 2) harms
      based on bleeding rates; 3) burdens based on patients' reports of their experiences; and 4)
      mortality rates.

      The investigators hypothesize that the benefits, harms and burdens of DOAC treatment will be
      non-inferior to, or better than, usual care with LMWH/ warfarin among cancer patients. The
      information gained will empower cancer patients and physicians to make more informed choices
      about anticoagulation strategies to manage VTE.
    
  