
    
      -  This prospective, randomised controlled trial was done in 8 tertiary referral hospitals
           in China. Patients (aged 18-90 years) with native papilla planned for diagnostic or
           therapeutic ERCP were eligible for enrolment in the study. Exclusion criteria included
           contraindications to ERCP, known pancreatic head mass, previous biliary sphincterotomy
           without planned contrast injection into the pancreatic duct, acute pancreatitis within 3
           days, ERCP for biliary stent removal or exchange without anticipated pancreatogram,
           known active cardiovascular or cerebrovascular disease, unwilling or inability to
           provide consent, and pregnant or breastfeeding women. Indications or contra- indications
           for ERCP were determined by endoscopists or anaesthesiologists before ERCP; these
           included risks to patient health or life judged to outweigh the potential benefit of
           ERCP, known or suspected perforated viscus, and haemodynamic instability. The risk
           stratification of the patients was defined based on criteria used in the study by
           Elmunzer and colleages. Patients were considered high risk for post-ERCP pancreatitis if
           they met at least one of the major criteria or two or more of the minor criteria. The
           risk status of the patients was determined immediately after the procedure by one
           investigator at each site who was masked to group allocation.

        -  Randomisation and masking

        -  The study coordinator did the block randomisation (ten in each block). The randomisation
           list was computer generated, and stratified according to individual centres. Patients
           were assigned randomly in a 1:1 ratio, before receiving ERCP, to either the universal
           pre- procedural group or the risk-stratified post-procedural group. Oral resveratrol or
           Indometacin was administered in the procedure room before or after ERCP by one
           investigator in each site who did not participate in data collection and analysis.
           Endoscopists and assistances who participated in ERCP procedures were masked to group
           allocation. Investigators who collected demographic or procedure-related data or
           participated in the assessment of post-ERCP compli- cations were also masked to group
           allocation. Patients were not masked to treatment allocation.

        -  Before the start of this study, post-procedural selective indometacin in high-risk
           patients had been demonstrated as effective in the prevention of post-ERCP pancreatitis.

        -  Outcomes The primary outcome of the study was the frequency of post-ERCP pancreatitis.
           The diagnosis of post-ERCP pancreatitis was established if there was new onset of upper
           abdominal pain associated with an elevated serum amylase of at least three times the
           upper limit of normal range at 24 h after the procedure, and admission to hospital for
           at least 2 nights. The secondary outcome was the frequency of moderate to severe
           post-ERCP pancreatitis. We defined severity of pancreatitis according to the criteria
           reported by Cotton and colleagues.

      Other post-ERCP complications (including bleeding, biliary infection, perforation, and any
      adverse outcomes requiring hospital admission or prolonged hospital stay for further
      management) were monitored as described previously.24 Moderate to severe bleeding was defined
      as clinically significant bleeding with decrease in haemoglobin concentration of at least 3
      g/L with the need for transfusion, angiographic intervention, or surgery. 23 Patients were
      contacted at 30 days to assess late complications (including delayed bleeding or
      cardiovascular or renal adverse events); this was the final follow-up.

      An investigator who was familiar with ERCP at each site and masked to treatment allocation
      recorded the procedure-related parameters including cannulation methods, numbers of
      cannulation attempts, and inadvertent pancreatic duct cannulation, pancrea- tography, and
      prophylactic placement of pancreatic duct stent. The same investigator also recorded the
      patient demographics, post-ERCP adverse events potentially caused by the procedure or study
      drug, and follow-up data. All data were subsequently entered into a web- based database and
      managed by independent investigators.

      We defined severity of post-ERCP complications according to the Cotton criteria:23 mild
      (pancreatitis after the procedure requiring admission or prolongation of planned admission to
      2-3 days); moderate (pancreatitis after the procedure requiring hospitalisation of 4-10
      days); and severe (pancreatitis after the procedure requiring hospitalisation for more than
      10 days, or haemorrhagic pancreatitis, phlegmon or pseudocyst, or intervention). Detailed
      definitions for other adverse events are provided in the appendix.
    
  