
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to cyclophosphamide/
      carboplatin/etoposide alternating with vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the
      event-free survival (EFS) of patients with newly diagnosed stage 4 diffuse anaplastic Wilms
      tumor (DAWT) as compared to historical controls.

      II. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to
      cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with
      vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the EFS of patients with standard-risk
      relapsed favorable histology Wilms tumor (SRrFHWT) as compared to historical controls.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to
      cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with
      vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the overall survival (OS) of patients with
      newly diagnosed stage 4 DAWT as compared to historical controls.

      II. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to
      cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with
      vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the OS of patients with SRrFHWT as compared
      to historical controls.

      III. To evaluate whether the addition of vincristine/irinotecan to
      cyclophosphamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating with
      vincristine/doxorubicin/cyclophosphamide improves the EFS and OS of patients with newly
      diagnosed stage 2 and 3 DAWT as compared to historical controls.

      IV. To establish EFS and OS for high-risk (HRrFHWT) and very high risk (VHRrFHWT) relapsed
      favorable histology Wilms tumor treated with ifosfamide/carboplatin/etoposide alternating
      with cyclophosphamide/ topotecan.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe renal toxicity of ifosfamide/carboplatin/etoposide in HRrFHWT and VHRrFHWT
      patients using conventional and novel biomarkers of renal toxicity (urine NGAL, cystatin C
      and Kim1) in the context of the chemotherapy regimens used on this study.

      II. To collect and bank serial blood and urine samples in patients with newly diagnosed DAWT
      or relapsed FHWT and tumor tissue in patients with relapsed FHWT, for future analysis.

      III. To assess the impact of p53 gene and protein expression on outcome for patients with
      newly diagnosed DAWT.

      IV. To determine EFS/OS in the subsets of patients with newly diagnosed DAWT or relapsed FWHT
      who undergo gross total resection at all disease sites at diagnosis or after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      V. To describe the rate of regional lymph node sampling at the time of nephrectomy with the
      use of a pre-operative surgical checklist for patients with newly diagnosed DAWT.

      VI. To determine the feasibility of intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) with central
      quality assurance (QA) monitoring to reduce radiation induced toxicity to the heart, thyroid,
      breast and solitary kidney for children with lung and liver metastases (part of an
      overarching aim in this study and across frontline favorable histology Wilms tumor studies).

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I (REGIMEN UH-3):

      CYCLES 1, 5, 7, 10, AND 13: Patients receive vincristine intravenously (IV) over 1 minute or
      via minibag per institutional policy on days 1, 8, and 15. Patients also receive doxorubicin
      IV over 1-15 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days during cycles 1, 5, 7, 10, and 13 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      CYCLES 2, 6, 9, 12, AND 14: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 15-60 minutes on day 1.
      Patients also receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes and etoposide IV over 1-2 hours
      on days 1-4. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 2, 6, 9, 12, and 14 in the absence
      of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CYCLES 3, 4, 8, AND 11: Patients receive vincristine IV over 1 minute or via minibag per
      institutional policy on days 1 and 8 and irinotecan IV over 90 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days during cycles 3, 4, 8, and 11 in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (REGIMEN IFOSFAMIDE, CARBOPLATIN, ETOPOSIDE [ICE]/CYCLOPHOSPHAMIDE [CYCLO]/TOPOTECAN
      [TOPO]):

      CYCLES 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, AND 9: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 15-60 minutes on day 1.
      Patients also receive etoposide IV over 1-2 hours and ifosfamide IV over 2-4 hours on days
      1-3. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, and 9 in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      CYCLES 3, 6, 8, AND 10: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 15-30 minutes and topotecan
      IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 21 days during cycles 3, 6, 8, and 10
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for years 1-2,
      every 6 months for years 3-4, and once at year 5.
    
  