
    
      This is a single-center, pilot study to investigate a preventative modality, spinal cord
      neuromodulation, that would contribute to reversing the physiologic changes that occur in the
      lower extremities of diabetic patients. Patients who have been diagnosed with DM type II for
      at least 1 year and refractory painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy of the lower
      extremities who are scheduled to receive a spinal cord stimulator may be enrolled in this
      study pending eligibly for all other criteria.

      Once eligibility and consent have been confirmed, each subject will go through a baseline
      visit where data will collected through a series of questionnaires, a clinical and
      psychological evaluation by a licensed professional. Subjects will be asked to come back for
      a series of vascular test prior to their device implantation. This vascular testing will be
      done at the vascular lab at the University of Chicago Medical Center by trained vascular
      physicians and techs.

      Prior to any study related procedures, all subjects must first sign the approved ICF. This
      will be performed by the PI or an approved member of the study staff who has been delegated
      by the PI do so and in a private setting with ample time given to the subject to review and
      ask any questions regarding the study. Once the ICF has been signed, a copy will be given to
      the subject and the original will be placed in their research or medical chart.

      Background Data

      Once the ICF has been complete, demographic data such as name, age, gender will be collected.
      Along with demographic information, we will collect medical, surgical and medication history
      for each subject at the initial baseline visit.

      Vascular Testing

      Before the Spinal Cord Stimulator procedure, all patients enrolled in the study will undergo
      baseline vascular testing. The following test will be performed on each subject. Subjects
      will only go through this portion of the study if they receive pre-certification by their
      insurance for their SCS procedure. Below is a list of tests that will be performed:

        1. Flow mediated arterial dilation and by measuring pedal and digital level waveforms and
           pressure.

        2. Doppler flowmetry (Laser Doppler flowmetry if available) by Duplex Scan of lower
           extremities

        3. Ankle Brachial Index

        4. Pulse Pressure and aortic pulse wave velocity

        5. Peripheral vascular compliance of the lower extremity

           SCS Procedure

           The SCS procedure is being done as part of the subject's clinical care. The subject
           would be receiving this procedure, even if they do not agree to participate in this
           study. All patients will have 2 temporary SCS trial leads placed transcutaneously and
           tunneled to limit the risk for infection. At the end of the trial interval, patients
           will repeat the vascular testing at 2 weeks post-op at the time just prior to device
           removal, as well as complete the clinical evaluations as above.

           The SCS waveform used will be consistent and similar for all patients enrolled; at 1
           week, study will allow minor SCS waveform modifications to recapture stimulation, but
           waveforms will be maintained within established parameters in accordance with device
           used. All patients will attempt to complete the 2 weeks trial; early removal will be
           performed for the following situations: intolerable pain with stimulation (increase pain
           >4 points from baseline), infection, neurological deficit (sensory of motor), patient
           request. Leads will be pulled 2 weeks after placement and patients will be seen 1 week
           after the leads are pulled. At that time, patient will exit the study and can choose
           definitive implantation if satisfied with the trial results.

           Study Questionnaires and Assessments

           At various time intervals, all subjects will be asked to complete a series of
           questionnaires and assessments. These questionnaires are intended to evaluate their
           quality of life, pain levels, patient satisfaction, functional capacities and mental
           health. All questionnaires are validated and have been chosen for a specific study
           endpoint. Below is the list of questionnaires and a brief description of each one. For
           more specific details on when each will be administered, please refer to the schedule of
           events (Appendix A).

           List of Questionnaires

             -  Numerical Rating Scale (NRS)

                  -  Assessment for rating pain on a numerical scale

             -  Michigan Diabetic Neuropathy Score (MDNS) o Assessment used to assess the degree of
                diabetic neuropathy

             -  Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC)

                o Used to assess subject satisfaction

             -  Oswestry Disability Index (ODI)

                o Used to assess a subject's functional capacity

             -  Health Related Quality of Life (H-RQol)

                o Assesses physical and mental health over time

             -  Short Form McGill Pain Questionnaire (SF-MPQ)

                o Assesses both the subject's intensity and quality of pain

             -  Medication Quantification Scale III (MQS-III) o Used to quantify medication regimen

           Study Visits

           This study consists of 5 total clinic visits. Subjects will be asked to come back prior
           to their temporary SCS placement for a series of vascular testing. If the subject's
           insurance does not pre-certify them for the trial SCS procedure, the vascular testing
           will not be completed and they will be withdrawn from the study. For specific detail in
           what each visit entails, please refer to the study SCHEMA.

           Below are the list of visits and when they occur.

      a. Visit 1 (Baseline) b. Visit 2 (Vascular Testing) c. Visit 3 (1 Week-Post Procedure Visit)
      d. Visit 4 (2 Weeks-Post Procedure Visit) e. Visit 5 (1 Week Post-Lead Pull Visit)
    
  