
    
      The proposed project is a randomized control design study testing the effectiveness of a
      comprehensive communication intervention to improve spoken language and social communication,
      and to reduce the portion of children with autism who are minimally verbal at age 5. The
      intervention (JASP-EMT-Plus; JEP) includes four components which have been shown to be
      effective in improving outcomes for older children with ASD who are minimally verbal. These
      components are (a) direct teaching for foundational language skills, (b) systematic
      introduction of an SGD paired with spoken language; (c) A naturalistic communication
      intervention: Joint Attention, Structured Play, Engagement and Regulation and Enhanced Milieu
      Teaching (JASP-EMT); and (d) parent training to support and generalize newly learned
      communication skills.

      Following comprehensive assessment linking children's extant communication skills to the
      skills taught in each intervention component, an adapted treatment protocol will be developed
      for each child within the framework of the comprehensive treatment model. A total of 97
      children ages 36 to 54 months will be randomly assigned to the treatment or a BAU control
      group. Progress in treatment will be monitored throughout the 3-month (42 session)
      intervention. Children will be assessed at 4 time points: pre intervention, post-
      intervention, 2 months, and 4 months after intervention. The data collected in this
      randomized trial will provide: (1) evidence of effectiveness for a comprehensive
      communicative intervention for improving communication in minimally verbal children with
      autism; and (2) new information about the correlates of minimal verbal status in children
      with autism.

      Aim. To examine the effects of JEP on social communication (primary outcome) RQ1: Do young
      children with ASD who receive JEP produce significantly more social communicative utterances
      (proximal) in language samples, social communication on standardized assessment (distal), and
      expressive language on standardized assessment (distal) than children in the BAU group at T2
      (immediately following intervention)?
    
  