
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To determine the recommended phase 2 dose of twice weekly berzosertib administered
      concurrently with conventionally fractionated radiation therapy (RT) to the breast/chest wall
      and regional nodes.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe the nature of toxicity that develops when an ATR inhibitor is administered
      concurrently with RT for breast cancer using provider assessments.

      II. To assess long-term locoregional control, disease-free survival, distant disease-free
      survival, and overall survival of patients treated with this approach.

      III. To explore symptomatic adverse events and tolerability of berzosertib being administered
      concurrently with RT using patient-reported outcomes (PROs).

      IV. To assess for germline and somatic alterations in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage
      response and repair genes, including effectors and regulators of homologous recombination
      (HR), in pre-chemotherapy biopsy specimens and post-chemotherapy surgical resection specimens
      using whole exome sequencing (WES), and to correlate HR deficiency with disease-free
      survival.

      V. To identify somatic alterations in circulating cell-free DNA (cfDNA) at baseline,
      mid-treatment, end-of-treatment, and follow-up and to correlate cfDNA with disease-free
      survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the baseline and post-treatment skin microbiome and make exploratory
      correlations with severe provider and patient-reported toxicity.

      II. To assess for germline DNA repair alterations and correlate with severe provider and
      patient-reported toxicity.

      III. To explore dose-volume parameters associated with acute and late toxicity provider and
      patient-reported toxicity following berzosertib administration concurrent with RT.

      IV. To identify circulating tumor cell (CTC) positivity at baseline, mid-treatment,
      end-of-treatment, and follow-up and to correlate CTC positivity or the combination of CTC
      positivity and cfDNA with disease-free survival.

      V. To evaluate pre-treatment and post-treatment differential abundance of peripheral blood
      immune cell populations identified by cytometry by time-of flight (CyTOF).

      VI. To evaluate associations of the pre-treatment and post-treatment peripheral blood immune
      phenotype (as assessed by CyTOF) with disease-free survival, distant disease-free survival
      and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of berzosertib.

      Patients receive berzosertib intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes twice weekly (BIW) for 5
      weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also undergo
      RT 5 days a week for 5-6 weeks depending on the type of surgery undergone.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up weekly for 4 weeks, at 12
      months, then yearly for up to 3 years.
    
  