
    
      Acne vulgaris is a common chronic inflammatory skin disease of pilosebaceous units. It is
      characterized by formation of comedones, erythematous papules, pustules and less frequently
      by nodules, deep pustules, or pseudocysts. In some cases, it may be accompanied by scarring.
      It is the most common dermatological condition affecting adolescents worldwide. It has a
      prevalence of almost 85% in people aged 12-24 years . Women have a high prevalence than men,
      especially after 25 years of age. It affects 12%-22% of women in their adult life.

      Several factors are involved in the pathogenesis of the disease including abnormal sebum
      production, altered follicular keratinization with subsequent follicular plugging and
      Propionibacterium acnes colonization . Also, endocrine factor or androgens are considered a
      major factor involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. It probably results from an
      androgen excess or exacerbated response of the pilosebaceous unit to the normal circulating
      androgen levels.

      Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is the most common endocrine disorder to affect women in
      their reproductive years. It is characterized by hyperandrogenism which results in a series
      of skin changes including hirsutism, acne, seborrhea and androgenetic alopecia.

      Acne vulgaris causes profound negative psychological and social effects on the quality of
      life (QoL) of patients. It has a great impact on appearance which is linked with self-esteem
      and self-confidence. Factors that influence the psychological impact of acne include
      perceived sexual attractiveness, relationships with family and friends, judgments of others,
      stigmatization, stress, and fear of scarring.

      Several researches concluded that body image is an important psychological factor in women
      sexual well-being. Female sexual dysfunction may associate certain dermatologic diseases as a
      result of its effect on self-esteem and psychological conditions.

      Despite acne vulgaris is a common disease in adult females, little is published on its effect
      on female sexual function. The published studies were concerned with sexual dysfunction in
      males with acne vulgaris receiving isotretinoin, females with genital acne (acne inversa) or
      those with frank hormonal disturbances. None of these studies concluded whether female sexual
      dysfunction is impaired with acne vulgaris as a relation to its effect on psychological
      wellbeing or due to associated endocrine factors or other disease variables.

      The Female Sexual Function Index (FSFI) is a widely used measurement tool to assess female
      sexual function. Arabic translation of the FSFI (ArFSFI) has been validated and can be used
      in the Egyptian population. It is reliable and easy to be understood by women and it is as
      good as the original FSFI in assessing female sexual function.

      The dermatology life quality index (DLQI) is another questionnaire that assess the impact of
      dermatologic diseases on patient psychometry. It was the first dermatology-specific QOl
      instrument and to date is the most commonly used.

      Acne severity of the patients will be evaluated by the global acne grading system (GAGS). The
      GAGS is an acne grading system developed by Doshi et al. It is a simple, accurate and fast
      method for the determination of severity of acne. It requires no special equipment and is
      relatively cost-effective.
    
  