
    
      Objective: This study aim to evaluate the effectiveness of exercise at workplace for control
      and prevention nonspecific low back pain. Methods: This is a randomized control trial study
      by cluster with three parallel groups. The context of this study is a motorcycle parts
      company importer localized in several states (Piaui, Ceará e Maranhão). The company has 575
      workers, being 240 manual material handling. All are men over 18 years old that perform goods
      shipment (each work develop one this tasks - stock, separation, conference and packaging).

      The inclusion criterial are workers that perform manual material handling for at least six
      months and signing informed consent form. The exclusion criterial were sick leave. The
      workers will be included with low back pain or no low back pain (at baseline). All will be
      interviewed to obtain: weight, height, BMI, age, marital status, educational level, and
      actual function (stock, separation, conference and packaging sick leave (the last 12 months),
      musculoskeletal complains, medications, complementary exams, surgery and or fractures.
      Participants will be randomized in three groups: (1) control group - will be receive
      orientation about manual material handling, postural and low back care (lecture and
      guidance). The training will be instructions according Ergonomics standard (NR17) about
      transportation and load handling and exercise in workout. (2) Intervention group 1 - will
      receive the same instruction of the control group, and will perform exercise at workplace
      four times per week, during 15 minutes; (3) Intervention group 2 - will be receive the same
      instruction of the control group, and will perform exercise at workplace three times per
      week, during 15 minutes. Outcomes: The outcome measure will be verified in three moments at
      baseline, six and eleven months of the intervention. The primary outcome is pain,
      electromyography. Secondary outcome is palmar dynamometer, BMI, exercise workout.

      Expected Results: The manual material handling workers will be better after intervention by
      exercise at workplace. The effectiveness of exercise for low back pain and no low back pain
      groups will be contribute to change the behavior in occupational context.
    
  