
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the leading cause of death and disability in people under age
      45 in industrialized countries, but there is no specific treatment available for TBI.
      Circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) are markers of vascular injury that are
      mobilized after signaling with cytokines, interleukins, MMP9 and other biomarkers (BM) that
      may be detected in blood. However, the relation of EPC and these BM to TBI severity has not
      been quantified. MRI measurements of lesion volume provide an objective method for TBI
      severity assessment and outcome prediction. Moreover, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) is
      sensitive to detect TBI-related axonal injury, and PET (positron emission tomography) is
      useful in functional interpretation of image findings. This cross-sectional study aims to
      determine whether EPC and other BM are associated with MRI, DTI and PET findings, and with
      functional outcomes in TBI patients.

      OBJECTIVES:

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate levels of EPC and other BMs participating
      in EPC mobilization in TBI patients in comparison to the healthy volunteers and to the
      non-TBI trauma controls. The second objective is to relate EPC and BM levels to TBI severity
      quantified by functional and radiological evaluations (MRI, DTI and PET). The third objective
      is to determine, if there is a relationship between the level of EPC and other BM and
      functional outcomes.

      POPULATION:

      100 male or female participants between 18 and 70 years of age will be enrolled within 30
      days of a moderate TBI (classified as Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) of 9-12) or mild TBI (GCS
      13-15). If participants had post-traumatic amnesia (PTA) it must have lasted less than 7 days
      and any loss of consciousness (LOC) must have lasted less than 24 hours. Fifty healthy
      volunteers and 50 persons with non-TBI injuries (such as broken bones, orthopedic injuries or
      surgery) will be enrolled.

      RESEARCH DESIGN:

      Before participating in this protocol, TBI and non-TBI injured participants must have
      received routine clinical evaluations for their injuries in hospitals, doctors offices or
      other medical facilities. They may be referred to the NIH Clinical Center after discharge or
      they may be self-referred. They must be willing to have their medical records sent to the NIH
      to assure that their injuries fit the protocol inclusion criteria. Healthy volunteers may be
      recruited from families of other participants but most will be recruited through the NIH
      Patient Recruitment and Public Liaison Office (PRPL).

      This is an outpatient, observational study. Eligible participants will come to the NIH for
      two 1 1/2 day outpatient visits separated by 30 days. Persons with TBI will have the same
      tests at each of their two visits: a history and physical exam, electrocardiogram, research
      blood draws (no more than 75 ml each visit), pregnancy and HIV testing, neuropsychological
      testing, head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan, and positron emission tomography scan
      (PET scan). Healthy controls and persons with non-TBI injuries will have the same tests at
      visit 1 as listed above. At visit 2, they will have all the same tests except they will not
      have brain MRIs or PETs.

      IMPORTANCE:

      This study will provide novel data regarding the association of levels of EPC and the blood
      BMs with severity of imaging-positive TBI. This study will provide a foundation for the
      development of interventional trials aiming to improve neovascularization in TBI patients.
    
  