
    
      A randomized, controlled, partially blinded clinical trial in 2 stages (adult stage, infant
      stage) will be applied at a single site.

      The first stage will include thirty (30) adult participants. The Data Safety Monitoring Board
      (DSMB) will evaluate the reactogenicity and safety data for all 30 adults up to day 28 after
      vaccination. Pending a favourable safety review by the DSMB, the second stage in sixty-six
      (66) newborn participants will commence. Potential adult and infant participants will be
      screened prior to enrolment to apply inclusion and exclusion criteria.Note that as the adult
      stage was a pilot, only results of the infant study are presented here.

      In each of the stages half of the study population (15 adults, 33 neonates) will receive BCG
      via conventional syringe and needle (standard of care administration technique), and half (15
      adults, 33 neonates) will receive BCG via jet injector (investigational administration
      technique). A single and standard volume and dose of BCG will be administered per the package
      insert. Neonates will receive their BCG shortly after birth.

      The occurrence of injection site reactogenicity events and systemic adverse events will be
      compared between study groups in both adults and neonates. In the neonate stage, BCG and M.tb
      specific immunogenicity will also be compared between study groups.

      For the adult stage the vaccinator and participant will be unblinded to study arm allocation.
      For the infant stage, the vaccinator will be unblinded but the participant caregiver will be
      blinded. For both the adult and infant stages the follow-up team will be blinded to study arm
      allocation. The laboratory will be blinded to study arm allocation for the infant stage
      immunogenicity assays.

      The trial will be conducted at the field site of the South African Tuberculosis Vaccine
      Initiative (SATVI) in the Cape Winelands East district of the Western Cape of South Africa.
      Recruitment and vaccination of neonates will take place at 1 or more of the state public
      healthcare antenatal clinics and birthing units in the area. Recruitment and vaccination of
      adults, as well as follow-up of adults and the neonates/infants will take place on the SATVI
      field site premises, or on the premises of the public healthcare clinic. All study
      procedures, including vaccination, will be performed by SATVI study staff.
    
  