
    
      Colorectal cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in developed countries.
      Despite recent advances in understanding the molecular pathogenesis and improvements in
      diagnosis and treatment, more than 1,2 million new cases and 600,000 deaths occur annually
      worldwide and cure rates remain low for patients with metastatic or recurrent disease.
      According to reports from the National Cancer Institute, cancer of the colon is a highly
      treatable and often curable disease when confined to the bowel. Surgery is the primary
      treatment and results in a cure rate of approximately 50% of the patients; however,
      recurrence following surgery is a major problem and is often the ultimate cause of death. In
      colon cancer locoregional recurrence (local recurrence and metachronous peritoneal spread),
      as the main site of recurrence, is less common (up to 10% of all recurrences) and generally
      occurs within 3 years of resection. An important concept is the origin of local recurrences
      and peritoneal metastases that have a common natural history. Specific features of the
      primary tumor like size and depth of bowel wall invasion (pT3-pT4), which determine a
      specific clinical evolution (obstruction, perforation with exfoliation of cancer cells) are
      responsible for endoperitoneal recurrence. Cytoreductive Surgery (CRS) defined as removal of
      macroscopic abdominal and peritoneal disease combined with Hyperthermic Perioperative
      Chemotherapy (HIPEC) is the treatment considered standard of care for selected patients with
      moderate to small volume peritoneal metastases secondary to colorectal cancer. Nevertheless
      treatment of locoregional recurrence and peritoneal metastases in colon cancer are
      disappointing first because only 30% of patients can be surgically treated and second because
      of this 30% only 15- 30% survive 5 years, leaving only 10% of patients with a chance of being
      cured. Furthermore the economic burden of metastatic colorectal cancer treatment is
      considerable including the common adverse events associated that increase healthcare resource
      utilization and considering the addition of biological drugs to standard treatment. An
      evaluation of CRS combined with HIPEC for peritoneal metastases of colorectal origin in the
      era of value-based medicine, showed an incremental cost respect to modern chemotherapy
      regimens of 44,217 US$ for life-year saved, making investment in prevention even more
      attractive. Despite screening for colorectal cancer in average-risk patients using
      colonoscopy was associated with a substantially reduced risk of diagnosis with new-onset
      primary late-stage tumors, colorectal cancer screening remains underused. Analyzing the
      recent surgical published series, the majority (around 70%), of patients with a diagnosis of
      colonic cancer operated with curative intent, have a pT3-4 tumor, which is exactly the
      high-risk class of patients for local recurrence and peritoneal metastases. In this scenario
      the most effective strategy to combat endoperitoneal recurrence seems prevention. Two
      previous studies performed in our Institution investigated how a proactive management of
      peritoneal metastases in colon cancer patients considered at high-risk for peritoneal
      recurrence according to depth of bowel wall invasion and specific histopathologic features
      (pT3, pT4 any N, M0, mucinous or signet ring cell pathology) influence outcome. A group of 25
      patients for whom inclusion criteria were verified by intraoperative pathologic assessment,
      were submitted to a "proactive" treatment that included in addition to the standard surgical
      treatment, a greater omentectomy, appendectomy, exeresis of the liver round ligament and, in
      post-menopausal women, a bilateral oophorectomy. At the end of the operation, in these
      patients a HIPEC was performed with oxaliplatin and simultaneous iv infusion of
      5-fluorouracil (FU) + leucovorin (LV). Short and long-term results showed that when compared
      to a control group (50 cases) of similar patients treated only by standard treatment in the
      same Institution, this group of patients had a statistically significant decreased incidence
      of peritoneal recurrence (4 vs. 28%) and an increase in overall and disease-free survival
      rates. These results should obviously validated by larger controlled studies, and this is the
      aim of the PROMENADE protocol, to verify if the treatment criteria applied in colorectal
      peritoneal metastases (Surgery combined with HIPEC) could represent a mean of tertiary
      prevention of endoperitoneal recurrence in high-risk colon cancer. However, simpler
      application criteria were needed for a large-scale study. For this reason histological typing
      have not been yet considered an inclusion criteria and will only represent a secondary
      outcome measure. Furthermore, also considering other experiences, the protocol will use an
      imaging technique (MDCT) for preoperative selection of high-risk T3 (>/= 5 mm tumor invasion
      beyond the muscularis propria) and T4 colon cancers, combined in patients with suspected
      systemic disease after MDCT with functional positron-emission tomography (PET), avoiding the
      need for an intraoperative frozen-sections pathologic assessment. The results of this study
      will hopefully confirm the therapeutic rationale that makes microscopic local seeding as the
      main reason for endoperitoneal recurrence. It will be also important to verify if, as
      demonstrated in our pilot study, a better loco-regional control of the disease will carry
      better long-term survival.
    
  