
    
      Considering the concept of spinal instability remains important in the clinical
      decision-making process for patients with spine metastases, the Spine Oncology Study Group
      (SOSG) devised an 18-point SINS, which proved reliable and has been widely used in clinical
      practice. Scores of 0-6, 7-12, 13-18 are considered stable, potentially unstable, and
      unstable, respectively. Lesions with a low SINS (score 0-6) do not requires surgical
      interventions, whereas a high SINS (score 13-18) predicts the need for surgical stabilization
      to restore spinal stability. However, treatment strategy of intermediate SINS (score 7-12)
      lesions remains ambiguous owing to the uncertainty of spinal stability. With the duration of
      spinal metastases, some potentially unstable lesions turn to be stable while some turn to be
      unstable, and several factors such as tumor involvement for vertebral body, radiotherapy may
      account for different outcomes. Owing to the relatively weaker growth and invasion ability of
      breast cancer cells compared to other solid tumors such as lung cancer and liver cancer,
      patients with breast cancer and spinal metastases have longer life expectancy. Reasonable and
      prompt local surgical intervention to restore spinal stability can achieve pain relief and
      better quality of life effectively. Moreover, most spinal metastases from breast cancer show
      lytic or mixed lytic-blastic bone lesions, which exacerbates the spinal stability and results
      in pathological fracture. Thus, investigators focus on patients which having spinal
      metastases from breast cancer and an intermediate SINS (score 7-12) to explore the rate of
      pathological fracture and relevant risk factors. This study will help spine surgeon to
      identify who could benefit from a prophylactic stabilization procedure with high risk of
      pathological fracture and when is the best timing of surgery.
    
  