
    
      Background Fecal incontinence (FI) is affecting self-confidence and can lead to social
      isolation and even loss of employment Often conservative treatment as the first option is
      ineffective and surgical interventions follow conservative are necessary. Small defects of
      the anal sphincter muscles might be treated with sphincter repair and sacral neuromodulation
      (SNM) However, patients rarely become fully continent or short-term results deteriorate in
      the long term. Those patients and patients with large defects are candidates for a
      neosphincter procedure (artificial bowel sphincter or graciloplasty). However, the success
      rate of these methods is limited and the explantation rate is high. A permanent colostomy
      associated with massive psychosocial impairment remains as ultimate treatment option With the
      project Smart Muscle for Incontinence Treatment (SMIT) a multidisciplinary consortium
      consisting of representatives ranging from clinical medicine via microelectronics towards
      biomaterial science aims to develop a novel implant to treat faecal incontinence. The aim of
      this campaign includes development of implantable prototype devices acting as artificial
      continence muscles using low-voltage electrically activated polymers (EAPs) controlled by
      implemented pressure sensors and the patient. Subsequently, the knowledge of the anatomical
      and biomechanical properties of the anal sphincter complex are of cardinal importance. Most
      of the existing data on anatomy and physiology results is based on old studies and almost no
      data on biomechanical properties are available. However, new technologies or even merging
      data from different examination methods might provide new information in this field. Accurate
      imaging data on the pelvic floor region is crucial for the development of a new, implantable
      device for restoration of fecal continence. Optimal size (inner, outer diameter, length) and
      geometrical shape (cylinder, cone, torus) adapted to different functional states (rest,
      squeezing, defecation) will improve function and prevent erosion and consequent infection of
      such a prosthesis. With this study, the investigators aim to correlate three-dimensional
      endoanal ultrasonographic images with MRI images. The combination of different imaging
      techniques has been demonstrated to eliminate individual drawbacks of the examination methods
      and therefore would allow a precise description of the tissue. The registered data with their
      complementary information would permit the distinct segmentation and three-dimensional
      presentations of the anatomical structures in the pelvic area. This information has a great
      potential to facilitate diagnostics and surgical planning in this region. High-resolution
      anal manometry (HRAM) provides intra-anal pressure during rest or maximum pressure with high
      spatial and time resolution. However Biomechanical properties of the anal canal as elasticity
      or stiffness (compliance or flexibility) of the tissue representing important parameters for
      a continence organ are not routinely evaluated in daily clinical practice. Functional Lumen
      Imaging Probe (FLIP) allows the measurement of a cross sectional area (CSA) with respect to
      applied luminal pressure, respectively. FLIP has the potential to be useful in order to
      assess the biomechanical properties of the sphincter region. Such information potentially
      gives new insights in physiology and pathophysiology of the continence process. With this
      pilot study, the investigators aim to acquire anatomical and biomechanical data using
      established (manometry) and novel technologies (merging endoanal ultrasound and MRI data) in
      50 patients suffering from Fecal Incontinence.

      Objective Primary objective is to collect anatomical, physiological and biomechanical
      characteristics of the continence organ (sphincters and pelvic floor) in patients suffering
      from fecal incontinence and to compare this data with data gathered in an earlier study
      (NCT02263170) on healthy volunteers.

      Secondary objectives are: test feasibility of FLIP in measuring the biomechanical properties
      of the anal canal and test feasibility of merging 3D US data and MR images.

      Methods For the assessment of the morphology ultra sound and MRI will be used, whereas FLIP
      (functional luminance imaging probe) and HRAM (high resolution anal manometry) are the
      modality of choice to investigate the biomechanical properties of the sphincter complex.
    
  