
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most common gastrointestinal disorder. Pathogenesis
      remains multifactorial. Better understanding of the interaction of the host with intestinal
      microbiota the last decade led to the knowledge that many of the symptoms of IBS, mainly
      bloating and diarrhea, are related with the overgrowth of bacteria of colonic type in the
      small intestine. This overgrowth frames the syndrome of intestinal bacterial overgrowth
      (SIBO) where colonic type of bacteria predominate in the proximal parts of the small
      intestine. Fermentation of dietary carbohydrates by the bacteria colonizers of SIBO ends with
      the over-production of gas generating thus symptoms of IBS. The relationship between IBS and
      SIBO was found by a series of prospective observational studies using the lactulose and the
      glucose tolerance tests for the diagnosis of SIBO. Using this test, the prevalence of SIBO in
      patients with IBS ranged between 65 and 85%. The gold-standard technique for the diagnosis of
      SIBO is the quantitative culture of the content of the proximal intestine i.e. of the
      duodenum after upper GI tract endoscopy. Few studies are available with this design and they
      suggest a growth of colonic type of flora at counts equal to or greater than 10^5 cfu/ml as
      diagnostic of SIBO. Based on systematic review of the literature but also on data generated
      in a cohort of 320 consecutive patients undergoing upper GI tract endoscopy, normal subjects
      are never greater than 10^3 cfu/m in the duodenum. In the latter publication coming from
      Athens, using variable cut-offs greater than 10^3 or 10^4 or 10^5 cfu/ml for the diagnosis of
      SIBO, the frequency of SIBO was significantly greater among sufferers than among
      non-sufferers from IBS.

      Oral supplementation with probiotics may be a rational approach for the eradication of SIBO
      and subsequently of the symptoms of IBS. The majority of probiotic bacteria belong to the
      Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium genera. They are Gram-positive lactic acid-producing
      bacteria that constitute a major part of the normal intestinal microflora in animals and
      humans. The rationale behind their use as a therapeutic strategy in IBS is that orally
      administered probiotics may replace the overgrown enteric-type bacteria of SIBO. Four
      randomized clinical trials are available evaluating the efficacy of orally administered
      probiotics in IBS. The common findings of these trials are that a) efficacy refers to the
      improvement of symptoms of bloating and of diarrhea that are typical symptoms of the presence
      of SIBO; and b) efficacy is usually found when mixtures of different species of probiotics
      are used. However, no study has ever tested the efficacy of probiotics in patients with IBS
      and SIBO proven by small intestinal culture.

      The aim of the present study is to demonstrate the effect of a mixture of four species of
      probiotics (Saccharomyces boulardii, Bifidobacterium lactis BB-12, Lactobacillus acidophilus
      LA-5 and Lactobacillus plantarum) in patients with symptomatic IBS who have culture verified
      SIBO and those who do not have. This will provide direct evidence for the role of probiotics
      in treating part of the pathogenesis of IBS.
    
  