
    
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) has been utilized for 20 years as a clinical and research
      tool at SUNY Upstate Medical University. Currently, there are five (5) MR (1 low-field 0.2
      Tesla, 3 high-field 1.5 Tesla and 1 3.0 Tesla) units in use on the university campus. During
      this time, new imaging sequences and hardware including smaller more powerful magnets and
      faster computers have been developed that assist in the diagnosis of many disease processes.
      MR Angiography, MR Spectroscopy, diffusion weighted imaging and a dedicated combination
      Neurovascular head and neck coil are just several of the many imaging sequences and
      specialized coils that have been developed over the last several years.

      New imaging sequences and hardware including 4.0 and 7.0 Tesla magnets are currently
      undergoing development and testing at several universities in the United States and
      worldwide. As a consequence of the many new innovations in MR imaging we must periodically
      upgrade our existing MR units and on occasion replace one of our existing MR units or
      purchase a new MR unit. This will ensure that we have the most up to date MR equipment to
      provide state of the art diagnostic imaging capabilities at University Hospital. The new
      imaging sequences and/or hardware must be optimized for each MR unit to achieve the highest
      signal to noise (SNR) and contrast to noise (CNR) ratios in a reasonable scan time. This
      practice is routinely performed at every university and private hospital as well as
      outpatient imaging center when a new MR unit is installed and when an existing unit is
      upgraded.

      Ultrasound imaging has been a component of the Radiology Department since 1975 and used as a
      clinical and research tool. Presently our machines include the GE's models: Logic E9, S8,
      Logic (, P5, P6, Logic Book, Phillips IU22, SonoSite Turbo (multiple units), Siemens Acuson
      (x3 units) and a Siemens X300.

      There are updated ultrasound machines that allow color Doppler images and elastography
      acquisition ability. Upgrades for software and hardware are on an ongoing basis along with
      new applications and imaging protocols.
    
  