
    
      For the planning, patients will undergo magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 1.5 to 3 Tesla, with
      contrast and volumetric reconstruction of 1 mm and can be used MRI from the diagnosis of
      metastasis, if it is compatible with the planning system. Then, there will be individualized
      mask Mask Set for One Patient 41100 (BrainLAB AG, Heimstetten, Germany) for each patient.
      Patients will undergo computed tomography (CT) without contrast with 1-mm slices with
      tracking and stereotactic fixation. The images of MRI and CT are fused in the planning system
      IPLAN version 4.1 (BrainLAB AG, Heimstetten, Germany), where the plan will be implemented.
      The clinical target volume (CTV) is the macroscopic disease (GTV) displayed on the sign of T1
      contrast. The planning target volume (PTV) is the CTV with 3-mm margin in all directions. Can
      be used multiple dynamic arcs, static conformal multiple fields, multiple static fields
      modulated and multiple static arcs. The dose-fractionation scheme will be 4 fractions of 7 Gy
      at the periphery of the PTV, a once daily on 4 consecutive working days. The dose to the PTV
      encompassing areas of the brainstem or optic tract will be reduced by 20%. The plans will be
      standardized at the isocenter. The isodose prescription will be the largest isodose that
      meets the following criteria: isodose covering at least 95% of the PTV with the prescription
      dose (V100 ≥ 95%) and 95% of prescription dose covering at least 99% of the PTV (V95 ≥ 99%).
      The maximum dose should be less than 35 Gy. The dose constraint reported by Ernst-Stecken et
      al will be respected at the expense of prescription isodose, where the normal brain volume
      (total brain volume less volume PTV) of 20 cc will not receive a dose of 4 Gy per fraction or
      larger, there is no maximum size limit of metastasis to be included in the study. Use as an
      index of compliance reported by the Paddick et al and Radiation Therapy Oncology Group
      (RTOG). Tests will be done for collision safety tests and quality control to ensure the
      alignment of isocenters radiation, mechanical and coincidence of lasers (Winston-Lutz test).
      After all, the patients are treated with 6-MeV photons in the linear accelerator Varian
      Clinac 600 CD (Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA, USA) with a system of "micromultileaf"
      m3 (BrainLAB AG, Heimstetten, Germany).
    
  