
    
      The aim of this study is to assess a self-care management program for dry eye disease (DED)
      patients using the Health Educational Intervention Questionnaire (heiQ). The heiQ is tool
      that facilitates a comprehensive evaluation of patient education and self- management
      interventions for patients with chronic conditions.

      Dry Eye Disease is a chronic and may be a progressive condition. Currently, there is no gold
      standard in the diagnosis or treatment of dry eye disease, but several management options are
      available. Just like other chronic conditions like diabetes, patients with dry eye must
      engage in disease modifying behaviours and perform self-care measures, in addition to taking
      pharmaceutical agents. Patient education is the foundation of an effective management plan.

      Various educational programs have been developed in the past for chronic diseases like
      psoriasis, diabetes, and cardiovascular disease. However, there are limited studies
      evaluating self-management and educational interventions for patients with ocular diseases or
      DED. This research team has developed a program to educate patients on self-management of
      DED. The educational component of the intervention includes a series of short videos and a
      self-care handbook. Both the video series and handbook include topics ranging from the causes
      of DED, basic anatomy of the eye, and self-care skills to manage DED symptoms in various
      environments, such as the work environment and seasonal changes. This intervention aims to
      deliver useful information about DED, increase patient knowledge and awareness of strategies
      to reduce and manage symptoms of DED.

      The research team will administer two questionnaires at two different time points to all
      participants-once at baseline and once at two months post-intervention. The first
      questionnaire is the Ocular Surface Disease Index (OSDI). This questionnaire is used to
      determine the severity of dry eye symptoms. The second questionnaire is the Health
      Educational Impact Questionnaire (heiQ). The heiQ is a validated instrument for health
      education and self-management programs of chronic diseases. It is comprised of 40 questions
      that represent 8 independent domains. Those domains include: Health-directed activity,
      Positive and active engagement in life, Self-monitoring and insight, Constructive attitudes
      and approaches, Skill and technique acquisition, Social integration and support, Health
      service navigation, and Emotional distress. Results from the heiQ will serve to provide
      evidence as to whether this educational intervention is effective and should be placed in
      clinical practice.

      Potential participants will be recruited through Dr. Mather's clinical practice at the Ivey
      Eye Institute at St. Josephs's Hospital London, ON. A Letter of Information (LOI) and an
      Invitation Poster will be mailed to potential participants. There will be approximately 130
      participants recruited from Dr. Mather's Clinic at the Ivey Eye Institute. The participants
      will be randomly assigned to the treatment arm or the controlled arm. The intervention in
      total will take up to 4 hours (2 hours in both sessions). In the first session (baseline)
      following the consent the first heiQ and OSDI will be completed by all the participants. The
      treatment group (65 participants) will watch a series of educational videos and will leave
      the baseline session with a DED handbook. The treatment group will agree not to share
      information from the session and the DED handbook with anyone until after session two. During
      the second session (2- months post intervention) all the participants will be asked to come
      back to St. Joseph's hospital to complete the second heiQ and OSDI. At this session all
      participants will be invited to watch the educational videos. All participants will be
      provided a DED handbook and all the participants will be asked to complete a feedback survey
      that will be provided. No data will be collected after the administration of the second set
      of questionnaires. Participants that have questions if any will have the opportunity to ask
      the ophthalmologist.
    
  