
    
      In a previous randomized comparison oral colchicine plus bare metal stent (BMS) compared to
      BMS plus placebo in a diabetic High risk for re-stenosis population, OC demonstrate a
      significant reduction of angiographic and intravascular ultrasound parameters of in-stent
      restenosis (ISR) after BMS implantation at one year of follow up (Journal of the American
      College of Cardiology,2013,61,1678-1685), with a clinical indication of target lesion
      revascularization in 3.6%. In addition previous reported registries from our group with Drug
      Eluting Stents showed similar amount of reduction in clinical parameters (not angiographic)
      of restenosis (ERACI III trial, one year TVR in 8.8% with 1st DES design, Rodriguez A et al
      EuroIntervention 2006,2:53-60 and 4.0% with 2nd generation DES design ERACI IV Cardiac and
      cardiovascular interventions Journal, 2014 ). Taking in account those numbers the
      investigators sought to compare differences in overall cost with both revascularization
      strategies at 1, 2, 3 and 5 years of follow up assuming that safety and efficacy clinical end
      points would be similar. Cost included in hospital, procedural and resources fees, follow up
      cost including re-hospitalization driving by target vessel revascularization (TVR) and both
      spontaneous and TVR myocardial infarction (MI) and medication cost for each revascularization
      strategies Safety end point will be incidence of major adverse cardiac events (MACE) defined
      as the composite of death from any cause, MI (peri-procedural and spontaneous at follow up)
      and ischemic driving TVR.

      The study will be considered complete after all subjects have completed the 12-month Primary
      safety and efficacy endpoint was incidence of target vessel failure (TVF) plus one year
      overall cost with both strategies.. Additional end points are clinical endpoints measured
      in-hospital at at follow up period. cardiac death, cardiac death plus MI. spontaneous MI
      beyond 30 day to 5 years, and stent thrombosis rate (ST) (definite or probable by Academic
      Research Consortium definitions).

      A sub-study of changes in biological markers of inflammation in patients with acute coronary
      syndrome (ACS) including MI will be analyzed in both groups. For this reason, a measurement
      of interleukin 6, metalloproteases, adiponectin and Protein C reactive (PCR) will be
      performed at the time of enrolment and 4 days and a month after inclusion.
    
  