
    
      Improved living conditions and health care are making people in Austria older and older.
      However, OECD data show that this happens with a lower quality of life compared to other EU
      member states. One factor influencing the quality of life is individual functionality at the
      physical and cognitive levels. Physical functionality is obvious, but cognitive impairment is
      preceded by a long latency phase in which subtle limitations of executive functions exist.
      Studies have shown that early detection of dementia through screening and early intervention
      can make an important contribution to a favourable course of treatment. Measures of early
      detection and prevention for the prevention of clinical occurrence thus move into focus.
      Current clinical diagnostic procedures such as cerebrospinal fluid diagnostics and MRI are
      not suitable for population-based early detection. Augmented Reality (AR) techniques
      represent an innovative basis for the development of information and communication technology
      (ICT) based assessment procedures. Real objects are extended by means of smartphones with
      virtual objects and tasks as test objects of screening. Parallel measurements of multiple
      parameters, automatic action recording and semi-automated evaluations provide detailed
      results.

      The project SCOBES-AR (Smart Cognition & Behaviour Screening powered by Augmented Reality) is
      funded by the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) and has a maximum duration of five
      years (September 2023). Through the cooperation of various health science and technical study
      programmes (dietology, occupational therapy, health and nursing, health management in
      tourism/sports science laboratory, information management, speech therapy, physiotherapy) of
      FH JOANNEUM, a screening instrument for the early detection of neurocognitive deficits is to
      be developed. The aim is to establish a multimodal tool for sustainable use in the health
      care system. The project thus takes up the impact goals of the Austrian dementia strategy and
      aims to develop a multimodal screening instrument for the early detection of functional
      impairments (on a cognitive and physical level) in middle and old age for outpatient care. In
      Phase I of the project, the evidence base for a valid instrument will be developed - The
      focus is on assessment selection, data protection and implementation in an AR environment.
      The evaluation and validation of the prototype and the AR environment are carried out in
      phase I and phase II respectively. In Phase III, a business model for sustainable use in the
      health care system with possibilities in the big data area will be developed for the
      finalized instrument. The present study protocol only describes the validation study in phase
      I of the project.

      • Research objectives in phase I of the project In order to realize the main goal of the
      project, to develop a multimodal and low-threshold screening instrument embedded in an AR
      environment for the early detection of functional limitations on cognitive for outpatient
      care, comprehensive preliminary investigations are necessary.

      The validation study presented here is one of these preliminary investigations. Five test
      procedures are to be tested to determine whether they are suitable for the early detection of
      cognitive impairments in people aged 60 and over and thus whether the evidence base for a
      valid instrument can be established. Different functionalities such as movement pattern &
      gait pattern, reaction time, instrumental activities of daily life (iADL) will be recorded
      and evaluated. Examples of iADLs are shopping, financial regulation, mobility or preparing
      meals. Nutritional behaviour is also evaluated, since, for example, adherence to a
      Mediterranean diet is associated with a lower risk of various age-related diseases, including
      dementia. Another possible predictive factor for the development of neurocognitive impairment
      is the decrease in olfactory performance, which is why olfactory performance is also
      measured. The collected data should be compared with the established test battery "Cognitive
      Functions Dementia" (CFD), which is widely used in neuropsychological practice, to clarify
      cognitive impairments and thus be validated. The combination of the collected data results in
      a comprehensive functional status picture of the tested persons. Due to the extensive test
      setting with different test items, SCOBES-AR offers a comprehensive view of the cognitive and
      physical functionalities of the test person. It allows the Focus on existing reserves and
      capacities of the test person and not on their deficits.

      The results of the present validation study will be used at the end of the project to collect
      the above-mentioned - or similar - functionalities via assessments, which are partly
      implemented in an Augmented Reality environment.

        -  Primary hypothesis of the study The planned tests are suitable for the early detection
           of cognitive impairment in people over 60 years of age.

        -  Secondary hypotheses of the study The primary target group (people aged 60 and over) is
           interested in recognising functional (cognitive and physical) limitations at an early
           stage in order to be able to work specifically on improving them.
    
  