
    
      Accurate follicular monitoring of Controlled Ovarian Stimulation by transvaginal ultrasound
      is considered important for the success of human in vitro fertilization (IVF). Accurate
      assessment of the size of follicles is important for the timing of oocyte maturation and
      subsequent oocyte retrieval.

      Serial assessment of follicle number and size is used routinely to assess the response to
      ovarian stimulation during assisted reproduction treatment (ART). Two-dimensional (2D)
      ultrasound is used to identify and scroll through each ovary while the observer quantifies
      the number of follicles present. An objective assessment of the size of the larger follicles,
      commonly those measuring >10 mm, is then made through a series of 2D measurements of their
      perceived mean diameter.

      Sono Automated Volume Calculation (SonoAVC; GE Medical Systems) is a new software program
      that can be applied to datasets acquired with use of threedimensional (3D) ultrasound. It
      individually identifies and quantifies the size of any hypoechoic region within these 3D
      datasets, providing an automatic estimation of their absolute dimensions and volume. SonoAVC
      is an ideal and, potentially, a clinically important tool for the assessment and measurement
      of follicles during controlled ovarian stimulation because each hypoechoic area is
      individually color coded, thereby eliminating the possibility of measuring the same follicle
      more than once.

      In women with high ovarian response to gonadotrophin stimulation, the accurate measurement of
      the number and size of follicles present in hyperstimulated ovaries is a challenge for
      clinicians and ultrasonographers.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effect of timing final oocyte maturation trigger and
      egg collection on the basis of follicular measurements made automatically with SonoAVC
      against those made with conventional 2D ultrasound in relation to the number of mature
      oocytes collected. This study will include women undergoing ART who are high responders
      (presence of =>14 follicles>=11mm) and hence at risk for developing ovarian hyperstimulation
      syndrome (OHSS), treated with a GnRH antagonist protocol and are administered GnRH agonist to
      trigger final oocyte maturation. All resulting embryos (blastocysts) will be cryopreserved
      and transferred in a subsequent frozen cycle.
    
  