
    
      Background:

        -  Cancer has an enormous impact on the psychological and social well-being of the family
           unit. The life-threatening connotations of cancer single out the ill child from his
           peer/family group as one who is different, and often unable to maintain a normal
           lifestyle. Physical sequelae of cancer and its treatment accentuate the differences
           between these children and their normal peers/siblings.

        -  It is important that children with cancer be prepared to function outside of protected
           situations and begin to develop skills of separation and independence. For healthy
           children, some of these latter skills are acquired by a camping experience. Such an
           experience for the patient with cancer is frequently precluded by their dependence on
           medical facilities and the physical limitations of their activities.

        -  The goal of this study will be to assess the short and long term benefits of the
           "normalized" camping experience, provided in conjunction with Special Love, Inc., on the
           patients and staff. In particular, we will seek to determine whether such a
           comprehensive experience is capable of influencing the attitudes and life experiences of
           patients and staff in a positive manner.

      Objectives:

      -To evaluate the impact of an enriched normalized camping experience on the quality of life
      of the pediatric cancer patient. In particular, attempts will be made to measure the manner
      in which this experience influences the child's sense of well-being and self-esteem as well
      as his or her relationship with parents, family, and peers.

      Eligibility:

        -  Children 7-17 years of age who are currently being treated for cancer or are up to 5
           years post therapy OR Young adults with cancer (YACers) who are acting as counselors at
           Camp Fantastic and are enrolled in another NIH protocol.

        -  All children/young adults will be selected for camp after careful screening by a
           multidisciplinary committee consisting of medical and program directors.

        -  At the discretion of the multidisciplinary committee consisting of medical and program
           directors, special exceptions may be made for children with extenuating circumstances.

      Design:

        -  Assessment of benefit may include interviews with children and families before, during
           and following camp. Observational data on the child's performance at camp will be
           collected.

        -  Medical and nursing personnel will consist of staff from the Pediatric Oncology Branch
           at the NCI, other units within the NIH, and participating institutions.

        -  Special Love members, the Program Director at the 4-H Center camp (site of the camp) and
           Pediatric Oncology Branch staff at the NCI will coordinate the camp program, taking into
           account the medical needs of each camper.

        -  Every attempt will be made to provide a full agenda of age appropriate activities for
           the patients.

        -  The length of the camping experience for children with cancer will be for 7 days
           beginning on a Sunday and extending through the following Saturday morning. Patients
           will be transported to the camp from the NIH Clinical Center and the Virginia hospitals
           by bus.
    
  