
    
      Each year in the United States approximately 2.5 million individuals are so severely injured
      that they require inpatient hospital admission. The integration of screening and brief
      interventions (SBI) into acute injury care has the potential to markedly increase the number
      of patients who receive needed services and has been a longstanding public health objective.
      In January of 2005 the American College of Surgeons, the primary agency responsible for
      developing trauma center requirements, passed a landmark resolution mandating that level I
      trauma centers must screen injured patients for an alcohol use disorder, and provide an
      intervention to those who screen positive. Preliminary studies suggest that there is a
      substantial risk that the SBI mandate will be implemented with marked variability and that
      low quality SBI procedures could become the default standard of trauma center care.

      Providers at each intervention trauma center will receive workshop training and ongoing
      telephone coaching in the delivery of evidence-based motivational interviewing (MI)
      intervention; MI training will be embedded within evidence-based organizational development
      activities that aim to facilitate the integration of SBI services into routine trauma center
      care. Control trauma centers will implement SBI care as usual. The investigation hypothesizes
      that intervention trauma centers, when compared to control trauma centers, will demonstrate
      higher quality SBI, as evidenced by greater provider proficiency in SBI delivery, significant
      reductions in 6- and 12-month post-injury alcohol use in patients receiving SBI, and enhanced
      organizational acceptance of SBI services. Without DO-SBIS baseline data on SBI services and
      follow-up RCT data on patient, provider, and organizational outcomes, a critical opportunity
      to provide empiric support of a historic policy decision to require alcohol services at level
      I trauma centers could be lost. The DO-SBIS interdisciplinary research group includes trauma
      surgery opinion leaders who are dedicated to implementing future policy mandates that derive
      from the DO-SBIS research program. Future mandates will aim to strengthen and refine trauma
      center delivery of evidence-based SBI services. The dissemination of high quality SBI
      services at level I trauma centers has the potential to influence alcohol policy in other
      health care settings nationwide.
    
  