
    
      Anemia and transfusion are independent predictors of morbidity and mortality in the cardiac
      surgical patient population. Even so, active preoperative anemia management is not currently
      the standard of care at our institution. Cost associated with erythrocyte transfusions at
      University of Texas Southwestern (UTSW) University Hospitals exceeds twenty million dollars
      annually, not including costs associated with treatment of known complications of red cell
      transfusions (renal insufficiency, respiratory failure, infection and prolonged length of
      stay, etc). Fifty percent of our cardiac surgical population suffer from preoperative anemia
      and 79% of these patients will receive one or more red blood cell (RBC) transfusions. In
      contrast, the incidence of RBC transfusion was only 35% in those without preoperative anemia
      in the calendar year 2011-12.

      The mechanism of injury in patients with preoperative anemia is either the duration/intensity
      of the anemia exposure and resultant organ ischemia, or the harmful effects of erythrocyte
      transfusion(s) itself. Active preoperative anemia management is a strategy that attempts to
      minimize both of these events, and in doing so, exert an additive or possibly synergistic
      effect on improving clinical outcomes. A randomized controlled trial utilizing a standardized
      transfusion strategy is a necessary step in determining if increases in preoperative
      hemoglobin lead to improved outcomes. A pilot, feasibility study is the first essential step
      in insuring the adequacy of future trials designed to answer this important question.

      The APART study is being conducted to test the safety and efficacy of using a short-course
      (1-4 weeks) of EPO plus Feraheme to increase erythrocyte mass. The findings will be used to
      guide the design of a randomized, controlled trial (RCT) that examines the effects of active
      preoperative anemia management on erythrocyte transfusion and clinical outcomes. The RCT will
      test the hypothesis that a short-course (1-4 weeks) of EPO plus Feraheme is superior to the
      standard of care (SOC) at reducing transfusion and improving outcomes in anemic patients
      scheduled for cardiac surgery. Means and standard deviations derived from pilot data on
      changes in hemoglobin levels, reticulocyte counts and differences in erythrocyte transfusions
      and clinical outcomes will be analyzed for possible use in sample size calculations for the
      larger RCT. This pilot will also provide information in determining logistics for timely
      completion of the RCT, and will also address data collection, data management, adherence to
      the study protocol, transfusion and surveillance strategies and classification of clinical
      outcomes and adverse events.

      Pilot Study Specific Aims Include:

        1. To determine the proportion of patients who fulfill all the eligibility criteria for the
           study and agree to be part of a randomized trial of short-course EPO plus supplemental
           Feraheme (up to 3 doses given over a 1-4 week interval prior to surgery) vs. standard of
           care management in patients scheduled for coronary bypass grafting (CABG), valve
           surgery, or CABG/valve surgery.

        2. To determine the adherence of patients and health care team to the procedures included
           in the study protocol (scheduled appointments, surveillance and transfusion strategies).

        3. To determine the increase in hemoglobin levels and reticulocyte counts following a
           short-course of EPO plus supplemental Feraheme over a 1-4 week interval prior to the
           date of surgery vs. standard of care management in patients scheduled for CABG, valve,
           or CABG/valve surgery.

        4. To assess differences in the proportion of patients receiving erythrocyte transfusions
           and number of blood products utilized (RBC, platelets and plasma) in the peri- and
           post-operative periods for those receiving a short-course of EPO plus supplemental
           Feraheme vs. standard of care management in patients scheduled for CABG, valve or
           CABG/valve surgery.

        5. To determine the frequency and intensity of pre-defined clinical outcomes (mortality,
           major cardiac, renal, neurological events [associated with anemia] and infection) in the
           peri- and post-operative periods for those receiving a short-course of EPO plus Feraheme
           vs. standard of care management in patients scheduled for CABG, valve, or CABG/valve
           surgery.

      Differences in hemoglobin levels and reticulocyte counts from baseline to the day of surgery
      and postop day (POD) 5, proportion of patients receiving transfusions and number of blood
      products utilized and the pre-defined clinical events will be assessed between the two
      groups. Each patient will be enrolled in the study up to 28 days before the day of surgery
      and for up to 30 days following the day of surgery. This pilot, feasibility study will enroll
      50 subjects (25 per group). Both groups will have detailed clinical data and biological
      specimens collected.

      Visits and Procedures:

        -  Screening: Patients undergoing cardiac surgery (CABG, valve, CABG/valve) with anemia
           will be identified in advance of their operations. Basic features of patient medical and
           surgical histories (i.e. age, gender, type of surgery) will be screened. If eligible for
           the study based on the inclusion/exclusion criteria, they will be consented into the
           study.

        -  Baseline Visit: Data on demographics, lab results, vital signs, medical history, current
           medications, height/weight will be reviewed and recorded. Randomization by computer will
           be done and the patient will receive the 1st dose of study drugs, as assigned, then
           monitored for any serious reactions (chest pain, dyspnea, seizures, severe headache,
           fever, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, increase in BP). Control group patients with evidence
           of iron-deficiency by laboratory criteria will be advised to initiate supplementation
           with a non-prescription, over-the-counter oral iron preparation (ferrous sulfate 325 mg,
           three times a day is commonly used) to be taken until the planned surgical operation.

        -  Pre-op Visit: Patients will receive the 2nd dose of study drugs as assigned. Vital signs
           (heart rate, BP, oxygen saturation, temperature) will be recorded before and after drug
           administration, then monitored for any serious adverse events; SOC lab results;
           reticulocyte count, troponin, creatine kinase-myocardial band (CK-MB) samples will be
           collected.

        -  Day of Surgery: Patient vital signs (BP, electrocardiogram [EKG], etc) will be monitored
           as part of standard of care. Reticulocyte count, iron panel (includes transferrin,
           ferritin, total iron binding capacity, iron level) samples will be collected. SOC lab
           results, record of transfusions, estimated blood loss, adverse events will be
           monitored/recorded.

        -  POD 2: Troponin, CK-MB, Rotem (Rotational thromboelastometry) samples will be collected.
           Patients will receive study drug, as assigned, then monitored for serious events.

        -  POD 1-7: Vital signs (BP, EKG, etc) will be monitored; SOC lab results, record of
           transfusions, and adverse events will be monitored/recorded. Estimated blood loss will
           be recorded on POD 1 and 2 only.

        -  Other lab to be collected: POD 1 - reticulocyte count, iron panel, troponin, CK-MB; POD
           2 - troponin, CK-MB, Rotem; POD 5 - reticulocyte count, iron panel, aspartate
           transaminase/alanine transaminase (AST/ALT); POD 7 - complete blood count (CBC),
           reticulocyte count, creatinine; POD 14 or discharge (whichever comes first) - CBC,
           creatinine.

      Transfusion Strategy: Erythrocyte transfusion is permitted during cardiopulmonary bypass,
      during surgery and afterwards per protocol, when criteria is met. Red cell transfusions
      should be given one unit at a time with measurement of the pre- and post-transfusion
      hemoglobin levels along with physiologic parameters used to assess adequacy of organ
      perfusion. A consensus for transfusion thresholds was established among anesthesiologists,
      perfusionists and surgeons in our practice. The transfusion thresholds implemented in this
      protocol reflects our current "standard of care;" a threshold at which clinicians generally
      believe the benefits of erythrocyte transfusion outweigh the risks. Adherence to the
      transfusion strategy will be recorded by the research nurse and protocol deviations will be
      discussed with the attending physician of record and a member of the clinical research team.
      However, research staff will not order nor prohibit erythrocyte transfusions. This will be
      left to the discretion of the treating physician(s) if he/she deems it clinically necessary.
      Following randomization, patient's charts will be clearly labeled to indicate participation
      in the study protocol.

      Surveillance Strategy: The decision to initiate and continue administering doses of EPO is
      based on evidence accrued from randomized controlled trials and clinical practice guidelines
      provided by multiple sub-specialty and international societies. Substantial heterogeneity
      exists in factors that could be included in a surveillance strategy to minimize the risk of a
      thrombotic event in this setting; with no one strategy proven to be superior. The
      surveillance strategy included in this protocol derives from, what we believe to be, the most
      current safety analyses of perioperative EPO use reflected in the literature. Implementing
      such surveillance methods are intended to minimize the possibly rare but potentially
      life-threatening adverse events. Risk factors considered in our surveillance strategy
      include: evidence of unstable angina or myocardial infarction, recent thrombotic event,
      hemoglobin levels associated with a higher risk of a myocardial event, excessive
      thrombocytosis or laboratory evidence of a hypercoagulable postoperative state. EPO dosing
      will be stratified based on patient risk (degree of perioperative anemia), type of procedure
      (CABG vs. valve) and laboratory data (hgb, Rotem). All doses will be given per surveillance
      guidelines.

      Primary End Point: The primary objective is to assess the enrollment rate and adherence to
      the dosing protocol and surveillance strategies. We define successful adherence as adherence
      to dosing in more than 90% of patients for more than 90% of the doses deemed appropriate by
      the surveillance strategy. Secondary outcomes will include changes in hemoglobin levels and
      reticulocyte counts within the two groups from baseline to the day of surgery and POD 5,
      number of RBC units transfused, frequency of pre-specified clinical outcomes and incidence of
      adverse events in each of the study groups. Data from this pilot study will be used for the
      power analysis and design of the larger RCT.

      Adverse events (AEs) are events that involve physiological, social, or psychological harm to
      subjects or risks of harm to additional subjects or others. AEs include expected and
      unexpected harmful effects, and unexpected risks of an interaction or an intervention. AEs
      may be caused by: the test article or test procedure, other aspects of the interaction or
      intervention, the subject's underlying condition, or the subject's concurrent standard
      treatment. AEs may be definitely related, probably related, possibly related, unlikely to be
      related, or definitely not related to the research. We will report all adverse events and
      other reportable incidences to the Institutional Review Board (IRB) per reporting guidelines.
      Any adverse event will be documented of that event including a description, subject number,
      date, outcome, and follow-up.

      The primary safety endpoints of the study are the incidence of adverse events associated with
      the use of the study medications. These include: hypersensitivity (e.g. pruritis, rash, and
      urticaria), hypertension, hypotension, bleeding, nausea, vomiting, injection site pain, deep
      venous thrombosis or other thrombotic complications. Surveillance for these adverse events
      will be conducted by direct observation (during drug administration), daily bedside visits by
      the research nurse for the first 7 postoperative days, review of the patients medical record
      and listing any of these complications in the Society of Thoracic Surgery (STS) database. The
      definition of a stroke, myocardial infarction (MI), mesenteric artery occlusion or peripheral
      vascular event will be based on STS criteria. Any event resulting in death from time of
      initial drug administration to hospital discharge will be recorded.

      The Principal Investigator, along with the Secondary Investigators, will be responsible for
      the monitoring, reviewing and analyses of study data. This will be done quarterly unless an
      issue requires immediate attention or if a recurrent pattern develops into a need for a more
      frequent review. An interim analysis will be done at 50% enrollment by the principal and
      secondary investigators.
    
  