
    
      In previous cases of patients with Parkinson's disease and Pisa Syndrome, the investigators
      found a slight improvement in the dystonia of the trunk after the application of prismatic
      lenses.

      The current study provides the involvement of 40 patients with Parkinson's disease, of which
      twenty treated with permanent prismatic optical correction, and twenty treated with neutral
      optical correction or with the only optical correction of the refractive basic defects
      (placebo).

      The protocol provides the collection of these data:

        -  Personal data (date of birth, sex, marital status, profession)

        -  General history (weight, height, non-neurological and neurological concomitant
           pathologies, medical conditions that may be associated or predisposing patients to PS,
           non-antiparkinsonian therapy in progress)

        -  Specific history for PD (year from the first diagnosis of PD, year of appearance of the
           first motor symptoms of PD, type and distribution of motor symptoms at the onset)

        -  Pharmacological history of PD (year of initiation of the first treatment for PD, which
           drugs (s), antiparkinsonian therapy in progress)

        -  Neurological Evaluation in ON: UPDRS I, II, III and IV (III: also items-20-26 right and
           left side), Hoehn-Yahr stage;

        -  Specific history for PS;

        -  Detection of some information about the patients' perception of having the torso tilted
           sideways, direction of inclination, how long it is present, how long it is manifested,
           conditions in which this inclination is present (standing, sitting, etc.) )

        -  Presence of low back pain and pain intensity measured with the Visual Analogue Scale
           (VAS).

      Clinical and kinematic evaluation of PS:

        -  The amount of dystonia measured in degrees with the patient positioned against the wall
           against a dedicated protractor. This measurement is photographed.

        -  Static and dynamic kinematic evaluation (gait analysis) according to the following
           protocol: 30 seconds stationary in orthostatic position, shoulders to the cameras, about
           5 steps forward, stationary in orthostatic position while fixing visual stimulation
           points placed on the wall, 30 second stationary in an orthostatic position after having
           covered a section of the corridor in front of the kinematic evaluation room.

      Orthoptic evaluation:

      complete orthoptic evaluation and prescription of personalized prismatic lenses, randomizing
      the patient on active or slow-moving placebo lenses with respect to the other experimenters
      and the patient.

      Flowchart of visits:

      Screening: the neurologist selects the patient according to the eligibility criteria
      indicated above and verifies the patient's willingness to participate.

      Randomization: the patient undergoes clinical and kinematics evaluation of the PS, orthoptic
      examination and randomization on active lenses and placebo.

      Study times:

      T0: randomization and prescription of lenses T1: check after 1 month from the use of lenses

      Patients are recruited at the Parkinson's Center of the IRCCS Neuromed.
    
  