
    
      A novel regimen, which is composed of a low dose of ATG (5 mg/kg) and low-dose PTCy (one dose
      of PTCy, 50mg/kg) for GVHD prophylaxis in haplo-HSCT for patients with hematologic
      malignancies, is going to be evaluated in the prospective, randomized control, phase II
      clinical trial. It is theoretically feasible because the mechanisms of ATG and
      Cyclophosphamide on T lymphocyte are different. ATG plays the immunosuppressive activity on
      the depletion of peripheral T lymphocytes through complement dependent lysis or
      activation-associated apoptosis. ATG also modulates cell-surface expression of surface
      adhesion molecules or chemokine receptors. In addition, ATG can also affect or interfere with
      the function of different immune cells such as B lymphocytes, regulatory T lymphocytes
      (Treg), natural killer (NK)-T lymphocytes and dendritic cells (DC).Cyclophosphamide is
      nontoxic to hematopoietic stem cells and can selectively deplete the alloreactive T cells.
      Therefore, we hypothesis that ATG followed by PTCy have the synergistic effect on GVHD
      prophylaxis. (2) Luznik et al also showed that there was no difference in the incidence of
      severe acute GVHD between one or two doses of PTCy. Furthermore, there was a trend toward a
      lower incidence of extensive cGVHD among patients of two doses of PTCy compared with one dose
      PTCy. One dose of PTCy might preserve the GVL effect without influencing the incidence of the
      severe aGVHD. (3) Y Wang et al reported a randomized clinical trial comparing two different
      doses of ATG (6 and 10mg/kg) as GVHD prophylaxis for Haplo-HSCT. There was no difference in
      the median myeloid and platelet engraftment time and the rate of graft failure. The results
      showed that the incidence of grade III-IV acute GVHD was higher in the ATG-6 group than in
      the ATG-10 group. But the EBV reactivation occurred more frequently in the ATG-10 group than
      in the ATG-6 group. The higher rate of infection and NRM may influence the transplant
      outcomes in this GVHD prophylaxis strategy. We speculated that low dose of ATG (5 mg/kg) will
      ensure the engraftment and decrease infection frequency. But the optimal timing of ATG
      administration still needed to be considered. The immunosuppressive activity of ATG is not
      only dose-dependent but also rely on the timing of drug administration, especially when the
      lower dose of ATG was used as GVHD Prophylaxis. So we designed a randomized control phase II
      study to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity with low dose ATG followed by low dose PTCy as
      GVHD prophylaxis .
    
  