
    
      HCV is a worldwide infection, it is estimated that about at about 3.0% (170-200 million
      people) of the world's population are infected. HCV is associated with an increased disease
      burden due to liver cirrhosis and considerable mortality . More than 350,000 people dying
      each year from hepatitis C-related liver disease. Adding to the problem of HCV infection is
      the presence of occult HCV infection.

      Egypt has the highest prevalence worldwide, it is estimated to be 14.7% among a
      representative sample of Egyptian population, aged 15-59 year . Egypt is among countries
      responsible for 80.0% of global infections. Further, prevalence is higher among hospitalized
      patients and special clinical populations.

      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) has great genetic variability, with 6 major genotypes (GTs); GT-1 to
      6. In Egypt, HCV is almost exclusive GT-4 distribution. HCV has significant differences in
      their global distribution and prevalence.

      Worldwide, Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fifth most common cancer in men and the
      seventh in women. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related
      death worldwide and one of the leading causes of death among patients with cirrhosis. In
      Egypt, HCC is the second most common cancer in men and the sixth most common cancer in women.

      Direct acting antivirals (DAAs) are a novel and completely oral hepatitis C therapy . DAAs
      are used in most patients being treated for hepatitis C, including those with decompensated
      cirrhosis. This type of treatment has now completely replaced interferon-based therapy
      .Therapy of chronic hepatitis C with direct-acting antivirals (DAAs) is able to induce a
      sustained virological response (SVR) in over 85% of patients, even if liver cirrhosis is
      present. Cirrhotic patients should be closely monitored after treatment.

      HCC is thought to develop over time as the liver is exposed to inflammation and develops
      fibrosis. Thus, if DAAs can eliminate inflammation mediated by HCV, the risk of HCC should
      decrease. However, several centers have observed that this actually may not be the case.
      Tumor genesis occurs through a multistep, multifactorial process. Eliminating HCV-induced
      inflammation may not be enough to decrease risk of HCC.

      DAAs have provided an effective, well tolerated treatment for hepatitis C in patents with
      cirrhosis. However, several studies have shown unexpectedly high rates of recurrence of HCC
      in the early post DAAs treatment time period.

      MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a set of small, single-stranded, non-coding RNA molecules (21-30
      nucleotides) that negatively regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level by
      translational inhibition or degradation of target mRNA, depending on the degree of
      complementary base pairing. Aberrant expression of miRNA is common in various human
      malignancies and modulates cancer-associated genomic regions or fragile sites. As for the
      relationship between miRNA and HCC several studies have demonstrated that the aberrant
      expression of specific miRNA can be detected in HCC cells and tissues. However, little is
      known about the mechanisms of miRNA-related cell proliferation and development.ref

      Aim of work:

        1. Evalution of occurrence and risk factors for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in patients
           with HCV-related liver cirrhosis after direct acting antiviral drugs (DAAs) therapy.

        2. To asses diagnostic value of novel markers in patients who developed hepatocellular
           carcinoma (HCC) after direct acting antiviral drugs -DAAs -therapy.
    
  