
    
      The Diabetic Retinopathy Clinical Research Network (DRCRnet) was formed to conduct clinical
      trials and epidemiological studies for diabetic retinopathy.

      As part of the establishment of the network, it is necessary to standardize data collection
      methods, testing procedures, and treatment techniques for use in the anticipated multiple
      protocols to be conducted by the network. One of the treatment techniques requiring
      standardization is laser photocoagulation treatment of diabetic macular edema. To accomplish
      this goal, a protocol has been developed to enroll patients with diabetic macular edema who
      require laser treatment. Procedures to be conducted by standardized protocols include
      refraction, visual acuity testing, fundus photography, fluorescein angiography, optical
      coherence tomography (OCT) and laser photocoagulation. One of the benefits from having a
      structured protocol will be that the outcome data using the standardized techniques can be
      used for sample size estimations in future protocols. This is particularly true for OCT for
      which we need to develop standard methods to assess changes in groups of patients and for
      which there are limited longitudinal data, especially in groups of patients.

      The conduct of this study provides the opportunity not only to collect data on a standardized
      laser protocol commonly used in current clinical practice but also to collect pilot data
      evaluating a new laser technique. The 'current practice' laser protocol, modified from the
      ETDRS treatment protocol, involves focal/grid photocoagulation to areas of macular thickening
      with leaking MA, diffuse leakage or nonperfusion (modified-ETDRS technique). There is
      extensive evidence supporting the efficacy of ETDRS laser photocoagulation technique for the
      treatment of macular edema. The alternative technique, called mild macular grid (MMG)
      photocoagulation, provides mild grid treatment using small, widely separated burns to the
      retina from 500 to 3000 microns (3500 microns temporally) from the macular center. This
      technique may potentially have fewer side effects, different edema resolution rate or
      prevention of future development of macular edema as discussed below. The study will use
      randomization to assign each patient to receive one of the two treatment methods.

      For this protocol, participation will be open to all clinical sites that have the requisite
      equipment needed for the study and to all ophthalmologists who meet criteria to be a DRCR.net
      investigator. The sample size for the study will be dictated by the number of participating
      sites, with each site limited to the enrollment of a maximum of four patients or one patient
      per certified investigator, whichever is greater.
    
  