
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine the feasibility and short- and long-term efficacy
      of an empirically-based CST intervention (Keefe et al.) with caregivers of patients with
      primary malignant brain cancer. The target sample will be 20 caregiver-patient dyads. The
      caregiver may be a spouse/partner, family member or friend,. Additional inclusion criteria
      will include: (1) caregiver provides a weekly minimum of 4 hours of caregiving; (2) caregiver
      is 18 years or older; (3) caregiver reading level at or above 8th grade; (4) caregiver
      sufficiently fluent in English; (5) the patient shows evidence of problems in depression,
      fatigue, sleep disturbance, and/or cognitive impairment as per the treating neuro-oncologist;
      (6) the caregiver and patient are willing to be randomized to treatment or usual care
      condition; (7) patient is within 3 months of initial diagnosis; (8) patient has life
      expectancy of at least 6 months or more; (9) the caregiver is willing to participate in
      treatment sessions using a telephone. If a patient dies during the active 12-week study
      phase, then the caregiver will be transitioned to the follow-up phase or removed from the
      study and, if needed, be referred for appropriate psychiatric or psychological treatment.

      Using a randomized controlled, prospective design, potentially eligible participants will be
      identified at the time of initial consultation. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline,
      post-intervention (3 months post-randomization), 6 months post-randomization, and every 4
      months up to 2-years in the event that the patient dies. If the subject is assigned to the
      intervention, they will be asked to complete 12 weeks of a coping skills training
      intervention. The coping skills intervention will consist of six telephone conversations
      during which they will learn strategies to reduce stress. The strategies will include ways to
      improve problem solving, communication skills, and managing activities. The subject will also
      be asked to complete a packet of questionnaires which will take about 1 hour to do. The
      subject will be asked to complete the questionnaires multiple times during the study (before
      the coping skills intervention, during the week after the coping skills intervention, and 3
      months after the coping skills intervention). If the subject is assigned to the usual care
      condition, they will be asked to complete assessments at the same time intervals as
      caregivers in the active coping skills intervention. In either condition, in the event that
      the patient dies, the caregiver will also be asked to complete assessments every four months
      for one year. Patients will be asked to participate in sessions and complete questionnaires
      as they are able to.
    
  