
    
      Research design: multicenter collaboration, prospective, non-interventional, observational
      research

      Research outline:

      Registration period: Dec 2016 (after ethics committee approval) to May 2018 (1 year and 6
      months) Investigation period: Dec 2016 (after ethics committee approval) to Nov 2019 (At
      least 1 year and 6 months) Target number of participants: 1,000 participants Estimated number
      of participating institutions: 150 medical institutions Research secretariat: Mebix, Inc.

      Research procedure:

        -  Perform patient registration within 3 weeks of first prescription

        -  Also record when the drug was discontinued for any reason, such as an event or bleeding
           etc, between the time of first prescription and registration

        -  Track progress as much as possible until the end of the study period, regardless of
           continuation or discontinuation of study drug administration, and also in cases where
           there is manifestation of efficacy or safety events

        -  Track progress of all cases as much as possible until the end of the study period,
           regardless of continuation, discontinuation or termination of study drug administration.
           Patients transferred to the hospital are managed in the same way.

      Registration method:

      Register case information in the WEB registration system (EDC) after obtaining written
      consent from the research participant him/herself or the legal guardian for all cases
      compliant with the registration criteria and not in conflict with the exclusion criteria.
      Administer rivaroxaban in compliance with the approved dosage in the separate attached
      document. Furthermore, when the usage or dose are adjusted at the discretion of the research
      doctor, record the dose adjustment and reason. EDC will be used for case data entry.

      [EDC; Items to be entered into the case registration screen]

        1. Registration date

        2. Facility name

        3. Case registration number

        4. Patient identification code (appropriate number within the facility)

        5. Gender

        6. Birthdate

        7. Rivaroxaban commencement date

        8. Age at first prescription (automatic calculation display)

        9. Date of obtaining written consent

       10. Other
    
  