
    
      The study has three interconnected Specific Aims.

      In Aim 1 the study team will determine if, VHI ESA clinician training improves ESA when
      interacting with virtual humans. The study team hypothesizes that clinicians in the ESA group
      will report less negative emotional responses and greater empathic communication at the
      post-training (T2) assessment than clinicians in the Control group, adjusting for
      pre-treatment (T1) scores.

      In Aim 2 the study team will establish if, VHI ESA clinician training results in sustained
      improvement in patients' suicidal ideation and SCS. The study team's primary patient level
      outcomes will be SI as measured by the Beck Suicide Scale, and SCS severity as measured by
      the SCI. The study team's secondary outcomes will be treatment retention, patients'
      perception of the therapeutic alliance as measured by the Working Alliance Inventory,
      patients' perception of clinician empathy as measured by the Consultational and Relational
      Empathy scale, treatment adherence as measured by the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale, and
      suicidal behaviors as measured by the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale. The study team
      hypothesizes that patient participants in the ESA group will report less severe SI and SCS at
      the first post-training clinical encounter with their clinician (T3) than the Control group,
      adjusting for baseline (T0) levels of SI and SCS, and that these differences will extend to
      the final post-training follow-up (T4).

      In Aim 3 the study team will assess the role of therapeutic alliance in improving SI and SCS.
      The study team hypothesizes that patients' therapeutic alliance at post-training assessments
      T3 and T4 will mediate the relationship between post-training ESA indices and post-training
      patient suicidal outcomes, adjusting for baseline (T0) levels of the outcome.

      If successful, the proposed work may have a broad impact on clinician training and practice
      by adding an ESA dimension to evidence-based suicide risk assessment. Suicide is preventable
      and the ultimate goal is to create an industry-standard platform to train clinicians in ESA,
      thereby improving their skills in interacting with suicidal patients, and, ultimately, saving
      lives.
    
  