
    
      RECRUITMENT: Participants will be recruited from the community through online and newspaper
      advertisements. Campaigns in local buses and print publications (e.g., LA Weekly) will also
      be implemented. Targeted recruitment will also take place through a lab database of previous
      study participants who agreed to be contacted for future studies.

      TELEPHONE SCREEN: Individuals who call the lab (in response to flyers and advertisements)
      expressing interest in the study will receive detailed information about the study
      procedures, and if they remain interested they will complete a telephone screen performed by
      a trained research assistant for self-reported inclusion and exclusion criteria. Those who
      appear eligible will be invited to the laboratory for an initial in-person screening session.

      INITIAL SCREENING: Prior to conducting any research related procedures, research staff will
      conduct the informed consent process, which details the procedures to take place during the
      screening visit. Informed consent will be a three part process. First, participants will be
      asked to read and provide verbal consent for breathalyzer. If the breathalyzer is above
      0.000, the visit will be stopped and the participant will not be compensated. The participant
      will be given an opportunity to reschedule the visit for another day. If the breathalyzer
      test is negative, the written informed consent form will be reviewed and signed by the
      participant and study staff outlining procedures for the initial screening visit. A second
      written consent form will be reviewed and signed in the presence of the study physician at
      the medical screening visit if the participant is found eligible to continue to that visit.
      At the initial screening visit, subjects will be asked to provide a urine sample to test for
      drugs of abuse and pregnancy (if female), and will complete a series of individual
      differences measures (described in detail below). This visit should take approximately 2
      hours. Following the initial in-person screening, the study coordinator will meet with the PI
      to determine if the participant is eligible to continue to the medical screening based on
      study inclusion/exclusion criteria.

      MEDICAL SCREENING: Those participants who appear to be eligible after the initial screening
      visit, will then be scheduled for a second screening visit. This visit will be conducted by
      the study physician and will start with a breathalyzer test. If the breathalyzer is above
      0.000, the visit will be stopped and the participant will not be compensated. The participant
      will be given an opportunity to reschedule the visit for another day. If the breathalyzer
      test is negative, the physician will conduct the second written (experimental) consent;
      medical history interview and physical exam. In addition, a urine drug screen test will be
      repeated. The participant will then be accompanied by research personnel to the CTRC for
      blood specimen collection including Comprehensive Metabolic Panel and Complete Blood Count to
      evaluate overall health; and EKG to screen for medical conditions that could make study
      participation medically unsafe. The study physician will review each participant's medical
      history, vital signs, weight, review of systems, and laboratory tests, including liver
      function tests (LFTs), drug screen, chemistry screen, and urine pregnancy screen to determine
      if it is medically safe for the participant to take the study medication. Any subject who is
      excluded from the study will be compensated for their time in the screening session and will
      be offered referrals for alcohol treatment in the community.

      RANDOMIZATION/INFLAMMATORY CHALLENGE: Upon arrival to the CTRC, eligibility for the
      inflammatory challenge will be reviewed to ensure that none of the exclusion criteria have
      been met as described above. A nurse, who will be blind to the condition, will insert a
      catheter with a heparin lock into the dominant forearm for hourly blood draws and one into
      the non-dominant forearm for a continuous IV hydration and for drug administration. Each
      participant will be randomly assigned to receive either low-dose endotoxin (0.8 ng/kg of body
      weight administered) or placebo (same volume of 0.9% saline), which will be administered by
      the nurse as an intravenous bolus. The endotoxin will be derived from Escherichia coli (E.
      Coli group O:113: BB-IND 12948 to M.R.I) and will be provided by the National Institutes of
      Health Clinical Center as a reference endotoxin for studies of experimental inflammation in
      humans. Participants will complete assessments as outlined below at baseline and every hour
      for 4 hours post-infusion. One standard meal and one snack will be provided by the CTRC to
      each participant during the experimental visit. At the end of the experimental period,
      participants will have the catheter removed and will be discharged with instructions to
      abstain from consuming alcohol for 24 hours after discharge. A follow-up phone call by the
      study physician will be conducted the day after the inflammatory challenge and again 1-2
      weeks later to assess for any adverse events.

      The study physician (Dr. Miotto) will be on-call and will manage any adverse events during
      the inflammatory challenge. She will consult with Dr. Irwin, Co-I, as needed to manage
      adverse events. In the event that significant medical problems are encountered, the blind
      will be broken and appropriate medical treatment will be provided. Individuals who meet the
      following stopping criteria will discontinue study-related data collection procedures
      (cytokine assays and cue exposure paradigm):

        1. >1 SAE at least possibly related to endotoxin administration

        2. >2 Grade 3 (severe) adverse events at least possibly related to endotoxin
           administration, based on the FDA Guidance Document "Toxicity Grading Scale for Healthy
           Adult and Adolescent Volunteers Enrolled in Preventive Vaccine Clinical Trials"

      ALCOHOL CUE REACTIVITY SESSION (CR): Approximately 2 hours after receiving intravenous
      endotoxin (or matched placebo), participants will complete the cue-exposure paradigm. Alcohol
      cue exposure will follow well-established experimental procedures. Sessions will begin with a
      3-minute relaxation period. Participants will then hold and smell a glass of water for 3
      minutes to control for the effects of simple exposure to any potable liquid. Next,
      participants will hold and smell a glass of their preferred alcoholic beverage for 3 minutes.
      Order is not counterbalanced because of carryover effects that are known to occur.
      Participants (who are smokers) will be allowed a smoke break immediately prior to and
      immediately after the CR assessment. After every 3 minute period, participants will rate
      their urge to drink on the Alcohol Urge Questionnaire.
    
  