
    
      The measurement of visual acuity involves the determination of the smallest high contrast
      target that can be resolved by the patient. Classically, this has been approached by the use
      of letter style optotypes, each having successively smaller stroke and gap resolution. More
      recently, the arrangements of letter charts have been redesigned with a logarithmic scale and
      with attention being paid to the uniformity of other effects such as crowding or of the
      choice of optotype. The resultant Ferris-Bailey-Lovie chart has become a standard for acuity
      testing, especially for clinical research. The letters of such acuity charts have a 0.1
      logMAR step progression (1.26 X) between lines and have 5 letters per line. It has been noted
      that the logMAR chart could have greater resolution with finer steps between the lines and
      with improved repeatability by converting to a letter-by-letter scoring system.

      While these advances have improved the resolution and reliability of acuity measures, they
      require relatively cumbersome wall charts and do not provide any of the advantages of an
      interactive program that would enable a threshold to be approached by stimulus presentation
      on both the seeing as well as non-seeing sides.

      The Vimetrics CVA is an interactive computer device that measures threshold visual acuity by
      presenting a Landolt-C with the gap randomly tumbled in one of 4 positions to which the
      patient responds with a response pad. The threshold is approached in a logarithmic, staircase
      fashion to define the test subject's acuity threshold with a resolution similar to letter by
      letter scoring in chart testing but with the ability to rapidly test under a number of
      conditions of luminance and contrast that simulate activities of daily living.

      The CVA determination of visual acuity under six conditions of contrast and lighting will be
      compared with that acquired by logMAR chart testing under similar conditions.
    
  