
    
      This study will test the hypothesis that patients receiving ESP Block have higher QoR-15
      scores and better post operative analgesia in comparison with patients receiving standard
      care after Spinal Surgery.

      Objectives & endpoints / outcome measures

        1. The Primary outcome in this study will be the patient centred QoR-15 score among ESB and
           Control patients;

        2. Secondary outcomes will be:

             1. Area under the VRS pain score versus time (24 hr post-op);

             2. VRS pain scores at 1 hr, 4 hr, 12 hr, 24 hr postop;

             3. time to administration of first rescue analgesia after the block;

             4. documentation of adverse events : hypotension, pruritus, nausea and vomiting

             5. DAH -30 Days at home at 30 Days

                Proposed sample size The established minimum clinically important difference in
                QoR-15 is 8.0 and the SD of QoR-15 scores after major surgery is in the order of 10
                [range of QoR score is 1-150]. Therefore, assuming Type I error = 0.05 and Type II
                error = 0.2 (80% power to detect this difference), then n=25 patients needed in
                each group.

                Study Design A prospective, randomised, double-blind controlled trial with
                participants masked to study arm (blocks will be performed under General
                Anaesthesia) and those involved in data collection also masked to the intervention.
                Patients will be asked to complete a questionnaire in the post operative period
                (QoR 15) which is a global assessment of the patients post operative recovery
                status. The QoR 15 scale is a validated means of assessing a patients quality of
                recovery. The questionnaire contains 15 questions and the mean+SD duration of time
                taken for patients to complete the questionnaire is 2.4+0.8 min.

                Treatment of study subjects Patients scheduled for Spinal Surgery will be screened
                for eligibility according to the criteria listed and eligible patients noted. These
                patients are admitted the day prior to surgery or morning of surgery when scheduled
                for an afternoon list. Eligible patients will be approached by an investigator and
                invited to give their consent to the study. They will be offered the Patient
                Information Leaflet (PIL) and the investigator will leave the patient for a minimum
                of ten minutes to consider. Patients who give written consent will be randomised to
                receive either ESB or No Block (control) after induction of general anaesthesia.
                Randomisation will be by table of random numbers, even numbers assigned ESB, odd
                numbers control. The designated group will then be written on a blank page and
                placed in a sealed envelope, which will be sequentially numbered, e.g. Patient
                Study Number 1 etc.

                Patients will be unconscious under GA when receiving either ESB , so will be masked
                to group allocation. Investigators collecting QoR-15 data will also be unaware of
                group allocation.

                All participants will have standard analgesia (Paracetamol, NSAIDS, Opiates) at the
                discretion of the treating Consultant Anaesthetist. 20mls 0.25% Levobupivicaine
                plus 2mg Dexamethasone will be used on each side in the ESP block.

                Patient characteristics and data will be prospectively recorded for 24 hr
                postoperatively. Intraoperative haemodynamic recordings and the use of rescue
                analgesia during the operation and in the recovery room will be taken from the
                Centricity Anaesthesia Information Management System an electronic recording system
                that has been in use in the Mater Anaesthesia department since 2016. Patients will
                complete QoR questionnaires manually on paper which will then be transferred into
                an electronic format. The questionnaires will be administered by Doctors or Nurses
                involved with the study. Patients will be asked to complete the questionnaire while
                they are in the recovery area after the operation and once they are fully awake.

                Inclusion Criteria Male and Female participants providing written informed consent,
                ASA grade 1- 4, age group 18 and over undergoing Posterior approach Spinal surgery
                involving 2 or more levels of decompression in the lumbar or thoracic regions.

                Exclusion Criteria Absence of informed written consent, pre existing infection at
                block site, severe coagulopathy, allergy to local anaesthesia, , previous history
                of opiate abuse, pre existing chronic pain condition, pre-existing dementia
                [because of need to co-operate in completing QoR-15 score day after surgery],
                decompression involving cervical levels of vertebrae

                Anticipated study start date

                1st August 2019 Anticipated study duration 6 months

                Safety Reporting Patients' routine medical care will continue during this clinical
                trial as per current practice. Both regional blocks are routinely used in our
                institution and therefore the health of participants will be monitored as it would
                be for all patients regardless of their participation in the trial. Adverse events
                will be recorded and managed along already existing local policies and guidelines.

                Statistics QoR and other variables will be compared between the groups using
                independent samples (unpaired) t-test for normally distributed continuous data and
                Mann-Whitney U test for non-parametric data

                Data Handling and record keeping Only the investigators will have access to the
                collated data. Data will be recorded initially on paper and then transcribed to
                electronic spreadsheet format, in coded format.

                Patients' names will not be recorded, study numbers assigned by randomisation will
                be recorded. This will allow follow up at 24 hours to assess block performance. The
                investigators will retain the "key" to identification. Data will be stored securely
                in the Department of Anaesthesia at the Mater Hospital, on a password-protected
                desktop computer stored in a locked office, such that only the investigators will
                have access.

                Electronically-recorded data will be secured by means of password
                protection/encryption. Data recorded on paper will be secured by lock and key

                Retention of essential documents The collated data collected by the investigators
                will be retained for 5 yr after analysis has completed. The original data in the
                patients' paper and electronic medical records will be unaffected.

                Quality Control and Quality assurance procedures ESP blocks are in routine use in
                our department currently. All Blocks will be performed by Anaesthesiologists with
                expertise in regional anaesthesia and who are familiar with the study. We will be
                following our local and international guidelines in terms of safe block
                performance. This would include appropriate monitoring of the patient as set out in
                the RA - UK guidelines, availability of resuscitation and airway equipment
                including the ready availability of Intra - lipid. All blocks will be performed by
                or supervised by experienced Anaesthesiologists using a validated in plane
                Ultrasound technique.

                Ethics There are no ethical issues regarding this study. Financing and
                Insurance/Indemnity All investigators will be MMUH staff covered by the clinical
                indemnity scheme [CIS]

                Clinical Study Report and publication policy Conclusions from the clinical trial,
                once complete, will be prepared for presentation at an academic meeting and for
                submission to an appropriate international, peer-reviewed journal
    
  