
    
      This study is a pilot randomized controlled feasibility trial of an augmented massage
      intervention, compared to a usual-care control group, in which intervention group
      participants will receive up to 3 massage sessions per week, during the 4-6 hospitalization
      at UCSF for Bone Marrow Transplant (BMT).

      Participants will be approximately 24 children recruited from consecutive sample of pediatric
      cancer and non-cancer patients undergoing BMT age 5 to 18 admitted to UCSF children's
      hospital during one calendar year.

      Intervention: Massage sessions will be gentle Swedish style combine with acupressure and will
      range from 20-45 minutes, provided by credentialed and trained massage therapists;
      augmentation will involve massage training for the resident parent, who rooms with the
      patient, to administer massage to his/her child during the course of the hospital stay. The
      control group will receive standard-care.

      We will collect feasibility data and do exploratory comparison of clinical outcomes between
      groups.

      Knowledge to be gained: We will have preliminary data for a larger trial that will determine
      whether an augmented massage intervention can support symptom management in the pediatric BMT
      unit.

      B. Hypothesis(es): Briefly explain the hypothesis(es) to be tested. If the study is not
      designed to test a hypothesis, simply state "None." Hypothesis 1a: >60% of Patients are
      willing to be randomized to the massage study.

      Hypothesis 1b: 80% of patients randomized to massage will accept the massage intervention
      when offered.

      Hypothesis 1c: The majority of parents (>60%) are willing to learn massage techniques for use
      on their children.

      Hypothesis 2a: Professional massage providers will be able to deliver massage, negotiating
      schedule, space, time, and other patient-related medical activities and will be able to
      schedule >50% of planned massages.

      Hypothesis 2b: Massage providers will be able to assess the acceptable time period for
      massage (between 10 minutes and 45 minutes).

      Hypothesis 2c: Parents will carry out the massage on their children, will do at least 5
      massages over the study period and are willing to provide a self-report of estimated time
      engaged in massage.

      Hypothesis 3a: 80% of patients will answer survey questions about their experience in general
      and the massage intervention.

      Hypothesis 3b: The RA will be able to collect clinical data from chart review and
      electronically stored lab data .

      Hypothesis 3c: 80% of parents will answer survey questions about their experience in learning
      and delivering massage, stress, mood, PTSD symptoms and self-efficacy around patient
      management.
    
  