
    
      Study Design and Participants The RIPNOD trial was conducted from July 2011 to July 2014 as a
      prospective randomized trial in two OPOs (in New Jersey and in Texas) in the U.S. The funding
      organization, institutional review boards and the physician committees of the two organ
      procurement organizations (OPOs) approved the study. Exemptions for consent from potential
      recipients and for a data and safety monitoring board were granted. Consent for research was
      obtained from the donor's next of kin by OPO staff unless a 'first-person' consent existed.
      The study population consisted of neurological death organ donors. Eligible donors were age >
      6 years, in whom death declaration was either imminent or completed, and organ recovery was
      not expected within 6 hours of enrollment. Donors with severe trauma to lower extremity or on
      sulfonylurea agents were excluded (Trial Protocol in Supplement).

      Procedures Randomization (1:1) to No RIPC or RIPC groups in standard and extended criteria
      donors (SCD and ECD) strata occurred based on a computer-generated random table of numbers.
      In Texas, field coordinators performed the randomization through a website and administered
      the intervention. In New Jersey, research staff performed all trial activities and randomized
      using opaque, sealed envelopes. Organ recovery teams were informed of the study and sometimes
      knew of the group assignment. The recipient care teams and recipients were not aware of the
      group assignment.

      The intervention consisted of four cycles of inflation of a tourniquet around mid-thigh to
      250 mm Hg for 5 minutes followed by 5 minutes of deflation. The initial intervention occurred
      in the right thigh as early as possible after declaration of death. The second intervention
      occurred in the left thigh 24 hours after the initial intervention, or immediately before
      recovery, if this was earlier. Videoconferences between the two sites helped standardize the
      intervention before the trial commenced. All decisions regarding donor management, organ
      recovery, machine perfusion of kidneys, transplantation of organs and care after
      transplantation were independent of the research teams.

      Outcomes and Data Collection The primary outcome was the total number of organs recovered per
      donor. Secondary outcomes were number of organs transplanted per donor, and changes from
      baseline to terminal (before aortic cross clamp) in vasopressor support, serum lactate,
      creatinine clearance, left ventricular ejection fraction, serum troponins, partial pressure
      of arterial oxygen: fraction inspired oxygen (P:F) ratio, dynamic and static lung compliance,
      and perfusate flow and resistance in machine perfused kidneys, delayed graft function (DGF)
      in transplanted kidneys and six-month hospital free survival in all recipients. A score
      quantified vasopressor support.14 All laboratory tests were performed at donor hospitals.
      Cockcroft-Gault equation was used to calculate creatinine clearance.15 Donor hospital
      cardiologists estimated the ventricular ejection fraction in transthoracic echocardiograms.
      OPO policies dictated machine perfusion of kidneys; perfusion, occurred at a central location
      in each OPO. Delayed graft function was defined as dialysis in the first week after
      transplant. Six month hospital-free survival was defined as the number of days recipients
      survived following the initial discharge after the transplant. All donor data were obtained
      prospectively from OPO records. Data after transplantation were obtained from the Scientific
      Registry of Transplant Recipients (SRTR). The SRTR data system includes data on all donors,
      waitlist candidates, and transplant recipients in the United States, submitted by members of
      the Organ Procurement and Transplantation Network (OPTN). The Health Resources and Services
      Administration (HRSA), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services provides oversight to the
      activities of the OPTN and SRTR contractors.

      Sample Size A sample size of 150 donors in each arm was estimated to provide 80% power to
      detect a difference of 0.44 of an organ recovered and 0.48 of an organ transplanted per
      donor. The difference criterion was chosen based on published results achieved with hormonal
      resuscitation in organ donors. 6 Pooled standard deviations (organs recovered: 1.35; organs
      transplanted: 1.5) from data of two OPOs were used.

      Statistical Analyses Intention to treat principle was used in all analyses. Discrete
      descriptive data are reported as counts and percent and continuous data as means (sd) or
      medians (interquartile range). Continuous variables were compared using either t, or
      equivalent non-parametric tests. Categorical variables were compared using chi square tests.
      Multivariate modeling with backward elimination - linear ones to model RIPC on recovery and
      transplantation of all (0-8) and abdominal organs (0-5) per donor, and logistic ones to model
      recovery/transplantation of > 1 thoracic organ per donor and DGF - was performed. Because
      only seven fewer thoracic organs were transplanted than recovered the model for organs
      transplanted was used to analyze both outcomes. Donor characteristics of age, sex, race,
      cause of death, BMI, comorbidities (hypertension, diabetes, alcohol use, and hepatitis C),
      treatments (insulin, diuretics and steroids) and laboratory parameters (serum creatinine and
      P:F ratio) and OPO site were predictor variables in organ yield models. Donor age or stratum,
      cold ischemia, number of human leukocyte antigen mismatches and recipients' characteristics
      of age, sex, race, BMI, diabetes, hypertension, etiology of renal failure, panel reactive
      antibody and OPO site were predictor variables in models of DGF. For linear regression
      models, adjusted R2 was computed and residuals were assessed for normality; the C statistic
      was used to assess goodness of the fit for logistic regression. Statistical significance was
      set at p<0.05.

      Post Hoc Analyses Rates of acute rejection of kidney during the first six months were
      compared between the two groups using chi square tests. Kaplan-Meier estimates and log rank
      tests were used to compare unadjusted outcomes of graft and patient survival at 6, 12 and 24
      months. In heart, lung and liver recipients, retransplantation or death was defined as graft
      loss. In all other organs graft loss was death-censored. Cox proportional hazards models were
      used to estimate the effect of RIPC on the adjusted hazard ratio for six-month graft loss
      after controlling for OPO site, donor age or stratum and sex, cold ischemia time, number of
      antigen mismatches, organ transplanted, and recipient age, sex, race, BMI, diabetes and
      hypertension.
    
  