
    
      1. Background and Rationale:

           Vitamin K antagonists have been the standard anticoagulant treatment for decades,
           despite their unpredictable pharmacology and their slow onset and offset of action,
           requiring frequent monitoring and bridging with low molecular weight heparins (LMWH),
           and resulting in a substantial risk of under- and overtreatment. Patients with end-stage
           renal disease have an increased risk of bleeding due to their underlying disease.
           Therefore, anticoagulants need to be used with caution in these patients. In addition,
           the vitamin K antagonists are increasingly implicated in the development of vascular
           calcifications in this already vulnerable population. A search for alternative
           anticoagulants is therefore warranted.

           Rivaroxaban is a recently developed factor Xa (FXa) inhibitor for the prevention and
           treatment of thromboembolic disease (1). Rivaroxaban has a much lower pharmacokinetic
           variability and little interaction with food and drugs, contributing to consistent and
           predictable anticoagulation. As a consequence, routine monitoring is not required.
           Rivaroxaban has been shown to be effective and safe in large trials on the prevention
           and treatment of venous thromboembolism (2,3) and the prevention of stroke in atrial
           fibrillation (4).

           Rivaroxaban inhibits factor Xa in a concentration-dependent manner. Even though routine
           monitoring is not required, there are clinical situations in which an evaluation of its
           anticoagulant effect is desirable. Rivaroxaban prolongs prothrombin time (PT) and
           activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTTT) in a concentration-dependent manner.
           However, the extent of prolongation varies considerably with the type of reagent that is
           used. This variation cannot be reduced by conversion of PT values given in seconds to
           international normalized ratio values; therefore, PT and activated partial
           thromboplastin time are not useful for measuring the pharmacodynamic effects of
           rivaroxaban. Anti- Factor Xa activity is also influenced by rivaroxaban and is the most
           reliable method to evaluate the clinical effect of rivaroxaban (5).

           The absolute bioavailability of rivaroxaban is high (80 % - 100 %) for the 10 mg dose,
           with maximum plasma concentration (Cmax). appearing 2 - 4 hours after tablet intake.
           Intake with food does not affect rivaroxaban area under the curve (AUC) or Cmax.
           Rivaroxaban pharmacokinetics are approximately linear up to about 15 mg once daily.
           Plasma protein binding in humans is high at approximately 92 % to 95 %, with serum
           albumin being the main binding component. Due to the high plasma protein binding
           rivaroxaban is not expected to be dialysable. There are, however, no data about plasma
           protein binding in hemodialysis patients. Unchanged rivaroxaban is the most important
           compound in human plasma, with no major or active circulating metabolites being present.
           With a systemic clearance of about 10 l/h, rivaroxaban can be classified as a
           low-clearance drug. After intravenous administration of a 1 mg dose the elimination
           half-life is about 4.5 hours. After oral administration of a 10 mg dose the elimination
           becomes absorption rate limited with mean terminal half-lives of 7 to 11 hours (6,7).

           Rivaroxaban has a dual mode of elimination. Approximately 2/3 of the administered dose
           is metabolized to inactive metabolites in the liver, with half then being eliminated
           renally and the other half eliminated by the faecal route. The final 1/3 of the
           administered dose undergoes direct renal excretion as unchanged active substance in the
           urine, mainly via active renal secretion (6,7). In individuals with mild (measured
           creatinine clearance [CreaCl] 50-80 ml/min), moderate (CreaCl 30-49 ml/min) and severe
           (CreaCl 15-29 ml/min) renal impairment, rivaroxaban plasma concentrations (AUC) were
           increased 1.4-, 1.5- and 1.6-fold respectively, as compared with control subjects,
           whereas maximum plasma concentration was relatively unaffected (8). Corresponding
           increases in pharmacodynamic effects were more pronounced. In individuals with mild,
           moderate and severe renal impairment the overall inhibition of factor Xa-activity was
           increased by a factor of 1.5, 1.9 and 2.0 respectively, as compared to healthy
           volunteers; prolongation of PT was similarly increased by a factor of 1.3, 2.2 and 2.4
           respectively (8). There are no data in patients with CreaCl < 15 ml/min. Based on these
           data, dosing guidelines for patients with renal failure have been issued. No dose
           adjustment is necessary in patients with mild renal impairment (CreaCl 50-80 ml/min) or
           moderate renal impairment (CreaCl 30-49 ml/min). In patients with severe renal
           impairment (CreaCl 15-29 ml/min), rivaroxaban is to be used with caution. Use is not
           recommended in patients with CreaCl < 15 ml/min (6,7).

        2. Study design A two-centre, non-blinded cohort study.

        3. Study objectives 1) To measure the AUC and Cmax of 10 mg rivaroxaban in hemodialysis
           patients 2) To assess the effect of 10 mg rivaroxaban on coagulation assays in
           hemodialysis patients:

             -  anti-Xa assay

             -  prothrombin assay 3) To assess the effect of a single dialysis session on plasma
                levels of rivaroxaban and on anti-Xa levels 4) To assess safety and tolerability of
                rivaroxaban in hemodialysis patients

        4. Study subjects

             1. Enrolment procedure The study protocol will be discussed with eligible patients.
                All patients under treatment in the participating centers that meet the in- and
                exclusion criteria that give informed consent will be included.

             2. Planned number of participants 12 patients

             3. Inclusion criteria

                  -  age ≥18 year

                  -  signed informed consent

                  -  chronic hemodialysis patients without immediate life-threatening conditions,
                     dialysed three times a week for at least three months

                  -  requiring anticoagulation for the prevention of deep venous thrombosis

             4. Exclusion criteria

                  -  residual renal function, as defined by a residual diuresis of >50 ml/day

                  -  known intestinal malabsorption

                  -  inability to take oral medication

                  -  mechanical heart valve

                  -  inability to stop co-medication that causes major interactions with
                     rivaroxaban (e.g. ketoconazole, itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole,
                     ritonavir)

                  -  severe liver dysfunction Child-Pugh grade C
    
  