
    
      The overall objective of the proposed research is to conduct a prospective, randomized
      controlled trial to investigate whether the addition of BFR therapy to standard
      post-operative rehabilitation regimen significantly improves clinical outcomes following ACLR
      standardized with respect to both surgical technique and graft selection. The investigator's
      central hypothesis is that the addition of BFR therapy has the potential to accelerate
      surgical recovery, expedite return-to-duty, and maximize medical readiness following ACLR. In
      the proposed trial validated patient reported outcome measures will be used to assess for
      functional clinical improvement, while quadriceps musculature cross sectional area (CSA) as
      measured on MRI will be used to quantify the effect of therapy on quadriceps strength. The
      rationale for using this modality is based upon the fact that the measurement of quadriceps
      CSA and muscle volume as surrogates for overall quadriceps function is well described, and a
      number of studies have convincingly demonstrated positive correlations between these
      parameters and quadriceps strength4, 17. However, in spite of these reports, the acceptance
      acknowledging MRI as a surrogate for quadriceps strength remains limited. Therefore,
      isokinetic and isometric quadriceps strength of both the operative and non-operative knee
      extensors (quadriceps) will be measured post-operatively at approximately 6 months and 9
      months post operatively. MRI of bilateral thighs will be performed immediately prior to ACLR
      to establish a baseline CSA in the operative and non-operative lower extremity. Then a repeat
      MRI will be performed immediately following the conclusion of a standardized 16-week
      post-operative rehabilitation regimen among patients randomized to either a standard
      rehabilitation regimen (REHAB) or a rehabilitation regimen with BFR (REHAB + BFR.) Finally,
      MRI will be repeated at 52 weeks post-operative to examine for latent changes in CSA once
      patients have been returned to unrestricted physical activities.

      AIM 1: To determine if the addition of BFR therapy to a standard post-operative
      rehabilitation protocol increases quadriceps muscle cross sectional area and volume after
      ACLR as measured with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      Hypothesis: The addition of BFR therapy to a standard post-operative rehabilitation regimen
      following ACLR will increase quadriceps muscle CSA and volume when compared to a standard
      post-operative rehabilitation regimen measured at 16 weeks post-operative.

      AIM 2: To determine if any observed increases in quadriceps muscle CSA and volume are
      sustained beyond the cessation of BFR therapy at 16-weeks post-operative by performing repeat
      MRI at 52 weeks post-operative

      Hypothesis: Observed increases in quadriceps muscle CSA and volume will be sustained beyond
      the cessation of BFR therapy at 52 weeks post-operative.

      AIM 3: To determine if CSA measurements obtained by MRI reliably predict knee extensor
      strength.

      Hypothesis: CSA measurements obtained by MRI reliably predict knee extensor strength as
      measured by isokinetic and isometric testing.

      AIM 4: To determine if the addition of BFR therapy to a standard post-operative
      rehabilitation regimen following ACLR results in significantly improved functional outcomes
      when compared to a standard post-operative rehabilitation regimen at 24, 36, and 52 weeks
      post-operative using patient reported outcomes (PRO).

      Hypothesis: The addition of BFR therapy to a standard post-operative rehabilitation regimen
      following ACLR will result in significantly improved PRO when compared to a standard
      post-operative rehabilitation regimen at 24, 36, and 52-weeks post-operative.
    
  