
    
      The present study is designed as a prospective, single-centre, randomized, single-blind,
      controlled, 2-arm parallel group trial.

      The study will consist of:

      i) a two-month screening period; ii) randomization and treatment phase; iii) a follow-up
      phase lasting up to 24 months. Patients with paroxysmal or persistent atrial fibrillation
      referred to the centre to undergo catheter ablation procedure will be screened. It is
      expected that approximately 260 patients will be screened in order to have 234 patients
      fulfilling inclusion criteria at the end of the screening period. The sample will include 154
      patients with paroxysmal AF and 80 patients with persistent AF. Paroxysmal and persistent AF
      will be defined according to current ESC guidelines.

      Patients fulfilling selection criteria, will be informed of the study and asked for
      participation. The study requirements, including required testing, will be discussed with the
      subject. A signed Informed Consent Form for study participation must be obtained prior to any
      study-related procedure. Patients will be given a daily diary for recording AF-related signs
      and symptoms and instructed to bring it back at the inclusion visit.

      Eligible patients will be randomised using a web-based randomization system embedded in the
      electronic CRF (e-CRF).

      A randomization schedule, stratified by AF type, using balanced blocks will be established
      before the start of the trial.

      Patients will be randomised to one of the two ablation procedures:

        -  standard circumferential pulmonary vein isolation (CPVI)

        -  CPVI followed by rotors' identification and ablation (CPVI + Rotor.

      The acute endpoint for AF ablation procedure is electrical isolation of the pulmonary veins
      and non inducibility of AF by atrial extrastimuli.

      Rotors are defined as fast and persistent electrical activation with intracardiac
      electrograms of regular cycle lengths shorter than 240 ms with stable isoelectric line
      between two adjacent activation.

      The acute endpoints for rotors are their identification by predefined mapping characteristics
      and their elimination by radiofrequency ablation after circumferential pulmonary vein
      isolation.

      Antiarrhythmic medications may be continued for the first 3 months following the first
      ablation to avoid early recurrences. At 3 months, antiarrhythmics must be stopped to assess
      for clinical recurrence.

      Freedom from symptomatic AF, atrial tachycardia, and atrial flutter off antiarrhythmic drug
      therapy as assessed from the end of the 3 months blanking period to 12 months following the
      ablation procedure, and documented by implantable loop recorder monitoring or
      trans-telephonic (TT) ECG monitoring.

      AF episodes > 10 minutes documented by implantable loop recorder registrations or daily
      trans-telephonic (TT) ECG will be recorded in the e-CRF, clearly identified by date and time
      of occurrence. Total duration of the episode will also be recorded. In addition, presence of
      symptoms, as reported by the patient in the daily diary will be sought.

      A Clinical Events Committee (CEC) made up of three cardiologists and arrhythmologists who are
      not participants in the study will review and adjudicate, symptomatic and asymptomatic AF
      recurrences.

      The Clinical Research Unit staff will support the Investigator and the Sponsor to maintain a
      high level of ethical, scientific, technical and regulatory quality in all aspects of the
      Clinical Trial. At regular intervals during the Clinical Trial, the Clinical Research Unit
      staff will review study progress and any emergent problems. Random source data verification
      will be performed.

      Data will be collected by means of an electronic e-CRF, FDA 21 CFR part 11 compliant.

      A detailed Statistical Analysis Plan will be issued.
    
  