
    
      The Cochlear Baha bone conduction hearing implant offers two alternative ways to transmit
      vibrations from the external sound processor to the osseointegrated implant: The Baha Connect
      System uses a skin-penetrating abutment and allows direct bone conduction. The Baha Attract
      System uses a magnetic connection through intact skin. Magnetic bone conduction hearing
      implants have the advantage over skin-penetrating systems of eliminating the daily cleaning
      of the site and are perceived as a more cosmetically appealing by some subjects. With modern
      sound processor technology, it is possible to obtain good sound transmission despite the soft
      tissue attenuation that is inherent to magnetic bone conduction hearing implants. Clinical
      investigations have shown that the Baha Attract System, when used in combination with
      existing head-worn sound processors within the Premium (e.g. BP100, Baha 4 Sound Processors)
      and Power (BP110 Sound processor) segments, provides good hearing outcomes in subjects with
      conductive and mild mixed hearing loss.

      The Cochlear Baha 5 SuperPower Sound Processor is the first head-worn sound processor within
      the Super Power segment and has a fitting range of 65 dBHL. It is CE marked and is intended
      for subjects with mixed hearing loss or single-sided sensorineural deafness (SSD). It can be
      used with the Baha Connect and Baha Attract Systems and with a Baha Softband. When used in
      combination with the Baha Attract System, it will be able to compensate for a larger
      sensorineural component than the current Premium and Power sound processors and, hence, will
      allow more subjects to benefit from the Baha Attract System. The combination Baha Attract
      System with Baha 5 SuperPower Sound Processor is the most powerful non-skin penetrating bone
      conduction hearing implant solution available today.

      The Baha 5 SuperPower Sound Processor includes discreet design, advanced signal processing
      and improved connectivity to external sound sources. The new sound processor supports
      Cochlear's 2.4 GHz wireless protocol and is programmable with a new version of the Baha 5
      Fitting Software.

      The aim of this clinical investigation is to evaluate objective and subjective hearing
      performance with the Cochlear Baha 5 SuperPower Sound Processor on the Baha Attract System,
      compared to the unaided hearing performance. Comparison of audiological test results with the
      same sound processor on a Baha Softband will also be performed. Short term safety parameters
      will be collected.
    
  