
    
      ImpleMentAll aims to examine the effectiveness of tailored implementation (i.e. the
      ItFits-toolkit) compared to usual implementation of Internet-based Cognitive Behavioural
      Therapy (iCBT) in routine practice in twelve implementation sites in nine countries. The
      project has a total duration of 51 months divided in three phases: 1) preparation (Jan 2017 -
      May 2018), 2) trial period (June 2018 - September 2020), and 3) analysis and reporting
      (October 2020 - March 2021). The preparation phase includes localising the generic study
      protocol to local settings and for obtaining the required ethical clearances. In the trial
      period, the ItFits-toolkit will be put into practice and data will be collected in each
      implementation site. In the final phase, the data will be cleaned and analysed. Depending on
      the results and conclusions of the study, the ItFits-toolkit will be further improved by
      adapting it to the findings.

      iCBT, an innovative psychotherapeutic intervention, has been found to be an efficacious
      treatment alternative for a range of common mental health disorders. The iCBT service aims to
      combine innovative Internet technology with a broad evidence-based definition of CBT. The
      iCBT services that are being implemented apply different delivery formats ranging from
      self-help, to therapist guided and blended with face-to-face therapy for depression and/or
      anxiety disorders and/or in comorbidity with somatic symptom disorder. iCBT is currently
      being implemented in twelve different sites in primary and specialised care in Italy, Spain,
      Germany, France, the Netherlands, Denmark, Kosovo, Albania and Australia. All these sites are
      in different phases providing a natural laboratory for the IMA study.

      A generic 'Integrated Theory-based Framework for Implementation Tailoring Strategies' toolkit
      (the ItFits-toolkit) is developed and will in introduced in these 12 implementation sites at
      randomly chosen moments. ItFits functions as an online self-help toolkit by which users are
      guided through the process of tailoring site-specific implementation strategies. The
      ItFits-toolkit includes four modules that implementers need to work through: 1) identifying
      and prioritising implementation goals and determinants of practices, 2) matching up
      implementation determinants to strategies, 3) designing a plan for carrying out strategies in
      a local context, and 4) applying strategies, and reviewing progress. In each of these four
      modules, evidence-informed materials such as iCBT relevant determinants of practices and
      implementation strategies, are included as well as methods for engaging with stakeholders.

      By introducing the ItFits-toolkit in settings with ongoing implementation of iCBT services, a
      comparison of the effectiveness and efficiency of the ItFits-toolkit with
      Implementation-as-Usual (IAU) is possible. IAU refers to any existing efforts to embed and
      integrate iCBT within an organisation. The main research hypothesis is that the
      Itfits-toolkit will lead to better implementation outcomes than IAU does. Reaching better
      outcomes can be expressed in two dimensions: the capability to establish the desired effects
      (i.e. implementation effectiveness) and its efficiency (i.e. implementation costs in relation
      to uptake and normalisation outcomes) by which the effects came about. Implementation
      effectiveness is defined in terms of uptake and as the extent to which a service is regarded
      as being a normal part of practice, i.e. normalisation degree. The question is whether the
      ItFits-toolkit leads to a positive impact on uptake and normalisation. Parallel to the main
      objective, the efficiency of the ItFits-toolkit in reaching the implementation outcomes as
      compared to IAU will be explored. Organisational readiness for change will be investigated to
      corroborate the uptake and normalisation outcomes adding to the development of measurement
      instruments for implementation processes. In addition, the perceived satisfaction and
      usability of the ItFits-toolkit will be explored for potential improvement of the toolkit. An
      in-depth qualitative process evaluation using Realist Evaluation methods will be conducted
      alongside this implementation effectiveness study.

      A stepped-wedge trial (SWT) design is applied by which the time points at which
      implementation sites receive the ItFits-toolkit are randomised. All implementation sites have
      received the ItFits-toolkit sequentially acting as control and intervention condition at the
      end of the trial. There are 6 groups and 2 implementation sites per group. Sites will be
      informed about the group they are allocated to three months prior to cross-over. Every three
      months, a new group crosses over from IAU to using the ItFits-toolkit.

      There are two types of study participants: 1) implementers, and 2) staff involved in iCBT
      service delivery. Implementers are directly involved in the development, coordination and
      execution of implementation activities. Implementers are represented in the study by an
      Implementation Lead (IL) who has a coordinating role in the implementation activities.
      Implementers are first engaged with the Implementation-As-Usual activities and become users
      of the ItFits-toolkit when the implementation site crosses-over to the ItFits-toolkit
      condition (i.e. when they receive the ItFits-toolkit). When using the ItFits-toolkit, the IL
      is supported by an implementation core team (1-3 persons), and a number of relevant
      stakeholders providing feedback and advice on the implementation work through a process of
      co-creation. The IL engages with the ItFits-toolkit user-interface directly and collects and
      provides the data on implementation site level. Service delivery staff are the 'receivers' of
      the implementation activities and are subject to changes in their daily work to implement
      iCBT. Staff within the site are eligible for partaking in the study when they are involved in
      iCBT delivery. Involvement refers to a distinct role in delivering iCBT: mental health
      specialists, referrers, administration, and ICT support. Next to the study participants, each
      site has a study team responsible for the preparation, coordination, and execution of the
      local trials. These persons do not provide data themselves, but are involved in localising
      the current protocol, obtaining ethical approvals, recruitment of study participants, data
      collection, analysis, and reporting.

      Implementation success is defined as a multidimensional concept that includes increases in
      uptake of the iCBT service on organisational level, normalisation process in staff, and
      efficiency outcomes on organisational level. Uptake is defined as a combination of referral
      rates and the extent to which the service completed by patients; normalisation process as the
      extent to which the new service is considered by staff to be a normal part of daily work; and
      efficiency as costs of implementation effort per uptake and costs per degree of
      normalisation. To be able to relate the effects of the ItFits-toolkit to these primary
      outcomes, Implementation Leads' exposure to, perceived satisfaction with, and usability of
      the ItFits-toolkit will be assessed. A measure for organisational readiness for change will
      be used to corroborate the normalisation instrument.

      The instruments used to measure the primary and exploratory outcomes are based on brief and
      validated questionnaires. In addition, a number of newly developed measures are constructed
      for measuring uptake (referral rate, completeness of use), implementation costs (effort,
      other costs, and overheads), and exposure to the ItFits-toolkit (event-based log files).
      Uptake, degree of normalisation, implementation costs, and organisational readiness for
      change are measured at baseline and every three months for the total duration of the study.
      Data on exposure to the ItFits-toolkit will be collected continuously, whereas satisfaction
      and usability of the ItFits-toolkit will be assessed at the end of the exposure period in
      which an implementation site has received and used the toolkit.

      At local implementation sites, questionnaire data will be gathered using web-based surveys in
      the ItFits-toolkit platform. Questionnaire measures for staff will be in local language.
      Quantitative data that is collected will be anonymized at local research sites, and checked,
      pruned, pooled, and packaged on a secure data server at Central Data Management. No data will
      be collected or used without the explicit informed consent of the staff that are
      participating in the IMA study. Study participants can withdraw at any point without
      disadvantage. As part of the informed consent procedure, informed consent for data transfer
      to other parties within the IMA consortium, and long-term preservation will also be asked.

      The main aim of the analysis is to test whether the introduction of the ItFits-toolkit will
      induce positive chances in the uptake and normalisation of iCBT, and in the efficiency of
      this process (i.e. uptake and normalisation divided by implementation costs), across and
      within sites. Generalized linear mixed models (GLMM) will be used to determine the extent to
      which the total variation observed in uptake and normalisation is a result of the
      introduction and use of the ItFits-toolkit. To analyse efficiency in terms of
      cost-effectiveness, the costs for implementing iCBT using the ItFits-toolkit will be compared
      to the costs for Implementation-as-Usual in relation to the achieved outcomes (i.e. uptake
      and normalisation). In the analyses, all observed data will be included, in an effort to
      implement the intention-to-treat principle.
    
  