
    
      Hypnotherapy has been used for many things through the years. Today many doctors use it for
      their patients for operations when blood supply is low to control bleeding, pain for
      difficult dental work, mental issues & many other things.

      Back in the 1950's a doctor Wilhelm Reich was able to increase the immune system & tested it
      by blood samples. The immune system isn't sending enough white blood cells into the brain to
      clean up beta-amyloids. Using hypnotherapy could increase the white blood cells to the brain
      to clean up the damage.

      In theory the primitive part of the brain ( 1%)job is to protect the body from harm. It does
      this by giving out a fight or flight response to the subconscious mind which is (88%) of our
      brain. Then the conscious mind controls the body to either fight or flight. Since Alzheimer's
      is such a slow moving disease the primitive part of the brain does not react because of the
      slow action. So the subconscious never gets the message that there's a disease in the brain
      so the body could fight it off.

      As the immune system cleans up the beta-amyloid buildup the healthy neurotransmitters are
      able to function. Healthy brain cells can be retrained so the quality of life can be more
      normal.

      EXAMPLE:

      * If you imagine driving down the same path across a field day after day. Before to long the
      grass dies & ruts start to form. Next thing you know your auto is hitting high center. So you
      have to move over to keep from getting stuck in the ruts. The brain works in the same way.
      The person do things without thinking because that is how the brain has been trained. But the
      brain can be retrained to do the functions as it did before the illness.

      Hypnotherapy session will be:

        -  One hour long

        -  one session per month for 9 months

        -  3 months free of any sessions to measure the effect

      STUDY WAS CANCELLED
    
  