
    
      The idea that birth process should be undergone minimal intervention has been spreading.
      Unlike the abovementioned idea, the fact that episiotomy practice -especially on the
      primiparous pregnant women- has almost been a routine in Turkey and it has been practiced
      -even if it is not necessary- despite the fact that itprolongs the post-partum healing and
      increases perineum trauma risks.

      Perineal trauma is described as the damage that occurs spontaneously or due to a surgical
      incision or episiotomy during the labor in the genital region. Perineal trauma that may occur
      during labor may pose a critical risk both for mother's health and her quality of life.
      Perineal trauma is accompanied with short term or long term morbidity during and after birth
      and affects sexuality and physical image of the women negatively. Some of these effects are
      painful sexual intercourse, fecal and urinary incontinence and continuous perineal pain.

      Perineal massage performed by using an oily substance that has lubricant properties is
      described as the massage made on the muscles around the vagina and its tissues. The
      massage,which is thought to haveimportant effects onelasticity of the tissues and muscles and
      the rehabilitation is thought to provide benefits for vaginal births due to the similar
      useful effects on the tissues and muscles around the perineal. Perineal massage with
      lubricant is a poten-tial therapeutic approach implemented at the second stage of delivery.

      Background Perineal tissues should be pulled aside to allow the neonate exit from the
      vagina.Studies regarding the perineal pulling and massaging in the second stage of labor for
      relaxing the perineum and possibly preventing perineal laceration and episiotomy, have
      concluded that the perineal pulling and massaging increase possibility of childbirth with an
      intact perineum. Perineal massage increases elasticity and blood supply to the perineum and
      leads to easier pulling and less pain during childbirth. It also reduces the possibility of
      perineal laceration, the need to episiotomy, and postpartum perineal pain.

      Aims:

      The aim of the present research was to determine the effects of massage performed by using
      olive oil on travail duration, episiotomy requirement and perineal tears for the term
      pregnancies during second stage of the labor.

      COLLOUT: Perineal trauma that may occur during labor may pose a critical risk both for
      mother's health and her quality of life.
    
  