
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To measure the rate of adherence to selected Children's Oncology Group (COG)-endorsed
      supportive care clinical practice guidelines (CPG) recommendations at National Cancer
      Institute (NCI) Community Oncology Research Program (NCORP) sites. (Aim 1) II. To describe
      the possible influence of NCORP site size and the number of patients enrolled in COG studies
      per site on the delivery of CPG-consistent care. (Aim 1a) III. To describe the clinical
      outcome of episodes during which patients receive CPG-consistent or CPG-inconsistent care.
      (Aim 1b) IV. To describe facilitators of and barriers to the use of CPGs elicited via focus
      group interviews with a diverse set of potential users (physician, nurse, nurse practitioner
      and pharmacists) who provide pediatric cancer care at NCORP sites. (Aim 2) V. To improve how
      well CPG recommendations are understood by health care providers by refining the CPG
      recommendation format based on an iterative process of cognitive interviewing and formatting
      revisions. (Aim 3)

      OUTLINE:

      AIM 1 (CHART REVIEW): Patients are separated for each CPG evaluated (fever and neutropenia
      [FN], chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting [CINV], fertility preservation [FP]) and are
      randomly selected for medical chart review. Patients with eligible episodes of FN, CINV or FP
      within the health records are selected and have the data from their records abstracted and
      reviewed by COG for adherence to COG endorsed CPGs.

      AIM 2 (FOCUS GROUPS): Health care providers who provide direct care to pediatric oncology
      patients are identified and separated to participate in three types of focus groups:
      physician-only, non-physician, and mixed.

      AIM 3 (INTERVIEWS): Health care providers undergo one-on-one interviews consisting of think
      aloud technique (TAL) of cognitive interviewing.
    
  