
    
      This is a randomized controlled trial primarily designed to compare the scarring after
      primary and secondary cleft lip repair using post-operative botulinum toxin injection. There
      will be 4 main groups in this study:-

        1. Study group I: For primary lip surgery, immediately after primary lip repair will
           received botulinum toxin injection (1-2U/kg, at 25U/mL) into the bilateral aberrant
           oriented orbicularis ocuris muscle via 4 superficial injection site (Tollefson TT 2006).

        2. Study group II: For revision lip surgery, immediately after revision lip surgery 3
           injection of 2.5U of botulinum toxin with a distance of 0.5 cm from each injection and
           operative wound are injected over both sides of upper lip in a adult on the operation
           room.

        3. Control group I : Similar amount (in C.C.) of normal saline will be injected after
           primary lip surgery at 3 months of age.

        4. Control group II: Similar amount (in C.C.) of normal saline will be injected after
           revision lip surgery (secondary cleft lip repair).

           4. ELIGIBILITY 4.1 Inclusion criteria for the primary lip repair group (i) Baby born
           with cleft lip who will receive primary lip repair at 3 months of age (iii) Written
           informed consent given by parent/guardian.

      4.2 Inclusion criteria for the secondary lip repair group (i) Adult > 16 years old. (ii)
      Moderate to severe secondary cleft lip and/or nose deformity that warrants corrective
      surgery.

      (iii) Written informed consent given by parent/guardian/patient.

      4.3 Patient numbers: 60 for primary lip repair and 60 for secondary lip repair

      4.31 Sample size calculation: 10 consecutive patient selected from our OPD on march 2009.
      Vancouver Scar Scale means 4.6 with SD 1.264911 (rage 3-7). If the study group with
      improvement of 1 is clinical significant, giving power 0.8 with the same SD, the sample size
      calculated will be 26.

      Using Terason Ultrasound (capacity of measured 1/100 cm or 1/10 mm) the scar width mean is
      1.13 mm with SD .6201254. If the study group with improvement of 0.5 mm as clinical
      significant, giving the power of 0.8 with the same SD, the sample size calculated will be 25.

      We will use 30 patients for each group.

      4.41 Exclusion criteria for primary lip repair

        1. Combined other craniofacial anomalies

        2. Without permission of parent/guardian, without signed informed consent by
           parent/guardian.

      4.42 Exclusion criteria for the secondary lip repair

        1. Less than 15 years old

        2. Mild secondary cleft lip and / or nose deformity that does not warrant corrective
           surgery.

        3. Without written informed consent.

        4. Without permission of parent/guardian, the patient signed the consent himself.

           5. Botulinum Toxin injection 5.1 For Study group I: Injections are placed into the
           orbicularis oris muscle 5 mm adjacent to the scar and the vermilion border on each side
           of the operative wound (A total of 3 injections per side making a total of 6 injections
           per patient). 1-2U/kg (total dosage for baby) and 2.5 U (adult ) of botulinum toxin
           (Botox; allergen, Inc., Irvine, Calif) will be used for each injection. A total dosage
           of 15 U (for adult) will be injected into each patient.

           For control group a similar amount of Normal saline will be injected.

           6. STUDY VISITS AND ASSESSMENTS 6.1 Registration and Randomization (i) Confirmation of
           eligibility (ii) Information Sheet (iii) Written informed consent (iv) Registration of
           baby and adult into study and randomization (v) Scheduling of patient for botox
           injection immediately after surgery.

           6.2 Follow-up Assessments 6.2.1 Vancouver scar scale (Sullivan T 1990) measures
           pigmentation, vascularity, pliability and scar height on the postoperative 6 month F/U.

           Ultrasonography measurement of the scar (Fong SS 1997)

           For both primary and secondary lip surgery, the patient will receive postoperative
           follow up during 1wk, 1mo, 3mo, 6mo. On the 1st week postoperative follow up, the
           stitches will be removed, 3M taping will be placed over the wound to reduce surface
           tension and minimize the scar formation. On the 6th mo follow up, a lay person will
           assess the scar using the Vancouver scar and a plastic surgeon will use ultrasonography
           to measure the scar.

           The Independent T-Student test will be used to analyze the statistical significance
           between the two groups.

           Photographic measurement of scar The scar width of the patient's picture at 6 month
           after surgery will be measured using photoshop CS3 extended. One ruler will be placed on
           the patient's lip before taken the photo. Then the scar width could be measured.
    
  