
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Evaluate the feasibility of introducing and expressing mutant MGMT-G156A cDNA in
           hematopoietic progenitors taken from patients with advanced solid tumors (including
           gliomas) or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma using a safety modified retroviral vector MFG.

        -  Determine the toxicity associated with reinfusion of ex vivo-transduced hematopoietic
           stem cells into these patients, including the detection of replication competent
           retrovirus.

        -  Evaluate the feasibility of identifying mutant MGMT-G156A-transduced and
           O6-benzylguanine (BG)- and temzolomide-resistant hematopoietic and stromal progenitors
           from the bone marrow of these patients.

        -  Evaluate the feasibility of in vivo enrichment of the transduced hematopoietic
           progenitors in patients treated with BG and temzolomide.

        -  Evaluate the toxicity of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Determine the antitumor effect of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of CD34 stem cells and carmustine.

      After a negative bone marrow sampling, patients receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) and filgrastim
      (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) once daily on days 1-5 (or G-CSF twice daily alone for 4-5 days).
      Peripheral blood progenitor cells are collected 24 hours after the last dose of growth factor
      injection on day 5 and also on day 6, if necessary. The CD34 positive stem cells are then
      infected by the retroviral mutant MGMT-G156A ex vivo.

      Patients receive O6-benzylguanine (BG) IV over 1 hour followed by carmustine IV over 1 hour
      every 6 weeks for 5 courses, assuming recovery of peripheral blood counts. Approximately 72
      hours after the end of the first course of chemotherapy, patients receive reinfusion of
      retrovirally-transduced hematopoietic stem cells over 5-10 minutes. Four weeks after the
      completion of BG and carmustine, patients receive BG IV over 1 hour followed by temozolomide
      IV over 1 hour every 4 weeks for up to 5 courses, in the absence of hematologic toxicity.
      Patients with responding disease may continue to receive BG and temzolomide in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity provided other phase II studies indicate the
      safety of more than 5 courses.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating numbers of CD34 stem cells targeted for retroviral
      infection and escalating doses of carmustine.

      Patients are followed monthly for 2 months, every 4 months for 8 months, and then every 6
      months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-18 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  