
    
      The age of patients who are diagnosed with cervical cancer has decreased, resulting in a
      trend of increasingly younger patients who seek to preserve their fertility. Therefore, a
      less radical approach that aims to preserve the potential for fertility during the treatment
      of cervical carcinoma is crucial. Herein, the investigators devote to exploring optimal
      fertility-sparing treatment strategy in Patients With cervical cancer.

      In this study, patients with cervical cancer staging IB1-IIA2 desiring keeping their
      fertility function will be recruited. Before treatment, MRI scanning will be used to exclude
      retroperitoneal lymph node metastasis, involvement of lower part of uterus and endometrial
      carcinoma.

      All lymph nodes and margin should be pathologic reviewed during the surgery.
      Fertility-sparing surgery should be abandoned if positive lymph node is found.

      If there is no macroscopic tumor and no obvious disease in MRI, ST+ SLNB/RPLND will be
      performed. Otherwise, two or three cycles of NACT will be administrated and then chemotherapy
      response will be assessed with physical examination and MRI scanning.

      If there is no obvious residual disease after NACT, the colposcopy will be used to search for
      the suspicious disease in the cervix and on the vaginal wall. If there is no disease on the
      vaginal wall, the conization and SLNB / RPLND is employed. If pathologic review finds no
      residual disease or the residual disease is more than 5 mm away from cone margin, the surgery
      procedure ceases; If pathologic review finds the residual disease is less than 5 mm away from
      cone margin, ST± upper vaginal margin resection is performed.

      If the residual disease is less than 2cm in diameter, simple trachelectomy (ST) ± upper
      vaginal margin resection and SLNB/ RPLND is employed.

      If the residual disease is greater than 2 cm and less than 4cm in diameter, radical
      trachelectomy (RT) and SLNB/ RPLND is employed.

      If the residual disease is greater than 4 cm in diameter, fertility-sparing surgery should be
      abandoned.

      Tow to three cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy will be administrated after the
      fertility-sparing surgery.
    
  