
    
      Many clinical situations in oncologic surgery imply the need to dissect more or less
      extensively lymph node stations which are in direct relation with the lymphatic drainage of
      the anatomical region affected by cancer.

      The dissected lymph nodes drain generally several regions, and their dissection reduces then
      the drainage capacity of all these regions, increasing the risk for the patient to develop a
      secondary lymphedema, shorter or longer after surgery.

      The recent meta-analysis show that nearly 15% of patient operated for a cancer with lymph
      node dissection develop after 27 months from surgery a lymphedema of the limb corresponding
      to the operated region.

      Radio- and chemotherapy may especially encumber the already reduced lymphatic capacity.

      The impact on the health and the quality of life of the patient is very significant on the
      physical and psychological aspect, but also on social and economic aspect.

      Efficient treatments exist, but are difficult to implement and to continue for a long time.
      They are considered as serious diseases which are expensive for the INAMI. Lymphedema is a
      chronic disease which needs repeated and continued treatments. The later the treatment of the
      lymphedema begins, the heavier it is, both on the medical and socio-economic level. Some
      patients even lose their job because of their functional infirmity.

      Here the investigators remind that lymphedema is painless, even in its most spectacular
      cases.

      Still currently, a lymphedema is diagnosed after it has developed, and only when the
      functional discomfort, or the physical appearance disturb the patient enough to go to
      consultation.

      The lymphofluoroscopy (new emerging imaging technique in the field of lymphology) used since
      3 years by the promoters of the present project, shows that some oncologic patients, operated
      and free of apparent secondary lymphedema, present abnormalities of the lymphatic network.
      These patients report heaviness sensations or sporadic paraesthesia which generally does not
      arouse suspicion of beginning lymphedema.

      The present prospective, multidisciplinary and multicentric clinical study aims to confirm
      that it is now possible to detect secondary lymphedema at a subclinical stage. In a second
      step, prevention will be considered. Detection may be performed using a simple
      lymphofluoroscopic examination, which is a minimally invasive and inexpensive imaging
      technique. It allows to realize a mapping of the superficial lymphatic network and to
      identify the characteristics of the secondary lymphedema in the group of patients at risk to
      develop lymphedema after lymph node dissection.
    
  