
    
      STUDY DESIGN

      This study is an experimental, 1-group, multicenter trial in which people post-stroke will
      perform 2 different sessions of treadmill walking. The 2 sessions will be carried out on 2
      separate days within 10 days. Both sessions will be identical, only the VR system used to
      manipulate the optic flow speed will differ. The order of the 2 sessions and the optic flow
      speed manipulation will be randomized.

      MATERIALS

      GRAIL system: The Gait Real-time Interactive Lab (GRAIL) is an integrative motion capture
      system consisting of 10 optical motion cameras (Vicon Inc., Oxford, UK), a dual belt
      treadmill with integrated force plates, a 180-degree cylindrical projection screen system,
      and D-Flow software (Motekforce Link, Amsterdam, Netherlands). The treadmill of the GRAIL
      system has two modes: fixed walking speed or self-paced. For this study, the treadmill will
      be self-paced, meaning that the patient is in control and can choose the walking speed. The
      treadmill will follow the walking speed of the patient, which allow the patient to start,
      stop and change speed at will. The projection screen of the GRAIL system will assure a
      semi-immersive virtual environment. The GRAIL system is located in the Smart Space lab (UZ
      Gent) and will be made available at the researchers of the VUB/UZ Brussel.

      Head-mounted display (HMD): The HMD VR system 'Oculus Rift S' (Oculus, LLS, US) is a low-cost
      HMD that fully integrates the user into the virtual environment by blocking out perception of
      the real-world. The "Oculus Rift S" will assure a fully immersive virtual environment. The
      researchers of the VUB/UZ Brussel have the HMD 'Oculus Rift S' in their possession and will
      make it available for the study.

      PROCEDURE

      Both sessions will be carried out in the Smart Space lab at the University Hospital of Ghent
      (Corneel Heymanslaan 10, 9000 Gent) where the GRAIL system is located.

      Prior to the start of both sessions, some preparations will have to be done with regard to
      the outcome measures:

        -  Patients will be asked to fill in a questionnaire (the Simulator Sickness
           Questionnaire-Pre).

        -  Surface electrodes will be placed bilateral on the M. rectus femoris, M. vastus
           lateralis, M. biceps femoris, M. tibialis anterior, M. gastrocnemius medialis, M.
           deltoideus anterior part, M. deltoideus posterior part, M. latissimus dorsi. Electrode
           placement will follow the SENIAM guidelines. The skin underlying the electrode will be
           shaved and cleaned with alcohol to improve electrode-skin contact and reduce impedance.

        -  Reflective markers will be placed on fixed points of the lower and upper limbs of the
           patient. Marker placement will follow the Plug-in Gait full body model (VICON). For this
           model, the investigator will have to measure the following things in advance: body
           length, body weight, leg length, knee width, ankle width, shoulder offset, elbow width,
           wrist width, hand thickness.

      After these preparations, patients will start to walk on the self-paced treadmill of the
      GRAIL system. For safety only, patients will walk with the safety harness. Patients will
      first be habituated to walking on the self-paced treadmill for 8 minutes without any form of
      VR. Patients need this habituation trial in order to get used to the self-paced treadmill
      system. After these 8 minutes, the treadmill will be stopped and patients will be seated for
      a 5-minute rest period. During the rest period, patients will be asked to fill in two short
      questionnaires (the Simulator Sickness Questionnaire-1, the VAS scales).

      GRAIL session: After the 5-minute rest period, patients will walk for another 3 times 8
      minutes with the VR. Patients are now walking while looking at a virtual environment that is
      projected onto the projection screen of the GRAIL device (semi-immersive). The optic flow
      will be different during each 8-minute walk. Between each walk, patients will rest for 5
      minutes and during each rest period, patients will be asked to fill in a short questionnaire
      (the Simulator Sickness Questionnaire-2,-3).

      HMD session: After the 5-minute rest period, patients will walk for another 3 times 8 minutes
      with the VR. Patients are now walking while wearing the HMD 'Oculus Rift' and are being fully
      immersed in a virtual environment (fully-immersive). The optic flow will be different during
      each 8-minute walk. Between each walk, patients will rest for 5 minutes and during each rest
      period, patients will be asked to fill in the a short questionnaire (the Simulator Sickness
      Questionnaire-2,-3).

      To end both sessions, participants will be asked to fill in 3 questionnaires (the Simulator
      Sickness Questionnaire-Post, the VAS scales and the Igroup Presence Questionnaire).

      RANDOMIZATION

      First, the type of session will be randomized with 2 possible options: GRAIL - HMD or HMD -
      GRAIL. Second, the optic flow speed manipulation (matched, slow, fast) within the session
      will be randomized. The order of the manipulation will be the same in both sessions. The
      first 8 minutes in each session will always be the one without VR. Thereafter, the optic flow
      speed will be manipulated. There are 6 possible options for the randomization of the optic
      flow speed manipulation: matched - slow - fast / matched - fast - slow / slow - fast -
      matched / slow - matched - fast / fast - slow - matched / fast - matched - slow. The
      randomizations will be done through block randomization in Microsoft Excel®.

      STUDY ANALYSIS

      This study will investigate (1) the effect of manipulating the optic flow speed and (2) the
      effect of the level of immersion (semi-immersive GRAIL system with full-immersive HMD).

      The effect optic flow speed has on the spatiotemporal gait parameters, kinematics, kinetics
      and muscle activity will be compared with walking without VR. In a first stage, the data will
      be visualized using LO(W)ESS smoothing (locally weighted scatterplot smoothing) to explore
      the observed effects over time (per condition and outcome), allowing for flexibility using
      this quasi-nonparametric approach. Next, relevant values expressing onset, magnitude and
      duration of the effect will be extracted:

        -  Onset: time point(s) at which the minimal clinically important difference (MCID) is
           exceeded. In case MCID is unknown, a 10% threshold will be used

        -  Magnitude: magnitude of the maximum (or maxima) and time point(s) at which the maximum
           is reached

        -  Duration: time between the onset and the time point at which the MCID (or 10% threshold)
           is no longer exceeded

      These values will be compared between conditions in a two-way repeated measures ANOVA (optic
      flow speed * device). If relevant (based on the exploratory analyses), additional in-depth
      statistics, such as functional data analysis, will be performed under the guidance of the
      Department of Statistics and Data Analysis of our university.
    
  