
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommend a Phase II dose of AZD6244
      (selumetinib) in children with recurrent or refractory low-grade glioma. (Phase I, completed
      as of April 29, 2013) II. To describe the toxicity profile and define the dose limiting
      toxicity of AZD6244 in children with recurrent or refractory low-grade glioma. (Phase I) III.
      To study the safety of the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended a Phase II dose (RP2D)
      of AZD6244 as determined based on safety data from children >= 12 years of age in children <
      12 years of age; if the MTD/RP2D of the older children is too toxic for the younger children,
      we will de-escalate to one dose level below and study the safety of that dose in the younger
      age cohort. (Phase I) IV. To assess the sustained response rate of AZD6244 administered at 25
      mg/m^2/dose twice daily (BID), in a single arm Phase II setting in patients assigned to
      strata based on neurofibromatosis (NF)-1 status and presence or absence of v-raf murine
      sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B (BRAF) aberrations, specifically BRAF V600E mutations and/or
      BRAF KIAA1549 fusion identified by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and fluorescence in situ
      hybridization (FISH), respectively. (Phase II) V. To estimate the sustained response rate and
      prolonged disease stabilization rate (defined as lack of disease progression for >= 12
      courses) associated with AZD6244 in patients with recurrent and/or progressive low-grade
      gliomas who previously received treatment on PBTC-029 or PBTC-029B for a minimum of 12
      courses, with at least stable disease or patients who had a sustained response but remained
      on treatment < 12 courses. (Re-treatment Study)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize the inter- and intra-patient variability in AZD6244 pharmacokinetics
      administered on this schedule and to assess the influence of patient specific covariates
      (including concomitant drug therapy) on AZD6244 pharmacokinetics. (Phase I) II. To evaluate
      the feasibility of collecting pre-trial tumor samples and the feasibility of using in situ
      hybridization assay to identify BRAF aberrations in available tumor specimens. (Phase I) III.
      To determine if pre-trial tumor samples show the biochemical signature that indicates
      activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway. (Phase I) IV. To describe
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) characteristics of the tumors before and after treatment and
      to explore the diffusion changes in the tumors before and after treatment to determine if
      there is an early diffusion indicator of response. (Phase I) V. Within the constraints of a
      Phase I trial, to document antitumor activity of treatment with AZD6244, as measured by
      objective responses and progression-free survival (PFS). (Phase I) VI. To explore the
      pharmacogenetic polymorphisms in AZD6244 metabolizing enzymes and transporters and relate
      these polymorphisms to AZD6244 pharmacokinetics. (Phase I) VII. To estimate the PFS
      distributions associated with AZD6244 treatment separately in patients assigned to the six
      strata as well as for various other subsets e.g. histology and tumor grade across strata.
      (Phase II) VIII. To explore correlations between BRAF aberrations and treatment response and
      PFS in patients for whom relevant biology data are available. (Phase II) IX. To assess MAPK
      aberrations by a combination of whole-exome and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing. (Phase II)
      X. To characterize the inter- and intra-patient variability in AZD6244 pharmacokinetics
      administered on this schedule at the MTD/RP2D. (Phase II) XI. To determine progression-free
      survival following re-treatment with AZD6244 for progressive, recurrent low-grade gliomas and
      to evaluate the impact of variables such as previous response, interval treatment regimens,
      BRAF status and previous dose of AZD6244. (Re-treatment Study) XII. To evaluate the toxicity
      profile of re-treatment with AZD6244 and correlate with toxicities seen during initial
      treatment. (Re-treatment Study) XIII. To evaluate the toxicity profile of re-treatment with
      AZD6244 beyond 2 years for those patients who continue to show benefit from the drug, i.e. at
      least stable disease (SD). (Re-treatment Study)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I dose-escalation study (completed as of April 29, 2013) followed by
      a phase II study.

      Patients receive selumetinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Cycles repeat every
      28 days for up to 26 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      Patients who experience a sustained objective response from selumetinib on the phase I or
      phase II portions of the trial, and who have completed 2 years of treatment and stopped study
      drug may be enrolled on the re-treatment study after progression/recurrence. Patients in the
      re-treatment study may continue treatment indefinitely in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicities.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days.
    
  