
    
      This study will enroll HIV-1-infected children less than 12 years of age who are naive to
      antiretroviral therapy (ART) (have never taken ARV drugs). Study participants will be
      assigned to 1 of 2 cohorts based on age. Cohort 1 will include children at least 6 years of
      age to less than 12 years of age. Cohort 2 will include children at least 2 years of age to
      less than 6 years of age. Each cohort will consist of two stages: Stage 1 and Stage 2. Stage
      1 will be the initial dose finding stage. Participants will begin treatment with daily RPV
      and 2 nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs). The 2 NRTIs will be selected by
      the site investigator but will not be provided through the study. This stage of the study
      will involve intense pharmacokinetic (PK) sampling to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and
      antiviral activity of RPV, which will allow for the selection of an RPV dose to use in Stage
      2 of the study. Participants in both cohorts will remain on RPV-based therapy for up to 48
      weeks.

      Study enrollment will begin with Cohort 1. Once data from Cohort 1 has been reviewed and an
      RPV dose has been approved, enrollment for Cohort 2 will begin.

      Study participation will include at least 12 study visits over 48 weeks. Participants who
      complete 48 weeks of RPV treatment and are benefiting from the drug will continue on the
      study and receive RPV as part of a long-term safety follow-up for a minimum of 4 additional
      years. Study visits in this stage of the study will occur every 24 weeks.

      At most visits, participants will give a medical history and undergo a physical exam, blood
      collection, and urine collection. At some visits, participants will also undergo an
      electrocardiogram (ECG), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulation test (consisting of
      blood collection and an injection of ACTH), and determination of the participant's stage of
      sexual development.
    
  