
    
      The Internet-based Cholesterol Assessment Trial (I-CAT) is a masked, randomised, controlled
      trial that will include at least 3,700 consumers followed for between 8 and 16 weeks. All
      consumers that participate in the study will ultimately be offered the I-CAT service, which
      provides individually tailored information about the management of cholesterol-related risk
      via an interactive website. However, by offering the service immediately to one group
      (intervention) and delaying it by 8 weeks in the other group (control) it will be possible to
      precisely and reliably determine the effects of the I-CAT service on consumers and their use
      of cholesterol lowering interventions.

      There will be two types of individuals involved in the study: 'index cases' and 'friends or
      relatives' of the index cases. The index cases will be randomised to intervention or control
      and will comprise the study participants on which the main outcome analyses will be based.
      Friends and relatives of the index case will only be involved insomuch as they will be asked
      to visit the site by the index case as part of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the
      intervention.

      Index cases will comprise mainly individuals already known to be at high risk of a
      cholesterol-related disease event - for example individuals with established vascular
      disease, individuals with multiple risk factors and individuals already using
      cholesterol-lowering therapy. Index cases will be recruited using advertising materials
      placed at a range of sites including hospital in patient services, hospital out patient
      services, general practices, pharmacies, pathology services and the Internet.

      All individuals that provide informed consent (index cases and friends or relatives) will be
      asked to answer as many questions as possible from the XX questions in the baseline
      questionnaire. The questionnaire will seek information about the individual's cardiovascular
      disease history, their risk factors, their cholesterol levels, their use of any medications
      or other strategies to reduce their cholesterol-related cardiovascular risk and any family
      history of cardiovascular disease or high cholesterol levels.

      Once baseline data collection is complete index cases will be randomised to either
      intervention or control. Randomisation will be done automatically in real time by a central
      computerised service. The intervention group will receive immediate feedback from the I-CAT
      service. The control group will receive general information about cholesterol-related disease
      risk derived from existing materials prepared by the National Heart Foundation of Australia.
      Hyperlinks to a range of relevant websites will be provided.

      In addition, after returning to the website at 8 weeks and providing follow-up information,
      all control group participants will receive the same tailored feedback from the I-CAT service
      as was given to the intervention group participants at randomisation. In this way, all study
      participants will ultimately receive the same advice but by providing one group with
      immediate advice and one group with delayed advice it will be possible to precisely and
      reliably determine the value of the I-CAT service to consumers.

      All primary analyses will be of comparisons between the index cases in the intervention group
      and the index cases in the control group conducted according to the principle of
      intention-to-treat. For each outcome the analyses will compare the proportions of index cases
      reporting the outcome (or the mean values for each outcome) between randomised groups.
      Comparisons of proportions will be done using Chi-square tests and comparisons between means
      will be done using t-tests.
    
  