
    
      Chronic low back pain (CLBP) is one of the most common, costly and disabling conditions.
      Treatment for refractory CLBP includes long-term opioid therapy even though it is often only
      marginally effective. Prescription opioid abuse is a national epidemic. Development of safe,
      effective non-addictive therapies for chronic pain is a national priority. Mindfulness
      meditation is a promising, safe treatment for chronic pain, mental health and addictive
      disorders. When combined with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), a standard of care for
      CLBP, it may produce additive benefits. No study has evaluated the potential of a combined
      meditation-CBT intervention to improve outcomes in patients with opioid-treated CLBP.

      This unblinded 26-week pilot randomized controlled trial (RCT) will test methods feasibility
      and efficacy of meditation-CBT for improving health-related quality of life (primary
      outcomes: pain severity and physical function) and reduce opioid medication use (secondary
      outcome) among adults with opioid-treated CLBP. Eligible participants are adults at least 21
      years old, with daily CLBP treated with daily opioids (at least 30 morphine-equivalent
      mg/day) for at least 3 months. They will be recruited from outpatient clinic and community
      settings, and randomly assigned to one of two study arms: meditation-CBT + usual care or
      usual care alone. The targeted meditation-CBT intervention will consist of a) therapist-led
      group training (two-hours/week for 8 weeks), and b) at-home meditation practice (at least 30
      minutes/day, 6 days/week). Control participants will be offered the intervention after their
      study completion.

      Outcome measures, collected at 0, 8 (directly post-intervention) and 26 (18 weeks
      post-intervention) weeks will gather data on efficacy and potential mechanisms of action of
      meditation-CBT intervention. This RCT will test the hypotheses that, at 26 weeks,
      meditation-CBT group participants (meditation-CBT + usual care), compared to those in a
      wait-list control group (usual care alone), will improve health-related quality of life
      (primary outcomes: pain severity and physical function) and reduce opioid medication use
      (secondary outcome). In addition, they will also decrease alcohol and drug use/misuse, and
      improve stress-sensitive measures and economic outcomes. Increased pain acceptance,
      mindfulness level or stress reduction are hypothesized to be the mechanistic pathways.

      This study directly addresses national priorities aimed at the development of an effective,
      safe treatment for CLBP and reduction of opioid use. Potential benefits accruing from
      positive findings include improved quality of life and reduced opioid pain medication use
      among patients with refractory, opioid-treated CLBP.
    
  