
    
      This study will investigate the effects of an additional 3,4-methylenedioxymethamine
      (MDMA)-assisted psychotherapy session in up to three participants with PTSD who relapsed
      after their PTSD symptoms had significantly decreased during MAPS' initial U.S. Phase 2 trial
      testing the use of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy in subjects with chronic, treatment-resistant
      posttraumatic stress disorder PTSD). This new protocol will consist of a single, full-dose
      open-label session of MDMA-assisted psychotherapy, along with associated non-drug preparation
      and integrative psychotherapy sessions.

      MDMA is an investigational drug that was studied in a randomized, placebo-controlled study in
      21 participants, and it included a final evaluation of symptoms at least one year after
      taking part in the study. While PTSD symptoms in most study subjects stayed at the same
      levels from when they completed the study, symptoms had returned in a few people. This
      open-label study is intended to see if an additional MDMA-assisted session conducted at least
      14 months after the first sessions can help reduce PTSD symptoms.

      The MDMA-assisted psychotherapy session will be conducted by a male and female co-therapist
      team, one a psychiatrist and the other a psychiatric nurse. Vital signs (blood pressure,
      pulse and body temperature) and psychological distress will be measured throughout the
      experimental session. After the experimental session they will spend the night in the clinic
      with an attendant on duty, and complete a measure of alterations in consciousness, the States
      of Consciousness Questionnaire (SCQ) on the evening or day following the experimental
      session. Participants will meet with the investigators the next morning for an integrative
      psychotherapy session before leaving the clinic. During integrative psychotherapy sessions
      they will receive support in integrating their experiences and insights from the
      MDMA-assisted psychotherapy session. There will be daily phone contact with one of the
      investigators for 7 days after the experimental session. Symptoms of PTSD, depression and
      general function will be assessed two months after the experimental session. There will be a
      long-term follow up with repeated outcome measures 12 months after the experimental session
    
  