
    
      Abstract:

      Background: Complete removal of irritants is not possible with mechanical therapy alone.
      Adjunctive use of systemic administration of antibiotics results in the distribution of drug
      throughout the body, which can give rise to toxicity. Curcumin (diferuloylmethane), a
      constituent of Curcuma longa plant, which possess antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and
      anti-microbial properties. The aim of the study is to determine the effect of curcumin oral
      gel on the anti-inflammatory chemokines (IL_8) in the gingival crevicular fluid and to
      compare the effects of the curcumin gel as an adjunct to sub gingival scaling and root
      planing with the effect achieved using sub gingival scaling and root planing alone.

      Twenty systemically healthy patients either male or female with chronic periodontitis aged
      between 30 and 45 years with pocket depth of 5-7 mm affecting at least two nonadjacent sites
      will be included. A split mouth design will be followed and the patients will receive a
      complete prophylaxis including scaling and root planning. In the experimental site scaling
      and root planing to be performed, followed by placement of the curcumin gel and periodontal
      pack application. In the control site, sub gingival scaling and root planning alone will be
      performed followed by periodontal pack application. collecting of GCF from the pocket which
      will be followed the same site for each visit to determine the level of IL_8 by ELISA and
      measurement of the clinical Parameters to be included: PLI (plaque index), BOP (bleeding on
      probing), PPD (probing pocket depth) and RAL (relative attachment level). These parameters
      will be recorded on day 0 and 30 days.

      The aim of the study :

      To determine the effect of curcumin oral gel on the anti inflammatory chemokines (IL_8) in
      the gingival crevicular fluid and to compare the effects of the curcumin gel as an adjunct to
      sub gingival scaling and root planning with the effect achieved using sub gingival scaling
      and root planing alone in the treatment of (5-7 mm) periodontal pockets on clinical
      Parameters: PLI (plaque index), BOP (bleeding on probing) , PPD (probing pocket depth) and
      RAL (relative attachment level).

      Objectives:

        1. To evaluate the efficacy of sub gingival application of curcumin gel as an adjunct to
           SRP in the treatment of (5-7 mm) periodontal pockets on clinical periodontal parameter.

        2. To measure the concentration of IL-8 in gingival crevicular fluid before and after
           treatment.

      Hypothesis:

      Curcumin gel may have anti-inflammatory effect by reducing IL-8 and may have effect on
      clinical Parameters: PLI (plaque index), BOP (bleeding on probing) , PPD (probing pocket
      depth) and RAL (relative attachment level) in the treatment of periodontal pockets .

      Alternative hypothesis:

      There may be no difference in treatment of periodontal pocket by scaling and root planning
      and by scaling and root planning adjunct by curcumin oral gel.

      Methodology:

      Study design: Double blind, prospective , bio clinical research.

      Setting: AL-Najaf dental specialized center.

      Study design and population:

      Twenty systemically healthy patients either male or female with chronic periodontitis aged
      between 30 and 45 years with pocket depth of 5-7 mm affecting at least two nonadjacent sites
      will be included. A split mouth design will be followed and the patients will receive a
      complete prophylaxis including scaling and root planing. Selected sites will be randomized
      into control and experimental sites. In the experimental site scaling and root planing to be
      performed, followed by placement of the curcumin gel and periodontal pack application. In the
      control site, sub gingival scaling and root planing alone will be performed followed by
      periodontal pack application. collecting of GCF from the pocket which will be followed the
      same site for each visit to determine the level of IL_8 by ELISA and measurement of the
      clinical Parameters to be included: PLI (plaque index), BOP (bleeding on probing), PPD
      (probing pocket depth) and RAL (relative attachment level). These parameters will be recorded
      on day 0 and 30 days.

      Procedure/intervention:

      collecting of GCF from the pocket which will be followed the same site for each visit to
      determine the level of IL_8 by ELISA and measuring of the clinical parameters: PLI (plaque
      index), BOP (bleeding on probing) , PPD (probing pocket depth) and RAL (relative attachment
      level) prior to the each procedure. The pocket will randomly have selected for both groups.
      PD will be measured with UNC 15 mm probe, acrylic stent as a guide for reproducibility from
      the gingival margin to base of the pocket. To achieve concealment, the patient will be
      blinded about intervention which side is test and which side is control. Before baseline
      (baseline regarded as first visit) we do oral hygiene motivation and supra gingival scaling
      only. At first visit (baseline ) day 0 will include collecting GCF from pocket of both side (
      test and control ) to determine the level of IL_8 by ELISA and measurement of the clinical
      parameters : PLI (plaque index) , BOP (bleeding on probing), PPD (probing pocket depth) and
      RAL (relative attachment level) it also include sub gingival scaling and root planing for
      both side and curcumin gel will be inserted to the pocket of tested group with a 2 ml
      disposable syringe equipped with a blunted 25-gauge needle, which is bent along its shank
      after that periodontal dressing (Coe- Pak) will be used to cover the pocket on both side so
      as to prevent the ingress of oral fluids as well as to allow the retention of the material
      within the pocket. The first visit will also include oral hygiene instructions. Subjects will
      be recalled after 7 days, for periodontal dressing to be removed and curcumin gel will be
      inserted to the pocket of tested group.

      The second visit (after thirty day)will include collecting GCF from the same previous site of
      pocket on both side to determine the level of IL_8 by ELISA and measurement of the clinical
      parameters : PLI (plaque index) , BOP (bleeding on probing), PPD (probing pocket depth) and
      RAL (relative attachment level).To ensure excellent collection of GCF, we must make sure the
      sites should be dried and not contaminated by saliva or blood, using cotton rolls, gentle
      force should be applied to avoid bleeding and the periocol strip should be inserted for 30
      seconds, the sample will be transferred into eppendrof tubes and stored in -20 c until the
      completion of the samples collections, the tube will be allocated to the patient'code.

      Assessment of the clinical parameters in the recall visit, separation of the GCF will be done
      by the following procedure : each sample will be micro centerfuged at 400-500g for 4-5 min
      then diluted by 500 microliter phosphate buffered saline and stored overnight in 4c to
      achieve optimal protein elusion. the periocol is then removed and the supernatants will be
      assayed by ELISA.

      The total level of the IL_8 will be determined by using ELISA kits according to the
      manufacture instruction.
    
  