
    
      Advances in systemic therapy (including oral or intravenously injected anti-cancer drugs)
      have led to the improvement in overall survival for many cancers and more than half of
      patients diagnosed with cancer will receive some form of systemic therapy. Unfortunately,
      Cancer Care Ontario (CCO) data indicates that up to 50% of patients will experience
      treatment-related side effects resulting in a visit to the emergency department (ED) or
      admission to hospital within 4 weeks of receiving chemotherapy - the most common form of
      systemic therapy. Despite differences in international healthcare systems, it is useful to
      note that one US-based study found that approximately 25% of total ED costs during cancer
      treatment could be potentially preventable, presenting a significant opportunity to lower
      health system costs related to cancer care.

      While most systemic therapy is delivered in cancer clinics which operate during business
      hours, data shows that a significant portion of unplanned ED visits and hospital admissions
      occur after-hours, that is, on evenings and weekends. One of the strategic priorities of
      CCO's 2014-2019 Systemic Treatment Provincial Plan was to reduce ED utilization through
      enhanced management of toxicity due to treatment with one avenue being the provision of
      symptom management services through alternate models of care, especially during after-hour
      time periods.

      In July 2016, Bayshore Healthcare Ltd. introduced a program to provide after-hours symptom
      management support for oncology patients receiving systemic therapy. The program runs Monday
      to Friday 6:00pm - 8:30am, and Saturday 8:30am to Monday 8:30am, including statutory holidays
      and involves highly trained oncology nursing staff answering telephone calls from patients
      related to symptom management. In two separate partnerships in 2016, Southlake Regional
      Health Centre partnered with Bayshore HealthCare Ltd. to pilot the after-hours telephone
      symptom management program and also initiated a concurrent, but completely separate pilot
      with MedChart Inc. to offer Southlake patients (and their circle of care) online access to
      medical records, primarily outside the cancer program. MedChart's technology is a
      cloud-based, online Consumer Moderated Health Information Exchange (CME) network that
      connects to healthcare providers and provides access to health records in any format.

      While at least one study has reported a reduction in ED visits, over four years, after the
      introduction of telephone support with physician access to medical records, the causal
      pathway connecting the provision of the medical records with reduced ED visits and health
      system costs is largely unexplored. As such, it is unclear whether there are outcomes, other
      than ED utilization, that may also be scientifically interesting and/or more feasible to
      capture. Furthermore, there are no recent studies that prospectively compared the provision
      of after-hours services with and without medical records.

      The objective of the current project is to pilot the evaluation of the health and economic
      benefits of having online access to health information in the context of providing
      telemedicine support for oncology patients receiving outpatient systemic therapy in Ontario.
      This pilot study will determine the feasibility of conducting a full-scale randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) that could definitively determine whether the addition of access to
      patients' health information in the after-hours telemedicine program reduces emergency
      department use, affects patients' experience of care, or improves patient-reported health.
      The evaluation will focus on the shared electronic patient record (provided by MedChart) in
      the context of Bayshore's after-hours telemedicine program (CAREchart@home).

      This will be a single-centre, non-blinded, two-arm pilot RCT. Once recruited, patients will
      be randomized to one of two study arms: (1) the control arm, which constitutes usual care -
      access to after-hours telemedicine (AH); and (2) the intervention arm - access to after-hours
      telemedicine with some cancer-related personal health information (AH-PHI), i.e.
      CAREchart@home™. Recruitment will take place during a 6.5-month recruitment time period and
      all patients will be followed up for a period of 3 months during which patients will complete
      a series of questionnaires and data from institutional records will be compiled.
    
  