
    
      Peri-implantitis is a pathological condition occurring in tissues around dental implants,
      characterized by inflammation in the peri-implant connective tissue and progressive loss of
      supporting bone. Peri-implantitis is a disease with increasing incidence that, if left
      untreated, leads to implant loss. The etiological factors of peri-implant infections are
      similar to those involved in periodontal diseases. Consequently, the goals of
      peri-implantitis treatment must be the resolution of peri-implant soft tissue inflammation
      and stabilization of the bony attachment (e.g., the level of osseointegration). This can only
      be achieved under the condition that the majority of bacterial biofilms and hard deposits are
      eliminated on the implant surface to create a biologically acceptable surface conducive to
      wound healing. Decontamination of the implant surface is mandatory to resolve the
      inflammatory process and to establish healthy peri-implant tissues. To increase implant
      surface decontamination, several adjunctive tools have been proposed and investigated both in
      pre-clinical and clinical studies such as the use of photodynamic therapy and lasers. So far,
      no data are available to clearly demonstrate the efficacy of the adjunctive use of a diode
      laser in the non-surgical treatment of peri-implantitis. Therefore, the aim of the present
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) is to investigate the adjunctive effect of the application
      of a diode laser to treat peri-implantitis lesions by means of a non-surgical approach. A
      total of 30 patients is randomly allocated to two groups. The test group receives 3 x
      nonsurgical mechanical treatment with diode laser application whereas the control group
      receives the same treatment with sham laser application. The primary outcome is the mean
      peri-implant pocket probing depth (PPD) at 12 months. The secondary endpoints are:

        -  Change at deepest PPD (mm)

        -  Change in probing attachment level (PAL) (mm)

        -  Change in the % of implants with BoP / SUP

        -  Mean radiographic bone fill (mm) at mesial and distal sites

        -  Change in width of keratinized mucosa (KM) (mm)

        -  Change in microbial samples composition at 6 and 12 months

        -  Changes in patients' related outcomes measures (PROMs) by means of a Visual Analogue
           Scale (VAS) (range: 0-10)

        -  Change in peri-implant crevicular fluid (PICF) composition
    
  