
    
      Numerous studies have demonstrated the important cardiometabolic impacts of high intensity
      exercise in patients at high risk for cardiovascular disease. It is also known that adherence
      to exercise regimens is poor within these populations. This study compares the impacts of the
      current standard of care, moderate intensity continuous training (MICT) to a novel exercise
      regimen called BURST exercise within a population of patients at high risk for cardiovascular
      disease. BURST exercise consists of three periods of high intensity physical activity spread
      throughout the day. Additionally, as mobile technologies continue to be used more to improve
      adherence to exercise regimens, this study also seeks to compare the impacts of text message
      reminders in patients prescribed each of the exercise regimens examined in this study. Thus,
      patients were also randomized to either receive daily text message reminders, or to receive
      no text message reminders.

      Recruitment will be conducted at Cambridge Cardiac Rehab in Ontario, Canada. Potential study
      subjects are evaluated for inclusion and exclusion criteria, give written informed consent,
      and are randomized, in a 1:1 ratio, to either MICT or BURST exercise. Additionally, patients
      are then randomized in a 1:1 ratio to either receive text message reminders or not receive
      text message reminders.

      Patients prescribed the MICT regimen will be asked to exercise for 30 minutes per day at
      moderate intensity, at least five days per week. Patients prescribed the BURST exercise
      regimen will be asked to exercise for 10 minutes per session, three times a day at high
      intensity, at least five days per week. Patients randomized to receive text message reminders
      will be sent four daily text message reminders reading: "Please remember to exercise for 30
      minutes today."

      Adherence to exercise regimens will be measured by daily logbooks. Patients are asked to log
      the times they exercised and for what duration. BRUCE protocol stress tests will be conducted
      for all patients at baseline (before beginning the study), after three months and after one
      year. Hemoglobin A1C blood tests, height and weight measurements and lipid profile blood
      tests will also be conducted at baseline (before the beginning of the study), after three
      months and after one year.
    
  