
    
      New Guidance on Antiplatelet Therapy After Stenting: Clinical Advisory, Kirsten E.
      Fleischmann, MD, MPH reviewing Grines CL et al. Circulation 2007 Feb 13. An expert panel
      recommends 12 months of therapy after placement of drug-eluting stents. Aspirin and
      clopidogrel are commonly prescribed after placement of both bare metal stents and
      drug-eluting stents. However, recent concerns about stent thrombosis (Journal Watch Jan 4
      2007) have led experts from multiple groups, including the American Heart Association and the
      American College of Cardiology, to issue an advisory on preventing premature discontinuation
      of dual antiplatelet therapy. Based on a review of the literature, the experts offer
      observations and recommendations including the following:

        -  Dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and a thienopyridine such as clopidogrel reduces
           cardiac events after coronary stenting.

        -  Premature discontinuation of these agents greatly increases the risk for stent
           thrombosis and associated clinical events such as myocardial infarction and death.

        -  Patients should receive 12 months of dual antiplatelet therapy after placement of
           drug-eluting stents.

        -  Elective surgery associated with a significant risk for bleeding should be postponed
           until an appropriate course of dual antiplatelet therapy (i.e., 1 month for bare metal
           stents and 12 months for drug-eluting stents) has been completed.

        -  Patients' ability to comply with prolonged dual antiplatelet therapy and their need for
           subsequent invasive procedures should be considered when choosing the type of stent.

        -  Patients and their other providers should consult with the patient's cardiologist before
           stopping dual therapy.

      Endpoints:

      Primary endpoint - Outcome Measures:

      1. Major Cardiovascular events at 1, 3, 6, 12 months after study enrolment

        -  All Death,

        -  Cardiac death,

        -  Myocardial infarction,

        -  Stroke,

        -  Target vessel revascularization

        -  Bleeding event

        -  In-stent restenosis (ISR)

             -  Angiographical Determination of Binary Stenosis Rate (defined as diameter stenosis
                of at least 50 % in the stent and / or persistent area, 6, 9, 12 months after stent
                implantation) The angiographical determination of the degree of stenosis, defined
                as percentage diameter stenosis in the stent and /or persistent area, 6 and 12
                months after stent implantation.

             -  The angiographical determination of the minimal lumen diameter in the stent and /
                or persistent area, 6 months after stent implantation.

      Secondary:

        -  Description of any reported AE/ SAE per study subgroup.

        -  Description of any missing doses per study subgroup.

      Study Medication:

      Category: ADP-P2Y12 interaction blokers

        -  Clopidogrel (Clovelen®)

        -  Dosage: As per Clopidogrel (Clovelen®) SmPC

      Study Concomitant Medication:

      Aspirin. DAT = Dual antiplatelet therapy consists of aspirin add on clopidogrel
    
  