
    
      Anticoagulation is one of the supporting pillars of chronic hemodialysis (HD). The optimal
      anticoagulant regimen provides full anticoagulation of the extracorporeal circuit with
      minimal systemic effects and comes at an affordable cost. Unfractionated heparin (UFH) has
      been the standard of care for many years. In several countries, UFH has gradually been
      replaced by low molecular weight heparins (LMWH). LMWH are easy to use as they can be
      administered as a bolus injection and reduce membrane fibrin and platelet deposition. Both
      UFH and LMWH provide adequate anticoagulation of the extracorporeal circuit, at the price of
      systemic anticoagulation. Apart from bleeding, the administration of unfractionated heparins
      has also been associated with dyslipidemia, hypoaldosteronism and hyperkalemia, thrombopenia,
      osteoporosis, pruritus, and hypersensitivity reactions.

      Several alternative anticoagulation regimens have been proposed including saline infusion,
      heparin coating of the dialyzer membrane as well as regional citrate anticoagulation.
      Regional citrate anticoagulation is performed by infusing citrate into the arterial line of
      the dialysis tubing to reduce ionized calcium concentrations in order to minimize propagation
      of the coagulation cascade. Ionized calcium concentrations are restored by calcium
      supplementation prior to reinfusion of the blood into the patient. The HepZero study
      suggested that regional citrate anticoagulation is superior to heparin-coated
      polyacrylonitrile dialyzers (AN69ST; Nephral 300ST, Gambro) and resulted in in significantly
      greater instantaneous urea nitrogen clearance. While generally safe and adequate, regional
      citrate anticoagulation requires additional actions during preparatory phase (preparation of
      citrate and calcium infusion pumps) as well as during the treatment (measurement of ionized
      calcium).

      Recently, acetate-free citrate-containing dialysate concentrates were introduced into
      clinical practice. Besides the advantages of acetate-free dialysate, this provides a modest
      local anticoagulant effect inside the dialyzer. Citrate-containing dialysate allowed to
      reduce heparin dose while maintaining extracorporeal circuit patency and dialyzer clearance.
      Recently, citrate-containing dialysate and a heparin-coated dialyzer were combined. In one
      study, non-inferiority to regional citrate anticoagulation was demonstrated

      The abovementioned studies demonstrate that hemodialysis without systemic heparinization is
      feasible. However, such procedures are more cumbersome, require more manpower, additional
      biochemical testing and/ or more expensive consumables. The aim of the current study is to
      test two different strategies for systemic heparin-free dialysis with an asymmetrical
      tri-acetate hemodialyzer.

      Trial objectives To evaluate the feasability, safety and adequacy of systemic heparin-free
      dialysis using an asymmetrical tri-acetate dialyzer membrane, with or without the combination
      with citrate containing dialysate.

      The main objective of the study is to test efficacy of the two study interventions to perform
      standard duration (i.e. 4 hours) hemodialysis without interruption due to clotting phenomena
      and without the use of heparin or low molecular weight heparins.
    
  