
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, technical feasibility, and effectiveness
      of a endoscopic guided treatment for obesity - endoscopic pyloric suturing. The hypothesis
      and rationale for the study is that gastric pyloric restriction will cause early and
      prolonged satiety which will lead to decreased food intake and eventual weight loss. Both
      safety and efficacy of endoscopic pyloric suturing has been demonstrated in an animal model.

      Screening of the participant is done 6-8 weeks prior to the procedure. Screening includes
      general history and physical examination, biochemical and laboratory analysis and informed
      consent. A baseline patient visit is performed 4-6 weeks prior to the procedure. The baseline
      visit involves a four hour gastric emptying scan in order to determine the rate of emptying
      of the stomach, the regional emptying of the upper and lower stomach, and the frequency and
      amplitude of contractions in the lower stomach. The baseline visit also includes nutritional
      counselling.

      The procedure is performed in the endoscopy suite as an outpatient procedure. Patient will be
      prepped following usual practices and placed in a left lateral decubitus position. Following
      induction of sedation or anesthesia by the anesthesia provider, a complete endoscopic
      evaluation of the esophagus, stomach and jejunum following standard medical practices will be
      performed. The endoscope with mounted suturing device is advanced through an over-tube to the
      antrum and assess target area for stitch placement (physician will select appropriate target
      site in relation to participant's anatomy). The number of sutures required will vary for each
      procedure based on the size of the pylorus; however, it is thought that one or two sutures
      across the pylorus will be sufficient enough to achieve a functional restriction of the
      pylorus.

      Participants will to be observed for a minimum of 1 hour following the procedure to monitor
      for adverse events. Patients will be recommended to take the following medications in order
      to minimize complications following pyloric suturing procedure; Proton Pump Inhibitor
      Omeprazole 40 mg recommended daily for 1 week prior to planned procedure date - and 40 mg
      twice daily after the procedure, Anti-Emetic -- Reglan or Zofran at the end of procedure and
      as needed after the procedure, and Scopalamine Patch to prevent nausea and vomiting.

      All participants will be required to adhere to the follow-up schedule outlined below unless
      they have withdrawn their consent or died. The reason(s) the participant is not followed will
      be documented by the investigator. Follow-up for all participants will include a telephone
      contact at 1 and 18 weeks and clinic visits at 2,4, 8,10,12 and 24 weeks. At the 4 week
      visit, the participants will undergo a repeat four hour gastric emptying scan. At 3 months
      after the procedure participants will undergo repeat endoscopy to access the stomach and the
      suture site.
    
  