
    
      Depression is a treatable disorder with effective pharmacologic and psychotherapy options for
      treatment. Evidence suggests that psychotherapy interventions such as cognitive behavior
      therapy (CBT) and self-management education (Lorig) can improve depression, physical symptoms
      and quality of life in patients with chronic medical conditions.While depression is
      treatable, less than 36% of patients afflicted with mood disorders get treatment. In order to
      meet the imminent need for post-discharge mental health support for patients with chronic
      illness, innovative approaches to delivering mental healthcare that are accessible on short
      notice, are urgently needed. The study investigators now aim to translate the RED-D
      intervention to an automated system to expand immediate access and scalability for this
      support service.

      Cognitive behavioral therapy for depression (CBT) and self-management education have been
      studied for the treatment of comorbid depression in chronically ill patients. CBT is a
      psychosocial intervention that posits that depressive symptoms occur when individuals have a
      dysfunctional view of themselves, the world and the future. CBT teaches techniques to examine
      dysfunctional beliefs that perpetuate depression and to develop more accurate and helpful
      ones to alleviate that condition. It has largely been documented that CBT is among the most
      effective treatments for depression and shown to be more effective than other psychosocial
      treatments, as effective as pharmacotherapy and as effective as adding another medication for
      patients who do not respond to one antidepressant alone. CBT has also been successfully used
      to treat comorbid depression; the ENRICHD trial demonstrated that a collaborative care
      approach, hinged on CBT, is an effective treatment for depressive symptoms among post MI
      patients and superior to usual care.

      Several studies have also demonstrated the efficacy of self-management education. For
      example, Lorig et al showed that self-management education enhances self-efficacy and reduces
      health service utilization among patients with chronic illness. This and similar programs
      include key processes of identifying and addressing problems, problem solving skills
      training, action plan design, and applying skills to medical and psychosocial aspects of
      chronic illness. However, self-management education alone shows limited efficacy for
      chronically ill patients with significant depression.

      A few interventions have combined CBT for depression with self-management support. Culley et
      al showed that a brief CBT intervention integrating self-management strategies reduced both
      depressive and dyspnea symptoms in a trial with veterans diagnosed with either CHF or COPD in
      a primary care setting. This evidence suggests a blended and brief skills-based approach to
      treatment that addresses both physical symptoms and depression is more effective for
      depressed patients with chronically illness. However, conventional CBT has limitations.
      Traditionally, CBT is delivered in a face-to-face format requiring a patient to meet with a
      therapist in an office setting for weekly sessions for 1 weeks or more. Adherence can be a
      barrier for CBT due to factors related to stigma, transportation, or access to trained CBT
      clinicians. This has led to trials of alternative formats for delivering CBT including both
      telephone delivered CBT and computer-based CBT (cCBT), both of which are shown to increase
      adherence to treatment compared with face-to-face CBT.

      Many cCBT models are in use today because of their numerous technological advantages
      including cost effectiveness, increased access and flexibility, and also reduced stigma for
      those seeking treatment for mental health conditions. cCBT is also shown to be effective for
      people over the age of 50, suggesting that cCBT is feasible with older patients. However,
      there are still several limitations to cCBT that can impact efficacy. For example, current
      cCBT systems largely rely on textbased interactions, creating a potential literacy barrier
      for some users. Similar to face-to-face CBT, nonadherence is also a problem for cCBT.
      Sustained adherence is essential to reach a successful therapeutic outcome with cCBT. Yet,
      despite their promise, evidence shows that outside of clinical trial conditions, many cCBT
      users do not complete the intervention, thus adherence is still a problem, although cCBT
      systems with embedded adherence support messages such as weekly reminders have demonstrated
      higher rates of program completion.

      The study investigators propose to automate delivery of AHRQ's RED-D intervention and extend
      it with integrated self-management education for patients with CHF or COPD and comorbid
      depression following hospitalization. This intervention will be delivered using Relational
      Agent (RA) technology. Relational agents are animated counselors that provide patients with
      virtual consultations by simulating face-to-face conversation with an empathic provider. RAs
      provide an ideal medium for the CBT intervention because of: 1) their demonstrated ability to
      address non-adherence; 2) empathic communication features; 3) the ability to tailor the
      intervention to the individual patient; 4) the study investigators' past work demonstrating
      that hospitalized patients with depressive symptoms report high acceptance of the RA; and 5)
      the potential to address mental healthcare access barriers. Similar efforts using RA
      technology are being explored by the US Department of Defense to address the burden of PTSD
      among war veterans.

      Traditional CBT has been effective for medically ill patients but limited in its impact on
      physical symptom experiences and therefore quality of life and healthcare utilization. Cully
      et al have shown a brief, face-to-face CBT intervention integrating self-management education
      is more effective for medically ill patients in primary care for reducing depression symptoms
      and improving quality of life. The relational agent CBT (RA-CBT) system will include six
      modules tailored for chronically ill patients with comorbid depression, including key
      components of face-to-face CBT. The final session will include a follow up exit interview to
      understand the patinet participant's experience with the RA-CBT program and to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the RA-CBT agent. The final session will incorporate a quantitative
      questionnaire and a voluntary qualitative interview. The RA-CBT program will include the
      following topics: cognitive restructuring (identify behaviors, emotions, and thoughts
      associated with chronic disease and depression, evaluate them and identify more helpful
      ones), problem solving, behavioral activation, adherence with medical appointments and
      medication management, and disease self-management. The disease self-management module will
      address relaxation, sleep hygiene and physical symptom management. Each module will contain a
      homework component. The RA-CBT protocol will be empathic, reflective and interactive,
      enhancing the possibility to develop engagement, increase adherence, and establish a trusting
      relationship and therapeutic alliance. Whereas current cCBT users cannot ask questions, the
      study team's RA-CBT intervention will make use of psychosocial technology that will allow the
      RA to interact with and respond to questions that arise.

      Drs. Bickmore, Jack and Mitchell have conducted a series of studies using RA technology for
      health education and behavior change, including inpatient education (AHRQ grant
      1R18HS017196-01 and AHRQ RFTO "Communication- Focused Technologies") and counseling for
      patients of all levels of health literacy. Dr. Bickmore and his team at Northeastern
      University have extensive experience designing and implementing RA psychosocial technology
      that simulates face-to-face conversation that is sensitive to the qualities of CBT that help
      establish an empathetic relationship, honing the use of social interaction with
      conversational technology in order to build trust and a therapeutic alliance between the
      agent and patient. There are many reasons why RAs provide an effective medium for health
      communication with patients, especially those with limited health literacy. The
      human-computer interface relies minimally on text (as compared to current cCBT models) and
      uses the universally understood format of face-to-face conversation, making it accessible to
      patients with limited reading ability. Most importantly, RAs enhance recall of critical
      information through the use of nonverbal conversational behaviors (gesture, tone) by
      providing redundant channels for conveying semantic content in order to enhance the
      likelihood of message comprehension. In addition, all cultures have nonverbal means for
      marking emphasis (for example, eyebrow raising and 'beat' or 'baton' hand gestures in
      American English) that may highlight salient parts of a message. Unlike a pre-recorded video
      lecture, the study team's RA-CBT intervention provides a flexible and dynamic communication
      medium that relies on synthetic speech tailored to the patient and the discourse context
      using language dynamically assembled using a dialogue engine (i.e. use of the patient's name,
      medical record information, and other personally relevant information) that responds to the
      context of the conversation (i.e. the questions asked, patient responses during earlier
      sessions, etc.) Patient contributions to the dialogue are made by selecting what they want to
      say from a multiple choice menu, dynamically updated for each turn of the conversation (no
      natural language understanding of unconstrained text or speech is performed). Alternative
      technologies do not offer this adaptive, face-to-face encounter that accommodates patients'
      needs. This interface has been used by over 2,500 patients including many with no prior
      computer experience.
    
  