
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia among the general population. Its
      prevalence increases with advanced age but also with the presence of structural heart
      disease. In particular patients suffering from congestive heart failure (CHF) with low left
      ventricular (LV) ejection fraction present a significantly increased risk of developing AF
      and its detrimental hemodynamic effects, due to the loss of atrial contraction, and fast and
      irregular beats, are an even more relevant compared to patients without CHF.

      In CHF patients rate control is the most widely used strategy to manage AF; in fact, it has
      proved non-inferior to rhythm control strategies concerning survival rates . However,
      adequate ventricular rate is difficult to achieve; moreover, by rate control strategy, the
      detrimental hemodynamic effects of AF persist, leading to a further impair in LV function,
      cardiac output, and symptoms. This frequently leads to the fact that, despite optimal medical
      therapy (OMT) for at least 3 months, the patients require implantable cardioverter
      defibrillator (ICD), and, in case of poor rate control AV node ablation with
      resynchronization therapy (CRT). The latter, however, infer pacemaker (PM)-dependence, and
      relate to a not negligible risk of cardiac rhythm device peri-implantation and long-term
      complications (infections, leads failure).

      On the other side rhythm control may represent an option. In the general population, in fact,
      recent evidences suggest an advantage over rate control concerning survival, quality of life
      and thromboembolic events. The main limitation, however, stands in how to achieve rhythm
      control: antiarrhythmic therapy has several side effects (amiodarone, in fact the only
      recommended drug, is thrived by frequent adverse events) and transcatheter AF ablation has
      been assessed only in modest sample size studies.

      Available literature focusing on a comparison between different management strategies in
      patients with CHF and AF is limited. A small randomized study compared pulmonary veins (PVs)
      isolation to AV node ablation and biventricular PM implantation, showing improved 6-month
      outcome, defined by a composite end point of LV ejection fraction, 6-minutes walking distance
      and Minnesota Living with Heart Failure (MLWHF) questionnaire, in patients treated by PVs
      isolation. However, only 81 patients were enrolled in this short-term study, and no hard end
      point tested. More recently, and actually ongoing, the AATAC-AF study, is comparing
      amiodarone and catheter ablation in patients with chronic AF and an implantable device
      (biventricular PM or ICD). Also in this case, the preliminary results support an improved 24
      month outcome, in terms of sinus rhythm (SR) achievement, quality of life and LV function, in
      patients undergoing AF ablation .

      In addition to these direct comparisons, other indirect evidences support catheter ablation
      rhythm control . In a recent meta-analysis, PVs isolation, linear lesions and ablation of
      fragmented potentials in left atrium, although with a relatively high need for repeated
      procedures, have proven not only to be safe but also effective in improving symptoms (related
      to both CHF and AF), LV function and maintaining SR. In fact, in this analysis, 60% of the
      patients with a left ventricular function below 35% at baseline improved to a value above
      this limit following AF ablation.

      We therefore designed this multicenter, randomized controlled trial aiming to assess if, in
      recently diagnosed (less than 6 months) and optimally treated CHF patients with impaired LV
      function, AF catheter ablation is effective in improving LV function and clinical functional
      class, potentially driving to a reduction of device implantations (ICD/CRTs).

      The aim of the present study is to assess within patients with concomitant CHF and persistent
      AF whether AF ablation, compared to optimal rate control strategy, is superior in terms of LV
      function and clinical functional class. In addition, long-term outcome and complications will
      be recorded and compared.

      This study is a prospective, multicenter, randomized, two-arms parallel-group trial.
      Randomization is performed through a 24-hour, centralized, computer system. Enrollment will
      occur at 5 centers in Italy. The study protocol will receive approval by the ethics review
      board at each institution before study enrollment, and patients will be randomized to undergo
      either arm of the study in an open fashion, due to the nature of the alternative procedures.

      Written informed consent, including description of the procedure and risk of complications,
      is obtained from each patient before study inclusion.

      At 3, 6 and 12 months from the index procedure a complete follow-up visit is performed for
      all patients in both study arms. Clinical assessment will include signs and symptoms of heart
      failure, NYHA functional class evaluation, quality of life assessment by MLWHF questionnaire
      and a 12-lead ECG. Additionally, all patients will undergo a complete transthoracic
      echocardiographic evaluation, including LV ejection fraction, end-diastolic and end-systolic
      volumes, LV diastolic function, LA volume, mitral regurgitation or stenosis grade, right
      ventricular diameter and systolic function (TAPSE). A 6-minute walking test will be performed
      aiming to reproducibly quantify the functional class of the patients at each scheduled
      evaluation. A 24-hour ECG Holter will be performed in all patients, to detect AF recurrences
      in the AF ablation arm, mean heart rate (both for patients in AF and SR) and ventricular
      arrhythmias burden. For patients implanted with a device, AF burden, ICD interventions and
      percentage of biventricular pacing will be recorded. Finally, the incidence of heart failure
      hospitalizations, ischemic or hemorrhagic strokes and all-cause mortality will be assessed in
      both groups. Additional clinical assessment will be performed in case of heart failure acute
      worsening.

      No external source of funding will contribute to this study, and no conflict of interest has
      been to be declared. All data are independently collected, managed, and analyzed with a
      restricted-access database. The steering committee, is responsible for the design and conduct
      of the study and for the drafting and editing of the results. The steering committee will
      have full access to the final study data and statistical analysis.
    
  