
    
      The EMPIRE study will assess the effect of music listening on patients in critical care.
      Treatment on an intensive care unit can be disorientating and frightening, with patients at
      risk of delirium and post-traumatic stress disorder. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated
      some of the factors which might contribute to this, such as lack of visits from relatives and
      friends, increased difficulty communicating with staff, and an increased likelihood of being
      on mechanical ventilation and sedation. Music has shown the potential to be a low-cost
      non-pharmacological intervention which can improve patients' experience of acute care without
      adding significantly to the workload of staff.

      Studies have suggested that music listening has the potential to reduce feelings of pain and
      anxiety in critical care patients, as well as improved autonomic physiological outcomes such
      as heart rate, respiratory rate and blood pressure.

      The EMPIRE study will seek to explore the effects described above in greater detail. 30
      patients from the Adult Intensive Care Unit (AICU) at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital will
      be recruited to undergo a single 40-minute session of supervised music listening, in which
      they will be encouraged to request their favourite music if they are able. Before and after
      the session, patients will be asked to describe their pain and anxiety on a rating of 1-10,
      and the patient's level of agitation/sedation will also be measured, so that changes in these
      can be evaluated. In addition, physiological data such as heart rate, respiratory rate, blood
      pressure and level of sedation (bispectral index score) will be measured throughout the
      listening session, and later analysed for significant changes in relation to the music that
      was being played. Finally, a 3-month follow-up interview will be conducted to assess the
      influence of the music on participants' experience of the Adult Intensive Care Unit.
    
  