
    
      Objective

      The purpose of this protocol is to create a mechanism whereby the intramural program of the
      NIDA in Baltimore, MD can evaluate and treat a broad range of people who use tobacco
      products. Through this protocol, participants will receive state-of-the-art treatment for
      their tobacco use. The secondary objective is to investigate predictors of success in
      tobacco-use-cessation treatment.

      Study population

      Participants will be individuals who present to the NIDA IRP seeking to quit tobacco use
      (smoked and smokeless). Enrollment may occur as part of participation in another NIDA IRP
      study. We will enroll up to 1000 participants. All individuals who give signed informed
      consent and who attend at least one study visit will be considered evaluable. We will not
      replace study dropouts.

      Design

      After undergoing initial screening and signing the IRB-approved consent form, participants
      will be enrolled in our outpatient smoking treatment-research clinic at the NIDA IRP. The
      study will last up to one year, with active treatment lasting up to 36 weeks and follow-up
      visits 4, 6, and 12 months after the first treatment visit. Treatment will include counseling
      and pharmacotherapy (nicotine replacement, bupropion, or varenicline, if warranted and
      medically appropriate). During active treatment, participants will visit the clinic up to
      twice a week for counseling, dispensing of medication, and monitoring of tobacco use,
      withdrawal symptoms, and reporting of any adverse events. Visits may take up to 90 minutes.

      Outcome measures

      There are no outcome measures for the primary objective. For the secondary objectives, the
      outcome measures are (1) tobacco abstinence, as determined by self-reported tobacco use,
      urinary cotinine, and (in tobacco smokers only) breath CO, and (2) reduction in tobacco use
      of at least 50% (e.g., from 10 cigarettes per day to 5 cigarettes per day). Other outcome
      measures for the secondary objectives include duration of abstinence, nicotine withdrawal
      signs and symptoms, and tobacco craving. Behavioral, psychological, medical, and genetic
      characteristics and tobacco-use history will be assessed at the beginning of the study as
      predictors of treatment outcome and at follow-up.
    
  