
    
      The study included all consecutive adult patients who consulted for trauma to the
      extremities, i.e. hands and wrists, feet and ankles, in the emergency department between
      February and August 2018. Patients included had undergone digital radiography and ULD-CT for
      a diagnosis of trauma during weekdays, during working hours (9am-6pm), excluding weekends and
      holidays. Patients with severe polytrauma requiring a whole body CT scan and patients for
      whom digital radiography was not the first imaging modality performed were not included in
      the study.

      ULD-CT images were acquired using a Somatom Definition AS+ CT-scan (Siemens Healthineers).
      Acquisition parameters were as follows: beam collimation of 64×0.6 mm; field of view of 500
      mm; pitch factor of 0.85; rotation time of 1.0 s. The tube voltage was fixed at 80 kVp, and
      the tube current was set at 12 mAs for hands and wrists and at 15 mAs for feet and ankles.
      Both the automatic adjustment of tube voltage (CARE kV) and the automatic tube current
      modulation (CARE Dose4D) were disabled. The images were reconstructed in transverse plane of
      1-mm thickness and 0.7mm overlapping, and raw data were reconstructed using the level 4 of
      the SAFIRE® (Sinogram Affirmed Iterative Reconstruction) algorithm. The reconstruction
      kernels used were "moderately smooth" (I30f) for soft tissue exploration and "strongly sharp"
      (I70f) for bone exploration for all locations.

      Imaging interpretation Image analysis and interpretation were performed retrospectively in a
      blinded manner by two radiologists, a junior reader with a 3-year experience (TA, reader 1)
      and a senior reader with a 11-year experience (FS, reader 2). The two radiologists separately
      analyzed all radiographs after image anonymization and randomization of the reading rank. To
      limit interpretation biases, a period of 4 weeks was observed before interpretation of the
      ULD-CT images. They were analyzed separately by the two same radiologists, in the same
      blinded manner than radiographs, also after randomization of the reading rank. The images
      were visualized on GE Healthcare Centricity Picture Archiving and Communication System
      (PACS); all ULD-CT images were read in multiplanar 3-mm reconstructed slices.
    
  