
    
      Background: Cerebral blood flow (CBF) is maintained at a relatively constant level by
      multiple overlapping auto-regulatory systems over a wide range of blood pressures. This
      ensures adequate oxygen delivery to the brain and is critical to ongoing brain function and
      consciousness. Patients with reduced CBF experience symptoms of presyncope (e.g.
      lightheadedness, dizziness, trouble concentrating) and may faint. In patients with postural
      tachycardia syndrome (POTS), these orthostatic symptoms are a chronic issue, but the
      underlying pathophysiology is poorly understood - there is both evidence for and against
      impaired cerebral auto-regulation in POTS patients.

      Previous studies have demonstrated that increased cardiac output improves CBF independent of
      mean blood pressure. This is of particular interest in POTS patients, who display reduced
      cardiac output both during rest and orthostasis. This is due in part smaller heart size and
      reduced blood volume, which necessitate high heart rates to maintain cardiac output. The
      relationship between cardiac output and CBF has not been studied in POTS patients. Given the
      characteristic orthostatic tachycardia seen in these patients, the effects of heart rate on
      CBF are also of interest. The relationship between heart rate and CBF, to our knowledge, has
      not been studied.

      The chronic orthostatic symptoms in POTS patients are largely unexplained, but contributed
      centrally to significantly reduced quality of life. These symptoms are thought to be caused
      in part by alterations in CBF. While POTS does not have a "cure", alleviation of orthostatic
      symptoms would likely improve patients' ability to engage with activities of daily living and
      may reduce overall disease burden. Gaining an improved understanding of the hemodynamic
      determinants of CBF is essential to achieving this goal.

      Objectives: To assess the relationship between heart rate and middle cerebral artery (MCA)
      CBF. Additionally, to better understand the hemodynamic determinants of MCA CBF velocity by
      examining the relationships between heart rate, stroke volume, pulse pressure, and MCA CBF
      velocity.

      Methods: This will be an open-label, single group study in otherwise healthy patients
      scheduled for elective electrophysiology studies prior to planned ablations for
      supraventricular tachycardia. The study will take place with the participant supine on the
      electrophysiology laboratory procedure table, with a temporary pacing catheter already placed
      in the high right atrium. Prior to beginning the study protocol, the participant will be
      instrumented with non-invasive (a) skin electrodes to continuously monitor heart rate and
      record an electrocardiogram; (b) a volume-clamp finger cuff to monitor beat-to-beat blood
      pressure, calibrated with intermittent brachial cuff measurements; and (c) a transcranial
      Doppler System to record CBF velocity. Estimates of stroke volume, cardiac output, and
      systemic vascular resistance will be obtained using Modelflow-based waveform analysis of the
      continuous blood pressure waveform. A clinically standard sinus node recovery time (SNRT)
      protocol will be performed whilst collecting CBF and hemodynamic responses. Pacing will occur
      at 600 ms (100 bpm), 500 ms (120 bpm), 400 ms (150 bpm), and 350 ms (171 bpm) cycles for 60
      seconds each, with a rest period of at least 60 seconds between pacing runs. After these
      pacing runs, the study data collection will be complete and the extra blood pressure cuffs
      and transcranial doppler probes will be removed from the participant so that the clinical
      electrophysiology study may continue as planned. The investigators estimate that this study
      will add no more than 10-15 minutes to the overall procedure time.

      In this exploratory "proof of concept" study, the investigators plan to enrol 20
      participants.
    
  