
    
      This prospective randomized clinical study aims to investigate the effects of a
      monitor-guided opioid analgesia during general anesthesia by different monitoring systems in
      comparison to routine clinical practice. Many surgical procedures require general anesthesia.
      The main components of general anesthesia are hypnosis and analgesia, and anesthesiologists
      usually combine a hypnotic drug with an opioid analgesic.

      Until today, however, there is no standard-monitoring of nociception to specifically reflect
      the analgesic component of general anesthesia. In clinical practice the opioid dosage is
      chosen by clinical judgment of the attending anesthesiologist based upon changes of heart
      rate, blood pressure, pupil size, lacrimation and sweating of the patient.

      On the one hand, underdosage of opioids can cause nociception leading to an increased
      sympathetic tone, increase of plasma levels of stress hormones, nociceptive movements as well
      as increase postoperative pain. On the other hand, overdosage of opioids can lead to drug
      side effects such as nausea and vomiting, hemodynamic instability, an increase in recovery
      times, immunosuppression and an increase in postoperative pain by
      opioid-induced-hyperalgesia. Quality and safety of general anesthesia are of major clinical
      importance and can be improved by limiting the administration of opioid analgesics to the
      optimal individual dose needed. In the last years, different analgesia monitoring devices
      have been developed for monitoring nociception. The present study evaluates the effects of
      the administration of opioids during general anesthesia guided by three different monitoring
      systems in comparison to routine clinical practice. After institutional approval by the
      Ethics committee of the Medical Board of the City of Hamburg, Germany and obtaining patients'
      written informed consent the investigators randomize elective patients with major abdominal
      surgery for open radical prostatectomy into one of four treatment groups.
    
  