
    
      We propose a longitudinal study of the natural history of types III and IV osteogenesis
      imperfecta for children age birth to 30 years. A consistent objective throughout this study
      is to obtain a comprehensive assessment of the natural history and progression of the
      multiple secondary features of osteogenesis imperfecta. In addition to radiographic, bone
      density, physical rehabilitation and dental manifestations, we will assess the
      cardiovascular, pulmonary, neurological, and audiology systems.

      The major objectives of this protocol focus on rehabilitation and physical therapy studies,
      pulmonary and cardiovascular function, neurological features, audiological studies and
      genetic and molecular biology aspects of OI. A major objective in this study is to expand the
      intensive rehabilitation and physical therapy studies of children with types III and IV OI.
      This objective continues the work that has been done in the Rehabilitation Department of the
      Clinical Center for the past 20 years on these patients. However, the focus of this objective
      is changing to include studies of scoliosis and its effect on function, studies of chest
      proportions and rib deformities, and studies of nonkinetic variables related to motor
      performance, such as temperament, competence, coping, and resilience in children with OI. The
      second major objective is the longitudinal study of pulmonary function in children with types
      III and IV OI. It is well known that cardiopulmonary complications are a major cause of
      disability and death in adults with OI; the developmental patterns of these complications,
      and whether susceptible individuals can be identified in childhood, is unknown. The third
      major objective of these studies of secondary features is to determine the incidence of
      basilar invagination and develop a monitoring and management plan for this neurological
      feature. Next, the prevalence, severity, age of onset and genotypic/phenotypic correlation of
      hearing loss among children with types II and IV OI remains poorly understood; therefore, the
      study of audiological features is our fourth major objective. The final major objective in
      this study is the continued study of the genetic and molecular biology aspect of OI. Patients
      will have skin biopsies for collagen studies at the biochemical and molecular level. Parents
      will have blood drawn for determination of mosaic status for the mutation that causes their
      child s OI. These studies will provide further information on genotype/phenotype correlation
      and other variables in OI genetics. As appropriate, bone chips from emergency or elective
      surgical procedures on the participants will be used to study osteoblast function in OI.
    
  