
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of doxorubicin HCl liposome when combined with
           etoposide, cyclophosphamide, and allogeneic donor lymphocyte infusion with or without
           interleukin-2 after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation in patients with relapsed or
           persistent aggressive hematologic malignancies.

      OUTLINE: This is a partially randomized, dose-escalation study of doxorubicin HCl liposome
      (LipoDox).

      Patients enter 1 of 4 cohorts.

        -  Cohort 1: Three to six patients receive induction comprising etoposide IV over 1 hour on
           days 1-3, cyclophosphamide IV over 1-2 hours on day 8, and allogeneic donor lymphocyte
           infusion on day 10. Filgrastim (G-CSF) is administered subcutaneously (SC) or IV daily
           beginning on day 10 and continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Cohort 2: In the absence of dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) on cohort 1, 3-6 patients
           receive treatment as in cohort 1 and LipoDox IV over 2 hours on day 1.

        -  Cohort 3: In the absence of DLT on cohort 2, 3-6 patients are randomized to 1 of 2
           treatment arms.

             -  Arm I: Patients receive treatment as in cohort 1 plus a higher dose of LipoDox IV
                over 2 hours on day 1.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive treatment as in cohort 1 and interleukin-2 (IL-2) SC on
                days 10-12.

      If DLT is reached on cohort 2, 3-6 patients receive treatment as in arm II.

        -  Cohort 4: In the absence of DLT on arms I and II, patients receive treatment as in
           cohort 1, LipoDox as in arm I, and IL-2 as in arm II.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of LipoDox until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 6 patients
      experience DLT.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 12-15 patients will be accrued for this study within 12-18
      months.
    
  