
    
      Although most of the prostate cancers (PCas) are currently being diagnosed at early stage, at
      present, 30% of men are diagnosed with primarily metastatic disease. The need for better
      diagnostic methods is, therefore, warranted. Recent studies have shown that an alternative
      pathway using multiparametric (mpMRI) or biparametric (bpMRI) magnetic resonance imaging as a
      triage test reduces unnecessary biopsies, decreases the detection of clinically
      non-significant PCa (non-SPCa), and improves the detection of clinically significant PCa
      (CSPCa). In addition, based on these trials, also EAU guideline was updated to recommend that
      all men should undergo pre-biopsy mpMRI. However, shortcoming of the approach is the
      recommendation to biopsy all men post-MRI even if there is no lesion seen in MRI, ie. risk of
      PCa is very low. Therefore, the primary objective of this randomised controlled trial is to
      compare if there is a difference between significant cancer detection rate in men undergoing
      prostate biopsies after MRI scan compared to men undergoing post-MRI prostate biopsies only
      after a shared decision-making based on prostate cancer risk estimation.

      The trial will enrol 600 patients from four hospital districts: Varsinais-Suomi, Satakunta,
      Pirkanmaa and Keski-Suomi. Key inclusion criteria are suspicion of prostate cancer based on
      elevated PSA and/or abnormal digital rectal examination. Men with previous PCa diagnosis and
      contraindications for MRI are excluded. The primary outcome measure is the comparison of the
      proportion of men with CSPCa (Gleason 4+3 prostate cancer or higher) between the control and
      intervention arms at baseline.

      Using PSA as strata, eligible men are randomised 1:1 in two groups. After randomisation MRI
      examination is performed and interpreted by one experienced uro-radiologist using Likert and
      PI-RADS2.1 classifications. In control arm in all men prostate biopsies are performed after
      MRI whereas in intervention arm prostate biopsies are performed only after a shared
      decision-making between urologist and the patient and the discussion is based on risk
      estimation. Men with negative biopsies or with no biopsies performed are all assigned for
      five-year follow-up with semi-annual PSA. Long-term follow-up based on health records and
      national registries is performed for additional 15 years for all patients.
    
  