
    
      Cleft margin flap (that was discarded in the modified Millard's technique for cleft lip
      repair) with anterior palatal closure will be used during primary cleft lip repair in
      patients who were born with cleft lip and palate in an attempt to close the Naso-alveolar
      fistula (defect) that usually occur and remain in those patients post-operatively and this
      will be assessed in the predetermined follow up period.

      Interventions:

      General operative procedures

      Eligible patients will be included in the study group:

        -  With the patient supine, general anesthesia will be induced, An uncuffed, oral, right
           angle endotracheal tube (RAE) will be placed and taped in the midline to the chin.

        -  The tube is further immobilized with a mouth pack.

        -  Head ring and shoulder rolls are placed. Sterile tapes will be placed over the closed
           eyelids. The face is prepared and draped.

        -  Reference points will be marked using brilliant green dye on a sharpened applicator
           stick.

        -  After careful marking, Approximately 3ml of 1% lidocaine with 1:200000 Epinephrines will
           be injected into the lip and alar base for homeostasis governed by heart rate of the
           patient.

        -  The lateral lip flap will first elevated with mucosal incision using number 15 blade
           scalpel at the gingivo-labial sulcus on the oral side and the release of the lateral lip
           segments will be achieved by dissecting over the lateral maxilla in the supra-periosteal
           plane.

        -  After this, a scalpel will be used to provide 1-2 mm of release of the skin from the
           underlying orbicularis oris muscle. This facilitates a 3 layer closure of mucosa,
           orbicularis oris muscle, and dermis. Then, the soft tissue attachments of the nasal base
           are separated from the piriform aperture. When the nasal dissection is complete, the
           surgeon is ready for closure of the lip deformity.

        -  Vomerine flap is done by doing incision on palatal side of the maxilla and vomer bone,
           then elevating mucoperiosteal flap on hard palate & undermining palatal mucosa.

        -  Closure of nasal lining.

        -  Mucosal flap obtained from part of the cleft near the lip was used as an inferior-based
           local flap. This flap was sutured to the anterior end of the mucoperiosteal flaps of the
           palate after it was passed from the alveolar cleft. The gingival mucosa on the alveolar
           cleft part was de-epithelialized, and lateral suturing of the flap was completed. In
           this way, not only the alveolar cleft but also the anterior palate cleft was corrected
           in this session.

        -  Skin hooks will be used to oppose the lip segments together to ensure that there is
           adequate release and minimal tension across the cleft wound. If too much tension exists,
           further dissection laterally or medially over the maxilla and superiorly along the bony
           piriform may be performed.

        -  Closure begins with 4-0 vicryl resorbable sutures placed in simple interrupted manner
           with the buried knots, to reconstituting the orbicularis oris muscular sphincter.

      After this, the dermis will be closed by using 6-0 vicryl sutures. Approximation of the
      vermilion cutaneous borders must be precise, as any misalignment will become accentuated with
      subsequent growth.

      5-0 vicryl sutures placed in the vermillion and the mucosa of the lip completing the closure.

      Postoperative care:

        -  Cephalosporin antibiotic (Ceclor 125mg q12h) for five days.

        -  Otrivin saline nasal drops for 5 days.

        -  Mycostatin (Nystatin) Cream q8h for 5 days.

        -  Paracetamol drops 15ml.

        -  Fucidin cream ( sodium fusidate topical ) 3 times per day.

        -  Use of sterile tape as simple coverage for the wound for 5 days.

        -  Wash surgical wounds with soap & water until wound closes and heals.

        -  Massage the lip and columella with the cream downward with thumb once wound heals for
           4-5 minutes twice a day for 3 months.

      All patients will be evaluated at the following intervals:

        -  One week following Surgery

        -  One month following Surgery

        -  Six months following Surgery
    
  