
    
      This study addresses the reliance on family members to provide virtually all community-based
      care for 5.3 million persons living with Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, a
      population that will likely triple in the next 35 years. Unless researchers soon find a way
      to prevent and cure dementing illnesses like Alzheimer's, the country will continue to face
      an urgent need to find ways to sustain and bolster the capacity of these family caregivers to
      manage the multiple daily care challenges they face and to preserve their well-being while
      doing so. Without family caregivers, the burden of care could well overwhelm the formal
      components of our care system. A number of psychoeducation programs for caregivers have been
      effective in relieving distress, increasing self-efficacy, managing caregiving challenges,
      and enabling caregivers to sustain care over longer periods of time. However, many
      Alzheimer's caregivers cannot take part in these programs because virtually all such programs
      require caregivers to arrange care for the care recipient while the caregivers attend the
      programs. These are obstacles in rural or remote areas where transportation issues further
      restrict caregivers' already limited access to caregiver programs, but they are no less a
      problem in inner cities and suburbs. These obstacles highlight a substantial challenge to our
      ability to rely on caregivers as a continuing care resource for persons living with
      Alzheimer's disease: there is a need for theory-driven psychoeducation programs that can be
      made readily available to caregivers who may not be able to attend in-person programs.

      This is a randomized trial to test a program designed to meet this critical need. This study
      will test Tele-Savvy, an internet-based program based on the widely disseminated, in-person
      Savvy Caregiver psychoeducation program. Delivered in scheduled videoconferences and
      independently viewed on-line video lessons, Tele-Savvy aims to develop/enhance caregivers'
      skills and caregiving mastery, reduce adverse effects of caregiving, and improve the quality
      of the lives of caregivers and care recipients.

      Caregivers will be randomly assigned either to immediate Tele-Savvy participation groups or
      to attention control or usual care groups that are invited to participate in Tele-Savvy six
      months after baseline data collection. Each program takes 43 days to complete. In those 43
      days, participants will be asked to take part in a video conference once per week (60-90
      minutes) and view daily video lessons (7-15 minutes). They will participate in 5 interviews
      over the course of the 12 month study. These interviews will discuss participant's experience
      as a caregiver. All interviews will be limited to 60 minutes.
    
  