
    
      Subjects admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of alcoholic hepatitis and who are planned to
      receive nasogastric feeding for at least 7 days will be eligible for the study.

      A stool sample will be collected prior to commence enteral nutrition via nasogastric tube and
      analysed. Subsequently further stool samples will be collected and analysed at day 3 and day
      7 after commencing nasogastric feeding.

      DNA will be extracted from each of the samples, and bacterial 16S rRNA genes will be PCR
      amplified and sent for sequencing at the CGEBM using an Illumina MiSeq machine. This will
      generate at least 2 million paired end reads (2 x 300 bp), which will be assembled and
      analysed using the Mothur software platform.The investigators will also analyse the short
      chain fatty acids profiles within the stool samples using gas chromatography. Shannon
      Diversity Index will be used to assess the bacterial diversity and Pielou's index will be
      used to assess species evenness at each time point. Comparison between time points will be
      performed. Microbiota composition at the different time points will be assessed using Mothur
      software to detect if there are systematic changes to specific members of the gut microbiota
      during enteral feeding. Prevalence by different molecular methodologies will be assessed and
      the results from study patients will be compared with their baseline samples by Fisher's
      exact test.

      Missing data will be handled using a missing indicator.

      Subjects will be approached by the team in charge of the clinical care and option to enter
      the study will be offered. Information leaflet will be provided to the subject 24h before
      consenting and possibility to discuss with trial team.

      Data will be collected by authorised members of trial team in a fit for purpose ad hoc
      password protected excel data base as eCRF. Source data will be electronic patient file or
      paper case notes. Source data of microbiome analysis will be computer report. Accuracy of
      data entry will be checked by a separate delegated member of the team. External monitoring
      occurs at a regular basis for clinical trial arrange by sponsor.

      Patient confidentiality will be maintained at all time. No identifiable data will be
      collected. eCRF will be password protected and stored in encrypted hospital computer
      protected by password. consent or other paper documentation will be kept separate in locked
      cabinets within the premises of the hospital.

      Adverse Events reporting will be performed by a competent and delegated member of staff,
      according to our sponsor standard operating procedure and recorded.
    
  