
    
      Diets are the mainstay of many obesity treatment programs, yet they fail for a variety of
      reasons. Patients find it difficult to comply with caloric restriction during active weight
      loss, and to adhere to long-term changes that promote weight loss maintenance. Underlying
      these difficulties are a number of physiologic changes enacted by the body in response to
      energy restriction. These changes promote increased hunger, decreased satiety and slowed
      metabolic rate, making diet compliance and sustained weight loss very difficult. From the
      body's perspective, a rapid and substantial drop in caloric intake may represent a metabolic
      emergency, and it responds accordingly, in an attempt to maintain body weight.

      Weight loss results only from achieving and maintaining a large energy deficit, but it is not
      known whether the initiation phase of diets would be more likely to promote success if it
      were done gradually, in the form of a caloric taper. We hypothesize that, by slowly
      introducing a prescribed caloric restriction over a period of 1-2 months (rather than using
      an immediate drop in calories), the body's homeostatic response to energy restriction might
      be blunted or circumvented, resulting in lower levels of hunger, improved satiety, and better
      preservation of metabolic rate during diet initiation - all factors that would promote
      adherence and successful weight loss.

      To test this hypothesis, the investigators will conduct a pilot randomized feeding trial
      comparing two types of low-calorie diets with similar macronutrient composition. Although
      both diets will ultimately rely on similar caloric deficits to produce weight loss, they will
      differ at the point of diet initiation. The following will be compared: (1) a traditional
      diet, where the entire energy deficit is initiated immediately; and (2) a "caloric taper"
      diet, during which participants will be gradually reduced from baseline levels of energy
      consumption to the lower calorie level required for weight loss, over a 6-week period.

      After a 2-week run-in to establish equilibrium weight among 40 eligible persons, 30 obese
      adults will be randomized to the 2 study arms and follow them for 52 weeks. We will compare
      the two groups with respect to the following outcomes, measured in terms of change from
      baseline (week 0) levels:

        1. Circulating levels of the orexogenic hormone, Ghrelin, at weeks 1, 6, 12, 24, and 52;

        2. Circulating levels of the "satiety" hormones, Leptin and Glucagon-like Peptide (GLP-1)
           at weeks 1, 6, 12, 24, and 52;

        3. Body composition, as assessed with dual energy x-ray absorptiometry, at 24 and 52 weeks;

        4. Resting metabolic rate as assessed by indirect calorimetry at 24 and 52 weeks;

        5. Change in body weight (kg) and body mass index (kg/m2) at weeks 6,12, 24 and 52;

        6. Self-reported hunger (using VAS) and compliance with program at weeks 1, 6, 12, 24 and
           52.

        7. Change in weight-related quality of life, using the IWQOL-LITE at weeks 12, 24, and 52.

      Hypothesis: patients in the "taper" arm will experience less activation of body regulatory
      systems designed to oppose weight loss, with similar weight loss by 24 weeks and greater
      weight loss maintenance by 52 weeks, compared to "traditional low-calorie diet" arm patients.
    
  