
    
      Carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS) is the most common mononeuritis, with a significant burden on
      both patients and public health. For mild and moderate cases, conservative methods, including
      immobilization, corticosteroid injections, oral medications and physical therapy have been
      suggested as appropriate treatments, with mixed results. Acupuncture and related therapies
      has been used worldwide over the last few years in the management of CTS, with generally
      positive results. However, more studies will be needed to assess the role of acupuncture as
      an independent therapeutic modality to CTS.

      This is a clinical study that will be conducted in the pain clinic at the department of
      Anaesthesiology of Aretaieion University Hospital as well as in the Laboratory of
      Musculoskeletal Physiotherapy of University of West Attica, with which there is a cooperation
      agreement. All recruited participants will be treated with the same acupuncture protocol at
      the limb that will be diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome. If the patients are diagnosed
      with bilateral CTS, both wrists will be treated. Clinical, electrophysiological and
      ultrasonography outcomes will be measured before and after the intervention.

      In order to record the possible influence of psychosomatic characteristics, the Greek version
      of the Hospital Anxiety & Depression (HAD) Scale will be used before the treatment. As a
      result the anxiety and the depression of the participants will be quantified with a simple
      clinical tool.

      All participants will accept 8 sessions of electroacupuncture, 2 days a week for 1 month by
      experienced physicians.

      All participants in the study will be evaluated 3-7 days before and 3-7 days after the
      treatment protocol with clinical, electrophysiological and ultrasonographical outcome
      measures. In patients with bilateral symptoms, each limb will be assessed separately.
    
  