
    
      Within the GA2LEN Follow-up Survey, the Nutrition Survey was aimed at assessing dietary
      intake in adults across European countries and its association with various outcomes of
      allergy and respiratory health. In absence of an internationally comparable dietary
      questionnaire to ascertain usual dietary intake, a single and standardized food frequency
      questionnaire (FFQ) was design to be used as a common instrument in all participant
      countries. The FFQ is comprised of 32 food sections and 250 food items. The FFQ sections were
      designed following the recommendations by the EFCOSUM Group, which facilitate international
      comparisons of dietary intake. It also included several staple foods to capture locally
      representative dietary intake.

      Participants reported how often they had consumed each of the foods over the previous month,
      using eight predefined options (rarely or never, 1-3 times per month, once, 2-4, or 5-6 times
      per week, once, 2-3 times per day). Standard food portion sizes were used to quantify the
      intake following the recommendations from the UK's Food Standards Agency. Daily intake of
      foods (g) were estimated and macro- and micronutrient and flavonoid intakes were derived. The
      GA2LEN FFQ was validated in five EU countries, namely Finland, UK, Portugal, Germany, Poland,
      and Greece, and demonstrated to be a good tool to assess mid-term intake of foods,
      specifically essential polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). The instrument has also been
      demonstrated to be an accurate tool to assess dietary sources of flavonoids.

      Various approaches were planned to derive dietary exposures and to examine their association
      with respiratory and allergic outcomes. These included the use of dietary patterns derived
      from Principal Component Analysis (PCA), a dietary inflammatory index (DII), as well as
      single antioxidants, and individual food items.
    
  