
    
      This will be a prospective, single-center, dose-escalation, open-label interventional study
      to evaluate the safety and tolerability of allogeneic hMSCs in 15 clinically stable subjects
      with CF age ≥ 18 years. After a two to six week screening period, subjects will have a
      Baseline visit (Days 1-2) where they will undergo a single intravenous infusion of up to 5 x
      10EE6 allogeneic hMSCs/kg of body weight. Infusions will be performed in the Dahms Clinical
      Research Unit (DCRU) of University Hospitals Cleveland Medical Center. Subjects will be
      monitored for any infusion related toxicities for 24 hours after the infusion. Subsequent
      study visits will occur on Days 7, 14, 28, Months 3 and 6 and telephone calls will occur on
      Days 4 (or 5), 21, 56 and Month 12. Subject safety and tolerability of a single dose of hMSCs
      will be evaluated at study visits by review of subject diaries, interval history, pulmonary
      exacerbations, physical examination, spirometry, and analysis of safety laboratories. Special
      attention will be placed upon detecting pulmonary exacerbations because anti-inflammatory
      therapies theoretically could suppress the immune system to the point where it leads to
      increased infectious complications, although MSC therapeutics are proposed to be
      antimicrobial. In addition to evaluating safety, this study will also explore efficacy
      end-points for future clinical trials of MSCs in CF including inflammatory biomarkers from
      blood and sputum. Serum markers (calprotectin, MPO, GM-CSF, IL-1β, IL-6, IL8, IL-17, and
      TNF-a) and sputum markers (white cell counts and differentials, IL-1β, IL-6, IL-8, IL-10,
      IL-17, GM-CSF, MIP- 3a, TNF-a, and active proteases including neutrophil elastase,
      a1-anti-trypsin, and MMP-9) will be determined at Baseline and on Days 7 and 28 for with-in
      subject comparison. All subject samples will be archived for future projects. Finally, a
      diagnostic bone marrow exam will be performed on subjects with CF who consent to undergo this
      optional procedure. Bone marrow samples will be banked and used for future translational
      studies.
    
  