
    
      Autologous fat grafting is an increasingly popular technique for soft tissue reconstruction;
      however, the surgical technique is limited by inconsistent graft take, undercorrection, and
      requirement for repeat procedures. The authors previously examined whether a widely
      available, clinically safe anti-oxidant, N-acetylcysteine (NAC), could improve
      adipose-derived stem cell survival and subsequent graft take when added to tumescent solution
      at the time of fat harvest in mice. The addition of NAC to tumescent fluid during fat harvest
      in mice protects ADSCs against oxidative stress, increases their survival and proliferation,
      and inhibits their early differentiation into mature adipocytes in vitro. In an in vivo
      model, NAC treatment at the time of harvest improved survival and quality of autologous fat
      grafts. These observations provide proof-of-principle for the use of NAC in the clinical
      setting to optimize fat graft yields.

      Hypothesis: The addition of NAC to the tumescent solution used in fat grafting will improve
      fat graft survival in humans to potentially decrease the amount of re-operations and
      undercorrection that occurs.

      Plan: The study will be conducted as a single-centre, randomized, triple-blind
      placebo-controlled trial to be performed at the QEII Health Sciences Centre, Halifax, Nova
      Scotia. Subjects will be chosen as healthy female patients already presenting to the
      operating room for elective breast reduction surgery. These patients will be enrolled and
      booked for surgery as they present to clinic and will not be expedited in receiving their
      elective surgery if enrolled in the study. Each subject will serve as her own control. The
      hypothesis will be tested by performing lipoaspiration of the thigh/hip region of healthy
      patients after the addition of tumescent solution with or without NAC. Approximately 10
      millilitres of the fat graft will be injected into each pre-tibial area depending on the
      randomization allocation, as described by Kolle et al. (1) The volume of fat graft will be
      measured at 0, 1 and 3 months using computed tomographic (CT) scans according to
      institutional standards. The CT images will be exported into Materialise Interactive Medical
      Image Control System (MIMICS) and volumetric three-dimensional reconstructions will be made
      to measure the size and volume of the grafts at each of the time points. The grafts will then
      be explanted at 3 months and weighed. The histologic appearance, graded on the amount of
      inflammation, cysts/vacuoles, integrity and vascularity with CD31 staining will be assessed.
      The results will be compared using two-tailed t-tests. Statistical significance will be set
      at p<0.05.
    
  