
    
      Objectives The primary objective of the study is to determine the pharmacokinetics of
      beta-lactam antibiotics in patients with infectious endocarditis, and how the pharmacokinetic
      profile is associated with various patient factors (e.g. age, body weight, renal function).
      Secondary objectives are to descriptively assess potential associations between drug
      exposure, pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic targets and clinical outcomes.

      Inclusion of patients and sample size Patients are prospectively included at the departments
      of infectious diseases, internal and acute medicine, cardiology and thoracic surgery at
      Uppsala University Hospital. Potential participants are screened for using the electronic
      medical records. Inclusion criteria are as follows: (1) admission at one of the study wards,
      (2) a diagnosis of probable or verified infectious endocarditis, (3) treatment with a
      beta-lactam antibiotic and (4) informed written consent to participate in the study. The
      following exclusion criteria will be applied: (1) age less than 18 years and (2) ongoing or
      planned hemodialysis.

      Based on previous research using similar methods, 30 patients per antibiotic substance (total
      150 patients) is considered sufficient to develop a robust mathematical model.

      Collection of blood samples and patient data Following inclusion, a series of samples will be
      taken within one week from start of treatment. Beta-lactams are normally prescribed at 6-8 h
      dose intervals. One series of 6 blood samples will be collected at 0, 0,5, 1, 2, 4 and 6 or 8
      h (depending on dose interval, prior to next dose) after administration of antibiotics.
      Thereafter, samples will be collected once weekly and 0, 3 or 4 (mid-dose interval) and 6 or
      8 h (depending on dose interval, prior to next dose).

      Information on patient characteristics, including age, body weight, and gender, will be
      obtained from the electronic medical records. Further, the results of biomarkers (e.g.
      albumin, creatinine, CRP), collected as part of routine practice, will be noted. If not
      collected as standard of care, patients will be subject to extra samples to ensure biomarkers
      are monitored at least twice weekly.

      Clinical outcomes Treatment failure is defined as mortality during antibiotic treatment for
      infectious endocarditis or relapse of endocarditis within 3 months after completion of
      therapy with isolation of the same pathogens as in the initial episode. Other indicators of
      treatment failure include acute surgery for endocarditis, clinical deterioration resulting in
      transfer to the ICU, thromboembolic events more than 7 days after initiation of antibiotics
      and resistance development of the causative bacteria. The following side effects will be
      monitored: deterioration of renal impairment, allergic reaction suspected to be caused by the
      antibiotic treatment, Clostridioides difficile enteritis or other suspected side effects
      resulting in a shift of therapy to another antibiotic.

      Handling of samples and data Blood samples will be stored at -70 degrees Celsius at the
      Department of infectious diseases, Uppsala University Hospital. The samples will be sent to
      Karolinska University Hospital, Huddinge, for determination of drug concentrations using
      in-house developed methods for total and free (non-protein-bound) substance. The samples will
      be stored up to 10 years after the completion of the study.

      Patient names and personal identification numbers will be replaced by a number, which is
      randomly generated in Excel. Personal data will be stored at the Department of infectious
      diseases, Uppsala University Hospital. Only the responsible researchers will have access to
      the code key and be able to link personal information to the individual participants. All
      information will be handled in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR)
      and all analyses and presentation of data will be performed using anonymous data.

      Mathematical modeling and simulations The collected drug concentrations will be analyzed by
      non-linear mixed effects modeling using NONMEM. Associations between administered dose and
      the measured drug concentration over time will be described (pharmacokinetics). Correlations
      with patient characteristics and biomarkers, as well as clinical outcomes in terms of cure,
      mortality and documented side effects (pharmacodynamics) will be explored.
    
  