
    
      Quantitative and qualitative methods will be used to obtain information to aid in developing
      treatment approaches appropriate for older Veterans with TRD and insomnia. Qualitative data
      will be gathered to better understand Veterans' preferences for treatment approaches,
      particularly relating to preference for pharmacotherapy versus augmentation with a behavioral
      intervention such as BBTI. Using a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) design, we will test
      whether augmentation with BBTI will be acceptable to older Veterans and improve treatment
      response in those whose depression has not improved with antidepressant pharmacotherapy alone
      and assess for an association between preference and treatment response. Our aims and
      hypotheses are:

      Aim 1: To characterize the depression, insomnia, and relevant clinical and neuropsychiatric
      characteristics of older Veterans with TRD.

      H1a: In Veterans with TRD, Antidepressant History Form (ATHF) scores will have a positive
      association with Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating scale (MADRS) scores.

      H1b: In Veterans with TRD, MADRS scores will have a positive association with Insomnia
      Severity Index (ISI) scores.

      Aim 2: Perform qualitative interviews in older Veterans to collect information about their
      views of their depression and insomnia and attitudes and preferences for treatment of both
      depression and insomnia.

      Aim 3: To examine the feasibility of using BBTI to treat Veterans with TRD and insomnia.

      H3a: Use of BBTI will be feasible in older adults with TRD as defined by acceptability and
      retention.

      Aim 4: To determine if antidepressant augmentation with BBTI leads to improvement in scores
      on MADRS and ISI scales in older Veterans receiving BBTI versus those receiving only
      antidepressant optimization.

      H4a: Augmentation with BBTI will improve both PHQ-9 and ISI scores relative treatment with
      antidepressant alone.
    
  