
    
      Introduction of endoscopic removal of colorectal polyps in the clinical practice has
      profoundly contributed to the modified epidemiology of colorectal cancer in western countries
      by reducing its incidence and mortality through a primary prevention. Endoscopic removal of
      polyps can be carried out using several techniques depending on their morphology, size,
      location along the colon and the expertise of the endoscopist.

      Endoscopic resection of large non-pedunculated adenomas is most often performed using the
      'lift-and-cut' endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) technique. This endoscopic technique has a
      relatively low technical complexity and short-duration and is commonly considered a safe and
      reliable surgical option, nevertheless several adverse events can occur during or after this
      procedure, even in experienced hands. One of the most frequent late complication is the
      post-procedural bleeding (PPB) occurring up to 30 days post-polypectomy, which often requires
      emergency hospitalization and re-intervention (by repeated endoscopy, angiography, or even
      major surgery). The frequency of PPB after EMR of colonic polyps is reported between 0.4 %
      and 7 % depending on patients' co-morbidities and medications, location and size of the
      polyps and endoscopic technique.

      Endoscopic hemostasis of active PPB can be achieved using different techniques according to
      the location and characteristics of the lesion, endoscopist's preference and experience, and
      device availability. However, the most commonly method used is clipping with or without
      adrenaline injection.

      Recently, the use on sprayable hemostatic agents have been introduced in the gastrointestinal
      endoscopical practice providing a non-traumatic and technically easy method of hemostasis
      which can be used also in cases of diffuse, multifocal source of bleeding due to ulcers,
      tumors or post-EMR or in areas difficult to access, such as the lesser curvature of the
      stomach, posterior wall of the duodenal bulb.

      Cyanoacrylate is a liquid tissue adhesive that has been proved to be of some utility in the
      endoscopic management of gastrointestinal variceal bleeding.

      In this study, we will compare the short and mid-term results of the endoscopic use of
      N-butyl-2-cyanoacrylate associated with methacryloxysulfolane in the prevention of delayed
      bleeding after EMR of large colorectal polyps.
    
  