
    
      Although patching treatment results in improved visual acuity for most amblyopic children,
      some fail to achieve normal visual acuity after months or years of treatment. Even among
      children who do achieve normal visual acuity with amblyopia treatment, the risk for
      recurrence of amblyopia is high. Patching treatment is based on the premise that amblyopia is
      a monocular disorder that can be treated by forcing use of the amblyopic eye. However, recent
      studies have elucidated a clear link between binocular dysfunction and the complex
      constellation of deficits that characterizes amblyopia, including visual acuity, vernier
      acuity, fixation instability, fusional suppression, and risk for residual and recurrent
      amblyopia. The association of binocular dysfunction and the myriad of monocular and binocular
      deficits in amblyopia has led us to hypothesize that amblyopia is a monocular consequence of
      a primary binocular obstacle to normal visual development.

      Although binocular interaction does not normally occur in amblyopia, weak, noisy signals from
      the amblyopic eye can contribute to binocular vision if suppression by the fellow eye is
      reduced by signal attenuation, such as reduced stimulus contrast. In small cohorts of
      amblyopic adults and schoolchildren, repeated practice with a binocular Falling Blocks iPod
      game with reduced fellow eye contrast yielded modest visual acuity improvement after just 1-5
      weeks (Hess et al 2010, 2012, 2014; Knox et al 2011; Li et al 2012). Recently, we showed that
      the same binocular game app approach(reduced fellow eye contrast) could be adapted for home
      use by amblyopic children on a larger iPad display (Li et al 2014; Birch et al 2014). These
      games also were effective in improving visual acuity, and the visual acuity gains were
      maintained for at least 6 months (Li et al 2014a, 2014b). The major limitation of both sets
      of studies was that the games were not very interesting and quickly became tedious to play
      day after day. To overcome this limitation, we propose to evaluate a new, more engaging
      binocular iPad adventure game to determine whether practice with a binocular iPad games app,
      with reduced fellow eye contrast, can improve visual acuity and reduce interocular
      suppression in children with amblyopia.One group of participants will include 56 children
      with anisometropic, strabismic, or combined mechanism amblyopia, age 4-10 years. The
      participants will be randomly assigned to patch 2 hours daily patching (standard-of-care
      treatment) or to play the iPad game app 1 hour per day 5 days per week for 2 weeks. Half of
      the children will have had no prior treatment for amblyopia and the other half will have had
      prior amblyopia treatment; these two subgroups will be randomized separately. A blocked
      randomization order will be provided in sealed envelopes by our consultant statistician. A
      second group of participants will include 40 children with deprivation amblyopia due to
      cataract. The participants will be randomly assigned to continue their patching regimen (if
      any) or to continue their current patching regimen and also play the iPad game app 1 hour per
      day 5 days per week for 4 weeks. iPads with the game app are loaned to the family for the
      duration of the study, Vision will be tested at baseline and at 2 weeks for the primary
      outcome of change in visual acuity (for strabismic, anisometropic, and combined mechanism
      amblyopia) or at baseline and 4 weeks (for deprivation amblyopia). At the primary outcome
      visit, the patching group will be crossed over to play the iPad game app 1 hour per day 5
      days per week and return for a secondary outcome at 4 weeks (for strabismic, anisometropic,
      and combined mechanism amblyopia) or 8 weeks (for deprivation amblyopia). Families will have
      the option to discontinue or to continue with the game app for up to 8 weeks, with testing
      every 4 weeks.
    
  