
    
      The proposed pilot study will utilize a randomized controlled trial to estimate the
      feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a novel intervention for AYAs
      diagnosed with behaviorally-acquired HIV initiating HAART.

      Standard care for HIV at St. Jude Children's Research Hospital (SJCRH) includes a placebo
      pill trial to assess patient readiness for therapy prior to starting HAART. Participants on
      this study will be randomized to either: a control arm of standard therapy, or standard
      therapy plus an individualized behavioral, staff-delivered intervention (Pill Trial+).

      Participants in the control arm will receive standard clinical care. Participants in the Pill
      Trial+ arm will receive standard therapy plus three 25-minute individualized, behavioral,
      staff-delivered intervention sessions at HAART initiation, and 1-, and 3-month follow-up
      visits. Two brief booster sessions will also be provided to the Pill Trial+ arm following
      sessions 1 (in clinic) and 2 (by phone). In-person intervention sessions and all
      questionnaires will be completed in conjunction with scheduled clinical care visits. Sessions
      and measures will be completed by phone at designated time points if a participant becomes
      unavailable to return to clinic due to extenuating circumstances.

      As recommended by Panel guidelines, discussion of placebo pill trial adherence during the
      first 25-minute session will provide a novel mechanism to discuss barriers to adherence and
      provide intervention prior to HAART initiation. Remaining sessions will promote adherence
      following HAART initiation using behavioral problem-solving and motivational interviewing
      strategies.

      Primary Objective:

        -  To estimate a) rate of consent to the randomized trial and b) differences between the
           intervention and control conditions with respect to HAART adherence, as measured by pill
           count.

      Secondary Objectives:

        -  To estimate differences between the intervention and control conditions with respect to
           other measures of adherence, including HAART self-reported adherence, HAART pharmacy
           refill, and clinic attendance.

        -  To examine disease and patient-reported outcomes during the first 6 months following
           HAART initiation and their relationship to participation in the Pill Trial+
           intervention.
    
  