
    
      Fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) is an idiopathic, segmental, nonatherosclerotic, and
      noninflammatory disease of the musculature of arterial walls, leading to stenosis of small-
      and medium-sized arteries. FMD can be classified in multifocal FMD, characterized by
      alternation of stenosis and dilations ("string-of-beads") and focal FMD, corresponding to a
      solitary narrowing. While for long FMD was considered as a rare cause of renovascular disease
      mostly affecting young women, during the last decades, joint international efforts have led
      to a thorough reappraisal of the disease. In summary, (i) FMD is no more considered as a
      truly rare disease; (ii) FMD may be also diagnosed in men (10-20%) and at all ages; (iii)
      beyond arterial stenosis, FMD is often associated with dissections, aneurysms and arterial
      tortuosity; (iv) FMD is not restricted to renal arteries and often affects two or more
      arterial beds; (iv) multifocal FMD lesions are frequent in patients with Spontaneous Coronary
      Artery Dissection (SCAD).

      Despite traditional views on the role of female hormones, mechanical factors and smoking, the
      pathophysiology of FMD remains largely unknown. In the last decade, research has been focused
      on genetic dissection of the disease and identification of biomarkers. Recent advances
      include: (i) identification of an association between FMD and an intronic variant of the
      Phosphatase and actin regulator 1 (PHACTR1) gene; (ii) identification of rare mutations in
      several genes such as Prostaglandin I2 Receptor (PTGIR) and Collagen type V alpha 1 chain
      (COL5A1) genes; (iii) documentation of mild Connective-Tissue Disease-like features and
      increased levels of Transforming Growth Factor-beta in patients with FMD; (iv) identification
      of a tentative proteo-genomic signature of the disease. All elements are thus in place to
      further dissect the pathophysiology of FMD and related diseases, refine clinical
      characterization, identify predictors of complications and improve screening, management and
      follow-up.

      Unravelling the clinical characteristics, genetic and molecular basis of FMD nevertheless
      requires large numbers of well characterized patients. In order to address these challenges
      and generate new evidence pertaining to FMD and associated diseases, we aimed to create an
      overarching resource and study named "the European/International FMD Registry and Initiative"
      (acronym: FEIRI).

      The objectives of FEIRI are:

      To describe the demographic and arterial characteristics of FMD and related diseases at a
      global scale and according to countries and/or ethnic origin

      To identify environmental/ hormonal factors and exposures associated with the onset and
      progression of FMD

      To evaluate the incidence and predictors of novel FMD lesions and complications

      To provide evidence-based algorithms for the diagnosis and optimal management and follow-up
      of patients with FMD

      To explore the commonalities and differences between FMD, SCAD and so-called atypical FMD
      (patients with multiple dissections and/or aneurysms without string-of-beads, focal stenosis
      or evidence of inherited arteriopathy)

      To contribute to the unravelling of genetic, proteomic and molecular mechanisms underlying
      FMD and related diseases

      Participation to the FEIRI study implies:

      Collection of demographic and standard-of-care clinical data, both retrospectively (from the
      diagnosis of FMD to signature of the informed consent) and prospectively (on the occasion of
      standard-of-care follow-up).

      Optional participation (both for centres and patients) to a biobank implying collection of
      blood, urine and, in rare cases of intervention, tissue samples for genomic and proteomic
      analysis and identification of diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers of FMD.

      Participants will be enrolled in centres from over 20 countries in Europe and beyond.
    
  