
    
      Cetuximab, a chimeric immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) monoclonal antibody, has been found to
      potentiate the effects of chemotherapy and radiotherapy in experimental systems. The findings
      from clinical trials suggest a favorable risk-benefit ratio of the combination of irinotecan
      or oxaliplatin, infusional 5-FU/FA and biweekly cetuximab, and support the current study to
      demonstrate the therapeutic value of the biweekly cetuximab regimen as a combination partner
      for those regimens in subjects with KRAS wild-type mCRC in the first-line setting. The
      purpose of this study is to generate post marketing surveillance (PMS) data for cetuximab in
      first-line mCRC, which is mandated by the Licensing Authorities.

      This is an open-label, non-randomized, prospective, multicentric Phase IV study evaluating
      FOLFIRI/ FOLFOX plus cetuximab in the first-line therapy of subjects with KRAS wild-type
      metastatic CRC. The study plans to enroll 100 subjects with KRAS wild type CRC at 20 centres
      across India. Tumour status, physical and laboratory examinations will be performed during
      the baseline visit. Subjects will be administered FOLFIRI/ FOLFOX and cetuximab according to
      the clinical condition in the following treatment visits. Regular safety assessments and all
      adverse events (AEs) will be documented throughout and until the end-of-study visit. The
      outcome of AEs ongoing at the final tumour assessment visit will be followed up at the
      end-of-study visit (If possible, 6 weeks after the last administration of study medication
      but before second-line anticancer treatment, and not earlier than 30 days after the end of
      study treatment). Skin toxicity present at the end-of-study visit will be followed up until
      outcome is known.

      OBJECTIVES

      Primary Objective:

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability of Cetuximab in combination with standard
           chemotherapy such as FOLFOX or FOLFIRI as first-line therapy of patients with KRAS
           wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer.

      Secondary Objective:

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of Cetuximab in combination with standard chemotherapy as
           first-line therapy of patients with KRAS wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer.
    
  