
    
      Apraxia of Speech (AOS) is a disorder of speech motor planning and/or programming that
      affects the production of speech, characterized by slow speaking rate, abnormal prosody and
      distorted sound substitutions, additions, repetitions and prolongations, sometimes
      accompanied by groping, and trial and error articulatory movements. While AOS is commonly
      associated with vascular insults, it can be the predominant manifestation of
      neurodegenerative disease. Apraxia of speech can be the only manifestation of a
      neurodegenerative disorder. However, AOS very often co-occurs with aphasia, particularly a
      non-fluent aphasia (NFA) of the Broca's type; a language disorder, typically characterized by
      agrammatic, telegraphic or truncated spoken language, often accompanied by similar
      difficulties with written language. Patients with neurodegenerative AOS can have varying
      degrees of NFA, with the aphasia considered more severe than the AOS in some patients, but
      with the AOS dominant in others. It is extremely rare to have a patient that presents with
      NFA that does not also have AOS. Patients with isolated AOS can develop NFA over time,
      although in some patients the AOS remains isolated for as many as 8-10 years.

      Patients with AOS can also develop dysarthria and other non-speech motor symptoms, such as
      extrapyramidal features, postural instability, extra ocular eye movement abnormalities and
      limb apraxia. Cognitive impairment can also develop, although is rarely an early feature of
      the disease. The syndrome is progressive with many patients eventually becoming mute.

      Studies have shown that patients with neurodegenerative AOS can be pathologically
      heterogeneous, with some cases showing deposition of the microtubule associated protein tau,
      while others have deposition of the TAR DNA binding protein of 43kDa (TDP-43). Typical tau
      pathologies that are observed include corticobasal degeneration, progressive supranuclear
      palsy (PSP) and Pick's disease. Clinical features are currently unhelpful in predicting the
      underlying pathology in these cases, although there is a suggestion that cases with isolated
      or dominant AOS may be more likely to show tau pathology, particularly PSP.

      This project will be the first to assess longitudinal multi-modality neuroimaging in subjects
      with neurodegenerative AOS. It will allow us to assess all aspects of disease progression in
      these subjects, including changes on neuroimaging, speech and language, neurological, and
      neuropsychological assessments, to get a complete picture of dysfunction and progression in
      these subjects. This project will also be the first to apply DTI and the recently developed
      technique of resting state fMRI to the study of this disease. These techniques are of great
      current interest to the field and provide, for the first time, a way of assessing underlying
      functional and structural connectivity across the brain. Both techniques provide important
      information about how disease progresses through the brain tissue and have huge potential to
      be important future biomarkers of many different neurodegenerative diseases.
    
  