
    
      The management and treatment of obesity is outlined in clinical guidelines from American
      Association of Clinical Endocrinologists/American College of Endocrinology (AACE/ACE),
      European Association for the Study of Obesity (EASO) and others. The cornerstone is
      life-style modification programs aiming to reduce energy intake and increase physical
      activity, often referred to as conservative treatment. In recent years, pharmacological
      management to achieve weight loss is increasingly used as effective drugs become available.
      Conservative treatment generally targets to induce long-term weight loss of 5-10%. The
      obesity treatment has wider objectives than weight loss alone by also including treatment of
      obesity-related comorbidities like diabetes mellitus, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and
      obstructive sleep apnea with the ultimate goals of improving quality of life, working ability
      and reduce mortality.

      Bariatric surgery is considered an effective and safe intervention for the treatment of
      obesity. Consistent with international consensus gastrointestinal surgery might be
      recommended for patients with extreme obesity (BMI ≥ 40 kg/m2) as well as for those with BMI
      ≥ 35 kg/m2 with significant comorbidities. The surgical procedures are usually performed
      laparoscopically, and includes sleeve gastrectomy, Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and
      biliopancreatic diversion with duodenal switch.

      Benefits of bariatric surgeries include significant weight loss, improved and remission of
      obesity-related comorbidities such as type 2 diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension,
      cardiovascular disease, obstructive sleep apnea, anxiety, depression, and improved quality of
      life. Gastro esophageal reflux and vomiting in addition to increased intake of food and
      drinks have been reported as potential side effects. All these side effects are considered
      risk factors for the occurrence of dental caries and dental erosion, which may lead to
      decreased function and pain. Periodontitis is also reported to be more frequent in
      individuals who have undergone bariatric surgery probably related to nutritional deficiency
      secondary to the surgery.

      Periodontitis is a widespread chronic, inflammatory disease of the gingival tissues and
      alveolar bone triggered by oral biofilms. Since 2010, periodontitis is cited to be the sixth
      most prevalent chronic condition globally. The high prevalence of moderate/severe
      periodontitis may be attributed to multiple factors such as lifestyle, genetics, and medical
      care. Current knowledge recognizes adipose tissue as an endocrine organ in which adipocytes
      play an important role as inflammatory modulators, producing anti- and pro-inflammatory
      cytokines which regulate oral and systemic inflammation. In obese individuals, an imbalance
      may result in an increased expression of pro-inflammatory and reduction of anti-inflammatory
      adipokines, leading to the establishment of a chronic inflammatory status.

      Available data on obesity and oral diseases as well as the influence of non-surgical and
      surgical interventions on oral health are scarce, and several reports have published
      conflicting and inconsistent results. The main objectives of the present research project are
      to explore the association between obesity and oral diseases and assess how weight changes
      following non-surgical and surgical interventions may affect the cariological and periodontal
      health status.

      Pre-study protocols and tests. This cohort study will enroll patients in need for obesity
      therapy at Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway. The study protocol and informed
      consent, following the Helsinki Declaration of 1975, version 2008, has been submitted to the
      Medical Research Ethics Committee, University of Bergen, Norway (reference 152810). Each
      patient will read and sign the informed consent prior to inclusion in the study.

      Study subjects. Patients referred to the Obesity Centre at Haukeland University Hospital will
      consecutively be screened for eligibility from January 2021 through December 2021. Four
      hundred patients will be invited to participate in this prospective cohort study. At
      baseline, detailed medical and oral data will be obtained from health forms, questionnaires,
      clinical examinations (including weight and height registrations), and by consulting the
      patient's care team. Following baseline examination/registration, the patients will be
      allocated either to non-surgical or surgical interventions according to established medical
      guidelines. At 3-month control post-surgery, periodontal and cariological clinical data
      together with local and systemic molecular data will be obtained from each patient. The
      follow-up controls at 12 and 18 months will contain a complete set of data collection
      including medical, dental, and molecular parameters.

      Treatment. All patients will undergo a thorough systematic work-up. The first interview will
      be conducted by a trained nurse. Data regarding social and occupational situation, social
      network, daily activity levels, weight history, personal resources, and barriers to achieve
      sustained weight loss will be collected. The second consultation will be done by a physician,
      focusing on identifying and optimizing medical and psychiatric disorders. The third interview
      will be done by clinical nutritionist to assess eating habits. If needed, the patient will
      also be evaluated by a physiotherapist, psychologist and/or be referred to further
      investigations at the respiratory, cardiac, and orthopedic departments. The work-up concludes
      in a final multi-disciplinary meeting with a concrete individualized plan on how sustained
      weight-loss is to be achieved.

      Non-surgery group. In this group, included patients will be offered a standardized program
      comprised of individual consultations by a trained nurse every 3 months over 2 years.
      Furthermore, they will participate in a lifestyle course with 13 group sessions focusing on
      healthy diet and activity based on the recommendations of the Norwegian Directorate of
      Health. Other therapeutic options include pharmacotherapy to reduce weight (GLP1 analogues or
      naltrekson/bupropion) as well as treatment of comorbidities (diabetes mellitus, hypertension,
      dyslipidemia, sleep-apnea, etc.).

      Surgery group. After completing the systematic work-up and the lifestyle course, eligible
      subjects will be offered bariatric surgery. The surgical procedure will be chosen at the
      surgeon's discretion taking into consideration the target weight, comorbidities, risk of
      complications, the patient's ability to cope with side effects and complications, and the
      patient's motivation. Generally, sleeve gastrectomy has lower incidence of severe side
      effects compared with gastric bypass (Roux-en-Y gastric bypass) or mini-bypass but are less
      effective in terms of weight loss and amelioration of obesity-related comorbidities. After
      surgery, patients will be followed up at the outpatient clinic 2, 12, 24 months and 5 and 10
      years postoperatively.

      Periodontal diagnosis. Periodontitis will be diagnosed by using the criteria of World
      Workshop on the Classification of Periodontal and Peri-implant Diseases and Conditions.

      Smoking status. Smoking status will be registered as current, former, or never smoker.
      Self-reported smoking experience will be calculated in pack years; the number of cigarettes
      smoked daily multiplied by the number of years divided by 20 (a standard pack of cigarettes).
      In addition, smoking status will be objectively validated by measuring cotinine levels in
      serum.

      Medical examination. Data about current medications, past medical history including
      cardiovascular events, arterial hypertension, BMI, waist-to-hip ratio (WHR) and smoking habit
      will be collected. Glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) will be measured by standard laboratory
      methods, whereas high-sensitivity C reactive protein (CRP) will be determined in serum by
      particle-enhanced immune-nephelometry (hsCRP kit, Dade Behring, Eschborn, Germany).

      Oral radiographs, and clinical periodontal and cariological examination. Before clinical
      examination, a full mouth series of intraoral radiographs will be taken. The following
      periodontal parameters will be registered at baseline and at 3, 12 and 18 months: PD as the
      distance in mm from the gingival margin to the probable base of the pocket at six sites; CAL
      as the distance in mm from the cementoenamel junction (CEJ) to the probable base of the
      pocket at six sites (PCP, UNC 15, Hu-Friedy, Chicago, IL, USA); full mouth dental plaque
      scores recorded as the percentage of tooth surfaces with visible plaque at the mesial,
      distal, buccal and lingual surfaces following staining with disclosing solution; full mouth
      bleeding on probing (BoP) as the presence of bleeding after gentle probing.

      A full mouth cariological examination including dental caries and dental erosion will be
      performed for the non-surgical and surgical group at baseline and at 12 and 18 months after
      bariatric surgery (matching timepoints for both groups). This will include radiographs
      (bitewings), intraoral photos and cast models made from tooth impressions. In combination
      with established indexes, these data will provide reliable measurements of the cariological
      disease status.

      Gingival crevicular fluid assessments and saliva analysis. Sample sites will be isolated with
      cottons rolls, carefully cleaned for supragingival plaque and air-dried. A perio paper strip
      will then be gently placed one to two mm into the entrance of the pocket and left in place
      for 30 seconds. For quantitative measurements, the perio paper will be inserted into the
      Periotron 8000® (Oraflow Inc, Smithtown, NY, USA), a previously calibrated instrument to
      measure the volume of fluid collected. Gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) volume will be
      measured at baseline and at 3, 12 and 18 months. Strips will be immediately inserted into
      separate and dry microtubes, labelled, and stored at 80°C until further analysis.

      Unstimulated salivary samples (5 mL) will be collected from each patient between 8 am and 10
      am. The patients will rinse their mouth with water 5 minutes before sample collection. The
      first saliva expectoration will be discarded to avoid food and any other substances capable
      of contaminating the sample to interfere with the results of the biochemical analyses. The
      patients will also be instructed to refrain from brushing their teeth and eating or drinking
      60 minutes before sample collection.

      In addition, pH of both unstimulated and paraffin-stimulated saliva samples will be measured,
      and a small aliquot of the stimulated saliva will be used to determine the buffer capacity.
      Saliva samplings and qualitative and quantitative analyzes will be performed at baseline and
      at 3, 12 and, 18 months follow-ups for both groups.

      Questionnaire. At baseline, a questionnaire including 27 multiple-choice questions will be
      distributed to the participants.

      Statistical analysis. The sociodemographic data of the patients will be described using
      descriptive statistics. Age, BMI, medical and oral parameters, and the amount of analyzed
      local and systemic biomarkers will be expressed as median and inter-quartile range (IQR). For
      the cross-sectional analysis, linear regression models and logistic regression models will be
      used to adjust for potential confounding factors. For analysis of differences over time
      between groups (e.g. operated versus non-operated patients) generalized estimation equations
      (linear and logistic models) will be performed, adjusting for potential confounding factors.
      Furthermore, as a causal approach, homogenous groups will be compared using propensity
      matched samples. The standard approach using regression models and the propensity score
      matching will furthermore be compared with analysis using inverse probability weighted
      models. Differences and changes will be considered significant with a two-sided p-value <
      0.05.
    
  