
    
      Despite being a known disease of mankind over 9000 years, tuberculosis (TB) is still a major
      public health problem in developing countries, mainly due to so-called highly endemic sites,
      such as prisons.

      It is Infectious disease, with airborne transmission, TB can present both the active or
      latent form. Despite the biological aspect of transmission, unhealthy environmental
      conditions (room without direct sunlight, poor ventilation and overcrowded) and individual
      factors (malnutrition, immunosuppression, use of alcohol and other drugs) have significant
      influence on transferability and infectivity.

      With the discovery of drugs active against Mycobacterium tuberculosis, it was observed a
      reduction of disease incidence in the world. Despite this declining incidence, World Health
      Organization (WHO) classifies TB as a public health problem due to the emergence of multidrug
      strains or extensively resistant to treatment, added to the cases of latent TB reactivation,
      observed with the advent of HIV/AIDS.

      Studies show a direct relationship between the incidence of TB and the prison environment.
      Nevertheless, the presence of prisons in one location increases the incidence of this
      disease, indicating that there is an exchange of disease between the prison and the
      community.

      Currently, control of TB in the prison system is based on the tracking of individuals with
      active TB and / or latent and, in their respective treatment. For the identification of
      individuals with active disease, it is necessary the recognition of respiratory symptoms
      (cough mainly) and sputum smear microscopy and sputum culture, and chest X-ray. As the search
      of individuals with latent form, must be carried to the skin test with Purified Protein
      Derived (PPD).

      Most of the units of the Brazilian's prison system these diagnostic methods are not available
      and hence the transport of individuals for their realization is necessary, generating an
      additional cost, in most cases, unfeasible process execution.

      With the completion of this study, it seek to determine the effectiveness of primary
      prophylaxis in the prison population in order to gather new scientific evidence, to bring
      affordable methods for the control of TB in prisons.

      Despite advances in diagnosis and treatment TB, this is the third leading cause of death from
      infectious diseases worldwide (Naghavi et al, 2015). In 2015, the WHO estimated incidence of
      9.6 million new cases of TB in the world, with about 1.1 million deaths. For Brazil it was
      estimated incidence of 44 cases per 100,000 (WHO, 2015). The incidence of TB has declined
      about 2% per year, but this rate is not homogeneous in the global context.

      Brazil occupies the 22nd place in the ranking of the WHO with an estimated annual rate of
      83,310 cases of the disease (Zumla et al, 2015). In the past seven years, it is estimated
      that the incidence declined only 0.7% (per year). A key factor in this slow progress in TB
      control in Brazil, and other emerging countries is the existence of high-risk subpopulations,
      including slums and prisons, which act as reservoirs and amplifiers for the transmission of
      the disease (Basu; Stückler; Mckee 2011; Dowdy et al, 2012). A recent systematic review
      showed that the average incidence of TB in the prison population can be up to 23 times that
      recorded in the general population (Baussano et al, 2010).

      With the fourth largest prison populations in the world, is observed in Brazil, the increased
      incidence of TB among prisoners in the last seven years. Although prisoners represent only
      0.3% of the population, the increase in the prison population over this period resulted in
      almost doubling the proportion of all TB cases that occur among prisoners (4.1% in 2007, 8,
      1% in 2013).

      The arrests are in an ideal environment for the spread of TB, since they show individuals
      users of tobacco and alcohol in high doses, in addition to drug abuse in overcrowded cells
      with poor ventilation and with limited access to care health and diagnosis of TB. Currently,
      the Ministry of Health recommends active search for TB at the entrance to the prison and once
      a year by chest X-ray. Due to the cost and logistics, most prisons do not adhere to this
      recommendation. There is also a clear recommendation not to use the tuberculin skin test or
      perform the treatment for latent tuberculosis. If the procedures for active case detection
      and / or prophylactic treatment would impact the high transmission in prisons is a question
      that still remains open (Al-Darraji; Kamarulzamn; Altice, 2012).

      The concentration of cases of TB in prisons can represent both an obstacle and an opportunity
      to control the disease, depending on the effectiveness of interventions in these
      environments.

      Preliminary studies show high annual rate of TB infection (26%) among the prison population
      of 12 penitentiaries of Mato Grosso do Sul. Besides the large burden of disease in this
      population is significant dispersion of the TB prison to the community (Sacchi et al, 2015).
      Cross-sectional studies show high yield annual screening for TB, however, the effectiveness
      of this measure combined with other interventions remains unclear (Ferreira et al, 1996;
      Fournet et al, 2006; Lemos et al, 2014; Vieira et al, 2010; Sanches et al, 2013; Walnut;
      Abrahão; Galesi, 2012; Kuhleis et al, 2012; Estevan; Oliveira; Croda, 2013). Due to the
      combination of high force of infection in prisons and short prison term, primary prophylaxis
      may be an effective intervention. This new approach has never been evaluated in the context
      of prisons in low and middle income countries; to assess the impact of program strategies for
      TB screening and prophylaxis, longitudinal data will be essential. Given the infrastructure
      that was created for long-term prospective studies in Brazil, there is an excellent
      opportunity to close the critical knowledge gaps that have been barriers to effective
      implementation of TB control in high transmission prisons.
    
  