
    
      Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and overt diabetes mellitus are frequently associated with
      acromegaly. Patients with acromegaly are insulin resistant both in the liver and in the
      periphery, displaying hyperinsulinemia and increased glucose turn-over in the basal
      post-absorptive states. The prevalence of diabetes mellitus and that of IGT in acromegaly is
      unknown but is reported to range 19-56% and 16-46% in different series. The increased
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality associated with acromegaly may party be a consequence
      of the increased insulin resistance that frequently accompanies GH excess. Glucose tolerance
      may worsen in patients treated with somatostatin analogues (SSA), because insulin secretion,
      i.e. β-cell function, is also suppressed. SSA induce control of GH and IGF-I excess in
      approximately 60% of patients after 12 months of treatment with no significant difference as
      applied after unsuccessful surgery or as first-line in newly diagnosed patients and control
      of GH and IGF-I levels occur with an even higher prevalence after a longer period of
      treatment. The inhibitory effect of SSA on pancreatic insulin secretion might, however,
      complicate the overall effect of this treatment on glucose tolerance. We recently
      demonstrated that 12 months after first-line treatment with SSA or surgery produced a similar
      improvement in LV hypertrophy and diastolic filling while systolic function increased more
      evidently in SSA-treated patients, total/HDL-cholesterol ratio significantly reduced only in
      SSA-treated patients while fasting glucose levels significantly reduced only in
      surgery-treated patients. A normal pituitary function was found in 46.4% of SSA-treated and
      in 36.4% of surgery-treated patients, resulting unchanged in the former and slightly reduced
      in the latter. Both a direct effect of SSA and a more preserved pituitary function might
      explain these results. Longitudinal data of glucose tolerance in patients with acromegaly and
      with or without diabetes treated long-term with SSA or surgery or both are still very
      limited.

      In order to investigate whether SSA negatively impact glucose tolerance in acromegaly, we
      will analyze data collected prospectively during a 10 year period. We will compare the
      results of glucose tolerance at diagnosis after 6-12 months and after 60 months of treatment
      with SSA or surgery. Patients will be grouped according with their treatment (SSA only,
      surgery only, SSA followed by surgery and SSA followed by surgery and SSA) in order to
      establish the effects on glucose tolerance mediated by disease control and type of treatment.
    
  