
    
      Effect and experience of PreHomeCare of preterm infants using telecommunication and
      Smartphone application: A randomized intervention study.

      Premature infants and their patents are discharged earlier from hospital and sent home in
      early in-homecare programs.

      Effect studies of early in-homecare point towards that premature infants have lower risk of
      infections under the period of tube feeding, higher parental satisfaction and indicate that
      early in-homecare of premature infants benefit of home visits with fewer readmissions and
      less unscheduled support, shorter length of hospital stay and longer provision of breast
      milk. Standard procedure in early in-homecare is home visits but in regions of Denmark with
      large distances to the parent/infant this is not possible. No studies have until now offered
      24-7 hours home visit support. Further research regarding the use of health IT is needed to
      say, whether the use of videoconference (participatory guidance) and Smartphone application
      (knowledge and data registration) is a viable option to address the parents need for support
      in relations to early discharge.

      Main Study: A randomized controlled intervention study. The aim is to test the effect of the
      use of video communication and mobile application on exclusive breastfeeding, parent/infant
      interaction and parental confidence with the premature infants after PreHomeCare.

      Hypothesis; Compared to parents of premature infants who receive hospital consultations, the
      parents of premature infants who have access to electronic knowledge and participatory
      guidance 24-7:

        1. Increases proportion of exclusive breastfeeding.

        2. Improves parent/infant interaction (MABISC-mother and baby interaction scale).

        3. Enhances the families' feeling of confidence in caring for their infant (KPCS - Karitane
           parenting confidence scale).

        4. Increases parent's knowledge with regarding the premature infant and the care. Parents
           will be randomized to either intervention or control group via simple randomization
           procedure.

      The intervention group will receive a mobile application and videoconference system. The
      application contains three parts; 1) knowledge, 2) video contact/participatory guidance and
      3) data registration.

      Sample Size: Applying a significance level of 5%, a two-sided two-sample proportions test
      revealed that a sample size of 39 in each group maintains a power of 80% to detect the
      difference consisting of 55% vs. 40% breastfeeding women in the two groups after 4 weeks
      conditional on 66% breastfeeding at discharge. This corresponds to a sample size of 65 at
      randomisation. To compensate for the design effect ICC(0.01) the total sample size needed is
      thus approximately 160 preterm infants, 80 in each group.

      Inclusion criteria: Infants who fulfil criteria for early in-home care. GA > 34+0, No need
      for monitoring, tube feeding and started breastfeeding/bottle feeding, Danish speaking or
      English speaking patents (but understand the Danish text in the application).

      Exclusion criteria: Infants who do not fulfil criteria for early in-home care and parents,
      who require extra observations of the parent-infant relationship.

      Data analysis; the results of the intervention and control group will be compared and
      analysed following "intention to treat" principle.

      Qualitative evaluation:

      Sub study 1: A field observational study: The aim is describe what characterizes nursing
      practice in PreHomeCare from the parents' angle in home around video consultations. Method
      will be based on Spradley "participant observation". The focus for the observation is the
      nurses' communication, how is her act on the screen etc. The field observations are expected
      to enlighten the characteristics of the nursing practice with a systematic description of
      PreHomeCare setting using video consultations. The prose text will be analysed following
      Ricoeur.

      Sub study 2: An interview study: The aim is to explore how parents of premature infants
      experience PreHomeCare with use of video communication and mobile application. The study will
      be planned and conducted with inspiration from Kvale and Brinkmann´s instructions. The main
      focus for the interview will be to uncover the main question: "How did you experience
      PreHomeCare?" with a particular focus on what have been especially meaningful for the parents
      under PreHomeCare. The verbatim transcribed material will be analysed following Ricoeur
      interpretations theory.

      Perspectives: This study will access new knowledge on the effect and experience with
      PreHomeCare. It will give insight in what is needed to make clear goals for the quality of
      the treatment and care for premature infants and parents in the last part of the
      admission/PreHomeCare. It is expected that this project will be an argument in further
      development of care for premature infants and telemedicine use in the future. The increased
      effectiveness can address challenges and help relocate economic and professional health
      services.
    
  