
    
      Resectable tumors arising in the body or tail of the pancreas are malignancies or
      premalignancies which are surgically treated with distal pancreatectomy in combination with
      splenectomy. Retrieval of the lymph node tissue which lies along the splenic vessels is
      necessary to complete an oncologically sound operation. Two techniques for spleen preserving
      distal pancreatectomy have been described, but only a small number of lesions are amenable to
      spleen preserving pancreas surgery because these operation compromise oncologic principles.
      Removal of a normal spleen usually does not cause immediate consequences but can make
      patients vulnerable to life threatening infections. Asplenic patients must be vigilant for
      these infections and antibiotic prophylaxis is recommended anytime a fever occurs.
      Splenectomy results in measurable changes in the cellular components of the blood. If
      thrombocytosis occurs as a result of splenectomy, it requires life-long antiplatelet
      treatment.

      Some childhood hematologic disorders such as hereditary spherocytosis are successfully
      treated with partial splenectomy. The post-surgical remnant spleen has been shown to be
      viable and functional. Both hematologic and immunologic function of the spleen seems to be
      preserved in most patients. Partial splenectomy has also been successful ly employed to treat
      benign and malignant lesions of the spleen. Unfortunately these indications for surgery are
      rare and so the experience with partial splenectomy is small.

      To date, distal pancreatectomy with partial splenectomy has not been described in the medical
      literature. We have devised a surgical procedure combining distal pancreatectomy with partial
      splenectomy, in principal allowing preservation of splenic function without compromise of
      oncologic principles. This procedure is possible now because of new technology which allows
      for near bloodless transection of solid organs. These instruments are routinely used in
      liver, kidney and pancreas surgery. There are scattered reports of successful use of these
      instruments in splenic transection, but there is no large experience to date.

      The study intends to answer the question, is the proposed procedure, distal pancreatectomy
      and partial splenectomy, a viable alternative to the current standard of care, distal
      pancreatectomy with total splenectomy, for patients who will undergo surgical treatment of
      pancreas lesions arising in the body or tail of the pancreas?
    
  