
    
      The efficacy of herpes simplex virus (HSV) as a treatment for brain tumors has been
      demonstrated experimentally. The earliest studies used an HSV that was genetically engineered
      so that the gene for an important enzyme, thymidine kinase (tk) was deleted. This engineered
      virus still killed tumor cells but was not toxic. Martuza and colleagues demonstrated that
      tumors implanted in mice shrank following treatment with varying doses of this virus.

      Additional modified viruses based on the HSV backbone have been developed and tested with
      encouraging results.Viruses containing deletions in other important viral genes (e.g., DNA
      polymerase and the gene which can make the virus neurotoxic, γ134.5), also retained the
      capability of killing cultured human tumors but did not injure mice; in particular, they were
      safe for use in the brain. These viruses retained the viral tk gene, and so are susceptible
      to the antiviral drug acyclovir which is routinely used to treat HSV Infection, making them
      even more safe .

      Martuza and colleagues generated G207, a modified HSV that contains (1) deletions of both
      copies of γ134.5 and (2) another gene called ribonucleotide reductase, was disabled secondary
      to disruption of the U139 gene by insertion of the E. coli LacZ coding region . G207
      significantly prolonged survival of nude mice bearing human tumors. In addition, virus
      injected into the brains of the HSV sensitive primates (Aotus) did not produce any
      deleterious side effects.

      G207 and 1716 have both been used in human trials. A dose-escalating phase 1 study of G207
      was completed in patients with recurrent, progressive malignant glioma . The trial was
      conducted at University of Alabama at Birmingham and Georgetown University Medical Center.
      Twenty-one patients were enrolled in a total of seven dose-escalating cohorts, with three
      patients per cohort. Patients were stereotactically inoculated with G207 in the enhancing
      portions of their tumors. Five separate loci were inoculated in the final cohort; all
      previous cohorts were inoculated in a single locus within the enhancing tissue only. No
      toxicity definitively related to G207 was observed at doses up to 3 x 109 plaque forming
      units (pfu-these are active viral particles). In fact, a toxic dose level was not attained
      during this trial. This was due to viral processing techniques, limiting the total dose that
      could be administered.

      In a Phase IB study, six patients with recurrent, resectable malignant glioma were enrolled
      at the University of Alabama at Birmingham, in a trial examining a split dose administration
      strategy of G207. Patients underwent inoculation of G207 into their tumors, followed two to
      five days later by resection of the tumor and reinoculation of G207 into the tumor cavity. No
      dose limiting toxicities were seen in the trial, although one patient suffered a twelve hour
      period of mental status changes, weakness, and an elevated temperature when a protocol
      deviation resulted in an inadvertent partial dose of virus being administered
      intraventricularly, into the cerebrospinal fluid chamber of the brain. The patient fully
      recovered quickly and fully. One of the six patients went nearly two years before remote
      recurrence of her glioblastoma multiforme resulted in her death. A third study in 9 patients
      with recurrent malignant glioma was completed in which G207 was being administered followed
      by a single small dose of 5Gy of radiation. Nine patients were followed without any dose
      limiting toxicity, and some patients had remarkable responses to treatment. Currently, two
      clinical studies of oncolytic HSV are underway that examine G207 in pediatric patients as
      well as a novel oncolytic HSV expressing IL- 12, in adult patients. No findings of these two
      studies have yet been reported.

      C134 was designed to replicate better than 1st gen HSVs. C134 is created by by inserting the
      PKR evasion gene, IRS1. from an evolutionary distant herpesvirus HCMV, which allows the virus
      to replicate much better but does not produce toxicity.

      The described G207 trials clearly demonstrate that increased immune cell infiltrates within
      MG are associated with better outcomes. C134 elicits a robust immune response that
      contributes greatly to its antitumor effects.

      C134 combines advantages of both wild-type and Δγ134.5 HSV and is an improvement over 1st
      generation viruses. C134 replicates and lyses tumor cells like a wild-type HSV in the IFN
      aberrant tumor environment, but is safe in normal cells. C134 induces immune responses which
      exceed those produced by 1st generation viruses. The study is designed to use all the
      information from any patients already treated to determine what the best dose for the next
      patient should be.
    
  