
    
      Traditional vascular risk factors alone cannot account for the elevated cardiovascular risk
      in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). In addition to a high prevalence of
      hypertension and diabetes, patients with CKD have elevated levels of inflammatory markers and
      OS, which are emerging as important risk factors for cardiovascular disease (CVD). Patients
      with CKD are also known to have elevated levels of circulating advanced glycation end
      products (AGE's), which have been shown to induce OS and to play a central role in the
      development of diabetic microvascular and macrovascular complications. In CKD patients, AGE's
      accumulate secondary to decreased renal clearance and increased endogenous production in the
      setting of high levels of OS. Efforts to understand relationships between the multiple
      vascular risk factors in chronic kidney disease may lead to reduced morbidity and mortality
      in this population of patients.

      Sevelamer Hydrochloride is an anion exchange resin composed of multiple positively charged
      amine groups indicated for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in patients with stage V CKD.
      The positively charged amine groups bind negatively charged dietary phosphate preventing
      systemic absorption. Sevelamer Hydrochloride has been shown to have the added benefits of
      lowering LDL levels, lowering highly sensitive C-reactive protein (hsCRP) levels, and
      improving insulin resistance. Patients treated with Sevelamer Hydrochloride have also been
      shown to have improved vascular compliance and reduced progression of coronary vascular
      calcification. Since AGE's are mostly negatively charged compounds, Sevelamer Carbonate by
      analogy, may have anti-AGE effects which could reduce inflammation and oxidative stress.
      Sevelamer Carbonate would have a major advantage over Calcium Carbonate-based phosphate
      binders, based on the fact that it would have the added advantage of reducing the levels of
      AGEs. The resultant reduction of both OS and inflammation would be expected to have an
      independent beneficial effect on the rate of progression of CKD and CVD.

      We have shown in CKD patients and in animal models that AGE's correlate with levels of OS,
      LDL, hsCRP, and insulin resistance. Additionally, these factors can be remediated in CKD and
      non-CKD diabetics by decreasing overall AGE load, particularly in the diet. To date, the
      effect of Sevelamer Hydrochloride or Sevelamer Carbonate on OS and circulating AGE levels has
      not been studied. The anti-inflammatory and lipid-lowering effects of Sevelamer Hydrochloride
      may occur through lowering serum AGE levels and OS. Sevelamer Carbonate is an improved form
      of Sevelamer Hydrochloride that has been shown to be a safe and effective alternative to
      calcium carbonate in the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in the earlier sta'ges of CKD without
      causing metabolic acidosis. The development of Sevelamer Carbonate provides an opportunity to
      study patients with earlier stages of CKD, and to determine if it prevents or slows the
      progression of CKD. We propose a study designed to compare the effects of calcium carbonate
      and of Sevelamer Carbonate on serum AGE levels and OS in patients with stage II-IV diabetic
      nephropathy.

      Hypothesis:

      Sevelamer Carbonate administration in persons with stage II-IV CKD, compared with calcium
      carbonate administration, will result in at least a:

        1. 20% decrease in serum levels of AGE's;

        2. 10% decease in inflammatory markers of CRP and VCAM-1, or of OS (AGER1/RAGE) in
           circulating mononuclear cells.
    
  