
    
      This is an open-label, multicentre, 4-arm randomised phase II trial of fulvestrant + AZD2014
      versus fulvestrant + everolimus versus fulvestrant alone in patients with ER-positive,
      HER2-negative advanced or metastatic breast cancer, whose disease relapsed during treatment
      with (or within 12 months after discontinuation of) an AI in the adjuvant setting or
      progressed during treatment with an AI in the metastatic setting. Patients will be randomised
      (2:3:3:2) to one of the four treatment arms:

        -  Fulvestrant

        -  Fulvestrant + AZD2014 (continuous daily schedule)

        -  Fulvestrant + AZD2014 (intermittent schedule - 2 days on, 5 days off)

        -  Fulvestrant + everolimus

      Randomization will be stratified by the following criteria:

        -  Measurable disease (vs. non-measurable).

        -  Sensitivity to prior endocrine therapy (sensitive versus resistant) Sensitivity to prior
           endocrine therapy is defined as (i) at least 24 months of endocrine therapy before
           recurrence in the adjuvant setting or (ii) a complete or partial response to prior
           metastatic endocrine treatment, or (iii) stabilization for at least 24 weeks of
           endocrine therapy for advanced disease.

      Treatment will be continued until disease progression unless there is evidence of
      unacceptable toxicity or if the patient requests to be withdrawn from the study. If one of
      the treatments (fulvestrant or mTOR inhibitor) is discontinued prior to disease progression,
      patients should be continued on single agent treatment until progression, evidence of
      unacceptable toxicity or if the patient requests to be withdrawn from the study.

      At the time of documented disease progression (using RECIST 1.1), patients randomised to
      receive fulvestrant + everolimus who still meet eligibility criteria may be permitted to
      receive open-label crossover treatment with fulvestrant + AZD2014. Crossover therapy must
      begin no later than 28 days after the clinic visit at which progression was determined.
      Patients will receive crossover therapy until progression, intolerable toxicity, elective
      withdrawal from the study, or until the completion or termination of the study, whichever
      occurs first.

      Tumour evaluations will be performed before the initiation of treatment, every 8 weeks during
      the first 40 weeks and every 12 weeks thereafter until disease progression.

      The study will also assess the relationship between the anticipated anti-tumour activity of
      the treatment regimen and biological characteristics of patients' tumour at baseline
    
  