
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The objectives of this project are to: 1) evaluate the effect of age on whole-body heat
      exchange and the development of thermal and cardiovascular strain during day-long (9-hour)
      exposure to simulated heatwave conditions (Intervention 1); and 2) determine whether
      short-duration (2 hour) exposure to an air-conditioned environment following extreme heat
      exposure results in lasting reductions in thermal and cardiovascular strain upon re-exposure
      to the heat (Intervention 2).

      Hypotheses

      Intervention 1: Older individuals will exhibit reduced whole-body heat loss compared to young
      adults during a 9-hour exposure to simulated heatwave conditions (40°C, 15% relative
      humidity) such that heat balance (i.e., rate of heat loss balancing the rate of heat gain)
      will not be attained in the older adults. As a result, greater thermal (and cardiovascular
      responses will be observed in the older adults and these between-group differences will be
      exacerbated as exposure progresses.

      Intervention 2: Upon return to high ambient temperatures, body heat storage will be
      exacerbated in the older adults exposed to cooling (hours 5-6) compared to the older adults
      not removed from the heat (from Intervention 1). Consequently, comparable thermal and
      cardiovascular responses will be observed between groups by the end of of the heatwave
      simulation (i.e., 9 hours).

      METHODS

      Participants

      A total of 20 young (age: 18-30 years) and 40 older (age: 65-80 years) adults will be
      recruited for the proposed project, with an approximately even distribution of men and women
      in each intervention arm. Young (n = 20) and older (n = 20) adults will complete Intervention
      1 and a separate cohort of older adults (n = 20) will complete Intervention 2. Participants
      will be homogenous for anthropomorphic characteristics as well as habitual physical activity
      levels as verified via standardized questionnaires. Written and informed consent will be
      obtained from all volunteers prior to their participation.

      Study Design

      Pre-trial instructions

      All participants will be asked to avoid strenuous physical activity and alcohol for 24 hours
      prior to all preliminary and experimental sessions and to eat a light meal 2 hours before the
      start of each session. Participants will also be asked to consume a minimum of 500 ml of
      water the night before and morning of each session to ensure adequate hydration. Adequate
      hydration will be verified upon arrival to the laboratory via urine specific gravity (urine
      specific gravity <1.025). For all sessions, participants will wear athletic shorts (and a
      sport top for women).

      Preliminary screening

      All participants will complete one preliminary evaluation a minimum of 7 days before the
      first experimental session. During this session they will be familiarized with all procedures
      and measurement techniques and will complete the Get Active Questionnaire (GAQ) and the
      American Heart Association Pre-participation screening Questionnaire to assess their
      eligibility to participate. The GAQ will also be used to assess habitual activity levels
      along with the Kohl Physical Activity Questionnaire. Participants will also provide verbal
      and written informed consent at this time. Body height and mass will be determined via a
      physician stadiometer and a high-performance weighing terminal, respectively, and from these
      measurements body surface area will be calculated. Body density will be estimated via
      hydrostatic weighing and used to calculate body fat percentage.

      Experimental Protocol (Intervention 1)

      Each session will commence at approximately 07:00. Upon arrival to the laboratory, the
      participant will provide a urine sample for the assessment of urine specific gravity, after
      which a measurement of nude body mass will be obtained. Participants will then insert a
      rectal temperature probe for the continuous measurement of rectal temperature. Thereafter,
      participants will be instrumented for the measurement of skin temperature and heart rate.

      Baseline cardiovascular parameters will be evaluated via a brief (~45 min) cardiovascular
      test battery, performed as follows. First, cardiac output will be measured via inert gas
      rebreathing. Brachial arterial systolic and diastolic pressures reconstructed from the
      pressure waveform measured at the right middle finger will then be collected for 10-min and
      subsequently used for evaluation of resting spontaneous cardiac baroreflex sensitivity.
      Immediately thereafter, arterial systolic and diastolic pressures will be measured via manual
      auscultation. A second measurement of cardiac output will then be taken, after which calf and
      limb blood flows on the right side of the body will be measured via venous occlusion
      plethysmography. Throughout the short cardiovascular test battery, participants will remain
      seated in a semi-recumbent position with both feet placed on the floor and their hands
      resting comfortably in their lap, except for during the measurements of limb blood flow,
      where the instrumented limbs will be elevated to facilitate venous drainage. After the
      baseline battery, a venous blood sample and body mass measurement will be obtained.

      Participants will then be transferred to the whole-body direct calorimeter chamber, regulated
      to 40°C and ~15% humidity. These conditions were chosen to simulate peak temperatures
      experienced during heatwaves and are similar to peak conditions in recent heatwaves in North
      American in 2018 (Ottawa, Ontario; 34°C and 58%, heat index: 41°C) and Europe in 2003 (Paris,
      France; 38°C and 25%, heat index: 38°C). The participant will rest quietly for 3-hours (hours
      1-3) within the calorimeter chamber while whole-body heat production and exchange are
      measured continuously. At the 3-hour mark, the participant will exit the calorimeter and the
      brief cardiovascular test battery will be performed followed by a measurement of body mass.
      Hours 4-6 will be spent resting in the heat in the thermal chamber adjacent to the
      calorimeter. During this time, participants will be allowed to consume a light, self-provided
      lunch with low water content. Tap water will be provided ad libitum via a self-service
      insulated water cooler located in the thermal chamber. At the half-way point of exposure
      (hour 4.5), a venous blood sample will be obtained. Another cardiovascular battery will then
      be performed followed by a measurement of body mass at the end of this period. The
      participant will then re-enter the calorimeter where the final 3 hours will be spent (hours
      6-9). At the end of this period, the participants will undergo a fourth and final
      cardiovascular test battery and a final venous blood sample and body mass measurement will be
      procured. The participant will be provided with water and/or a commercially available sports
      drink before leaving laboratory.

      Data analysis

      Continuous variables related to whole-body heat exchange (i.e., evaporative heat loss, dry
      heat gain, net heat exchange, and body heat storage) will be converted to 30-min averages
      corresponding to each hour of each calorimetry session. Cumulative heat storage will be
      calculated as the temporal summation of whole-body heat production and exchange for each of
      those periods. Continuous measurements body temperatures and heart rate responses will be
      converted to 30-min averages for each hour of the 9-hour exposure. Cardiovascular responses
      and reductions in body mass will be presented for each of the four cardiovascular batteries
      (every ~3 hours). Changes from baseline will also be computed for all thermal and
      cardiovascular data. Similarly, changes in plasma volume and serum osmolality will be
      determined from the venous blood samples taken throughout the protocol.

      Statistical analysis and sample size calculations

      Primary and secondary variables will be evaluated using a linear mixed-effects model. Time
      will be modelled as a repeated within-subject fixed effect, and age-group will be modelled as
      a between-subject fixed effect, whereas participant identification is included as a random
      factor. Model parsimony will be used to determine variance/covariance structure of model
      errors and random and fixed effect structure in accordance with Akaike's information
      criterion (AIC). When main effects or interactions are identified as statistically
      significant, post hoc multiple comparisons will be made on model estimated marginal means.
      For all statistical models, homoscedasticity will be assessed using Levene's test and visual
      assessment of residual plots. Normal distribution of residuals will be assessed via visual
      inspection of histograms and Q-Q plots and data will be log-transformed in the event that
      distribution of residuals strongly deviates from normality. For all analyses, alpha will be
      set at P < 0.050. Descriptive statistics will be presented as mean (standard deviation).
      Comparisons between groups or time-points) will be presented as means ± 95% confidence
      interval.

      An a priori power analysis determined that a total sample size of 19 young and 19 older
      adults was required to detect a difference in the rate of whole-body heat storage between
      groups at the end of each calorimeter session (i.e., hours 3 and 9), after adjusting for
      multiple comparisons, with 80% statistical power. In lieu of clinically meaningful data
      (i.e., what would be considered a clinically meaningful change in whole-body heat storage),
      the standardized effect size (Cohen's d=1.06) was calculated based on the difference in the
      rate of whole-body heat storage between young and older adults over the final 30-min of a 3
      hour heat exposure protocol (young: -2 [26] kJ/hour, older: 43 [54] kJ/hour) in our previous
      work.

      Experimental Protocol (Intervention 2)

      Twenty older adults will complete the protocol for Intervention 2, which is identical to that
      of Intervention 1 except that after the first calorimeter session and the subsequent
      cardiovascular battery, participants will exit the thermal chamber and spend ~2 hours (hours
      5-6) resting in an air-conditioned room (~23°C, ~50% relative humidity). Similar to
      Intervention 1, participants will be allowed to eat a small self-provided lunch during this
      time and consume water (tap) ad libitum. In contrast to Intervention 1, a venous blood sample
      will not be procured at the 4.5-hour mark in Intervention 2. The third cardiovascular battery
      also will be performed in the cooled environment. As in Intervention 1, participants will
      then re-enter the calorimeter for the final 3 hours, where they will rest in the heat for the
      remainder of the experimental session.

      Data analysis

      Data analysis for Intervention 2 will be identical to that of intervention 1.

      Statistical analysis and sample size calculations

      Statistical analysis for Intervention 2 will be performed to assess whether mid-day exposure
      to a cooled room results in greater body heat storage following exposure such that
      physiological responses are similar to those of the non-cooled group by the end of the 9-hour
      heatwave simulation. Cumulative whole-body heat storage over the second calorimetry protocol
      will be compared between the group receiving the cooling intervention to the non-cooled older
      adults from Intervention 1 using a two-way independent samples t-test. Two one-sided tests
      will be employed to assess the equivalence of variables related to whole-body heat exchange
      and thermal and cardiovascular as well as fluid loss between groups at the end of each
      exposure period.

      Briefly, the TOST procedure involves two one-sided tests to evaluate whether a between-group
      mean difference is greater than a pre-specified lower bound and smaller than pre-specified
      bounds: ±1 Cohen's d for our purposes (equivalent to a 0.3°C difference in rectal
      temperature). The null hypothesis is taken as a meaningful difference between groups and its
      rejection therefore constitutes an equivalence of means. The level of significance will be
      set at P < 0.050. Descriptive statistics will be presented as mean (standard deviation) and
      comparisons between groups will be presented as mean ± 95% confidence interval.

      An a priori power analysis determined that a total sample size of 18 older adults in each
      group (36 participants total) is required to confirm whether between-group differences in
      rectal temperature are equivalent within upper and lower bounds of +0.3°C and -0.3°C,
      respectively, with 80% power. This corresponds to an effect size (Cohen's d) of 1.0, based on
      the pooled-standard deviation of 0.3°C, determined from published data from our laboratory
      demonstrating a 0.2°C (SD 0.3) difference in core temperature between young and older adults
      and a 0.0°C (SD 0.3) difference in core temperature between older adults with and without
      type 2 diabetes following 3 hours of rest in a hot environment.
    
  