
    
      Excisional breast biopsy is one of the routine surgical interventions in general surgery
      clinics, implemented for clinical diagnosis of suspicious breast lesions. It is the
      diagnostic method of choice especially when fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNA), core cutting
      needle (trucut) biopsy or vacuum-assisted core biopsy as part of a non-invasive approach can
      not provide sufficient diagnostic efficiency for the diagnosis of non-palpable breast
      lesions. This invasive biopsy approach must be selectively tailored according to the nature
      of the lesion, either directly or as a second-stage procedure, necessarily, if a sufficiently
      precise diagnosis cannot be reached after practicing less-invasive protocols. By definition,
      basic difference from a segmental mastectomy or a lumpectomy is that excisional breast biopsy
      is a surgical procedure to remove suspicious breast tissue and a small amount of normal
      tissue around it only before the pathologic diagnosis is confirmed.

      Prebiopsy localisation modalities like wire-guidance or radioisotope occult lesion
      localization (ROLL) are proven to reduce the rates of margin positivity at initial
      lumpectomies in breast cancer. Accomplishing the excision as a whole with a 1 cm layer of
      normal tissue around by means of an incision confined to possible mastectomy line, whilst
      preserving the skin if it is 1cm far away from the suspicious area and a three-dimensional
      marking on the specimen are considered to be general principles in conventional excisional
      breast biopsies. In the same way, another ground rule would be close collaboration with
      plastic and reconstructive surgery department, especially when significant relative breast
      volume loss is anticipated and defect should be restored using volume replacement methods or
      when the nipple and areola complex (NAC) is under threat. It is imperative that the patient
      be informed of the common risks and reasonable alternatives to the proposed treatment. For
      patients seeking additional advice on NAC disturbances it is important to keep in mind that
      the tattoo art might be an appealing suggestion; many consider tattooing as a practical
      complementary solution for sequela after reconstruction of Nipple-areolar complex.

      On the other hand, in the vast majority of the cases the mainstay of treatment does not
      entail surgical resection of NAC or requisite volume replacement, but still there is debate
      as to whether surgeons should place parenchymal sutures to approximate the cut edges of the
      cavity walls. The rationale behind this debate is that closure of the tissue defect with
      direct suture approximation brings about a considerable heterogeneity when it comes to
      cosmetic parameters. Besides, in many cases, when not coupled with overlying skin dissection
      after probable dimples observed on the skin while knotting each suture, this modality is
      ended up too far off target to merit the highest degree of patient satisfaction. Fortunately,
      surgical algorithms for breast tumors have been refined a great deal in recent years with
      rapid developments and key technique definitions in the field of oncoplastic surgery and
      opinions favoring parenchymal sutures have been strengthened.

      Many studies focusing on breast conserving surgery have affirmed the cosmetic effectiveness
      and oncologic success of oncoplastic methods and even modified variants of these methods
      reinforced with videoscopic applications. However, primary lumpectomy subjects in these
      studies are mainly patients who have already received the diagnosis of malignancy before the
      surgery. There is not much comprehensive work reported for patients without the diagnosis of
      malignancy. In this regard, the investigators believe the intent of the innovative
      oncoplastic intervention to the breast is underestimated in terms of providing diagnosis
      simultaneously constituting the basic component of surgical treatment. Thus, the purpose of
      this prospectively planned study is to provide and investigate the outcomes of an
      evidence-based oncoplastic approach algorithm for excisional breast biopsies.
    
  