
    
      The purpose of this project is to examine and compare the immediate and long-term effects of
      combined Botulinum toxin type A injection with mirror therapy (MT) and with bilateral
      robot-assisted (RT) in patients with spastic hemiplegic stroke. Spasticity, a common
      impairment after stroke, has a profound impact on activity and participation for patients.
      BoNT-A injection combined with rehabilitation training is recommended to enhance functional
      recovery for stroke patients with spasticity. Although the positive combination effects of
      BoNT-A with stretch, RT, and constraint-induced movement therapy were reported, the quality
      of the evidence was weak due to methodology limitations. In addition, patients with
      spasticity usually have lower motor function and worse sensory deficits than patients without
      spasticity. Designing the post BoNT-A injection rehabilitation program should consider the
      above issues. RT and MT are two interventions providing sensorimotor input for patient with
      low level of motor function. It is unknown whether combining BoNT-A injection with RT or with
      MT have positive effects and engenders differential effects on motor and related functional
      performance.

      At least 60 participants with chronic spastic hemiplegic stroke will be recruited and
      randomly assigned to one of 3 groups: BoNT-A injection with RT, BoNT-A injection with MT, and
      BoNT-A injection with control intervention (CI). All the post-injection interventions will be
      implemented 60 minutes/day, 3 days/week, for 8 weeks. The RT group will receive 30-minute RT,
      followed by 30-minute functional training. The MT group will receive 30-minute MT, followed
      by 30-minute functional training. The CI group will receive 60-minute rehabilitation program,
      such as bilateral arm training and functional task practice. Body function and structures
      outcome measures include Fugl-Meyer Assessment, Modified Ashworth Scale, Medical Research
      Council scale, myometer (Myoton-3), actigraph, and Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index. Activity
      and participation measures include Wolf Motor Function Test, Ten meter walk test, Motor
      Activity Log, Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living Scale, and Canadian Occupational
      Performance Measure. In addition, to directly reflect a patient's unique needs and goals,
      Goal Attainment Scaling will be assessed. Evaluators will be blind to group allocation. The
      outcome will be measured at pre-treatment, post-treatment, and 3-month follow-up.

      This comparative efficacy study will be the first to examine and compare the immediate and
      long-term combination effects of BoNT injection with RT, MT, or CI. The follow-up assessments
      will provide the long-term effects of different treatments on health-related outcomes, which
      are crucial for community reentry. In addition, the results of objective assessments and
      patient-reported outcomes may lead to individualized upper limb training following BoNT-A
      injection for patients with spastic hemiplegic stroke.
    
  