
    
      A total of 100 patients with suspicion of Auto Immune Pancreatitis will be identified from
      the multidisciplinary pancreatic cancer clinic at Johns Hopkins and from the Pancreatitis
      clinic of the Division of Gastroenterology, Johns Hopkins Hospital.

      After written, informed consent is obtained; preliminary screening will be done which
      includes medical history and physical examination including weight and vital signs. Serum
      immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) levels will also be evaluated. If the patient meets
      exclusion/inclusion criteria, screening eligibility and signs informed consent, they will be
      included in the study.

      Study investigators and/or their delegate will complete the patient demographic form, medical
      history form, baseline physical examination, baseline laboratory evaluation and concomitant
      medication evaluation as per the protocol. Any other investigational procedure such as
      endoscopic ultrasonography - fine-needle aspiration (EUS - FNA) or esophagogastroduodenoscopy
      (EGD) with papillary biopsy for IgG4 which assists in the differentiation between AIP and
      Pancreatic malignancy may be performed based on the treating physician's discretion.

      Involvement of other organs by AIP and Pancreatic malignancy will be obtained based on the
      medical history, examination and imaging findings. The patients will be subjected to MRI and
      MRCP with the MRCP performed in two stages namely before injection of secretin and after
      intravenous injection of 0.4mcg/Kg of synthetic human secretin (CHIROSTIM, Human Secretin,
      CHIRHOCLIN Inc., Burtonsville, MD). All the subjects will be given 3 cups (approximately
      500-600cc) of pineapple juice 5-10 minutes before the imaging procedure. Pineapple juice will
      act as a negative oral contrast which nulls the signal in stomach and duodenum, thereby
      suppressing gastrointestinal overlap over pancreas. MR Examination will be performed using
      3.0 T magnet and it will include non contrast enhanced scanning followed by gadolinium
      enhanced scanning, performed during the arterial dominant, venous dominant and late phases.
      The secretin MRCP is performed through serial breath-hold T2-weighted sequences run during
      the first 8-12 min after the intravenous administration of secretin.

      Based on the result from the above investigations, the patients will be categorized as those
      suspected with AIP and those suspected with Pancreatic malignancy. Patients with suspected
      malignancy will eventually undergo surgical resection of pancreas under their treating
      physician and the pancreatic tissue examination will provide the true diagnosis. Patients
      with suspected AIP will undergo a steroid trial for at least 3 months, at the end of which a
      repeat MRI, secretin MRCP will be performed and the diagnosis will be confirmed based on the
      response to steroid therapy.
    
  