
    
      Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) tends to have a lower incidence of
      postoperative complications and remarkable advantages in terms of hospital stay. However,
      some drawbacks include higher rates of incomplete revascularization and the hemodynamic
      deterioration during manipulation of the heart, more occurring in the cases of posterolateral
      anatomical constraints and cardiac dysfunction. It leads to urgent conversion to
      extracorporeal circulation (ECC) and increases the mortality. Although conventional ECC with
      cardioplegia arrest provides bloodless immovable field, intense systemic inflammatory
      response may contribute to hemodynamic unstability especially in patients already with severe
      cardiac dysfunction.

      On-pump beating CABG, as a more comprehensive approach, not only facilitates stable
      hemodynamics and complete revascularization, but also supports myocardial lymphatic flow
      balance and decreases interstitial myocardial edema in the beating state. Especially in the
      high-risk patients,some findings suggested that off-pump CABG should be converted to on-pump
      beating CABG without hesitation, avoiding hemodynamic collapse and even catastrophic
      outcomes. Some investigators intentionally planned on-pump beating CABG aiming to some
      patients with severe left ventricle dysfunction. Furthermore, on-pump beating CABG with ECC
      assistance in a high-risk subgroup is also an acceptable trade-off between conventional
      cardioplegia and off-pump operations.

      The above-mentioned ECC results about on-pump, beating-heart CABG pay much attention to the
      biventricular assist (BiVA). Nonetheless, much evidence also reveals that BiVA triggers an
      intense inflammatory response due to extracorporeal membrane lung and circuit line.
      Comparatively speaking, single left ventricular assist (LVA), with shorter circuit line, less
      priming volume and free of extracorporeal membrane lung, theoretically should reduce the
      inflammatory response and relative complications. As a result, aiming to the high-risk
      patients with severe left ventricle dysfunction, who need ECC assistance (BiVA or LVA), the
      investigators designed the randomized prospective study to evaluate: 1) the differences in
      myocardial injury as expressed by cardiac Troponin I(cTnI) and in inflammatory response by
      C-reactive protein (CRP), 2) the differences in the early postoperative outcomes including
      graft number, incidence of atrial fibrillation, in-hospital mortality and ICU stay.
    
  