
    
      Objective: The aims of this study are to 1) examine the sensitivity of the Cambridge Color
      Test (CCT) and the low vision CCT (LvCCT) to the severity of retinal disease in inherited
      retinal degeneration (IRD) by comparing color vision status with changes in photoreceptor
      structure and function, 2) examine the effects of eccentric fixation and reduction in visual
      acuity on color discrimination thresholds obtained with the CCT and LvCCT, and 3) establish
      normal ranges for the CCT and the LvCCT and determine the intra-session and inter-session
      variabilities for these tests.

      Study Population: Up to 59 healthy volunteers and 144 IRD participants age 5 or older will be
      enrolled in this study.

      Design: This study will be comprised of three related projects. For Aim 1, color
      discrimination thresholds (CCT and LvCCT) and assessments of retinal structure (imaging) and
      function (perimetry/microperimetry and electroretinogram) will be measured in 144 IRD
      participants with varying retinal phenotypes and visual acuities. IRD participants will be
      divided into four major categories: 1) cone & cone-rod dystrophies, 2) rod-cone dystrophies,
      3) inherited maculopathies, and 4) inherited retinal dysfunction syndromes. The fourth
      category will be used for IRDs that do not match the description for categories 1-3 (i.e.,
      x-linked retinoschisis, congenital stationary night blindness). Degree of severity of retinal
      dysfunction in IRD participants will be determined relative to the normal ranges obtained
      from the healthy volunteers (see Aim 3a below). For Aim 2 color discrimination thresholds
      (CCT and LvCCT) will be measured in one eye from 12 healthy volunteers in order to examine
      the effects of eccentric fixation and reduced visual acuity on color thresholds independent
      of retinal pathology. Between one and three study visits will be required for this aim. Aim 3
      will be comprised of two parts. For Aim 3a, color thresholds will be collected from both eyes
      (for intraocular variability) of 35 healthy volunteers age 5 or older. For Aim 3B, color
      discrimination thresholds (CCT and LvCCT) will measured from 12 healthy volunteers twice in
      one session and then again at a second visit occurring within two months of the initial visit
      to determine intra-session and inter-session variability.

      Outcome Measures: For both the CCT and LvCCT, an overall quantitative measure of color vision
      will be obtained from the calculation of achromatic area. The sensitivity of CCT and LvCCT
      will be examined by comparing achromatic area for IRD participants with varying levels of
      phenotype severity defined by measures of retinal structure and function. Secondary outcomes
      for this study include: 1) evaluation of sensitivity of the CCT and LvCCT to disease
      severity,

      2) evaluation of the effects of decreased visual acuity and eccentricity on color
      discrimination thresholds (CCT and LvCCT), 3) establishment of the normal range of color
      discrimination thresholds (CCT and LvCCT) as a function of age, and 4) determination of
      intra- and inter-session variabilities of the two tests.
    
  