
    
      Over the previous century, the location of where people die has shifted from home to either
      hospitals or nursing homes, with 20% of patients dying in the ICU. Several deficiencies for
      End-of-Life (EOL) care provided in the ICU have been identified in literature; most of them
      are related to communication, decision making, sense of control, spirituality, preparation
      for death, pain and symptom management. Symptoms of stress, anxiety or depression as well as
      discordance between the perceptions of care by the health care providers (physicians and
      nurses) and the family members may all be related to these shortcomings. These symptoms are
      likely from multiple factors in the ICU that strip the family of the ability to provide any
      direct care or nurturing for their loved one, as families did when people died at home.
      Moreover, qualitative studies suggest that families want and value a role as a care provider
      for their loved ones in the ICU. In a pilot study, the investigators identified several
      domains in which family participation may be of benefit, focusing on the 5 physical senses,
      personal care of the patient, and spirituality of the patient and family. These areas were
      incorporated as Family Care Rituals (FCR) in which family members can participate while their
      loved one is in the ICU

      The investigators are conducting a multi-center, multinational prospective evaluation of FCR
      with the hypothesis that FCR will primarily reduce symptoms of PTSD, as well as anxiety and
      depression in the surviving family members at 90 days after death or discharge from the ICU.
      Additionally, the intervention's effect on concordance of care as measured on day of
      enrollment and ICU day 5 via a questionnaire administered to the family members, the day-time
      nurse and the attending physician will be evaluated. ICU utilization, family satisfaction,
      and validation of the END of live scorING System (ENDING-S) are also being evaluated. To
      understand what care rituals are being performed at the bedside as well as the impact on
      bedside nursing care, nursing is also completing daily surveys.

      The investigators are planning a study of independent cases and controls with 1 control(s)
      per case. Prior data indicate that the incidence of PTSD in family members is 33%. To reduce
      the rate of PTSD for family members in the interventional arm to 17%, 114 experimental
      subjects and 114 control subjects will need to be enrolled to be able to reject the null
      hypothesis that the failure rates for experimental and control subjects are equal with
      probability (power) 0.8. The Type I error probability associated with this test of this null
      hypothesis is 0.05. An uncorrected chi-squared statistic will be used to evaluate this null
      hypothesis.
    
  