
    
      Methods

      General procedure:

      In the Outpatient Department of Clinic Farsoe, Northern Orthopaedic Division patients
      eligible for participating in the study will be informed and asked to participate. Those who
      agree and sign the informed consent will be scheduled for the investigational procedures to
      be performed at the SMI as soon as possible.

      At the SMI all patients are interviewed and assessed with the following three procedures with
      at least 10 minutes between procedures. Duration of visit will be approximately 3 hours in
      one session.

      Procedure 1:

      Pressure pain sensitivity and temporal summation of pressure pain

      Equipment: computer controlled pressure algometer.

      Sites: knee, tibialis anterior, forearm

        -  Stimulus intensity: pressure pain threshold

        -  Stimuli number: 10

        -  Frequency: ISI 1s

        -  Pain rating: pain intensity, pressure pain threshold, unpleasantness and
           after-sensations will be collected.

      General:

      Pressure pain sensitivity and temporal summation of pressure are tested on bilateral knee,
      tibialis anterior muscle and forearm. Test sites are located and marked according to the
      landmark stated below. Pressure pain threshold of these test sites are measured first.
      Sequential stimulations are applied to these test sites respectively to test the pain
      perception for each press stimulus. Unpleasantness and after-sensations are collected after
      cessation of sequential stimulation to evaluate the affective aspect of pain.

      Specific:

      Seven test sites (2 cm proximal to the superior lateral edge of patella, 2 cm proximal to the
      superior edge of patella, 2 cm proximal to the superior medial edge of patella, 2 cm distal
      to the inferior lateral edge of patella, 2 cm distal to the inferior medial edge of patella,
      5 cm lateral to the superior lateral edge of patella and 5 cm medial to the superior medial
      edge of patella) are marked around the knee. The site for measuring temporal summation of
      pain is the most sensitive site among these five sites.

      The test site on the arm is 7 cm distal to the lateral humeral epicondyle on the line
      connecting the lateral epicondyle and the styloid process of the radius, located on the
      extensor carpi radialis longus muscle.

      The test site on the leg is at the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle 14 cm distal to the inferior
      lateral edge of the patella.

      Pressure pain threshold on these test sites are measured. A mechanical pressure stimulus with
      gradient of 0.3 kg/s will be applied until the subject reports pain and presses a stop
      button. The PPT measurements start from the contralateral knee of the affected knee.

      Sequential stimulation consists of 10 pressure stimuli (1 sec duration) at the pressure pain
      threshold level. Inter-stimulus interval (ISI) is set to 1 sec. Skin contact between the
      individual pressure stimuli will be ensured by keeping a constant force of 0.1 kg; i.e.
      during the series of sequential stimulation the probe has skin contact and is first withdrawn
      after 10 stimulations. The subjects rate the pain intensity continuously during the
      sequential stimulation on an electronic visual analogue scale (VAS) on which "0" indicates
      "no pain" and "10 cm" indicates "maximal pain". Sequential stimulation is to be applied on
      each test site with at least a 1 min interval. The sequence of test sites is chosen in a
      randomized way to minimize order effects.

      Unpleasantness and after-sensations are collected 15 sec after cessation of sequential
      stimulation.

      Procedure 2:

      Referred pain

      Equipment: computer controlled pressure algometer, computer-controlled auto-infusion syringe
      pump.

        -  Site: tibialis anterior

        -  Concentration: 6% hypertonic saline.

        -  Method: continuous infusion.

        -  Pain rating: pain intensity, pain area drawing (primary and secondary pain area),
           pressure pain threshold, unpleasantness and after-sensations will be collected.

      General:

      Hypertonic saline is infused into the tibialis anterior (TA) muscle to elicit local and
      referred pain. The experiment will be conducted in one leg at a time, by giving a single
      bolus infusion of hypertonic saline with a time interval of approximately 20 min between each
      leg. Test sites are located and marked on the TA. Pressure pain thresholds on injection site
      and front side of ankle are measured before infusion. Hypertonic saline is infused by using a
      computer-controlled syringe pump. Subjects report pain intensity and draw the pain area
      induced by infusion. Pressure pain thresholds on injection site and front side of ankle are
      measured 10 min after infusion- evoked-pain disappears. Unpleasantness and after-sensations
      for the evoked pain are collected as well.

      Specific:

      Injection site is placed at the belly of the TA 14 cm distal to the inferior lateral edge of
      the patella on both legs. At the marked site in the TA a 24G - 40 mm needle will be inserted
      vertically until a piercing of the muscle fascia is felt, at a depth of approximately 20 mm
      from the skin surface. Then the plunger of the syringe will be withdrawn to ensure that the
      needle is deep in the muscle and not in a blood vessel. The needle will then be connected
      through a polyethylene extension tube (Vygon, France, No. 1155.70) to a 10 ml syringe fitted
      in a computer-controlled auto-infusion syringe pump (Terumo Terufusion syringe pump, model
      STC-S27, Type CG). A total volume of 0.5 ml sterile 6% hypertonic saline (58.5 mg/ml, Sygehus
      Apotekerne, Denmark) will be infused over 20 s into the TA muscle (infusion-rate 90 ml/h).

      The pain intensity response is scored on a visual analogue scale (VAS) after the infusion.
      The subjects mark the painful region(s) on pain maps after the infusion. Local pain is
      defined as the pain area drawn at the infusion site, referred pain is defined as the pain
      areas drawn away from the infusion site and radiating pain is defined as the pain areas drawn
      radiating from the local site into the other regions of the leg.

      Pressure pain thresholds on injection site and front side of ankle are measured before and 10
      min after infusion when infusion evoked pain disappears.

      Unpleasantness and after-sensations for the evoked pain are collected afterwards.

      Procedure 3:

      Cuff pressure pain and DNIC

      Equipment: computer controlled cuff algometer.

        -  Site: upper arms

        -  Pain rating: pain intensity, cuff pressure pain threshold, pressure pain threshold,
           unpleasantness and after-sensations collected.

      General:

      Continuous cuff pressure stimulation is applied to measure the inhibitory control of the pain
      sensory system. Cuff stimulation is applied to bilateral upper arms and tibialis anterior
      (location see procedure 1). Pressure pain threshold on the test sites around knee, on the
      ipsilateral and contralateral arm (on the belly of biceps brachii) are measured before,
      during and after cuff pressure stimulation. Cuff pressure stimulation is applied by
      computer-controlled cuff algometer to induce continuous pain perception for 10 min. Pain
      intensity of ongoing pain in the stimulated limb and affected knee are rated on electrical
      VAS.

      Specific:

      The cuff is wrapped around the middle of both arms. The lower rim of the tourniquet cuff (7.5
      cm wide) is at least 3 cm proximal to the cubital fossa. The setup of the cuff algometer is
      programmed to stop the pressure increase at a preset pain intensity of 4 cm on the VAS and to
      automatically adjust the pressure to maintain the obtained pain within ±0.5 cm VAS for 10 min
      or until the subject presses the stop button. If the pain increases over the upper pain
      limit, the system decreases the pressure until the pain returns into the 'target' zone and
      vice versa.

      When the VAS rise up to 4 cm and keep constant for 1 min, we will measure PPTs on the same
      test sites except tested arm. Pain intensity of ongoing pain in affected knee and arm which
      is not stimulated is rated on another electrical VAS during cuff pressure stimulation. Five
      minutes following deflation, pain intensity of ongoing pain in affected knee and arms is
      rated. Fifteen minutes following deflation, PPTs are measured on the test sites.

      The sequence of test limb is chosen at random to minimize order effects.
    
  