
    
      Laparoscopic surgical suboptimal outcomes in patient safety measures are correlated with (i)
      cognitive load / level of attention of the operating surgeon, (ii) the frequency and degree
      of disruptions to the surgical workflow, and (iii) the misalignment of visual and motor axes
      in laparoscopic equipment / setting (eye-hand coordination).

      This project will create the foundational, design and operational principles of future,
      surgeon-friendly minimal invasive surgery operating room information technologies (MIS-IT),
      which -given the ever growing complexity in surgical workflows, as well as instrument and
      equipment settings- will have to build on human attention as a scarce resource.

      On the formal model's and methods' side, MinIAttention will identify types of human
      attention, as well as cognitive and physiological mechanisms revealing its relation to
      perception, memory, decision making, and learning. Starting with established theories of
      individual attention (Capacity Theory, Multiple Resource Theory, Feature Integration Theory)
      and the respective attention models (Broadbent, Kahneman, Wickens), we will characterize
      aspects of attention of surgeons during MIS operations. MinIAttention will empirically
      evidence its models on the dynamics of a surgeon's attention along the workflow of a MIS
      operation. A multi-sensor attention recognition reference framework will be implementation,
      involving externalized signals of a surgeons attention (eye gaze, head and hand gesture, head
      and full body pose, physiological signals, as well as communication and social interaction).
      Evidenced MinIAttention attention models will represent the core body of aware surgeon
      assistance systems, covering (i) sensory assistance, enhancing the surgeons perceptual
      capacities, (ii) motor assistance, enhancing the surgeons motor and manipulative capacities
      (iii) decision making assistance, guiding the surgeon towards informed, evidence based,
      rational, transparent and timely decisions during operation, and (iv) cognitive assistance,
      enhancing the surgeons memory management capacities with background digital memory systems.
      On the purpose of supporting this research proposal with an early impression of the
      feasibility of the proposed research method and approach, the proposing partners have
      voluntarily set up prototypical attention capturing system. With this preliminary proposal
      support study we have evidenced that ensembles of sensors together with our attention models
      can serve as a nonobtrusive, yet potentially effective means to determine indicators of a
      surgeon's attention during live surgeries. Above that, the pattern recognition methods an
      machine learning techniques appear viable for the task of automated attention and cognitive
      load diagnosis, and the proposed assistance and mulitmodal feedback system reveals feasible.
      We can thus say, that the research method and approach which MinIAttention will build upon is
      solid, promising, and preliminarily evidenced beforehand.

      Aside the MIS-IT focus of this project, MinIAttention will serve as a reference to a very
      general, observably upcoming information society dilemma: information overload and attention
      scarcity. In today's information-rich world, where people are overflooded with signals and
      messages at all levels of perception and modalities (visual, auditory, tactile, olfactory),
      the need to allocate attention efficiently among the overabundance of information sources
      appears to be among the most demanding challenges for ICT mediated communication today. For
      the design and implementation of novel, future ICT systems of all kinds, it is of high
      interest to understand how spontaneous, local, individual attention to novel information
      items occurs. Some two decades of HCI and pervasive/ubiquitous computing research have
      clearly revealed that out of the many indicative design factors for modern ICT, human
      attention is the first source of perception, consequently also awareness towards information
      and other individuals. MinIAttention will create the foundational basis for attention-aware
      ICT, i.e. develop (i) formal models of human attention along with (ii) multisensory
      recognition architectures and reasoning algorithms to estimate and assess levels of human
      attention, together with their (iii) embedding into ICT systems of everyday use.

      Five international groups will collaborate to develop MinIAttention. JKU IPC has introduced
      attention aware ICT in the Pervasive Computing scientific community, developed pionieering
      methods and systems, and also promoted cognitive ICT to become a European research priority
      (H2020). AKH KUK runs Austrias most advanced laparoscopic operation theater with cutting edge
      technological equipment, Karl STORZ ENDOSKOPE is a worldwide leading surgical instrument
      supplier. SUSSEX is among the worlds most renowned institutions in machine learning related
      to wearable computing, as is FRI for vital state recognition.
    
  