
    
      Clonal Hematopoiesis of Indeterminate Potential (CHIP) has been defined as the presence of a
      somatic pathogenic variant associated with hematological malignancy, with an allele fraction
      of at least 2%, without morphological evidence of bone marrow dysplasia or neoplasia. Such
      variants are small, occur in leukocytes and are found in a substantial proportion of the
      healthy aging population using next generation sequencing (NGS). They are thought to
      represent a pre-neoplastic phase of hematological malignancy, particularly myeloid disorders
      such as myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) and acute myeloid leukemia (AML). They are considered
      by some to be analogous to monoclonal B cell lymphocytosis (MBL), or monoclonal gammopathy of
      uncertain significance (MGUS) as precursors for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and
      myeloma respectively, and, with a similar rate of progression of 0.5%-1% per year.

      CHIP is strongly associated with advancing age with a prevalence of up to 10% in those >65
      years of age compared to 1% in those <50 years of age, and has also been associated with an
      increased atherosclerotic risk], and an increase in overall mortality. Despite this
      association most people with CHIP are denoted healthy and do not progress to hematological
      malignancy. Those with low blood counts in association with a - termed clonal cytopenias of
      undetermined significance (CCUS) - do show a significantly higher rate of progression to
      myeloid malignancy, more analogous to patients with low risk MDS, though they are currently
      not classified as such as they lack the morphological dysplasia or defining chromosomal
      abnormalities.

      The optimal follow-up and management of CHIP and CCUS is not yet established - evidence has
      suggested that factors such as which specific variant, how many variants are present, and the
      frequency at which these variants increase can help us to delineate high and low risk status.
      Some recent data has shown that the presence of CHIP is associated with increased levels of
      inflammation. In depth investigation should provide further insight into the pathogenesis and
      progression of this process. The establishment of a natural history protocol will allow
      patients with CHIP and CCUS to be followed prospectively in a clinical setting. This protocol
      will have many collaborators from different institutes providing expertise including National
      Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute (NHLBI),
      National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK), and the Department
      of Laboratory Medicine (DLM).
    
  