
    
      In December 2019, a novel coronavirus caused an outbreak in Wuhan, China. Just a month later,
      Covid-19 was declared a Public Health Emergency of International Concern on 30 January 2020.
      The World Health Organisation (WHO) repeatedly announced that 'Diagnostic testing for
      COVID-19 is critical to tracking the virus, understanding epidemiology, informing case
      management, and to suppressing transmission'. The priority within Public Health England (PHE)
      was to scale up public health testing using molecular diagnosis through real-time RT-PCR
      (RdRp gene) assay based on oral swabs.

      Some of the key challenges publicly presented regarding testing are speed of mobilisation,
      supply chain issues due to the international demand for crucial testing materials like kits,
      swabs and chemical reagents, and the quality and comfort of the nasopharyngeal (NSP) swabs
      commonly used.

      Chronomics has developed novel methods to address these problems. Firstly, due to the
      shortage of the specific branded reagent products used in the official CDC FDA EUA COVID-19
      RT-qPCR protocol for RNA extraction, Chronomics have sourced and compiled testing of
      components to create our own extraction kit with greater availability of supply for use
      within the protocol. Secondly, our methods are based on saliva collection which are pain-free
      and easy to collect.

      The objective of this study is to compare the Chronomics test against the NPS tests and
      protocol currently in use to demonstrate the efficacy of our approach. The principal question
      is: Does the Chronomics saliva based test perform as well as the NPS NHS test? There are two
      components of our testing framework that we are looking to validate to feed into this.
      Firstly, that our alternative reagents and workflow (RNA-extraction and RT-PCR steps) do not
      impact sensitivity of detection and secondly, that our alternative sampling source of saliva
      also does not impact sensitivity of detection. To achieve validation of these two components,
      we will compare both a Chronomics saliva sample vs an NHS NPS sample, and a Chronomics NPS
      sample vs an NHS NPS sample. We would require access to the output (and information as to the
      linked patient) for the NHS gold-standard workflow.
    
  