
    
      The study is a 12-week, randomized controlled trial ("Hazel") comparing an intervention for
      depression and anxiety symptoms with two different levels of support. Eligible participants
      will be randomized to receive: 1) a Unified Protocol intervention with 4 weeks of human
      support during exposure exercises in weeks 8-11 ("Partially Supported"); or 2) a Unified
      Protocol intervention without support at any point (the "Unsupported" arm). At 4 weeks
      post-intervention, participants will be sent a link to complete follow-up survey measures for
      depression and anxiety symptoms.

      The Unified Protocol is an empirically supported, transdiagnostic treatment for emotion
      disorders based on principles of cognitive behavioral therapy.27 The Unified Protocol can be
      delivered in 12 to 18 weeks, with one one-hour session per week. Treatment focuses on
      increasing awareness of maladaptive thoughts and behaviors while decreasing avoidance of
      emotions and physiological sensations. Each week, patients receive psychoeducation, complete
      in-session practice exercises and self-monitor symptom change. At the end of each session,
      patients are assigned a home practice assignment to increase adaptive coping and generalize
      skill use outside of the therapy room.

      Participants in both arms will receive a 12-week Unified Protocol intervention delivered via
      the same web platform (REDCap). The intervention will include all 8 modules of the Unified
      Protocol. Every week, participants will be directed to complete the following content:

        1. depression symptom survey,

        2. anxiety symptom survey,

        3. information about their symptom change over time,

        4. psychoeducational text

        5. practice exercises,

        6. home practice instructions,

        7. writing exercise, and

        8. home practice worksheet(s).

      The symptom surveys, symptom graph and writing exercise will remain the same each week. The
      psychoeducational text, practice exercises and homework assignments will vary based on that
      week's topic. For the writing exercise, participants will be prompted to write notes on their
      take-aways, questions about the material, and ways they can incorporate the lesson into their
      upcoming week. The investigators will aim to write as much text as possible at a 5th grade
      reading level, based on evidence that 52% of US residents read English at a 5th-grade level
      or below.

      Participants randomized to the unsupported arm will receive the intervention exactly as
      described above, with no additional components. Completion of all weeks will be entirely
      self- guided, to emulate a publicly available, standalone intervention.

      Participants randomized to the partially supported arm will receive all aspects of the
      intervention described above, with no differences between arms for the first seven weeks of
      the intervention (Modules 1-6). Participants in this arm will be introduced to their assigned
      study therapist in week 8, at the start of Module 7 via email. During Module 7 (exposure;
      weeks 8-11), participants in this arm will receive four video therapy sessions. These
      sessions will entail synchronous, video-call contact with their assigned study therapist, and
      session content will be based on principles of exposure therapy. The first session will
      entail developing a personalized exposure hierarchy, which will inform subsequent in-session
      and home practice assignments. In all sessions, study therapists will do live demonstrations
      of exposure exercises, monitor participants during exposure practice and provide feedback as
      clinically indicated, guide participants through post-exposure processing, and assign in-vivo
      exposure practices for homework. In the second through fourth sessions, study therapists will
      also review and provide feedback on participants' home practice.

      Study therapists will be clinical psychology graduate students at Duke University and will be
      trained and supervised by Dr. Clair Robbins, a clinical associate at Duke and expert in the
      Unified Protocol. Dr. Robbins is expected to pass licensure exams during the Spring 2021
      semester. Until then, umbrella supervision will be provided by Dr. M. Zach Rosenthal, a North
      Carolina-license psychologist and director of Duke's Cognitive Behavioral Research and
      Treatment Program.

      On recruitment and participant materials, the study will be referred to by the name "Hazel."
      Hazel was chosen as a name because it is a relatively uncommon word that is both a name and a
      noun. The investigators' hope is that using a study title that can be a name will evoke a
      sense of warmth and personalization in the online intervention. At the same time, "Hazel" is
      not exclusively used a name, which the investigators hope will prevent undue confusion or
      misleading respondents into thinking Hazel is a human therapist. Finally, the investigators
      hope that its relatively uncommon usage will help prevent confusion with any other similar
      studies or programs. The name Hazel is incorporated into study materials in terms of color
      scheme and logo. At the end of the intervention, the hazelnut logo used throughout Hazel will
      be transformed into a hazelnut tree sprout, symbolizing both the ways participants have grown
      over the course of the intervention and the possibility for ongoing growth as they continue
      applying their new skills after the intervention period ends.
    
  