
    
      Background

      Non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIV) has been increasingly used as a treatment of
      chronic hypercapnic respiratory failure. Its use in patients affected by chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disorders is still controversial, while most of the studies performed in
      restrictive thoracic disorders (RTD), and in particular in neuromuscular patients, suggested
      alleviation of the symptoms of chronic hypoventilation in the short term, and in two small
      studies survival was prolonged. As a matter of fact a recent Cochrane review stated that
      "long-term mechanical ventilation should be offered as a therapeutic option to patients with
      chronic respiratory failure due to neuromuscular diseases". Recurrent episodes of nocturnal
      desaturation especially during REM sleep may deeply influence the prognosis of patients
      affect by these disorders (i.e. ALS), and they are often associated with hypercapnia, so that
      the correction of nocturnal hypoventilation seems to be the major goal to achieve with the
      ventilatory treatment.

      A very recent randomized controlled trial show that in ALS without severe bulbar dysfunction,
      NIV improves survival with maintenance of, and improvement in, quality of life, including
      sleep quality. The survival benefit from NIV in this group is much greater than that from
      currently available neuroprotective therapy, like riluzole.

      Most of the studies performed in RTD disorders were performed using a pressure assisted mode
      (i.e Pressure Support Ventilation), because of the supposed better tolerance of the patients
      and easy of settings for the operators, even though this has never been scientifically
      proven.

      In the terminal phase of the disease, when the respiratory muscles became weaker it is very
      likely that the operators need to frequently adjust the level of inspiratory pressure in an
      attempt to guarantee an adequate tidal volume, so that alveolar hypoventilation may be
      avoided.

      Theoretically the use of a volume assisted ventilation may overpass this problem of frequent
      variations of the settings, since the provision of a fixed tidal volume may always guarantee
      and adequate alveolar ventilation.

      The primary aims of this multicenter randomized study are to evaluate the clinical efficacy,
      the patients' tolerance and quality of life and the frequency of changing settings in a group
      of patients with SLS and initial chronic respiratory failure undergoing long-term NIV with
      Pressure Support Ventilation or Volume Assisted Ventilation.

      Aim of the Project

      The primary aims of the project are to evaluate the clinical efficacy, the patients'
      tolerance and quality of life and the frequency of changing settings in a group of patients
      with SLS and initial chronic respiratory failure undergoing long-term NIV with Pressure
      Support Ventilation or Volume Assisted Ventilation.

      • Enrollment criteria: Patients with the diagnosis of ALS and one of the following signs: 1)
      Vital Capacity < 50% predicted 2) a Maximal Inspiratory Pressure (MIP) < 60% predicted 3)
      polygraphic signs of nocturnal hypoventilation with daytime symptoms.

      - The patients will be randomized to receive NIV with one of the following modes: 1) Pressure
      Support Ventilation with the inspiratory pressure set according to the patient's tolerance in
      order to achieve an expired tidal volume > 6 ml/Kg and <8ml/Kg. The back-up rate will be set
      at 10 breaths/min. 2) Volume assist ventilation with a back-up rate of 10 breaths/min and a
      tidal volume set to achieve an expired tidal volume > 6 ml/Kg and <8ml/Kg
    
  