
    
      BACKGROUND Recent evidence showed that aerobic exercise, dietary habits and nutritional
      supplements consumption seem essential for maintaining good cognitive performances increasing
      hippocampal volume (HV) in healthy elderly people (Erickson et al., 2011; Bowman et al.,
      2012). Computerized cognitive trainings are effective in improving cognitive functions of
      healthy older adults (Lampit et al., 2014). Subjective memory complaint (SMC) individuals
      showed HV, white matter lesions (WML) and brain ventricle volumes (BVV) at limits of
      normative population (Cavedo et al., 2012) supporting the hypothesis that they are persons at
      risk of AD (Sperling et al., 2011). The above non-pharmacological treatments, when separately
      applied, do not impact on cognition and neuropathological processes of AD. On the contrary,
      combined treatments, in persons at risk to develop AD, could represent the first line of
      intervention to delay the onset of cognitive impairment.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. To investigate the combined effect of aerobic exercise, dietary habits, nutritional
           supplements, and cognitive training administered at three different levels of intensity
           on cognitive performance in subjective memory complaints individuals. The three
           different intensity levels of nonpharmacological treatments will be organized as
           follows: (i) No Treatment (NT) will include educational training (sham condition); (ii)
           Partial Treatment (PT) will include exclusively the consumption of a nutritional
           supplement and a training for a balanced diet; (iii) Full treatment (FT) will include
           all above condition plus computerized cognitive training (no sham condition) and aerobic
           fitness training.

        2. To investigate the effect of the above treatments (NT, PT, FT) on basic markers of
           magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) such as HV, WML and Brain Ventricle Volume (BVV) in
           subjective memory complaints individuals.

        3. To investigate the effect of NT, PT and FT on advanced MRI markers such as structural
           brain connectivity and brain resting networks in subjective memory complaints
           individuals.

      HYPHOTESIS AND SIGNIFICANCE An improvement in cognitive performances, basic (HV, WML, BVV)
      and advanced (structural brain connectivity and brain resting networks) MRI markers will be
      expected in FT group compared to NT group. Moreover, the investigators hypothesize an effect
      dependent of the number of combined treatments, thus the PT group is expected to show
      intermediate results (among NT and FT groups) in the cognitive performances, basic and
      advanced MRI markers previously described.
    
  