
    
      The birth of a child is a major life event that can be filled with excitement, anticipation
      and joy. However, the transition and adaptation to new demands, roles, responsibilities, and
      changes in relationships can be stressful, especially for first-time mothers. In addition,
      new mothers typically encounter physiological changes and struggle with concerns about weight
      gain, body image, sexuality, and other physical difficulties such as fatigue. These problems
      may generate or exacerbate stress, lead to an actual or perceived crisis and psychological
      distress.

      Psychological distress, defined as depression, anxiety and insomnia, in this study, often
      increases during the postpartum period and can negatively affect maternal mental health
      status, maternal and family functioning, and infant-child outcomes. These conditions commonly
      present as co-morbidities, but are often unrecognized in clinical practice or under-treated
      as co-morbidities in new mothers. This unrecognized cluster of co-morbidities may lead to
      psychological distress and subsequently poor outcomes for mothers, their infants and
      children.

      Current treatment recommendations for depression, anxiety and insomnia are primarily
      pharmaceutical or psychotherapy, both of which have limitations related to cost, time
      involved and ineffectiveness for some women. Consequently, there is a need to examine other
      treatment approaches including complementary modalities, such as cranial electrotherapy
      stimulation (CES), particularly in light of current evidence that shows the efficacy of early
      detection, intervention and treatment for pregnant and postpartum women.

      The primary objective of this study is to investigate the effect of CES on anxiety in new
      mothers following childbirth. The secondary objectives are to: (1) determine the effects of
      CES on depression and insomnia; (2) explore the effect of CES on maternal functioning in new
      mothers following childbirth, and (3) to examine if items 1 & 2 on the 14 item Hamilton
      Anxiety Rating Scale (HAM-A14) perform well as a screening test for anxiety. Please see the
      enclosed Instrument Description document for detailed information related to this scale.
    
  