
    
      Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic pain condition with significant morbidity. Current research
      suggests a primarily central mediation of the widespread pain including central sensitization
      at the spinal level and abnormal pain processing at the cerebral level. Findings in FM
      patients include abnormal neurotransmitter levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), abnormal
      activation of cerebral pain processing areas and abnormal peripheral pain and sensory
      thresholds. Continuous low level spinal cord activation by primary nociceptive afferents (C
      and A delta fibers) is believed to significantly drive the central sensitization. One major
      spinal neurotransmitter released by these pain fibers is substance P (SP). Several studies
      have shown that FM patients have up to three times higher baseline SP levels in the CSF
      compared to controls. Since spinal neurotransmitter release and therefore nociceptive
      afferent activity is also regulated via a descending inhibitory pathway releasing
      norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5HT), decreased activity of this pain modulating system
      could also be involved in abnormal pain processing in FM. Indeed, there is support in the
      literature for decreased CSF levels of both NE and 5HT or their metabolites. Milnacipran, a
      NE and 5HT reuptake inhibitor, has been shown to potentially effectively reduce FM pain and
      symptoms of FM by affecting the above pathologies.

      The investigators propose an open label clinical trial with milnacipran 200 mg over 12-weeks
      in order to investigate the pain pathway in FM patients at peripheral and spinal levels
      before and after treatment. In addition, the investigators will assess pain intensity and
      symptoms of FM before, during and after treatment. To determine if there are peripheral
      effects, the investigators will characterize the systemic neurotransmitter release and their
      metabolites in plasma. The investigators will also measure the heart rate variability using
      an electrocardiogram to look for effects on the sympathetic nervous system.
    
  