
    
      The primary hypothesis is that the addition of pembrolizumab to neoadjuvant concurrent
      chemoradiation, followed by consolidation pembrolizumab, will be safe and feasible to deliver
      to patients with resectable stage 3A Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).

      This study also plans to observe the efficacy of this combination in the overall and
      biomarker-positive population.

      Primary Objective Primary objective of this phase 1 study is to determine safety and
      feasibility of MK3475 with standard of care therapy of chemotherapy with radiation for newly
      diagnosed stage 3 lung carcinoma.

      • To define the Safety, tolerability and feasibility of MK3475 in combination with
      chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide along with 45 Gy of radiation in newly diagnosed
      stage 3 non-small cell lung carcinoma.

      Secondary Objective(s)

        -  Progression Free Survival

        -  Objective response rate,

        -  Complete pathologic response rate,

        -  Nodal downstaging at surgery,

        -  Overall survival,

        -  Safety and tolerability

      Correlative Objective(s) Exploratory objectives: Overall response rate, progression free
      survival, overall survival in Programmed death-ligand (PDL-1) positive versus negative
      subgroups

      Study Design This is an open-label, single arm phase I trial of neoadjuvant chemotherapy +
      pembrolizumab with concurrent radiation followed by surgical resection and consolidation
      pembrolizumab in resectable stage 3A (N2+) NSCLC.

      Eligible patients will have biopsy-confirmed T1-3N2M0 (stage IIIA) non-small cell lung cancer
      (adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, or large cell/NSCLC not otherwise specified),
      performance status 0-1, adequate lung function and deemed medically resectable by a thoracic
      surgeon, adequate organ function for chemotherapy, and no contraindications to pembrolizumab
      (i.e. autoimmune disorders or underlying pulmonary fibrosis).

      Because pembrolizumab has been safely added to multiple platinum doublet chemotherapy
      regimens in lung cancer but not yet tested in the setting of concurrent radiation, we plan to
      evaluate safety and feasibility of the combination therapy. 10 patients will be enrolled at
      the full starting dose of all 3 agents. If 3 or more (>30%) have grade 3 or higher pulmonary
      toxicity or any grade 4 nonhematologic toxicity, the study will be stopped. If 2 or fewer
      have > grade 3 pulmonary toxicity or > grade 4 other nonhematologic toxicity, then an
      additional 10 will be enrolled. If 5 or fewer (<25%) of the 20 patients have > grade 3
      pulmonary toxicity or > grade 4 other nonhematologic toxicity, then this regimen will be
      deemed safe and feasible for further study.
    
  