
    
      Eligible patients will be approached for the study by the PI or Sub-I in the pre-operative
      area on their day of surgery. The anesthesiology investigator will speak with the patient
      about the study behind a closed drape and the patient will have adequate time to consider the
      consent and ask questions regarding risk factors associated with each type of block. Once
      consented, the patient will be randomized by computer generated random number to one of the
      two treatment groups. Once assigned the treatment allocation, only the clinician
      administering the block will be unblinded to the randomization outcome. If randomized to the
      LP block, an anesthesiologist on the Acute Interventional Perioperative Pain Service (AIPPS)
      will administer the block with this approach: Patient will be positioned in lateral decubitus
      position with side to be blocked facing upwards. Midline will be identified by palpating the
      spinous process. Intercristal line will be drawn connecting iliac crests. The point of needle
      insertion will be 4 cm lateral to the intersection of both lines. The transverse process will
      first contact with a finder needle. Subsequently an 18 gauge 10 cm insulated needle will be
      used and advanced until it contacted the transverse process. Needle will then be redirected
      cephalad or caudad and advanced 1 cm, until the quadriceps femoris twitch is obtained. Local
      anesthetic will then be injected after confirming a motor response between 0.3-0.5 milli
      amperes.If randomized to the QL3 block, an anesthesiologist on the Acute Interventional
      Perioperative Pain Service (AIPPS) will administer the block with this approach:Patient will
      be placed in a lateral position with the side to be blocked facing up. A low frequency
      transducer will be used to identify three layers of abdominal musculature, probe will be then
      moved posteriorly till the transverse abdominus aponeurosis is visualized, the QL muscle is
      then identified by tracing the aponeurosis posteriorly. The transducer is then moved more
      posteriorly to visualize the shadow of transverse process and the origin of QL muscle. Psoas
      muscle is then identified lying anterior to the QL muscle. A 22 gauge 8 cm is inserted in
      plane posterior to the probe and advanced intramuscularly through the QL to interfacial plane
      between QL and psoas major and local anesthetic is deposited. For both treatment groups, the
      local anesthetic used will be 100 mg 0.5% ropivacaine. After surgery, the patient will be
      followed by the blinded research team for incidence of adverse events, as well as the
      collection of the primary outcome measures. These include pain at rest and with movement at
      6, 12 and 24 hours after surgery, time for first request for pain medication, total pain
      medications (narcotics and non-narcotic analgesics) given in 24 hours and the time of
      participant's ability to walk 100 feet as recorded by physical therapist. This information
      will be captured from the patient's electronic medical record.
    
  