
    
      Optical colonoscopy is the standard method for evaluating the colon. This technique allows
      evaluation of the entire colon in most patients. Full colonoscopy including examination of
      the cecum is associated with an increased detection rate of advanced neoplasia, as 33-50% of
      advanced neoplasia is located in the proximal colon. After an incomplete optical colonoscopy,
      participants are required to undergo another test in order to exclude clinically relevant
      lesions to reduce the risk of proximal cancer which has been shown to increase by twofold
      when colonoscopy was incomplete.

      Endoscopic and radiological options to complete the colon assessment have been available in
      the last decades. Multiple alternative endoscopic techniques-such as colonoscopy with thinner
      colonoscopes, gastroscopes and device-assisted enteroscopes have been described. However,
      none of them has been clearly standardized.

      CT colonography (CTC), is a relatively new imaging technique that was first described in
      1994. In large randomized trials on symptomatic patients, CTC has been shown to be as equally
      effective as colonoscopy - for the detection of large colorectal polyps and already developed
      colorectal cancer.

      Colon Capsule Endoscopy (CCE) is a promising new technology that may have the potential to
      complement existing diagnostic methods to screen people for colorectal cancer. Delivered
      correctly, it may reduce costs, increase utilization of medical services, reduce risks for
      patients and overall improve screening rates among the population.

      A total of 8000 colonoscopies are performed on a yearly basis on the Funen Island and about
      10% of those are incomplete due to excessive pain, fixed colon loops, and others causes. The
      current standard procedure is to refer the participant to the Department of Radiology for a
      CT-colonography.
    
  