
    
      The number of American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) who have diabetes is growing
      rapidly, especially among young people. At more than 16%, AI/ANs have the highest
      age-adjusted prevalence of diabetes among all U.S. racial and ethnic groups [1]. One such
      population is the Zuni Pueblo home to a small, geographically isolated tribe located in a
      rural portion of New Mexico, USA. It is home to ~11,000 Zuni Indians and over 90% of all
      Zunis live in the Pueblo. This socioeconomically disadvantaged population faces a major
      public health challenge from growing health disparities. Changing lifestyles have led to
      decreased physical activity and increased caloric intake with high consumption of fast food,
      soda pop and alcohol. Therefore, the Zuni are experiencing interrelated epidemics of obesity,
      diabetes, hypertension, kidney disease and intermediate phenotypes.

      As part of the Zuni Health Initiative (ZHI), the investigators surveyed participants
      regarding barriers to healthcare [2], with particular attention to diabetes care. In ZHI the
      investigators also collected and stored clinical phenotype information and anthropological
      measurements from all participants. Participants identified the following barriers: access to
      care, language barriers, limited patient education, and anxiety around diagnosis, fear of
      chronic disease, reluctance to participate in self-care, resistance to dietary change, and
      reluctance to engage in regular exercise. The investigators have previously documented
      suboptimal glycemic control with a high burden of kidney disease among the Zuni [3, 4]. The
      burden presented by these barriers ultimately translates into a lack of patient activation
      and engagement in their healthcare, effectively hindering adoption of healthy behaviors.
      Focus groups subsequently identified common solutions to overcome some of these barriers,
      including home-based care, point of care testing, individualized exercise and nutrition
      prescriptions, and care providers with knowledge of the Zuni language, community and culture.

      The information gathered during these focus groups [5] is used to design and implement a Zuni
      culture specific educational intervention in diabetes. The investigators have devised an
      innovative educational intervention based on the coordination of four key elements: (a)
      delivering healthcare that incorporated collaborative communication within the healthcare
      team and emphasized greater autonomy in care, adherence to the medical regimen, and
      patient-centered goal setting, all while retaining the ability to address the needs of
      patients, family members, the healthcare team, and/or the healthcare system; (b) providing
      innovative educational and organizational approaches, as well as behavior change strategies,
      that enhanced adherence; (c) addressing health beliefs that reduced adherence by over- or
      under-predicting maladaptive thoughts (e.g., catastrophizing, minimizing, cognitive
      dissonance, invincibility, or fatalism) or that interfered with weight control; and (d) using
      technology to address barriers to achieving desired health outcomes.

      Sixty participants with type 2 diabetes (T2D) completed a baseline evaluation including
      physical exam, Point of Care (POC) testing, and the Patient Activation Measure (PAM) survey.
      Participants then underwent a one hour group didactic session led by Community Health
      Representatives (CHRs) who subsequently carried out monthly home-based educational
      interventions to encourage healthy lifestyles, including diet, exercise, and alcohol and
      cigarette avoidance until follow up at 6 months, when clinical phenotyping and the PAM survey
      were repeated.
    
  