
    
      Multi-centre, observational, prospective study registry. About 15% of patients with
      peripheral neuroblastic tumour present with extradural SCI, of whom approximately 60% are
      symptomatic. Since SCI may progress to irreversible paraplegia, early diagnosis and prompt
      treatment is of critical importance.1-3 The treatment options include chemotherapy,
      neurosurgical decompression and radiation therapy. All may relieve epidural compression, but
      there is no consensus on which to use first in the individual patient. However, the choice of
      the treatment could be relevant in the perspective of reducing to the minimum the risk of
      long-term sequelae.4 Guidelines for the diagnostic work-up and treatment of SCI for
      International Society of Paediatric Oncology European Neuroblastoma (SIOPEN) neuroblastoma
      patients were already available in the "guidelines for the treatment of patients with
      localized resectable neuroblastoma and analysis of prognostic factors" (LNESG1 Protocol),
      back in 1994,5 although it is unknown how they were applied in the SIOPEN Centres. These
      guidelines have been reformulated in occasion of the recently activated "European Low and
      Intermediate risk Neuroblastoma" (LINES Protocol).

      There are few publications addressing the diagnosis and treatment of SCI; most are
      retrospective studies, case reports, or reviews that may be affected by reporting bias.1-9
      Therefore new guidelines could be designed based on the information derived from a
      prospective data collection of newly diagnosed patients.

      For this study Spinal Canal Involvement (SCI) is defined when, referring to an axial plane of
      the spinal cord MRI scan (Figure 1), the tumour extends into the vertebral canal and goes
      beyond a mentally drown ellipsoid (red circle) passing through the cortical bone of both
      anterior and posterior arches of the vertebra. This involvement is called "intraspinal" or,
      better, "intracanal".

      Patient data to be collected and included in the corresponding Forms

        1. work-up at diagnosis, including radiology report (Computed Tomography or Magnetic
           Resonance Imaging)

        2. treatment administered

        3. response to treatment, including radiology report

        4. follow-up

        5. outcome
    
  