
    
      The use of neoadjuvant systemic therapy in the treatment of breast cancer patients is
      increasing beyond the scope of locally advanced disease. Imaging provides important
      information in assessing response to therapy as a complement to conventional tumor
      measurements via physical examination. Tumor response to neoadjuvant therapy can also provide
      prognostic information. The attainment of pCR after completion of neoadjuvant therapy and
      surgical resection is associated with improved disease-free survival. This correlation is
      especially strong for Triple-receptor negative and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2
      (HER-2) positive breast cancer. Studies of neoadjuvant therapy have used a variety of methods
      for assessing tumor response. Currently, there are no established clinical practice
      guidelines for how best to assess tumor response to neoadjuvant therapy. Typically, patients
      undergo conventional breast imaging such as mammography and ultrasonography (US) and physical
      examination, and dynamic contrast-enhanced breast magnetic resonance imaging (DCR-MRI) in
      selected cases.

      Contrast Enhanced Digital Mammography (CEDM) is a novel imaging technique, which allows
      digital mammography to be used with contrast enhancement to depict cancers that would
      otherwise be occult on standard unenhanced mammography. CEDM is performed with and without
      intravenous iodine contrast, using the dual energy subtraction technique. Compared with
      mammography and US, CEDM improves the sensitivity for breast cancer detection without
      decreasing specificity. CEDM digital detector has higher spatial resolution than MRI,
      revealing details that are approximately 10 times better. In contrast to the rapid washout in
      MRI, enhancement on CEDM in fact persists for at least 10 min after contrast agent infusion.
      Today CEDM is available commercially for clinical use. It is estimated that over 200,000 CEDM
      examinations have been performed to date in both research and clinical settings. CEDM costs
      significantly less compared to MRI. Furthermore, longer time delays between contrast
      injection and CEDM exposure could result in stronger enhancement and hence better visibility
      compared to MRI, especially given the much higher spatial resolution of digital mammography.
      It is unknown whether CEDM can improve the sensitivity of mammography in the early assessment
      of neoadjuvant therapy response. We hypothesize that CEDM is superior to mammography and
      ultrasound in assessing early response, and pre-surgical residual cancer after neoadjuvant
      therapy, and when performed, non-inferior to MRI in assessing the residual disease using the
      metrics of pCR and residual cancer burden (RCB).
    
  