
    
      Specific Aims: Feasibility of an Early Detection Program for Early Psychosis on a College
      Campus Long duration of untreated psychosis (DUP) is associated with poor outcomes, including
      higher rates of suicide, hospitalization, and overall low functioning.1,2 More widespread use
      of effective strategies to decrease DUP are needed to address the substantial discrepancy
      between the actual (i.e., on average 2 years) and recommended time (i.e., 3 months) between
      the appearance of psychotic symptoms and the initiation of treatment.3 Early detection (ED)
      programs aim to decrease DUP by increasing case identification and removal of barriers to
      coordinated specialty care (CSC).4 The most studied components of ED programs include: (i)
      educational campaigns;5 ED response teams designed to optimize the referral processes to
      CSC;6 and to a lesser extent, screening among high-risk groups.7 While results of studies on
      individual ED components have been inconsistent, combinations of ED components have had more
      success in reducing DUP.8 For example, the Treatment and Intervention in Psychosis ED
      program, which included educational campaigns and ED teams, reported an average decrease in
      DUP from 1.5 years to 0.5 years pre-post implementation.9,10 The evidence on community-based
      ED programs is large and growing but very little is known about the effectiveness of ED
      services on college campuses in the United States. This gap in the literature is problematic
      because, with the first symptoms of psychosis being most likely to surface among college age
      young adults, college campuses are critical locations to identify and refer individuals to
      CSC who are at increased risk of first episode psychosis (FEP).11 We aim to address this gap
      in the literature.

      The long-term goal of our program of research is to improve clinical and functional outcomes
      among college students with early stages of psychosis by reducing DUP. The objective of our
      proposed study is to determine the feasibility of an ED program that aims to: (i) identify
      college students at CHR of psychosis or with FEP, and (ii) efficiently link them to CSC
      services for a 2nd stage screen and a clinical assessment among those determined eligible.
      Students will be referred to treatment based on the results of the assessment (the University
      of New Mexico Department of Psychiatry CSC program includes clinical services for both FEP
      and CHR). We will also provide preliminary estimates of effectiveness with respect to the
      intervention. Our ED program will include two organizational level changes. First, we will
      implement universal screening (i.e., the Prodromal Questionnaire Brief12) for psychosis among
      college students who are seeking help at a college counseling center. Second, we will
      implement a collaborative, person-centered, and rapid referral process (<2 weeks) to CSC.
      Person-centered elements of the referral process include shared-decision making and a warm
      handoff (i.e., transfer of care between the college counseling center and CSC with the
      student present). The organizational-level changes will be facilitated by training, monthly
      meetings, and a decision support tool. Our focus on these two components was informed by: (i)
      input collected from the existing CSC clinical team, college counseling center staff, and
      students through campus-based meetings; (ii) evidence for universal screening7 and processes
      that facilitate rapid access to CSC9,10; and (iii) the pathways to care literature showing a
      strong link between health system factors and extended DUP.13 We planned our intervention and
      will evaluate it based on a combination of two theoretical frameworks: (i) Precede-Proceed
      Public Health Model14, and the (ii) RE-AIM15. Mixed methods will be used to attain our
      objective and achieve the following two specific aims:

        1. Identify whether (i) case identification, and (ii) referral-related barriers to CSC are
           important targets for ED programs on college campuses. We will compare number of
           referrals from the college counseling center to our CSC program in the preceding three
           years to the number received during the 2.5 years of implementation. Also, during the
           same time-period we will compare DUP, and pathways and perceived barriers to care
           between college students referred from the college counseling center and students
           presenting to CSC from other referral sources. We hypothesize that through our two
           mechanisms of change the number of college students referred to CSC will increase. We
           also hypothesize that, among college students referred to CSC from the college
           counseling center compared to those presenting from other referral sources, DUP will be
           shorter among those with FEP, and there will be fewer steps and perceived barriers for
           students with FEP or at CHR. We will also examine psychosis literacy among referrers
           from the counseling center. We hypothesize that psychosis literacy will increase
           pre-post implementation.

        2. Evaluate the feasibility of our ED program from the perspectives of various
           stakeholders.

      The proposed study is innovative because we will be pilot testing an ED program on a college
      campus. At the completion of the proposed research, our expected outcomes are preliminary
      data and knowledge on the feasibility of and effective targets for an ED program on a college
      campus. If determined feasible and effective, our proposed ED program has a high potential
      for widespread uptake and scale-up given the nominal costs and ease of replication of its
      components. The brief screener will be part of the routine intake and the warm handoff/rapid
      CSC access will be facilitated by CSC staff posing minimal burden on college counseling
      centers. With a diverse target population in terms of ethnicity and race, our findings will
      be generalizable to college campuses nationwide and may therefore ultimately impact DUP - a
      major public health problem.
    
  