
    
      Inclusion and exclusion criteria: Potential hypertensive subjects aged above 18 years and and
      continuously receiving their medicines from the pharmacy are going to be identified through
      administrative data sources. They must take at least hydrochlorothiazide, and have no
      modifications on their hypertensive drug prescription on the last 2 months. Patients who have
      a serious psychiatric disorder or a severe cognitive impairment, blindness, pregnancy or
      secondary hypertension will be excluded. To be considered eligible, the patients should have
      a mean systolic and diastolic blood pressure above 140 mmHg and 90 mmHg at the screening
      visit if there were no COM morbidities associated, and above 130 mmHg and 80 mmHg for
      high-risk patients, using the validated Omron Hern-705-CP upper arm automated monitor.

      Strategy/process by which participants/centres will be selected and recruited to the trial:
      Research assistants will invite the potential subjects when they attend the pharmacy to take
      their medicines or via telephone calls. By this moment, they will confirm eligibility and
      proceed the BP measures. If eligible for the study, the participant will receive all the
      trial explanations and the written informed consent will be obtained.

      Randomization: The random allocation will be stratified by gender through a
      computer-generated sequence, individually for each centre. To maintain cancel allocation
      status, opaque, numbered and sealed envelopes will be adopted.

      Interventions: Three different kinds of pharmacist services will be adopted, with growing
      complexity levels: drug dispensing, counseling and patient follow-up for 8 months. These
      methods are part of the Brazilian pharmaceutical care agreement, developed on the year of
      2002, and will be compared with the pharmacy usual care. Seven pharmacists and 12 students
      were in charge of the pharmaceutical care program. All of them were trained in a 20
      hour-course. Procedures details are written in a manual of operations, willing to standardize
      the interventions.

      Outcomes: The primary outcomes are the BP differences between the one measured at 8-month
      follow-up and the baseline BP and the adherence, determined by 2 ways: a) measurement of
      plasma levels of hydrochlorothiazide, measured at the beginning and at the end of the study;
      b) drugs refill along the 8-months prior the randomization and during the 8-months of the
      trial. The occurrence of drug-related problems will be evaluated as a secondary outcome.

      Blindness: Open-label study. Sample size: The study was design to enroll 304 patients equally
      distributed within the 4 centers, to provide 80% of statistical power to reject the null
      hypothesis and an error of 5% (two-tailed). Sampling size was calculated on the basis of a
      standard deviation of 10 mmHg, powered to detect clinically meaningful differences in mean
      changes of 5 mmHg between usual care and the intervention arms at 8-months follow-up,
      considering a 20% of drop-outs. Analyses will be conducted on intention-to-treat basis.

      • Statistics: To assess for any differences among the intervention groups, the baseline
      characteristics will be compared performing Pearson χ2 test for categorical variables and F
      tests for continuous variables, and Fisher Exact test or Kruskal-Wallis if necessary. For the
      primary outcomes, the same tests will be applied. Analysis of covariance will be used when
      necessary.
    
  