
    
      Post-mastectomy pain occurs in up to 55% of patients and can last for months. The development
      of chronic pain is related to experienced perioperative pain. The development of chronic pain
      is related to experienced perioperative pain. There is great potential to enhance the quality
      of life for breast surgery patients if the hospital can improve our perioperative pain
      prevention techniques. New to the spectrum of multimodal analgesia is the pectoralis block
      (PECs), which provides anesthesia to the anterior and anterior lateral chest wall as well to
      the axilla. This study is about aims to compare the pectoralis block to paravertebral block
      with benefits of ease placement, less risk for harm to nearby structures including
      pneumothorax, spinal cord trauma, sympathetic block and hypotension.

      Literature reveals that the pectoralis block has provided improved pain scores as well as
      decreases post-operative nausea and vomiting, longer block duration, and subsequent pain
      relief in patient. Despite these promising preliminary studies, there remains a paucity on
      the effectiveness of the PECs Block, particularly regarding long term outcomes for patients.

      Furthermore, there is no literature to date which has evaluated the best regional anesthetic
      technique for patients who receive breast tissue expanders, which can cause a significant
      amount of muscle pain and spasm due to the intended muscle disruption during surgical
      placement. The primary outcomes of this study is to compare total opioid consumption during
      the post-surgical period limited to 24 hrs beginning at PACU admission between patients who
      receive bilateral pectoralis plane versus bilateral paravertebral blocks and subsequently
      undergo bilateral mastectomy with tissue expanders.

      The secondary outcomes includes post-operative pain scores on PACU arrival and discharge,
      post-operative days (POD) 1, 7, and 30, presence/absence of axillary pain, muscle relaxant
      consumption, presence of severity of muscle spasm, total antiemetic consumption 24-hrs
      beginning at PACU admission, presence of chronic opioid use (Defined as consumption at 30
      days), time to perform block, and PACU duration.
    
  