
    
      Blood born viral hepatitis is a type of viral hepatitis that is usually transmitted with
      transfusion of blood and blood products. Accordingly patients with hematological disorders
      are at higher risk for infection with blood born hepatitis as blood transfusion besides
      regular sampling are integral parts in management of hematological patients. This was the
      case in patients with ITP, however not all patients with ITP in need for regular platelet
      transfusion. The mainstay of treatment of ITP is immunosuppression, that was mainly dependent
      on parenteral or oral steroids for long time. Triple therapy was recently introduced for
      treatment of patients with ITP it induces strong immunosuppression that could make patients
      vulnerable to infections.

      Several studies accused immunosuppression in patients with hematological malignancies under
      chemotherapy to be a risk factor for infection with blood born hepatitis, as such triple
      therapy could predispose patients with ITP to blood born viral hepatitis infection.

      On the other hand infection with blood born hepatitis in patients with ITP on Triple therapy
      could affect patient outcome and response to treatment. This is because thrombocytopenia is a
      common extra hepatic manifestation of hepatitis C viral infection on its chronic form.

      Egypt is a country with high prevalence of blood born viral hepatitis viral hepatitis C.
      Recently, the president of Egypt elaborated an initiative (100 million Health) that was
      managed with the Ministry of Health in all over the country. This initiative aimed to
      eliminate blood born hepatitis particularly C from the Country.

      This work will be conducted in Egypt and focused on ITP patients on Triple therapy to assess
      their vulnerability for infection with blood born hepatitis as they are a particular sector
      of the Egyptian population at higher risk for infection.
    
  