
    
      Bacteremia is a well-recognized invasive medical condition. In most cases, it is a transient
      phenomenon without clinical consequences. In certain patients, such as those with structural
      cardiac abnormalities, it may lead to the development of infectious endocarditis. According
      to an American Heart Association statement, routine endocarditis prophylaxis is indicated
      prior to invasive procedures with relatively high bacteremia rates, such as dental
      care,certain types of catheterization and rigid bronchoscopy [1].Fibreoptic bronchoscopy,
      with or without biopsy is not included in this list due to a very low bacteremia rate
      [1].This even applies to particularly high risk patients with prosthetic valve or previous
      endocarditis. Yigla et al. assessed the incidence of bacteremia following bronchoscopy and
      found 6.5% of bacteremia rate. (2) Recently, Steinfort et al. assessed the bacteremia rate
      following endobronchial ultrasound and found 7% of bacteremia rate following the procedure.
      All bacterial isolates were typical oropharyngeal commensal organisms. The transbronchial
      needle aspiration washing culture was positive in 35% of the patients. However, none of the
      bacteremic patients had clinical features suggestive of infection and no complications were
      seen among the cohort. (3) No data are available, however about the bacteremic rate following
      interventional bronchoscopy for endobronchial obstruction and advance lung carcinoma. In
      these cases, palliative setting of alleviating central airway obstruction, laser resection,
      electrocautery, argon plasma coagulation and stenting are techniques that can provide
      immediate relief.

      Argon plasma coagulation (APC) is uses ionize argon gas jet flow to conduct electrons
      allowing a noncontact mode of treatment (lightning effect). (4, 5) APC has been popular in
      gastrointestinal endoscopy for superficial coagulation of large mucosal surfaces. The argon
      gas quite flexibly flows around bends and corners. Coagulated tissue has a higher resistance
      that automatically drives the argon gas flow away to nearby untreated tissue. An immediate
      effect really can be seen during electrocautery treatment, which corresponds well with the
      histological effect of coagulative necrosis.

      We therefore conduct a prospective study to assess the bacteremic rate following APC in
      patients with endobronchial involvement.
    
  