
    
      Over time, the number of patients on the lung transplant waiting list and the number of lung
      transplants performed have greatly increased. Unfortunately, the number of patients on the
      waiting list has outpaced the transplant rate, resulting in a significant number of deaths
      for patients on the waiting list.

      Live lung donation has the potential to decrease wait time for lung transplants and the rate
      of death for those awaiting transplants. However, since live lung donation typically utilizes
      one lobe of lung from each of two donors, transplantation puts two donors at risk for adverse
      events. Although live lung donation began in the early 1990s, there is still a great lack of
      published and comprehensive, long-term studies, leaving the outcome of live lung donation
      unclear. This study will assess post-donation outcomes in live lung donors. Specifically,
      investigators will determine the effects of live lung donation on lung function, quality of
      life, morbidity, psychosocial status, satisfaction with live lung donation, and
      decision-making associated with live lung donation. Information obtained from this study will
      allow potential future live lung donors and the interested public to become better informed,
      and may also assist potential donors in their decision-making process regarding the
      procedure. Furthermore, positive study results could potentially reassure previous live organ
      donors about uncertainties concerning their future health.

      There will be 369 participants recruited for this study based on live lung donations, which
      occurred from 1993 through 2006. Study coordinators will contact eligible participants
      inviting participants to the study and answering any questions. Participants will have the
      option to partially or completely refuse participation. Each consenting donor will complete a
      series of questionnaires via phone and mail. The questions address issues related to the
      donor's quality of life, morbidity, psychosocial status, satisfaction with live lung
      donation, and decision-making associated with live lung donation. The questionnaires will
      take about one hour to complete. The coordinator will offer assistance regarding
      questionnaire completion and return. At the end of the study, a final brief status update
      will be obtained via phone interview.

      In addition to questionnaires, participants will also be asked to participate in spirometry
      testing. For consenting participants, spirometry testing will be scheduled at either the two
      study sites or an approved Pulmonary Function Laboratory. During the test, the participant
      will breathe in and out of a plastic tube while a machine measures the amount and flow of air
      the donor breathes in and out. If deemed appropriate, the participant will do this test again
      a few minutes after being given albuterol, a drug which aims to optimize lung function.
      Spirometry testing will last about an hour.
    
  