
    
      Depression is currently one of the mental health disorders that have gained relevance
      globally due to its constant increase in recent years. In Mexico, it is the disease that
      occupies the fourth position of diseases that cause disability. This disorder manifests as
      symptoms of physical pain when it is at high levels, resulting in a decrease in the quality
      of life. Other symptoms are; changes in eating, sleeping habits, and also presents
      comorbidity with anxiety disorders. In some cases, is presented suicidal ideation and
      behavior.

      University students belong to the vulnerable age group, among them it has been shown that it
      is medical students who have symptoms of depression and are 2.45 times more likely to commit
      suicide compared to the general population. Medical students are a population at risk taking
      the characteristics of mental disorders such as depression, which can lead to abandoning
      studies, makes it difficult to work efficiently, and is present the deterioration of social
      relationships.

      In the statistics on the death of doctors, between 300 and 400 doctors commit suicide each
      year in the United States alone (2018). In contrast, in Mexico there is no reported suicide
      statistics in doctors, however the data shows that the phenomenon of suicide has increased in
      recent years in the general population.

      The patients will be treated through Behavioral Activation Therapy. Through some studies, the
      efficacy of the Behavioral Activation Therapy has been confirmed compared to exclusively
      cognitive cutting therapy. Other studies have corroborated the effectiveness of Behavioral
      Activation Therapy through a meta-analysis comparing this model with waiting list groups,
      placebo, conventional treatment and has even obtained better results with drugs treating
      cases of severe depression.

      This study will have only one intervention group, without a control group or waiting list.
      The patients will be submitted to pre and post treatment. The subjective measures will be:

        1. -The Center for Epidemiologic Studies - Depression (CES-D) scale.

        2. - The Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale - 21 Items (DASS-21).

        3. - Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index.

        4. - The Plutchik Suicide Risk Scale

      Also it is planned to measure the brain activity of the patients through an
      electroencephalogram, specifically the alpha and beta rhythms. To perform this measure, it
      will be used the EMOTIVE EPOC + of 14 channels is non-invasive, painless, low cost method
      Used for scientific research. The 14 channels with which the device counts. It allows to
      measure the cerebral areas AF3, F7, F3, FC5, T7, P7, O1, O2, P8, T8, FC6, F4, F8, AF4, based
      on the international system 10-20.

      The intervention will be implemented in two cities in two public universities. Autonomous
      University of Baja California at the Faculty of Medicine and Psychology and the Autonomous
      University of Juarez at the Institute of Biomedical Sciences.
    
  