
    
      Dependence on tobacco derived nicotine is a major public health problem. Data suggest tobacco
      smokers are more impulsive on both self-report and behavioral measures than non-smokers.
      Behavioral measures of impulsivity predict outcome during smoking cessation. Successful
      quitters have better impulse control compared to current smokers. Impulsivity is defined
      behaviorally as a predisposition toward rapid, unplanned reactions to internal and external
      stimuli without regard for the negative consequences. Impulsivity is often measured
      behaviorally in two major domains, delay discounting, i.e., the choice of smaller immediate
      reward over a larger, delayed reward, and response inhibition, the inability to stop a
      response once it is initiated. A drug-free method that decreases smokers' impulsivity and
      enhances inhibitory control could improve sustained efficacy of smoking cessation treatment.

      Treatments integrating mindfulness have been associated with decreases in impulsiveness and
      substance use in people with addiction. A preliminary study of reports that 100% of
      mindfulness-trained smokers that meditated at least 45 minutes daily were still abstinent at
      6 weeks post-quit. Preliminary data suggest that mindfulness training benefits people with
      substance use disorders through multiple cognitive mechanisms, including decreased
      self-report motor impulsiveness. Yet, no widely accepted behavioral measures of impulsivity
      or inhibitory control have been used to measure the effect of mindfulness practice in
      smokers. This project aims to evaluate the relationship between mindfulness and behavioral
      measures of impulsivity and inhibitory control in smoking cessation and early abstinence.

      Data from mindfulness-oriented treatment studies suggest at-home formal meditation practice
      is the most important variable in attaining positive clinical outcomes. This conclusion
      supports the prevailing theory that high doses of repetitive meditation practice can elicit
      cortical remodeling. Since addiction has been conceptualized as a disease of staged
      neuroplasticity, an intensive behavioral program that can induce accelerated therapeutic
      neuroplasticity is particularly compelling. Current methods for self-reporting dose of formal
      mindfulness practice may be vulnerable to response bias and poor reporting response rates. We
      plan to use actigraphic monitoring of formal mindfulness practice using the Actiwatch Score
      to behaviorally validate meditation time and rigorously test the meditation dose effect
      theory which hypothesizes that formal meditation practice time will predict improvement in
      inhibitory control, delay discounting, and smoking outcomes.
    
  