
    
      If randomized to the cisplatin arm, you will receive cisplatin, 40 mg/m2, administered
      intravenously (IV) once a week (+/- 2 days) for 7 weeks. Per investigator discretion, if
      radiation continues beyond 7 weeks due to technical factors (not toxicity delays), an 8th
      dose of concurrent cisplatin may be added.

      It is strongly preferred that cisplatin be administered on Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday of
      each treatment week to maximize overlap with radiation; administration on Thursday or Friday
      for logistical purposes will be noted however will not constitute a protocol violation.
      Cisplatin can be given either before or after the radiation therapy fraction that is given on
      the same day. If a dose of cisplatin is omitted when radiotherapy is ongoing, it will not be
      made up or added to the end of treatment. The omitted dose and the reason for the omission
      should be recorded in the site's source documentation. If radiotherapy is held, cisplatin
      should be held during the treatment break and resumed when radiation restarts. In this case,
      the cisplatin dose is not considered skipped or omitted, but delayed.

      If you are randomized to arm you will receive cetuximab, 250 mg/m2, IV over 60 minutes on a
      weekly schedule (+/- 2 days). . Cetuximab may be administered either before or after the
      radiation fraction that is given on the same day. Docetaxel will be administered at least 30
      minutes following cetuximab. It is not permitted to make up missed doses of cetuximab or
      docetaxel. If a radiation therapy treatment break occurs, cetuximab should be held. When
      radiation restarts, cetuximab should resume.

      It is strongly preferred that cetuximab be administered on Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday of
      each treatment week to maximize overlap with radiation; administration on Thursday or Friday
      for logistical purposes will be noted however will not constitute a protocol violation.
      Cetuximab will be given once a week (+/- 2 days) for a total of 7 doses concurrent with
      radiation therapy and docetaxel.
    
  