
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a highly prevalent and disabling disorder associated with
      persistent low mood, loss of the capacity to experience pleasure (i.e. anhedonia), reduced
      social functioning, and impaired quality of life. MDD is estimated to affect approximately 2%
      of Canadian women and 1% of Canadian men at any point in time. The World Health Organization
      affirms that depression is the leading cause of disability worldwide, with increasing global
      economic impact.

      Standard treatments for depression include basic psychosocial support combined with
      antidepressant medication or psychotherapy. It has been observed, however, that only 50% of
      individuals respond to psychological treatment, and only 30-40% of patients achieve full
      remission after initial treatment with antidepressants. Music- and sound-related therapies
      have the potential to serve as adjuncts to, or facilitators of, medication. Several recent
      systematic reviews have concluded that music is an effective therapeutic tool with
      significant results on improving global state, symptoms, and overall functioning, and is also
      well-accepted by patients.

      The goal of this project is to evaluate the effectiveness of music and rhythmic sensory
      stimulation with low-frequency sounds as an adjunctive therapy for depression. Through a
      systematic collection of clinical, behavioural and electrophysiological measures, the project
      also aims to determine the possible mechanisms that underlie the effects of music- and
      sound-based therapies on symptoms of MDD. In addition to measures of depression severity and
      symptoms, we are also interested in secondary behavioral measures addressing possible
      confounding variables, such as anhedonia, quality of life, and individual differences in how
      people experience reward and pleasure associated with music. These assessments will allow an
      initial investigation of the neural correlates of the therapeutic effects of music in the
      treatment of depression, which is greatly warranted to better understand the efficacy of
      music- and sound-based treatments.
    
  