
    
      Power and sample size calculation The required number of patients has been estimated based on
      qualities to assess. The reproducibility (test-retest) of the questionnaire is one of the
      main properties and assess the lower acceptable limit is .85. However, knowing that the
      reproducibility of the English version was .97, the investigators estimated that the French
      version would be at least .90. A sample of 10 patients would be sufficient to obtain a power
      of 99% with a reproducibility of .901,9. Regarding validity, the investigators wish to obtain
      a statistically significant correlation with the three selected tests. The investigators
      hypothesized that the lowest correlation between the AOS-Fr and the SF-36 questionnaire would
      provide the lowest correlation, because the SF-36 is not specific to ankle OA. By estimating
      an average correlation of .50, 30 patients are required to obtain a significant correlation
      with a power of 80% and p < .051,9.

      Translation The study was approved by a local ethics committee (protocol #09-130). Following
      the guidelines for the cross cultural adaptation process written by the American Association
      of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) in 2000, the translation was performed using this six-step
      process 2: 1) Initial translation; 2) Synthesis; 3) Back translation; 4) Expert committee; 5)
      Test of the Pre-final version; and 6) Submission of document to the developer. For the
      "Initial translation", two independent translators whose mother tongue was French translated
      the scale from English to French. The second step of "Synthesis" required these two
      translators to meet, discuss and compose a synthesised version of the AOS. Two independent
      translators, blind to the original scale, whose mother tongue was English, translated the
      synthesised version back to English. An "Expert committee" composed of a linguist, two
      orthopaedic surgeons and the four translators revised the whole process and consolidated the
      pre-final version. The "Test of the Pre-final version" was performed using 60 subjects, with
      no ankle osteoarthritis, who answered the questionnaire and evaluated their comprehension of
      each item. From the data collected in this step, some sections of the test were changed to
      improve comprehension and readability. For the final step the investigators submitted the
      corrected version to Dr. Charles Saltzman, the developer of the English version, who approved
      its translation and use (Supplementary data 1).

      Evaluation of psychometric properties In order to validate the use of the French AOS version,
      the investigators set out to evaluate the psychometric properties of the test on ankle
      osteoarthritis patients using the same process as the original study validating the English
      version of the AOS 6. Patients with isolated ankle degenerative changes at the orthopaedic
      outpatient clinic of the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire de Sherbrooke (CHUS) were included.
      To be included, patients had to consider French as their mother tongue and be able to read
      and write in French. Patients under 18 years old and those with additional foot and/or ankle
      pathologies were excluded.

      At the first visit, socio-demographic data (age, sex, BMI, occupation) and pertinent past
      medical history (Diabetes, neuropathy, ankle or foot fractures)) were collected and patients
      were asked to perform single heel lift tests of both affected and unaffected side. The
      participants completed three questionnaires: AOS-French version, SF-36, and WOMAC. Criterion
      validity was assessed by comparing the AOS to the WOMAC and the SF-36 scores. Construct
      validity was established by the examination of the correlation between the AOS scores and the
      single heel lift test. Finally, to measure test-retest reliability, the patient was asked to
      complete the AOS a second time and a small questionnaire detailing any modification to the
      treatment (shoes, orthotics, medication, surgery, injection) one week following the first
      visit and return it by mail. Any modification to their treatment between the completion of
      the two AOS questionnaires would nullify the test-retest reliability, so these patients would
      be excluded in the analysis.
    
  