
    
      Hyperlipidemia continues to be a common problem in individuals with HIV, particularly those
      receiving HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) or the nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor,
      stavudine. PI-treated patients have been noted to have increases in low-density lipoprotein
      (LDL), triglycerides (TG), and total cholesterol compared to PI-treatment naive individuals.
      The prevalence of lipid abnormalities in patients receiving PI-containing therapy has been
      estimated at 27-57 percent; moreover, cardiovascular complications have begun to be revealed.
      Triglyceride elevations, in particular, are not only an independent risk factor for the
      development of coronary artery disease, but may also lead to pancreatitis. Despite treatment
      with fibric acid derivatives, such as gemfibrozil, TGs typically remain elevated above the
      upper limit of normal in HIV-infected subjects. One possible reason for persistently elevated
      TGs in these patients is reduced efficacy of their fibric acid therapy, which may result from
      an unrecognized drug-drug interaction. Fibric acid derivatives are metabolized in the liver
      via uridine 5'-diphosphate-glucuronosyl transferase enzymes (UGT), which are induced by the
      HIV PI ritonavir. Indeed, ritonavir significantly lowers plasma concentrations of other drugs
      metabolized by this enzymatic system by 40-50 percent. As UGT activity is induced, the
      metabolism of UGT substrates (gemfibrozil) will increase, resulting in a decrease in their
      plasma concentrations. Preliminary data in non-HIV-infected subjects suggest that reduced
      plasma concentrations of gemfibrozil are likely to result in reduced efficacy of the drug.
      Despite the fact that many HIV-infected patients with hypertriglyceridemia are likely to be
      receiving triglyceride-lowering therapy with a fibric acid derivative while simultaneously
      receiving antiretroviral therapy that includes ritonavir (i.e. lopinavir + ritonavir
      [LPV/r]), these two drugs have not been studied in combination to determine whether or not
      they interact. The objective of this study is to characterize the impact of LPV/r on the
      pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of gemfibrozil, after a single 600 mg oral dose, administered to
      healthy volunteers. In a longitudinal study design, fifteen subjects will receive a single,
      600 mg dose of gemfibrozil before and after 13 days of LPV/r 400/100 mg twice daily.
      Gemfibrozil pharmacokinetics will be determined on days one and 14 and compared using the
      student t-test. Results from this study will provide (or refute) the rationale for further
      studies designed to assess the possibility of dose-adjusting gemfibrozil when it is given in
      combination with ritonavir in order to maximize the pharmacologic effects of gemfibrozil.
    
  