
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and feasibility of transplantation of cord blood which is expanded
      in mesenchymal precursor cell (MPC) co-cultures then fucosylated with fucosyltransferase
      (FT)-VI and guanosine diphosphate (GDP) fucose prior to infusion in patients with hematologic
      malignancies following high-dose therapy.

      II. To evaluate the time to engraftment using expanded fucosylated cord blood.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the rate and severity of graft versus host disease. II. To evaluate the rates
      of infectious complications. III. To evaluate the rates of disease-free and overall survival.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 3 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients receive rituximab intravenously (IV) on day -11, anti-thymocyte globulin
      (ATG) IV over 4 hours on days -9 and -8, fludarabine IV over 1 hour, clofarabine IV over 1
      hour, busulfan IV over 3 hours on days -7 through -4, and total body irradiation (TBI) on day
      -3. Patients then receive a cord blood transfusion IV on day 0.

      GROUP II: Patients receive ATG IV over 4 hours on days -8 and -7, fludarabine IV over 30
      minutes on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV over 30 minutes on day -2. Patients then receive a
      cord blood transplant IV on day 0.

      GROUP III: Patients receive ATG IV over 4 hours on days -8 and -7, fludarabine IV over 30
      minutes on days -6 to -3, cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on day -6, and one low-dose
      treatment of TBI on day -1. Patients then receive a cord blood transplant IV on day 0.

      GVHD PROPHYLAXIS: All patients also receive mycofenolate mofetil IV over 2 hours or orally
      (PO) twice daily (BID) on days -3 with a taper beginning on day 100 in the absence of GVHD,
      tacrolimus IV or PO starting on day -2 for 6 months in the absence of GVHD, and
      filgrastim-sndz subcutaneously (SC) once daily (QD) starting on day 0 until white blood count
      begins to recover.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at months 1, 3, 6, and 12.
    
  