
    
      Perioperative neurocognitive disorders, including postoperative delirium (POD), are the
      leading cause of preventable postoperative morbidity in the elderly population. POD is an
      acute brain dysfunction characterized by changes in attention and cognition usually within of
      the first week after surgery and anesthesia. Its appearance triggers a series of events that
      often end in loss of independence, increased morbidity and mortality and increased health
      costs. It has been associated with the development of long-term cognitive impairment,
      including persistent dementia. Its nature is multifactorial and its pathophysiology is not
      yet fully elucidated.

      Over administration of anesthetics that potentiate the Gamma Amino Butyric A (GABAA)
      receptor, such as barbiturates or propofol, is related to an intraoperative
      electroencephalographic (EEG) pattern called burst suppression that has been associated with
      POD. It is a common event after cardiac surgery with an incidence ranging from 15% to 50%.
      Given its adverse impact on functioning and quality of life, delirium has enormous social
      implications for the individual, family, community, and health care systems.

      Burst suppression is a pattern observed in the EEG characterized by quasi-periodic
      alternations between isoelectricity (flat EEG) and brief bursts of electrical activity such
      as spikes, sharp waves, or slow waves. It reflects a brain state of relative cortical
      inactivity that is not observed during normal waking states or sleeping behaviors. This
      pattern can be observed associated with coma due to diffuse anoxic damage, induced
      hypothermia and Ohtahara syndrome epilepsy. In addition, the administration of high-dose
      anesthetics that potentiate the GABAA receptor produce burst suppression followed by
      isoelectricity. Burst suppression during maintenance of general anesthesia with anesthetics
      that enhance the GABAA receptor has previously been associated with POD. When propofol is
      administered as a bolus during anesthetic induction, older patients, can suffer burst
      suppression in seconds. However, it is unknown whether this pattern is secondary to a
      relative overdose of anesthetics or rather corresponds to a characteristic of the vulnerable
      brain that is suppressed at doses to which other patients do not present this pattern. At
      present, it is not known whether burst suppression is a modifiable risk factor for POD or an
      epiphenomenon or marker of other factors that cause POD. A randomized controlled clinical
      trial studied an EEG-guided anesthetic protocol that reduced the administration of
      anesthetic, diminished the incidence of burts suppression during the intraoperative period,
      but not the incidence of POD. Therefore, the association between bursts suppression induced
      by anesthetics and POD appears not to be causal.
    
  