
    
      Neovascular AMD is one of the primary causes of severe visual impairment in developed
      countries. Previously, laser photocoagulation or photodynamic therapy was used as its
      mainstay treatment. However, the efficacy of these treatment modalities has obvious
      limitations. In 2006, the FDA-approved anti-VEGF agent, ranibizumab, was introduced, followed
      by aflibercept in 2012. In addition, the off-label use of bevacizumab has been widely
      adopted. The introduction of these anti-VEGF agents has markedly improved the treatment
      outcomes of neovascular AMD, resulting in a significant decrease in the rate of visual loss
      and blindness. Currently, clinical trials are actively being performed to develop better
      treatment methods for neovascular AMD.

      In general, conducting clinical trials are expensive and require years to complete.
      Therefore, estimating the time required to complete the planned patient enrollment is
      essential for establishing an efficient clinical trial plan. Clinical trials are usually
      conducted in a controlled environment and have sophisticated eligibility criteria. Thus, all
      patients cannot be enrolled into a trial, and some of them, or sometimes the majority of
      them, are excluded on the basis of the eligibility criteria.

      Estimation of the proportion of patients in the study population who do not meet the
      eligibility criteria is important for several reasons. First, it may help to identify whether
      the results of the clinical trial can be applied to the real-world patients. Secondly, it may
      also help to predict the time required to finish the planned patient enrollment. In addition,
      if a particular set of criteria results in the exclusion of a relatively large number of
      patients, patient enrollment in future clinical trials could be accelerated by modifying some
      of these criteria. Furthermore, since the characteristics of neovascular AMD differ between
      Asian and Caucasian populations, obtaining data on Asian populations would be of great value.

      Therefore, the purpose of the present study was to evaluate the proportion of eyes that do
      not meet the eligibility criteria of clinical trials on neovascular AMD among the entire
      sample of eyes diagnosed with treatment-naïve neovascular AMD. The eligibility criteria of
      the VEGF Trap-Eye: Investigation of Efficacy and Safety in Wet AMD (VIEW) studies, were used
      for this investigation.
    
  