
    
      Clinical Background

      Bone metastasis give rise to major complications that lead to significant morbidity and
      impairment of life quality. The most common primary for bone metastasis is prostate, lung and
      breast carcinoma. These three have the highest cancer incidence in the USA with up to 85%
      prevalence of bone metastases at the time of death. Pain from these osseous lesions can be
      related to mechanical or chemical factors. Pressure effects on the periosteum or adjacent
      neural structures can cause local or radiating pain. Hemorrhage from local bone osteolysis by
      osteoclastic activity causes a local release of bradykinin, prostaglandins, histamine and
      substance P that can irritate the endosteal nerves as well as local nerves.

      The life expectancy of patients with osseous metastatic disease is variable but can be
      substantially longer for patients with multiple myeloma, breast or prostate cancer.
      Therefore, finding an effective local therapy that can improve patient quality of life and
      can be done at a single outpatient sitting would be beneficial.

      Current Treatment of Bone Metastases

      The current and emerging treatments for osseous metastases may be considered in several
      categories: radiotherapy, systemic chemotherapy (cytotoxic, hormonal and radionuclides),
      surgical stabilization and percutaneous tumor ablation. These treatments may be applied in
      isolation but also frequently in combination.

      External beam radiation therapy (EBRT) is one of the main treatments for osseous metastases.
      Radiation therapy creates its effect by destroying of the local tumor and inflammatory cells
      that are responsible for causing pain. Although the effect of radiotherapy to palliate pain
      and to control osseous metastatic disease is well established., there is significant relapse
      rate within patients who survived at least 12 weeks. Also the pain relief is often suboptimal
      leading to supplemental and persisting medication. Thus, the "net pain relief" less than the
      goal of pain relief for the total duration of life after treatment. Also, there is a limit on
      how much radiation can be given, this constitutes a problem in clinical oncology care.

      Chemotherapy has a variable effect on bone metastases related to a number of neoplasm, drug
      and patient related factors. Newer systemic treatments with radionuclides and bisphosphanates
      have shown some success. More recently, the development of recombinant osteoprotegerin and an
      anti-parathyroid hormone-related protein monoclonal antibody represent promising new options
      for the treatment of patients with bone metastases. However, there are numbers of important
      factors to consider such as potential side effects of treatment and unanswered questions
      regarding the optimal use of systemic agents: when should treatment begin, how long must
      treatment be continued, and what are the optimal dose and schedule to achieve clinically
      meaningful anti-tumor effects?

      Surgical therapy is essential in certain instances where mechanical strengthening is
      necessary such as an impending or occurred pathological fracture but it has little role in
      palliative therapy due to invasiveness and potential complications associated. Therefore, a
      more effective modality of local treatment for bone metastases could substantially improve
      quality of life.

      More recently, percutaneous procedures for local tumor ablation such as radiofrequency
      ablation and cryotherapy have shown promise in the treatment of metastatic bone lesions.

      MRI Guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) is a completely non-invasive technology
      for thermal ablation. HIFU is capable of concentrating ultrasonic pressure waves to a
      specified region without any physical penetration of the body. The converging ultrasonic
      pressure wave is converted to thermal energy at the specific depth, resulting in local
      heating at the focus. Temperature elevation is proportional to the proton resonance frequency
      shift, therefore MR imaging provides accurate technique for target definition and energy
      deposition control. MRI guided Focused Ultrasound therapy is being performed in treatment of
      uterine leiomyomas (fibroids). Recently the method has gained both AMAR authorization and FDA
      approval, and CE approval for that indication.

      Technical background: MR-guided intervention

      Since the first report of MR-guided biopsy in 1986 there has been an increasing interest in
      MR-guided interventions. Technical barriers, such as the inaccessibility to the patient
      during imaging and the lack of MR-compatible instruments (needles, scissors, etc.) have
      largely been solved. Today the majority of MR-guided interventions are made in conventional
      closed-bore scanners alongside diagnostic imaging. Also, MRI guidance is a cost effective
      approach to perform these minimally invasive procedures and can in many cases replace the
      more invasive and in-patient based procedures.

      New Possibilities: integration of MR imaging with therapy Until recently, control of
      destructive energy deposition has been an unresolved problem in tumor treatment. One of the
      greatest potentials of MRI is in monitoring the delivery of various destructive energies.
      Thermal monitoring is a particularly important application of interventional MRI. Thermal
      ablation techniques require not only good localization and targeting but also quantitative
      spatiotemporal control of energy deposition, which in turn requires monitoring of the thermal
      changes and the resulting tissue alterations.

      Hyperthermia is based on slight temperature elevation (about 41° C), which requires
      relatively long homogenous thermal treatment of solid tumors. The main assumption of
      hyperthermia is that malignant cells have a higher sensitivity to thermal damage than normal
      ones. The temperature sensitivity of various MRI parameters (T1, diffusion, and chemical
      shift) can be exploited for detecting temperature changes within the critical temperature
      range. Compared with hyperthermia, thermal surgery uses temperatures above 55-60° C, but for
      a short period only.

      Above 55-60 °C, proteins are denatured, and the resulting thermal coagulation causes
      irreversible tissue damage. Appropriate MRI sequences can demonstrate the normal margins
      surrounding thermal lesions, where the temperature elevation is still too low to cause cell
      necrosis, and, most importantly, can differentiate tissue phase transitions.

      Since MRI enables monitoring, new possibilities have emerged for interstitial laser therapy,
      cryo- or RF-ablation and high-intensity focused ultra¬sound treatment of different tumors.

      High-Intensity Focused Ultrasound (HIFU) The ability of the ultrasound imaging modality for
      guidance of minimally invasive procedures has been shown in various disorders but moreover,
      it has a significant potential to produce coagulation necrosis in exposed tissue by
      high-power focused sonication. By focusing high-power ultrasound beams at a distance from the
      source, total necrosis of tissues lying within the focal volume can be achieved without
      damage to the structures elsewhere in the path of the beam.

      Since diagnostic ultrasound images are not sensitive enough to guide focused ultrasound
      thermal therapy, MRI has been used to guide this intervention. MRI thermometry based on
      temperature-dependent proton resonance frequency has been shown to accurately reflect thermal
      changes in tissue. Currently, two types of HIFU-methods are clinically used: point-by-point
      ablation and volumetric ablation, the latter considered more energy-efficient.

      Clinical trials of HIFU in bone metastases have indicated that the method is safe and gives
      an effective reduction of patient pain. The short- and long-term effects on tumor volume and
      morphology do not seem to have been evaluated thus far.

      Objectives of the study

      MRI guided HIFU has been utilized to effect in treating metastatic and bening bone tumors.
      However detailed information upon treatment effect to pain, to the tumor volume and to the
      systemic immunological processes are lacking, and there are no prospective studies upon these
      issues. Furthermore, there is no randomized study comparing HIFU therapy to radiation
      therapy. There is no data upon HIFU therapy planning utilizing therapy planning software.

      The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate effectiveness of MRI guided HIFU in the
      treatment of metastatic bone tumors:

        -  Safety: To further evaluate incidence and severity of adverse events associated with
           MRI-HIFU therapy using novel cooled technique.

        -  Effectiveness: To determine the effect of MRI-HIFU treatments of metastatic bone tumors.
           Efficacy will be determined by the level of pain relief (as measured by the Visual
           Analog Scale; VAS), decrease in analgesics/opiate and improved quality of life (as
           measured by SF36 questionnaire, in Finnish) from baseline up to 24-Weeks post HIFU
           treatment.

      This study is designed as a prospective, two arm, nonrandomized study (Where one arm will
      consist of HIFU group and the other from RT group). Later on a wider randomized two arm study
      comparing outcomes between HIFU and RT could be executed. Furthermore, this study follows the
      "International Bone Metastases Consensus Working Party" on endpoint measurement for future
      clinical trials that was established in 2012 in conjunction with the American Society for
      Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO), the European Society for Therapeutic Radiology
      and Oncology (ESTRO), and the Canadian Association of Radiation Oncology (CARO)( Int J Radiat
      Oncol Biol Phys. 2012 Apr 1;82(5):1730-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2011.02.008. Epub 2011 Apr
      12.)

      Specific Objectives:

        1. Pain relief. The change in the patient pain relief will be assessed with the Visual
           Analog Scale (VAS), whereas the treated patient quality of life will be assessed the
           quality of life questionnaire. These assessments will be performed at baseline, on
           treatment day, and at each follow up time point.

        2. Additional data regarding dosage and frequency of analgesic consumption for the
           management of the metastatic bone tumor induced pain will also be collected.

        3. Effect on systemic immunological processes, such as tumor markers and cytokines will be
           monitored via repeated blood samples.

        4. Relative Safety will be evaluated using a common description of Significant Clinical
           Complications for patients treated in this study. This study will be performed on either
           the 1.5T or 3T MR scanners.

        5. Temporal effect of HIFU to tissue as observed with longitudinal imaging.

      The ultimate goal of this project is to establish a multidisciplinary mini-invasive
      environment using a 3 T MR imager with integrated high-intensity focused ultrasound.

      Eventually, during the years to come, the goal is to develop and clinically validate the
      MR-guided HIFU-interventions and place the potential treatment option in a clinical
      perspective, i.e. with regard to cost, morbidity rate and outcome in following disorders

        -  metastatic bone disease

        -  cortical and intra-articular osteoid osteomas

        -  solitary aggressive (giant cell tumor) or malignant (plasmacytoma) lesions

      Patient selection and pre -and postoperative imaging In this first phase, we include patients
      with intractable pain despite proper analgesics and radiotherapy treatment. These patients
      should not have more than three bone metastasis planned for treatment, and the source of pain
      should unambiguously localize to the metastasis that is considered to be sonicated. As this
      is a preliminary study, the anatomic location should be relatively easily accessible, i.e.
      the metastases should be located in the pelvic region, shoulders or in the extremities.
      Exclusion criteria include disease diffusely spread to bones, and the source of pain is not
      localized to the metastasis. Also, close proximity of a major nerve or artery is considered
      exclusion criteria. Other contraindications include ASA-class greater than II, when
      anesthesia during the procedure is required, allergy to MRI contrast medium or anesthetic
      agents.

      MRI unit, HIFU-system and sonication. As a novel image guided therapy platform for a 3-T
      scanner (Ingenia, Philips Healthcare, Best, The Netherlands) we will utilize completely
      non-invasive MRI guided High Intensity Focused Ultrasound platform (Sonalleve, Philips
      Healthcare, Vantaa, Finland) to perform and study the treatment. The high intensity focused
      ultrasound (HIFU) tabletop harbors a 256- element phased array HIFU transducer (focal length
      of 140 mm, operating at 1.2 MHz). The system has different ellipsoidal treatment volumes with
      cross-sectional diameter from 2 to 12 mm.

      The patient preparation includes preferably concise sedation e.g. with phentanyl and
      midazolam. However, the optimal pain relief is always individual, and is based on mutual
      agreement by the patient and the anesthesiologist specialized in pain relief.

      After pre-sonication MR imaging, the targeted volume is defined by the radiologist, and the
      thermal effect is assessed by the vendor provided pulse-sequences (fast-field echo with echo
      planar imaging) that enable the proton resonance frequency shift (PRFS) MR thermometry
      method. The temperature should reach more than 55 degrees for each volume in order to achieve
      thermal coagulation that causes irreversible tissue damage.

      Current status of the work The magnet and sonication instrumentation has been installed in
      early 2016, and currently the MRI is used for clinical examinations and for HIFU therapy of
      uterine myomas (fibroids).

      Clinical significance MRI guided high-intensity focused ultrasound has the potential to
      become a cost-saving clinical application of MR as it integrates imaging with therapy. Lack
      of ionizing radiation, improved target visualization with reduced risk of injury, and have a
      direct impact on patient care, eventually leading to improved quality of life.

      Institutional environment and resources South West Finland Imaging centre is the diagnostic
      hub of Turku University hospital with 60 academic radiologists and supporting staff.
      Department of Oncology has extensive experience in oncological research and related imaging.
      The team headed by Docent Roberto Blanco Sequeiros has access to the scanning facilities that
      will be used in the project. South West Finland Imaging centre will provide the software
      development tools and computers required for the project. In addition, Prof. Heikki Minn,
      director of department of oncology is the main collaborator and Co-PI in the research. This
      will facilitate adequate patient selection and monitoring of research subjects. Close
      collaboration will be performed with Karolinska institutet where similar project is underway
      with the leadership of Professor Seppo Koskinen.

      Ethical Considerations Corresponding ethical approval for the proposed clinical studies has
      been obtained from the ethical committee at Turku University Hospital, Turku. Clinical
      studies will start only after organizational permit is gained. Relevant patient information
      will be anonymized and protected in separate electronical storage which will be protected
      with encryption and researcher specific login data.

      Funding The project has initial funding from the EVO-funding. Additional funding has been
      applied from the Swedish ALF- 2017 funding (Anslag forskning, utveckling och utbildning)
    
  