
    
      Background and Justification

      Both HIV and TB can successfully be managed using the currently available medications with
      the latter being curable. However, due to the detrimental drug-drug interaction (DDI) between
      RIF and the bPIs, there is a challenge in the management of the two conditions concurrently
      in persons who need both classes of drugs. RIF is a strong inducer of the hepatic enzyme
      cytochrome P450 (CYP) 34A which metabolizes several agents including the PI drugs thereby
      reducing their bioavailability. While rifabutin, an alternative rifamycin is associated with
      less DDI with bPI and maybe a better alternative to RIF in such circumstances, its cost,
      toxicity and lack of co-formulated preparations renders it to be a less likely sustainable
      option especially in LRS.

      Though data published in 2008 showed a high incidence of adverse events when higher adjusted
      doses of LPV/r were used to overcome the DDI effect with RIF among healthy volunteers, data
      in 2012 among HIV-infected adults treated with adjusted doses of LPV/r co-administered with
      RIF-based TB treatment showed the drug was well tolerated with no significant adverse events.
      The major difference is that the 2012 study was conducted among HIV infected patients, that
      were already on normal doses of LPV/r and RIF at the time of enrolment who underwent PI dose
      escalation unlike the 2008 study among healthy volunteers who received the RIF and shortly
      after higher than normal doses of LPV/r in short succession with no step-wise phase to allow
      compensation. Similarly to LPV, ATV is affected by the inducing effect of RIF on the drug
      metabolizing enzyme cytochrome P450 (CYP) 34A, thereby significantly reducing its
      bioavailability to sub-therapeutic levels when co-administered in standard doses with RIF.

      Several studies exploring the interaction between ATV/r and RIF have reached similar
      conclusions to the experience with LPV/r and RIF: A study in healthy volunteers given RIF
      first, then ATV/r first at standard dose with proposed dose escalation was halted when the
      first three participants developed hepatotoxicity. It was noted that the pre-induction of
      giving RIF first could have caused this problem. This argument is supported by a study
      conducted by Burger and colleagues where participants were first given ATV/r before the
      addition of RIF and where no hepatotoxicity occurred; in that study, the dose escalation
      evaluated was insufficient to overcome the interaction, but concluded that further evaluation
      was safe and appropriate. Similarly, Acosta and colleagues concluded that increased unboosted
      ATV was safe for co-administration with RIF, but that higher doses are required to overcome
      the DDI. No studies have yet evaluated this interaction in HIV-infected individuals.

      It is notable that all of the currently available PIs have been associated with transient and
      usually asymptomatic elevations in serum aminotransferase levels, and ATV has been associated
      with mild-to-moderate elevations in indirect and total bilirubin concentration. All studied
      PIs are rare causes of clinically apparent, acute liver injury. The protease inhibitors are
      heterogeneous molecules with little structural similarity, most of which are peptide-like and
      resemble the short peptide that is cleaved by the viral protease; for this reason, the
      patterns of liver toxicity will differ between drugs of this class.

      A recent study seeking to evaluate an increased dose of the bPI ritonavir boosted darunavir
      (DRV/r) in combination with rifampicin resulted in rates of hepatotoxicity which necessitated
      the trial to be halted on the advice of the IDSMB (CROI 2019 Abstract 81). These trial
      participants had been stable on treatment with LPV/r and were transitioned to DRV/r for the
      trial; the alteration in liver enzymes became apparent early on, and may have resulted in
      part from the change in bPI administered to the patient.

      For the reasons detailed in the paragraphs above in consideration of the previous studies
      investigating either LPV/r, ATV/r or DRV/r in conjunction with RIF, we have chosen the study
      population of healthy HIV-infected patients who are already stable on treatment with standard
      dose of ATV/r, and who will have RIF introduced at a time when they will be at equilibrium as
      regards the ATV/r. Continuation on ATV/r at standard dose together with RIF for a two week
      period will enable a further equilibrium to have been established prior to escalation of the
      bPI dose. Both of these considerations may reduce the likelihood of hepatotoxicity, although
      frequent monitoring of safety bloods will be undertaken.

      RIF also affects the bioavailability of DTG, however, this is effectively overcome by
      administering DTG twice daily as opposed to the standard once-a-day dose; the elevated dose
      of DTG has not been associated with concerns relating to liver toxicity.

      As part of the VirTUAL consortium, physiologically-Based Pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modelling was
      done at the University of Liverpool to characterize bPI and RIF DDIs. Dosing strategies were
      identified / predicted to overcome the DDI between bPI and RIF that informed the ATV doses
      that shall be used in this trial to predict the most appropriate dose of ATV given with a
      standard dose RIF. From this work, it is predicted that increasing the dose of boosted ATV
      from ATV/r 300/100mg once daily to 300/100mg twice daily will achieve sufficient plasma
      concentrations when ATV/r is to be given in combination with RIF. The PBPK model utilised for
      this prediction was developed considering a mathematical description of the molecular and
      physiological processes underpinning the distribution of ATV/r and RIF. Experimental and
      clinical data were integrated into a computational framework developed using MATLAB and
      Simbiology and validated following international guidelines.

      The RIF induction potential on Phase I enzyme and transporters expression, the RIF inhibitory
      effect on uptake transporters and the RTV inhibitory effect on CYP3A4 were all mathematically
      described for the simulation of the DDI. The PBPK model was qualified considering available
      clinical data for CYP3A4 probe (midazolam) and ATV ± RTV alone at different doses (400mg q.d
      unboosted, 300/100 mg q.d boosted) or in combination with RIF as previously described. The
      qualification was based on the calculation of the absolute average fold error (AAFE) and root
      mean squared error (RMSE) where appropriate. AAFE is a useful parameter to assess over or
      under-prediction of the model, values closer to 1 indicates a closer similarity with observed
      values. RMSE calculates the error between the predicted value and the observed value. RMSE is
      particularly sensitive to outliers and values closer to zero indicate a reliable prediction.
      The model was assumed to be qualified if the simulated values were within 2-fold of the mean
      reported values, AAFE <2 and RMSE <1 as per convention for the approach. Dose adjustment to
      overcome the effect of RIF on ATV/r was simulated considering available formulations with the
      overall of achieving ATV exposure comparable to established regimens (e.g. 300/100mg q.d)
      without RIF.

      This study therefore aims to evaluate the steady state of the PBPK modelled adjusted doses of
      ATV given in different doses in HIV-1 infected adults on second line therapy with suppressed
      viral load so as to determine the most appropriate dose to be used concurrently with RIF. The
      study will evaluate baseline ATV/r concentrations in participants who have been treated with
      this agent for many months, then evaluate the impact of the addition of RIF, before
      evaluating ATV/r at the full modelled dose (300/100 twice daily) with a final step to
      consider the impact of increased doses of RIF (from standard dosing of 600 mg once daily to
      1200 mg once daily).
    
  