
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine if the addition of a monoclonal antibody (none vs. rituximab) improves
           event-free survival (EFS) in patients with newly diagnosed precursor B-cell acute
           lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL).

        -  To determine if the addition of nelarabine improves outcome for patients with T-cell
           ALL.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the tolerability of pegaspargase in induction therapy of all patients.

        -  To compare anti-asparaginase antibody levels in patients with B-lineage ALL.

        -  To determine whether risk-adapted introduction of unrelated donor hematopoietic stem
           cell transplantation (HSCT) (myeloablative conditioning in patients ≤ 40 years old and
           non-myeloablative conditioning in patients > 40 years old) results in greater EFS for
           patients at highest risk of relapse.

        -  To compare the efficacy of two schedules (standard vs collapsed) of palifermin in
           preventing severe mucosal toxicity in patients treated with etoposide, total-body
           irradiation, and HSCT-conditioning therapy.

        -  To assess the late effects of this treatment in these patients.

        -  To identify and describe some of the adverse physical and psychosocial consequences of
           this disease and its treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. There are 3 randomizations at different timepoints in
      the trial, each patient undergoes at least 1 but no more than 2 randomizations.

        -  Part 1 standard induction therapy (all patients*, weeks 1-4): Patients receive
           daunorubicin hydrochloride IV over 20 minutes and vincristine sulfate IV over 5-10
           minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22; oral dexamethasone once a day on days 1-5, 8-11, and
           15-18; pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on days 4 and 18; and methotrexate intrathecally
           (IT) on day 14.

      NOTE: *Patients with Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) disease should also receive oral imatinib
      mesylate once a day on days 1-28.

        -  Randomized concurrent monoclonal antibody therapy (for patients with precursor B-cell
           acute lymphoblastic leukemia [ALL]): Patients with precursor B-cell ALL are randomized
           to 1 of 4 monoclonal antibody treatment arms (given concurrently with part 1 standard
           induction therapy):

             -  Arm B1: Patients do not receive any monoclonal antibody therapy.

             -  Arm B2 : Patients receive rituximab IV on days 3, 10, 17, and 24.

                  -  Part 2 standard induction therapy (all patients*, weeks 5-8): Patients receive
                     cyclophosphamide IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 15; cytarabine IV on days
                     2-5, 9-12, 16-19, and 23-26; oral mercaptopurine once a day on days 1-28; and
                     methotrexate IT on days 1, 8, 15, and 22.

      NOTE: *Patients with Ph+ disease should also receive oral imatinib mesylate once a day on
      days 1-30.

        -  Randomized subsequent nelarabine therapy (for Patients with T-cell ALL) Patients with
           T-cell ALL are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms, to be administered after completion
           of part 2 standard induction therapy.

             -  Arm T1: Patients do not receive any other therapy during induction.

             -  Arm T2: Patients receive nelarabine IV over 2 hours on days 1, 3, and 5. Patients
                who do not achieve complete remission (CR) after part 2 standard induction therapy
                are taken off study.

                  -  Intensification/central nervous system prophylaxis (patients not eligible for
                     transplant OR patients > 40 years at study entry and eligible for
                     transplant)*: Beginning after recovery from part 2 standard induction therapy,
                     patients receive high-dose methotrexate IV on days 1 and 15 and pegaspargase
                     IV over 1-2 hours on days 2 and 16.

      NOTE: *Patients with Philadelphia-positive (Ph+) disease should also receive oral imatinib
      mesylate once a day on days 1-28.

      Patients eligible for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) (i.e., any
      patient with an HLA-compatible sibling donor or high risk patients with a molecularly matched
      donor) undergo transplantation; patients not eligible for HSCT undergo consolidation followed
      by maintenance therapy.

        -  Consolidation therapy* (patients not eligible for transplantation):

             -  Course 1: Beginning after completion of intensification therapy, patients receive
                cytarabine IV and high-dose etoposide IV over 30 minutes on days 1-5, pegaspargase
                IV over 1-2 hours on day 5, and methotrexate IT on day 1. Patients proceed to
                course 2 beginning 3 weeks after the start of course 1 or when neutrophils recover.

             -  Course 2: Patients receive cytarabine IV and high-dose etoposide IV over 30 minutes
                on days 1-5 and methotrexate IT on day 1. Patients proceed to course 3 beginning 3
                weeks after the start of course 2 or when neutrophils recover.

             -  Course 3 (delayed intensification): Patients receive daunorubicin hydrochloride IV
                over 20 minutes and vincristine sulfate IV over 5-10 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and
                22; pegaspargase IV over 1-2 hours on day 4; oral dexamethasone once a day on days
                1-4, 8-11, 15-18, and 22-25; methotrexate IT on days 2 and 17; cyclophosphamide IV
                on day 29; cytarabine IV on days 30-33 and 37-40; and oral mercaptopurine once a
                day on days 29-42. Patients proceed to course 4 after neutrophils recover.

             -  Course 4: Patients receive cytarabine IV, high-dose etoposide IV, and methotrexate
                IT as in course 2.

      NOTE: *Patients with Ph+ disease should also receive oral imatinib mesylate once a day on
      days 1-7 in courses 1 and 2, on days 2-42 in course 3, and on days 1-8 in course 4.

        -  Maintenance therapy (patients not eligible for transplantation): Patients receive
           vincristine sulfate IV every 3 months, oral prednisolone once a day on days 1-5 every 3
           months, oral mercaptopurine once daily, methotrexate IV or orally once a week, and
           methotrexate IT every 3 months for 2 years.

        -  Transplant conditioning and allogeneic HSCT:

             -  Myeloablative-conditioning and allogeneic HSCT (patients ≤ 40 years old at study
                entry): Patients undergo total-body irradiation on days -7 to -4 and receive
                high-dose etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -3 or high-dose cyclophosphamide IV over
                2 hours on days -3 and -2. Patients then undergo allogeneic HSCT on day 0.

      Patients are stratified according to gender, donor (sibling donor vs. matched unrelated
      donor), and cellular type of ALL (precursor B-lineage vs. T-lineage). Patients are randomized
      to receive 1 of 2 palifermin treatment arms.

        -  Arm P1 (standard dose): Patients receive palifermin IV on days -3 to 2.

        -  Arm P2 (collapsed dose): Patients receive palifermin IV on days -1 to 2.

             -  Non-myeloablative-conditioning and allogeneic HSCT (patients > 40 years old at
                study entry): Patients receive fludarabine phosphate IV over 30-60 minutes on days
                -7 to -3 and melphalan IV over 90 days on day -1. Recipients of unrelated donor
                HSCT also receive alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on day -2 and -1; recipients of
                sibling HSCT receive alemtuzumab IV over 2 hours on day -1. Patients then undergo
                allogeneic HSCT on day 0. Patients also receive post transplant methotrexate IT
                every 3 months for 2 years.

      Patients undergo blood and bone marrow sample collection periodically for correlative
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed annually.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  