
    
      Clinical trials have demonstrated that intranasal insulin improves both memory performance
      and metabolic integrity of the brain in patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease or
      cognitive impairment. A single dose of intranasal insulin acutely improved memory in
      memory-impaired older adults. Cognitive impairment in post-operative period is an increasing
      problem as more elderly patients undergo major surgery. The investigators have previously
      shown that intraoperative insulin administration while maintaining normoglycaemia preserves
      both short and long-term memory function after open heart surgery.

      Applying insulin as a nasal spray bypasses blood-brain barrier and cause significant and
      sustained elevation of insulin concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) without major
      effects on peripheral insulin levels. The administration of 40 IU of intranasal insulin(INI)
      rapidly increases CSF insulin concentration within seven minutes, peaking after 30 minutes
      and remaining elevated for more than 80 minutes.

      Presently it is not clear if CNS insulin plays a relevant role in controlling blood glucose
      in humans.

      Patients undergoing major surgery are exposed to metabolic and endocrine alterations in
      carbohydrate, protein, and insulin metabolism, often summarized as the catabolic stress
      response. While the effect of intravenous insulin on glucose metabolism during surgery has
      been extensively studied the influence of intranasal insulin administration on intraoperative
      plasma insulin and blood glucose concentrations is unknown.

      Goal and Objectives The goal of the present study is to study the effect of intranasal
      insulin on

        -  blood glucose and plasma insulin concentrations in patients undergoing elective cardiac
           surgery

        -  blood glucose, plasma insulin and cerebrospinal insulin concentration in patients
           undergoing elective endovascular thoracic aneurysm repair.
    
  