
    
      The proportion of Americans who are severly obese or more than 100 pounds overweight is
      rapidly increasing. This presents a significant public health challenge as severely obese
      individuals have a higher rate of comorbidities and exact a greater toll on the health care
      system than less obese persons. For these individuals, bariatric surgery is currently the
      treatment of choice for producing substantial and long-term weight loss, although outcomes
      vary. Low physical activity is one behavioral factor that undermines surgical success.
      However, structured behavioral interventions to increase physical activity in bariatric
      surgery patients have not been conducted.

      This study involves a randomized controlled trial that compares the effects of a behavioral
      intervention to increase physical activity with a standard care control group on changes in
      physical activity among adult bariatric surgery patients with low physical activity. Eighty
      bariatric surgery patients will be assigned to 6 weeks of either preoperative: (1)
      intervention to increase physical activity or (2) standard care control. Participants in the
      intervention group will receive individual, face-to-face sessions involving tailored
      instruction in use of standard behavior change strategies such as self-monitoring, goal
      setting and stimulus control. The PA intervention will focus on increasing home-based walking
      exercise. Physical activity will be objectively measured for 7 consecutive days via
      accelerometry at baseline/pre-intervention, post-intervention, and 3- and 6-months
      postoperative follow-up. At each time point, the groups will be compared on total
      moderate-to-vigorous physical activity (MVPA) minutes and MVPA minutes occurring in bouts of
      10 minutes or longer. This study will test whether the behavioral physical activity
      intervention produces greater increases in pre- and post-operative physical activity than
      standard care. The long-term goal of this research is to improve bariatric surgery outcomes
      through innovative behavioral strategies to increase physical activity.
    
  