
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a genetic blood disorder that places children at risk for
      serious medical complications, early morbidity and mortality, and high healthcare
      utilization. In the U.S., SCD primarily affects African-American and Latino children.
      Hydroxyurea is one of the only disease-modifying treatment for this devastating and
      life-threatening disease. National Evidence-Based Guidelines recommend the use of a shared
      decision making approach to offer hydroxyurea to all children with SCD as early as nine
      months of age. Hydroxyurea uptake remains low because parents lack information about
      hydroxyurea and have concerns about its safety and potential long-term side effects (e.g.
      cancer, infertility, birth defects). Clinicians do not have the training or tools to
      facilitate a shared discussion with parents that provides medical evidence and considers
      parent preferences and values. The current study compares two methods for disseminating
      hydroxyurea guidelines and facilitating shared decision-making: the American Society of
      Hematology's hydroxyurea clinician pocket guide (usual care method) and a clinician
      hydroxyurea shared decision-making toolkit (H-SDM toolkit). The specific aims of the study
      are to evaluate the effectiveness of the usual care dissemination method (clinician pocket
      guide) and the H-SDM clinician toolkit dissemination method on: parent report of decisional
      uncertainty (primary outcome chosen by parents of children with SCD), parent perception of
      experiencing shared decision-making, parent knowledge of hydroxyurea, the number of children
      offered hydroxyurea, hydroxyurea uptake (those with active prescriptions), and child health
      outcomes (pain, neurocognitive functioning, sickle cell related quality of life and
      healthcare utilization). Eligible children must be between the ages of 0 and 5 and a
      candidate for hydroxyurea to participate. The trial will use a stepped-wedge design (clinic
      is the unit of randomization). The long-term objective of the research team is to improve the
      quality of care for children with SCD. The investigators propose that suboptimal care for
      patients with SCD is preventable with the use of multicomponent dissemination methods if
      developed with key stakeholders and designed to address barriers to high quality care at
      multiple levels (patient, clinician, healthcare system, and community).
    
  