
    
      Children living with medical conditions are often unsure about engaging in active play with
      friends and peers. Some children are worried that physical activity will increase symptoms of
      their existing illness and increase overall pain. Other children are unable to keep up with
      peers, or perceive themselves as not good enough to play. This research study will
      investigate children with medical conditions or disabilities can be supported to become more
      confident in one' abilities to play actively with their friends. Children who come to our
      rehabilitation, long term concussion, chronic pain and cardiology clinics will be invited to
      participate in this project. Children who agree to participate will be assessed three times,
      in the 1st, 14th and 27th week of the study. During each assessment, children will be asked
      to complete a short questionnaire about activity preferences and motivation. The child will
      be given a small activity monitor, about the size of a toonie, which is worn on a belt around
      the waist. Each child will be asked to wear the monitor for 7 days before returning it to the
      investigators. After the 1st week of the study, a coin flip will decide the study group for
      each child. Children in the control group will only do the three assessment visits. Children
      selected for the exercise group will come to a group physical activity session that will be
      held once a week for 12 weeks. At each of the 12 sessions, children will be able to try some
      active games and sports that are suitable for their medical condition or disability. There
      will be a group of about 8 children, who have similar interests and concerns about physical
      activity, at each session. The 12 weekly sessions will each be 2.5 hours in length. The study
      will evaluate how the children's physical activity and confidence to be active change over
      the 27 weeks, and compare the changes that occur between the children who do or do not attend
      the 12 weekly physical activity sessions. The results will indicate whether the 12 weekly
      sessions effectively increase the physical activity confidence of children with medical
      conditions and disabilities.
    
  