
    
      Until the 90s the treatment of AAA was exclusively surgical, presenting a significant risk of
      death, however, many patients could not undergo this surgery because of the invasive nature
      of the procedure.

      The mortality and comorbidity were associated with significant surgical repair of AAAs,
      particularly in elderly patients with multiple medical problems. Surgical complications were
      mainly associated with the surgical incision, comorbidity presented by the patient, changes
      cardiopulmonary and problems related to clotting of the patient. The postoperative
      complications included bleeding, renal failure, paraplegy, and the need for prolonged
      ventilatory support. The literature shows that mortality rates for elective surgery is
      0-6.1%, with 2.7% as average.

      Due to the risks and complexities inherent in surgical procedures, various devices and
      alternative methods have been proposed to treat aneurysms. The method most used today is the
      implantation of stents through a delivery system. This method is defined as minimally
      invasive to dispense the need for opening the abdominal cavity through large incisions, and
      use a remote access (common femoral artery or external iliac) to introduce and deploy the
      device via an endovascular route.

      With technological progress have been developed many devices, all with similar
      characteristics, which are currently used in different countries. Numerous devices are
      currently used to treat aneurysms.

      Over the past 10 years, were developed and approved new stents, however, despite the advances
      that have represented the use of minimally invasive devices, and evidence of improvement in
      indices of morbidity and mortality in the first six months, there is still a need to improve
      results, since the long-term endovascular treatment is equal to the conventional surgical
      treatment. With the technological devices you can improve your long-term performance and
      obviate the need for dissection of the femoral vessels using thinner delivery devices that
      allow percutaneous introduction.
    
  