
    
      The maxillary sinus is the sinus most commonly affected by disease.. It varies greatly in
      size, shape, position and pneumatisation, not only in different individuals, but also in
      different sides of the same individual .

      A broad spectrum of disease processes can involve the maxillary sinus, such as infective,
      odontogenic and neoplastic. In simple cases, a standard uncinectomy and middle meatal
      antrostomy may be sufficient for visualisation and clearance of disease but despite this a
      drawback still exists in both external and intranasal surgical procedures. Compromise of the
      inferior turbinate (IT) and nasolacrimal duct (NLD) is often unavoidable .

      According to the anatomy of MS and the feature of diseases originated from MS assessed with
      multi-angulated telescopes, including 30 ,45 and 70 telescopes, with kinds of curved
      instruments, there are still some areas which can not be viewed and handled . Such critical
      areas as the inferior, lateral, anterior wall, zygomatic recess, alveolar recess and
      prelacrimal recess of maxillary sinus are difficult to approach. For this reason other
      approaches are needed like canine fossa approach (CFA), prelacrimal recess approach (PLRA)
      and medial maxillectomy approach.

      Review of the literature revealed no meta-analysis or evidence based medicine comparing
      different endoscopic approaches to maxillary sinus regarding feasibility of the access to
      different recesses and residual lesions.

      The endonasal endoscopic prelacrimal recess approach (PLRA) provides a clear view through
      wide access to all walls of the maxillary sinus while still preserving the nasolacrimal duct
      and inferior turbinate.

      It enables us to accurately, mini-invade and completely remove MS lesions. It is a
      physiological and functional surgery, and has great advantages in treating the diseases of
      the nasal cavity.

      Canine fossa approach (CFA) has been proposed as an alternative method of obtaining access to
      the maxillary antrum. Although a few studies have demonstrated the benefits of CFA in
      management of the severely diseased maxillary sinus, the efficacy and superiority of this
      method compared with conventional MMA require further investigation above all considering new
      microdebrider blades that can be inserted through the antrostomy.
    
  