
    
      In the United States, it is estimated that there are more than 3.8 million living women has a
      history of invasive breast cancer, and 268,600 women will be newly diagnosed in 2019.
      Sixty-four percent of breast cancer survivors (more than 2.4 million women) are ≥ 65 years,
      whereas 7% are aged younger than 50 years 1.

      The most common treatment of early stage (stage I or II) breast cancer is breast-conserving
      surgery (BCS) with adjuvant radiation therapy (49%) and 34% of patients undergo mastectomy.
      In contrary, more than two-thirds (68%) of patients with stage III disease undergo mastectomy
      and most of them receive adjuvant chemotherapy 2.

      Some of the most debilitating morbidity after surgery and radiotherapy for breast cancer is
      related to treatment of the axilla. This includes persistent arm lymphoedema, impaired
      shoulder mobility and brachial plexopathy. Other exogenous factors have an influence on the
      risk of radiotherapy-related morbidity as patients' age and obesity 3.

      Lymphedema of the arm occurs in 19.9% of women who undergo axillary lymph node dissection and
      in 5.6% of women who have a sentinel lymph node biopsy 4. Irradiation of the regional lymph
      nodes may increase the risk, especially among patients receiving axillary lymph node
      dissection 5.

      Early diagnosis of lymphedema is important for optimizing its treatment and preventing its
      progression 6. Some forms of cancer rehabilitation may reduce the risk and lessen the
      severity of this condition 7, 8.

      Treatment with adjuvant aromatase inhibitors (AI), which is generally reserved for
      postmenopausal women, can cause osteoporosis 9.

      Osteoporosis, a process of bone mineral density (BMD) reduction, is accelerated by estrogen
      deficiency in postmeno¬pausal women. Tamoxifen reduces BMD in premenopausal women, while
      promotes bone formation in postmenopausal patients. On the other hand, adjuvant aromatase
      inhibitors (AIs) therapy enhances the BMD decrease to about 2.5% per year, due to a long
      lasting significant deprivation of circula¬tory and tissue estrogens 10. In the bone
      companion study of the MA.17 trial, patients treated with anastrozole reported a significant
      decreases in BMD (~4%), compared to those treated with tamoxifen 11.

      Dual energies' X ray absorptiometry (DXA) scan is the current validated 'gold standard' for
      the diagnosis of osteoporosis, fracture risk estimation and follow up of anti osteoporotic
      treatment 12-14, since it is non invasive, simple, precise, fast, less expensive than other
      imaging techniques, including computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, and more
      sensitive than quantitative ultrasound (QUS) 15.
    
  