
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the dose of venetoclax (Bcl-2 inhibitor GDC-0199) that can be safely
      administered in combination with obinutuzumab and ibrutinib for the treatment of
      relapsed/refractory or previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).

      II. To evaluate the feasibility, safety, and tolerability of venetoclax in combination with
      obinutuzumab and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory or previously untreated CLL.

      III. To determine the minimal residual disease (MRD)-negative complete response (CR) rate
      after 12 cycles of treatment with venetoclax in combination with obinutuzumab and ibrutinib
      in patients with relapsed/refractory or previously untreated CLL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR) and complete response rate (CR) of venetoclax
      in combination with obinutuzumab and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory or
      previously untreated patients with CLL.

      II. To estimate progression free survival (PFS) after treatment with venetoclax in
      combination with obinutuzumab and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory or
      previously untreated patients with CLL.

      III. To conduct pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies of venetoclax in combination with
      obinutuzumab and ibrutinib in patients with relapsed/refractory or previously untreated
      patients with CLL.

      IV. To examine pre-treatment and serial biomarkers associated with response and mechanisms of
      resistance to venetoclax, obinutuzumab and ibrutinib when given in combination for
      relapsed/refractory or previously untreated patients with CLL.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of Bcl-2 inhibitor GDC-0199 followed by a
      phase II study.

      Patients receive obinutuzumab intravenously (IV) on day 1 (days 1, 2, 8, and 15 for course 1
      only) every 28 days for up to 8 courses. Beginning in course 2, patients receive ibrutinib
      orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Beginning in course 3, patients receive Bcl-2
      inhibitor GDC-0199 PO QD on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 14 courses
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4 and 8 weeks, every 3
      months for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  