
    
      Low-grade glioma is a malignant tumor of young adults (12.5% of gliomas, incidence of 0.99 /
      100,000). Median survival, linked to anaplastic transformation is estimated between 7 and 10
      years, with great individual variability in the rate of evolution. The morphological MRI,
      standard assessment tool at present, suffers from many limitations, especially concerning the
      positive diagnosis, the targeting of surgical biopsies and tumor delineation which is
      essential to treatment The study design is a validation study of a new diagnostic procedure.
      This study is prospective, no randomized, multicenter involving 10 centers (Toulouse
      University Hospital, Caen, Tours, AP-HP Pitie Salpetriere, Lille, Angers, Rennes, Nîmes,
      Nantes and Nancy). Will be eligible patients in whom the diagnosis of grade II glioma is
      suspected according to clinical data and MRI, after evaluation and multidisciplinary meeting
      at which histological confirmation is scheduled within a maximum period of one month.

      FET PET scans will be performed before any procedure or surgical treatment and the data will
      be merged with MRI. The gold standard is histological examination or biopsy material, or
      complete resection of the tumor. A minimum of three biopsies per patient will be realized.
      The pathologist will not see the results of PET-FET 100 patients will be enrolled over a
      period of 5 years. The area under the curve will be determined on a non-parametric for each
      increase in the value of PET-FET at near 10th. The sensitivities, specificities, positive
      predictive values will be estimated with confidence intervals at 95%. Factors to be
      considered in the analysis, the intrasubject variability related to the fact that several
      positive and negative results are found for each subject included. The concordance between
      the data-FET PET and MRI will be sought.

      The expected benefits are a better diagnostic ability of PET-FET which results in a specific
      targeting of biopsies with fewer tests to false negatives and false positives, thus a better
      diagnostic yield of this invasive procedure. Furthermore, the characteristics of this test
      applied to all of the tumor may help to better define the limit between healthy and tumor
      areas and thus reduce the radiation fields to the volumes strictly necessary. These volumes
      are currently defined on the results of the only morphological MRI and can be further
      clarified
    
  