
    
      This trial consists of a safety run-in followed by a phase II randomised trial. The goal of
      the safety run-in is to assess the safety of adding SBRT to the neo-adjuvant systemic
      treatment. The doses of the IMPs will be identical in the safety run-in and the phase II
      randomised trial. Individual subject timelines are also identical in the safety run-in and
      the phase II randomised trial.

      The safety run-in is done as a precursor to the phase II randomised part of the Neo-CheckRay
      trial. Six subjects will be included in the safety run-in. These subjects are not part of the
      phase II total recruitment.

      Subjects in the safety run-in will receive the following treatments corresponding to arm 3 of
      the phase II randomised trial. This consists of:

        -  q1w paclitaxel 80 mg/m² followed by q2w dose-dense doxorubicin-cyclophosphamide (60
           mg/m² and 600 mg/m² respectively)

        -  Anti-PD-L1 antibody durvalumab 1500 mg q4w

        -  Anti-CD73 antibody oleclumab 3000 mg q2w for 5 cycles, followed by q4w for 2 cycles

        -  Pre-operative radiation therapy (boost dose) 3x8 Gy on the primary tumour at week 5

      If all requirements are meet during the safety run-in, then the phase II part of the study
      will be opened. The phase II will consist of luminal B breast cancer subjects candidate for
      neo-adjuvant chemotherapy will be randomised in a 1:1:1 ratio between 3 arms:

        1. Arm 1: the combination of weekly paclitaxel 80 mg/m² IV followed by q2w dose- dense
           doxorubicin-cyclophosphamide (ddAC) (60 mg/m² doxorubicin IV and 600 mg/m²
           cyclophosphamide IV) and pre-operative radiation therapy on the primary tumour (3x8 Gy
           or 3x lower dose if recommended after safety run-in).

        2. Arm 2: drugs regimen of Arm 1 with the addition of the anti-PD-L1 antibody durvalumab IV
           1500 mg q4w.

        3. Arm 3: drugs regimen of Arm 2 with the addition of the anti-CD73 antibody oleclumab IV
           3000 mg q2w for 5 cycles, followed by q4w for 2 cycles.

      The primary tumour will be excised 2-6 weeks after completion of ddAC. The study treatments
      end at surgery. All treatment after surgery, such as post-operative radiotherapy and hormonal
      therapy, will be performed according to standard of care and local site guidelines. The
      patient will then be followed every 3 months for the next 36 months.
    
  