
    
      2. Introduction Atherosclerosis related complications, in particular stroke and coronary
      artery disease, are the most important health issues in modernized societies, being the
      leading cause of death worldwide. In addition to traditional cardiovascular (CV) risk factors
      such as obesity, hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, tobacco use and physical
      inactivity, particulate matter (PM) air pollution has been shown to be associated with
      cardiovascular morbidity and mortality in large epidemiological studies.[1-3] Long-term
      exposure to elevated PM levels can reduce life expectancy, especially particulate matter with
      an aerodynamic diameter <2.5um (PM2.5). Such PM has a causal relationship to cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality.[1-4] An approximate 8-18% increase in cardiovascular mortality has
      been observed for every 10ug/m3 elevation in average PM2.5 exposure over the long term. [1.
      3, 5] The biological mechanisms of atherogenic processes may involve direct effects of PM on
      cardiovascular system, and/or indirect effects mediated by oxidative stress and inflammation.
      [6-7] Far less research has been conducted so far on the contribution of PM to such long-term
      atherogenic processes in human populations. [1,2,8,9]

      We have previously studied 1656 Chinese adults in southern and northern China in 1996 to 2007
      with PM2.5 concentration ranging from 34 to 94 ug/m3. PM2.5 were significantly related to
      prognostic atherosclerotic surrogates i.e. brachial flow-mediated dilatation (FMD) and
      carotid intima media thickness (IMT), independent of traditional-risk factors.[10] Our CATHAY
      study supports a hypothesis that PM2.5 air pollution is strongly correlated with early
      atherosclerotic process in modernizing China.

      Montelukast has been used successfully and proven safe for prevention of asthma episodes,
      supposed to be triggered by allergic-related inflammations of respiratory tract. Similar
      inflammatory process at lung and subsequently at blood vessels may be implicated in
      PM2.5-related accelerated atherosclerosis. [9]

      3. Aims and Hypotheses to be Tested: PM2.5 air pollution has been proven accelerating
      atherosclerotic process in Hong Kong and mainland China (CATHAY study). To further test this
      initial hypothesis, this interventional substudy aims

      1) To evaluate the impact of antiinflammatory agent Montelukast treatment on predictive
      atherosclerosis surrogates (FMD & IMT).

      2) To evaluate the mechanism involved in PM2.5-related vascular dysfunction by monitoring
      changes in systemic inflammatory markers (platelet counts, HsCRP and fibrinogen).

      4. Plan of Investigation

      4.1 The impact of interventional agents on FMD and carotid IMT in working adults Subjects
      (120 adults in Hong Kong and 80 adults in Chongqing)

      Inclusion

        -  asymptomatic adults

        -  aged 30-60 years with

        -  gender: male or female

        -  concordance of home and workplace air pollution

      High exposure group: 60 adults, with PM2.5 concentration exposure >30ug/m3, both at residence
      and at work.

      Low exposure group: 60 sex and age-matched asymptomatic adults with PM2.5 exposure <30ug/m3
      both at home and at work.

      Exclusion:

        -  Those with family history of stroke, cardio-vascular disease

        -  Hypertension with blood pressure >150/90 mmHg

        -  Diabetes Mellitus

        -  Overweight/ obesity (BMI >25kg/M2)

        -  Cigarette smoking or ex-smoker <5 years

        -  Known dyslipidemia defined as LDL-C >4.1mmol/l and triglyceride >3.0mmol/l.

        -  Physical inactivity, with weekly leisure exercise less than 0.5 hour

        -  Continuous usage of vitamins or herbal medicines in recent one year.

      Study design:

      A flowchart figure in Annex 1 illustrates the major procedures for the proposed study.
      Brachial flow-mediated dilation before and after Montelukast intervention will be compared
      between the control and intervention group.

      Methods After informed written consent, these participants (60 adults in Hong Kong, and 40
      adults in Chongqing) will be randomized to take Montelukast 10mg/daily or image-matched
      placebo (60 adults in Hong Kong, and 40 adults in Chongqing) for 26 weeks.

      Week-0 Week-13 Week-26 Health Examination + 0 + Vascular Study + 0 + Blood Test + 0 + PM2.5
      Evaluation + 0 + Medicine Dispatch + + 0 Compliance Assessment 0 + +

        -  Collection of health data:

             1. Questionnaire - All adult subjects will be interviewed and required to complete a
                detailed questionnaire regarding their individual and family history of
                cardiovascular diseases, hypertension, diabetes and current use of medications.
                Information on socio-economic status and lifestyle will be collected. Important
                factors associated with PM exposure, such as transportation between work and home,
                environmental tobacco use (ETS), duration of residence, home renovation,
                cooking/heating usage, and use of incense and mosquito coils will be recorded as
                well.

             2. Health examination - Each participant will receive a health examination and their
                weight and height, blood pressures, body mass index (BMI) and wait-hip
                circumference ratio (WHR) will be measured when they are wearing light clothing and
                no shoes.

             3. Blood test: 10ml of fasting blood will be taken for platelet, fasting glucose, low
                density cholesterol, hsC-reactive protein and fibrinogen.

        -  Vascular Studies

             1. Endothelial function, (flow mediated dilation, FMD) of the brachial artery will be
                studied by using high resolution ultrasound, as described previously. [11, 12]
                Using a linear array transducer (L10-5) with a median frequency of 7.5MHz and a
                standard Advanced Technology Laboratories 3000 or Sonosite systems, and forearm
                tourniquet cuff placement to induce reactive hyperemia on deflation. Scans will be
                acquired at rest, during reactive hyperemia (to induce flow-mediated
                endothelium-dependent dilation, FMD). FMD will be expressed as % of dilation from
                baseline vessel diameter normalized with vessel strain.

             2. Carotid intima-media thickness (CIMT) measurement - B-mode ultrasound examinations
                will be performed using X12-3 probe with a 7 MHz scanning frequency linear array
                transducer. All carotid scans will be performed by standardized scanning protocol
                for the right and left carotid arteries as described by Salonen and Salonen [13]
                and Touboul et al [14], using images of the far wall of the distal 10 mm of the
                common carotid arteries, and a verified automatic edge-detecting and measurement
                software package as we described previously. [11-12, 15-16] The inter-observer
                variability of mean IMT is 0.003 to 0.011mm (CV 0.998%).

        -  Collection of air pollution exposure data:

      Measurement of air pollutants at home and workplace will focus on PM2.5 and PM10.

      We shall measure PM2.5 and PM10 pollutant levels at homes and workplace twice (warm and cool
      seasons) by handy portable PM2.5 device. The micro-environment meteorological PM2.5 and PM10
      data, at home and workplace, will be combined and compared with data using modeling
      techniques.

      Estimate of PM2.5/ PM10 exposure for each participant:

      Details of the methodology and its verification using PM2.5/ PM10 data from Hong Kong and
      China has already been published (17, 18). Change of residential address during follow-up
      will be taken into account.

      5. Significance and Potential: The proposed study can serve as a baseline for cohort model
      study in near future, for comparison with other vascular epidemiological data and
      interventional strategies in mainland China.

      Investigating the relationship between particulate matter (PM) air pollution and
      atherosclerosis in working adulthood will enhance our abilities to elucidate the mechanisms
      underlying the effects of PM on atherosclerosis disease. Subsequently, it will help to
      develop appropriate strategies for both the control of PM air pollution (by legislation) and
      the prevention of atherosclerotic diseases, such as aerosol filters, facial masks, certain
      health food or nutrient (Aloe), statin or leukotriene modifiers (Montelukast) medicines. A
      huge number of Chinese exposed to PM air pollution throughout their life courses will be
      expected.

      6. Compliance with Declaration of Helsinki The design, methodology and conduction of project
      are in compliance with Declaration of Helsinki.

      7. Compliance will ICH-GCP. The medicines used are freely commercially available in Hong Kong
      Pharmacological Registry and compliant with ICH-GCP.

      8. Data processing and analysis Power Calculation: The Proc Power in the STS 9.2 statistical
      packages (SAS institute Inc. Comy. NC, US) was used to calculate the sample size for FMD and
      carotid IMT. Data from our previous studies on adults in Hong Kong and mainland China, showed
      that the mean FMD is 6-8%+/-1.3% in otherwise healthy adults aged 30-60 years, and carotid
      IMT is 0.55-0.68mm+/-0.1mm. On the assumption of post Montelukast treatment, brachial FMD
      will improve to 6.7-8.7+/-1.4% in adults, and carotid IMT will reduce to
      0.51-0.61mm+/-0.11mm, recruitment of 114 Chinese adults (57 in each group) will be adequately
      powered (80%) to detect a group difference in FMD of 1.2% and in CIMT of 0.1mm (12%) between
      the two treatment groups. In old adults, Kunzli reported a difference in CIMT of 12.1% in
      exposure of 20ug/m3 difference in PM2.5 pollution.[19]

      Data Analysis: Statistical Analysis System 9.2 will be used for all statistical analyses. The
      primary endpoints are brachial FMD and Carotid IMT, serological inflammatory biomarkers
      (Platelet hsCRP and Fibrinogen) are secondary endpoints. Students' T-tests will be used to
      detect group differences on FMD and CIMT. Multivariate linear and logistic regression will be
      used to calculate risk magnitude by Montelukast vs placebo, and to control for potential
      confounders such as various traditional cardiovascular risk factors.
    
  