
    
      Background:

        -  Therapeutic vaccination against cancer has proven very challenging with little clinical
           benefit.

        -  Vaccines against non-viral tumors have mainly targeted differentiation antigens, cancer
           testis antigens, and overexpressed antigens. However negative selection in the thymus
           against these normal nonmutated antigens severely limits the ability to generate high
           avidity anti-cancer T cells. Such depletion can impair their antitumor activity and
           limit tumor elimination.

        -  The National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch (NCI SB) has developed a pipeline for the
           identification of immunogenic T cell epitopes derived from neoantigens.

        -  In recent studies, we identified the neoantigens recognized by tumor infiltrating
           lymphocytes (TIL) that mediated regression in patients with metastatic cancer. Using
           whole exome sequencing of a resected metastatic nodule followed by high throughput
           immunologic screening, we were able to demonstrate that tumor regressions were
           associated with the recognition by the administered TIL of unique somatic mutations that
           occurred in the cancer.

        -  We, therefore, aim to use this pipeline to identify immunogenic neoantigens from
           epithelial cancer patients and to use these defined epitopes for a personalized
           therapeutic dendritic cell (DC) vaccine.

      Objectives:

      -Primary objectives:

      --To determine the clinical response rate in patients with metastatic melanoma or epithelial
      cancer who receive this DC vaccine

      Eligibility:

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 and less than or equal to 70 years

        -  Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) 0 - 2

        -  Evaluable metastatic melanoma or epithelial cancer refractory to standard treatment

        -  Metastatic melanoma or epithelial cancer lesion(s) that is resectable for TIL or in
           selected cases, available peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC).

      Design:

        -  Patients with metastatic melanoma or epithelial cancer will undergo surgical resection
           of tumor followed by exome and ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing to identify expressed
           mutations (CONDUCTED UNDER THE National Cancer Institute Surgery Branch (NCI SB)
           COMPANION PROTOCOL 03-c-0277).

        -  Patients will undergo apheresis and DC will be cryopreserved for vaccine preparation.

        -  Immunogenic neoantigens will be identified from TIL and PBMC by high throughput
           immunologic screening using long peptides and tandem minigenes covering all mutated
           epitopes.

        -  Patient will be vaccinated with autologous mature dendritic cells loaded with long
           peptides and minimal epitopes from defined neoantigens or highly expressed mutations in
           tumor suppressor or driver genes.

        -  DC will be administered intravenously and subcutaneously for four cycles at biweekly
           intervals.

        -  Blood samples will be taken every two weeks, and patients will be monitored for the
           quantity and quality of circulating neoantigen-specific T cells.
    
  