
    
      Background Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common and most aggressive primary brain
      tumor in adults and shows an incidence of 5/100.000 inhabitants per year1. In Austria,
      approximately 350 patients are diagnosed with malignant glioma annually. Advances in surgery,
      radiotherapy and chemotherapy do only have a minor impact on the natural course of these
      hardly treatable tumors. The mean survival time of adult patients with GBM is only 9-15
      months from the time of diagnosis1,2. Thus, there is an urgent need for more effective
      therapeutic approaches based on a better molecular understanding of tumor progression and
      tumor neovascularization.

      Molecular Neurooncology has begun to elucidate the complexity of the transformed phenotype of
      GBM with the goal to identify important molecular changes in the tumor cell that may be
      amenable for targeted therapies3.

      The elucidation of growth factor receptor signaling pathways responsible for the malignant
      phenotype is now being translated into molecular therapies. At present, targeted therapies
      with small molecule inhibitors directed against receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) or
      downstream signaling pathways seem to be the most promising therapeutic approaches by
      directly influencing oncogenetically altered signaling pathways4. Imatinib Mesylate (STI571,
      Gleevec) is a potent inhibitor of the Bcr-Abl, PDGFR-α/ß, c-Fms and c-KIT tyrosine kinases.
      Its ability to inhibit PDGFR signaling suggested therapeutic potential in malignant gliomas,
      but single-agent imatinib showed only minimal therapeutic activity5. Erlotinib (OSI-774,
      Tarceva) and Gefitinib (ZD1839, Iressa) are potent inhibitors of the
      Epidermal-Growth-Factor-Receptor (EGFR). However, both inhibitors have also demonstrated only
      limited activity in GBMs with response rates of 10 to 15% and no significant prolongation of
      survival6. Tipifarnib (R115777, Zarnestra) is a potent and selective inhibitor of the
      farnesyl-transferase and influences the Ras oncogene pathway. Overexpression of Ras is
      implicated in the pathogenesis of malignant gliomas, but also amplified receptors as EGFR,
      PDGFR and VEGFR can lead to its downstream activation. Clinical trials with inhibition of the
      Ras signaling pathway showed also only limited biologic effects in GBM patients7.

      3.2. Rationale for SUTENT treatment of GBM Patients Reason for the limited activity of
      selective targeting single agents, but also chemotherapeutic treatments, in GBM patients is
      the heterogeneity and redundancy of the molecular pathways in glioma cells8. Therefore, a
      multi-targeted therapy approach, inhibiting multiple molecular signaling pathways involved in
      tumor progression and tumor neovascularization seems to be a more promising treatment
      strategy.

      SUTENT (SUNITINIB, SU11248) is a potent multi-target inhibitor of VEGFR1-3, PDGFR-α/β, FLT3,
      c-KIT, RET and CSF-1R. This drug has shown good solubility, bioavailability and
      protein-binding characteristics9 and was highly effective in metastatic clear-cell renal cell
      carcinoma (MRCC)10-12 and gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST)13,14.

      The aggressiveness of GBM is reflected by a diffuse local infiltration into the brain
      parenchyma and a high tumor vascularization15,16. Neuropathological hallmarks of GBMs are
      pseudopalisades and microvascular hyperplasia. Pseudopalisades are characterized by an
      accumulation of hypoxic tumor cells around a central necrosis (Fig. 3A), resulting from
      increased metabolic demands of tumor cells or vascular occlusion. Such tumor cells express
      high levels of hypoxia-inducible regulators of angiogenesis, including the hypoxia-inducible
      factor (HIF)-α. HIF-α accumulates in the tumor cell and binds with its constitutively present
      partner HIF-β. The HIF complex leads to transcription of hypoxia-induced genes, such as VEGF
      and PDGF17. These growth factors are secreted into the extracellular space by tumor cells and
      bind to its high-affinity receptors located on

        1. tumor cells (autocrine action), leading to tumor cell proliferation and survival, but
           also stimulation of the HIF-α protein synthesis and

        2. endothelial cells, vascular smooth muscle cells and pericytes (paracrine action),
           leading to tumor-related neoangiogenesis18-21.

      Therefore, VEGF may induce microvascular hyperplasia (Fig. 1B), a typical form of
      neoangiogenesis immediately related to pseudopalisading cells16,22. Since necrosis and
      hypoxia are located in the GBM's core, the most biologically relevant hypoxia-induced
      neovascularization occurs further peripherally, favouring diffuse infiltration by individual
      glioma cells and allows peripheral GBM expansion.

      Summary of molecular and clinical rationales for SUTENT treatment of GBM patients

        -  The target molecules of SUTENT (i.e. VEGFR, PDGFR, FLT-3, c-KIT, RET) are strongly
           expressed in GBM tissue and have a crucial role in tumor progression and tumor
           neovascularization

        -  The vascular density in GBMs is among the highest of all human neoplasm

        -  Clinical studies with SUTENT demonstrated a radiological response and a significant
           improvement in progression free survival due to SUTENT treatment in MRCC and
           Imatinib-resistant GIST

        -  In clinical trials using SUTENT the incidence and severity of adverse events and
           laboratory abnormalities was relatively low (MRCC and GIST patients)
    
  