
    
      Using statins to lower blood cholesterol, and specifically LDL, is well established as a
      long-term strategy to reduce CVs and even death. But the most intensive pharmacologic
      lipid-lowering therapy with statins, though proven superior to standard dose regimens, is
      still associated with an unacceptably high rate of recurrent CV events early after an ACS.
      This study hypothesizes that for ACS patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention
      (PCI), intensive lipid-lowering therapy consisting of statins and LDL-apheresis (ILLT) will
      significantly reduce the total coronary atheroma volume of vulnerable plaque and augment
      mobilization of peripherally circulating EPC colony forming units, compared to guideline
      statin monotherapy (SMT). ILLT will lead to fewer CV events for these patients.

      Patients presenting at two VA sites with ACS will be screened and consented before undergoing
      uncomplicated PCI (balloons or stents) and intravascular ultrasound with virtual histology
      (IVUS-VH). They will then be randomized into the ILLT arm or SMT arm of the study. The ILLT
      group will receive one treatment of LDL-apheresis plus a daily oral 80mg dose of
      Atorvastatin; the SMT group will only get the Atorvastatin. Patients will again undergo
      IVUS-VH 12 weeks after enrollment to measure atheroma volume; EPC level will also be checked.

      The four-year duration of the study includes 24 months of accrual, six months of follow-up,
      and 12 months of study closure and data analysis. A two-sample t-test of mean difference with
      90% power and 0.65 Cohen's D effect size provides a total sample size estimate of 102.
      Counting 20% drop-out rate, the sample size increases to 128.

      The recent FDA recommendations regarding the design of the study has been included in the
      revised study protocol:

        1. The first stage will enroll 30 patients with a 2:1 randomization favoring LDL-apheresis.
           the safety data will be submitted to the FDA.

        2. The enrollment of the second stage of the study will be contingent to the
           recommendations of the FDA.
    
  