
    
      Recent research highlights the positive impact of Mindfulness-Based Interventions on mental
      health outcomes and in the development of stress management skills and compassion. Moreover,
      it has been reported that Mindfulness-Based Interventions are well accepted among university
      students, mainly because these approaches are seen as emotional skill training rather than a
      mental health intervention. However, there is a lack of long-term follow-up studies testing
      the maintenance of benefits.

      This study proposes Mindfulness-based interventions for preventive purposes in a large sample
      of fourth and fifth year medical students from different French cities (Montpellier, Angers,
      Clermont-Ferrand, Marseille, Nîmes, Paris, Saint-Etienne, Strasbourg, Tours, Lyon and
      Toulouse) and a one-year follow-up.

      The main objective is to assess the efficacy of a Mindfulness Based Stress Reduction (MBSR)
      (intervention) vs. Progressive Muscle Relaxation Training (PMRT) (control) to prevent burnout
      (emotional exhaustion) of fourth- and fifth-year medical students after one-year follow-up.

      The study also aims to :

        1. assess efficacy of MBSR vs. PMRT in fourth- and fifth-year medical students to prevent
           burnout after six-months (emotional exhaustion, depersonalization and professional
           achievement) and one year follow-up (depersonalization and professional achievement) ;

        2. compare anxio-depressive symptomatology, suicidality, drug consumption, mindfulness
           skills, empathy, quality of life between pre- and post-intervention, at 6- and 12 months
           follow-up ;

        3. investigate the adherence and acceptability of the protocol ;

        4. investigate acceptability and outcomes according to personality traits.

      The study is a single blind randomized clinical trial. Overall, 612 students from 11 French
      universities will be enrolled and assigned randomly to two groups:

        1. the MBSR group, which will benefit from a structured 8-week group mindfulness-based
           stress reduction program;

        2. the PMRT group, which will benefit from Progressive Muscle Relaxation Training based on
           a structured 8-week group program.

      Participants will be evaluated at four times: before the intervention (within 8 weeks),
      within the month following the end of the program, at 6 months and 12 months (+/- 1 month)
      after the completion of the program. All of the follow-up visits may be carried out remotely.
      The raters will be blind to treatment allocation (single-blind).

      An optional qualitative study will be conducted among 30 students, during the first follow-up
      visit to assess the subjective experience of participation in relaxation and meditation
      programs.

      The benefits expected from MBSR vs PMRT are to increase mental resources to manage negative
      emotions and psychological distress, to reduce risk of depression, to increase empathy. The
      perspectives are to improve the state of the art about the efficacy of MBSR for student's
      mental health promotion and to help the development of life skills programs for young people
      and students as proposed by General Direction of Health at the national level. Such programs
      promote low-cost and safety non-pharmacologic evidence-based interventions for psychological
      distress.
    
  