
    
      Rationale for conducting the SPARE study:

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effect of delivering WBRT via the VMAT method on
      hair loss and subsequent re-growth. Hair loss has been found to have a negative impact on QoL
      and can be particularly stressful for patients with a very short life expectancy, this is
      already well documented. Trying to minimise this treatment side effect, as previously stated
      in the literature, is a worthwhile investigation. This study is not looking at any prescribed
      dose changes to the established, evidence based and well documented prescriptions for WBRT.
      SPARE is an observational study of hair loss and re-growth during and after a patient's
      prescribed clinical treatment.

      Aims and Objectives;

      1) To observe hair loss and re-growth in patients undergoing Whole Brain Radiotherapy using
      the Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy method of delivery.

      As complete alopecia is expected in 100% of patients receiving conventionally delivered WBRT
      it will be considered a positive result if complete hair loss does not happen when using VMAT
      in this group of patients.

      Assessment of hair loss and re-growth.

      The assessment of hair loss and subsequent re-growth will be conducted using both objective
      and subjective assessments:

        1. Objective assessment: Photographic

        2. Subjective assessment: Patient interviews \ completion of a hair record sheet.

      Photographic assessment:

      Initial baseline photographs will be taken before any radiotherapy treatment is delivered on
      day one of the treatment schedule. Four photographs in total of the head, two laterals (left
      and right sides), the top (superior) and back (posterior). Subsequent serial photographs will
      be taken at two weeks, one, two, three, and four months after radiotherapy treatment.

      Subjective assessment:

      Patients will be asked to give their own opinion on their hair loss \ gain and this will be
      recorded on the hair record forms and completed by a member of the study team. This will be
      conducted at the same time intervals as the scalp photographs being taken.

      Scalp photos will also be assessed by 2 independent members of the research team and scored
      using the same scales as the participant. Subsequent follow-up scalp pictures will be
      assessed against baseline (day 1) photos or complete alopecia images to assess re-growth.

      Planning and Dosimetry:

      Treatment plans will be generated using a 2 arc VMAT technique generated on Varian's Eclipse
      treatment planning system using 10 MV photons delivered on a Varian Clinac equipped with a
      Millennium Multileaf Collimator. Plans will be optimized selecting a maximum dose rate of 600
      MU/min.
    
  