
    
      Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a condition that develops when reflux of stomach
      contents causes troublesome symptoms and/or complications. It is the most frequent problem in
      upper gastrointestinal tract in outpatient clinic and contributes substantially to morbidity
      and to costs. Endoscopy is a widely used modality for the diagnosis and classification of
      GERD, and the extent of esophageal mucosal breaks on endoscopy can be assessed. However,
      because more than half of patients with GERD reveal no visible abnormality on conventional
      endoscopy, it is possible that minute mucosal changes are underestimated by conventional
      endoscopy due to the limitation of visual ability.

      In addition of uncertainty in detecting mucosal breaks, uncertainty in describing severity of
      mucosal injury can lead to inconsistency among interpreters. Asian gastroenterologists tend
      to diagnose endoscopically before they treat patients with symptoms suggestive of GERD and
      use the modified Los Angeles (LA) classification system that includes minimal changes as
      constituting a distinct grade of reflux esophagitis. In modified LA system, minimal change
      esophagitis is characterized by the mucosa such as erythema and/or whitish turbidity.
      However, because substantial overlap is noted between normal and minimal change, minimal
      change and LA class A, and LA class A and B, interobserver agreement regarding diagnosis and
      classification of reflux esophagitis is unsatisfactory to apply daily practice. Thus, the
      development of a new method to define the intra-esophageal injury for use in daily practice
      is a worthwhile endeavor.

      Currently, new imaging technologies have applied in endoscopy to improve detecting and
      differentiating the subtle mucosal changes using digital contrast method such as narrow-band
      imaging (NBI), Fuji Intelligent Chromoen-doscopy (FICE) and i-scan. Among them, i-scan
      technology is the most recently developed image enhancing technology, which consists of three
      modes of image enhancement, i.e. surface enhancement (SE), contrast enhancement (CE), and
      tone enhancement (TE). SE enhances light-dark contrast and CE adds blue color in relatively
      dark areas digitally, by obtaining luminance intensity data for each pixel. Applying SE and
      CE might allow detailed observation of subtle irregularities around the surface and TE
      analyzes the individual RGB components of a normal image and recombines the color frequencies
      of each component to enhance minute mucosal structures with subtle color changes.

      Thus, the investigators examined the hypothesis that i-scan can improve the detection rate of
      reflux esophagitis and inter-observer agreement between endoscopists compared with
      conventional white light (WL) endoscopic examination
    
  