
    
      The primary objective of this study is to directly deliver a microdose of two optical imaging
      agents to 20 patients with suspected or confirmed lung cancer to assess whether the agents
      can detect c-MET expression and neutrophil activity in human lung cancer.

      The primary endpoint is to visualise the delivery of these imaging agents to assess imaging
      parameters in patients with suspected or diagnosed lung cancer using a novel delivery
      catheter, imaging fibre and fibre-based endomicroscopy system.

      This protocol will involve two cohorts of patients; Cohort 1 will include patients scheduled
      for resection of their lung cancer and Cohort 2 will be patients with suspected inoperable
      stage 3/4 lung cancer scheduled for a diagnostic bronchoscopy followed by therapy. For both
      cohorts, eligibility will be verified by a clinical trial physician after written informed
      consent has been obtained.

      Fibre-based endomicroscopy (FE) will be performed and up to 100μg of both optical imaging
      agents will be instilled during a bronchoscopy procedure. CT identified regions of
      architecturally normal lung in all participants will act as internal controls and will be
      used to compare the signal in normal and diseased lung tissue. Tissue samples taken from both
      cohorts will be collected for ex vivo validation including immunohistochemistry, zymography
      and genomic screening.

      A cardiorespiratory exam, chest x ray and routine observations will be performed 4-6 hours
      following the administration of both imaging agents. All participants will be visited by a
      member of the research team 24 hours (± 4 hours) after dosing to ensure no adverse events
      were experienced. All participants in Cohort 1 will complete the study when the 24 hour
      assessment has been successfully completed and all adverse events have been resolved.
      Participants in Cohort 2 will be invited back for a second bronchoscopy following the first
      round of their therapy to investigate whether the expression of c-MET or the level of
      neutrophil activity has changed. All participants in Cohort 2 will complete the study when
      the second 24 hour assessment has been successfully completed and all adverse events have
      been resolved.
    
  