
    
      The application of resin composite has been described as "technique sensitive". Although
      glass ionomers are inferior to resin composite in esthetics, there are specific clinical
      situations where glass ionomers are the materials of choice for restoring teeth as patients
      at risk for caries and with carious lesions due to its ability to release fluoride and to
      self-adhere to enamel and dentin.

      However, Conventional glass ionomer have poor physical and mechanical properties and are more
      liable to wear when compared to resin composite. The change in formulation of resin modified
      glass ionomer restorations allowed them to have improved physic-mechanical properties,
      combined with significant improvement in esthetic properties. Thus, in recent years glass
      ionomer as direct restorative materials have become more user friendly. Unfortunately, most
      of glass ionomers are not recommended as definitive final restorations for the permanent
      dentition in stress bearing areas because they do not have the physical and mechanical
      properties of amalgam or composite resin.

      ACTIVA™ BioACTIVE-RESTORATIVE™ is recently introduced enhanced resin modified glass ionomer,
      which the manufacturer (Pulpdent Corporation, USA) reports to be the first bioactive dental
      materials with an ionic resin matrix, a shock-absorbing resin component, and bioactive
      fillers that mimic physical and chemical properties of natural teeth. They are durable,
      fracture and wear resistant, chemically bond to teeth, seal against bacterial microleakage,
      and release and recharge with calcium, phosphate, and more fluoride ions than glass ionomers.
      Thus, ACTIVA has more release and recharge of calcium, phosphate and fluoride than glass
      ionomers with the esthetics, strength, and physical properties of composites, combining the
      best attributes of both materials without compromising either one.

      EQUIA® Forte is a fluoride-releasing, bulk-fill system which consists of EQUIA® Forte Fil, a
      high strength glass hybrid restorative, and EQUIA® Forte Coat, a wear-resistant,
      self-adhesive, light-cured resin coating. With improved flexural strength, and acid and wear
      resistance, the manufacturer claims that EQUIA® Forte extends the recommended indications to
      include stress-bearing Class II restorations.

      The clinical performance of these materials regarding functional, esthetic and biological
      properties is yet to be evaluated. The FDI clinical criteria provide more detailed evaluation
      criteria and better differentiation between different types of failure; and incorporate
      objective assessment tools and a clear scoring system than other scoring systems. Thus, this
      study aims to contribute to providing evidence-based literature concerning current innovative
      Resin-modified glass ionomer restorations using the most updated and standardized assessment
      criteria, namely the FDI.
    
  