
    
      Diffuse parenchymal lung diseases comprise a group of noninfectious, non-neoplastic lung
      diseases, each characterized by varying degrees of inflammation or fibrosis of the parenchyma
      of both lungs. The differentiation of these disorders may require biopsy material,
      particularly in patients with atypical clinical or radiological presentations. Cryobiopsies
      offer specialists the advantage of being able to collect much larger specimens than can be
      collected with forceps biopsy, while preserving the underlying lung architecture (no crush
      artifact). The biggest disadvantage of cryobiopsy is a higher risk of procedural bleeding
      and, to a lesser extent, pneumothorax than conventional transbronchial lung biopsies.

      Existing cryobiopsy literature is significantly limited by lack of procedure standardization,
      variable diagnostic endpoints and non-uniform grading of complications. Surgical lung biopsy,
      currently the gold standard for histological diagnosis of DPLD, is associated with
      significant morbidity and mortality. The rate of in-hospital mortality following SLB for DPLD
      was recently found to be 1.7% in a large dataset, with a complication rate of 30% (including
      post-operative pneumothorax, pneumonia, respiratory failure). Mortality was slightly lower at
      1.5% for elective operations but markedly higher at 16% for operations labeled
      "non-elective," presumably performed in the setting of acute disease exacerbations. Clearly,
      less invasive strategies, such as cryobiopsy, are urgently needed.

      Recent studies demonstrate that there might be a trend toward more bleeding complications
      with transbronchial cryobiopsies. The increased risk of bleeding is due to the larger
      biopsies thus obtained, and the necessity to retrieve bronchoscope and cryoprobe en-bloc as
      biopsies are too large to be pulled through he working channel of the bronchoscope,
      preventing the proceduralist from keeping he bronchoscope wedged in the biopsied segment
      allowing bleeding tamponade. Accordingly, most proceduralists perform cryobiopsy with
      prophylactic placement of bronchial blocker positioned proximal to the selected lobe to
      occlude the segmental airway after biopsy. While this technique has essentially eliminated
      the risk of life-threatening bleeding after cryobiopsies, significant bleeding complications
      persist and can occasionally substantially lengthen the duration of the procedure, leading to
      premature termination and potentially quantitatively inadequate biopsy acquisition.

      Conceptually it seems that the ability to select a less vascular area for a somewhat larger
      cryobiopsy may result in decreased risk of hemorrhage and/or reduction in bleeding severity.
      Average peripheral cryobiopsy size varies significantly and may be dependent on freezing time
      and cryoprobe size. Increase in resource utilization due to the use of radial ultrasound
      could be offset by a decrease in complication rate, decreased procedural time and potentially
      decreased endobronchial blocker need. This use of radial probe ultrasound use has not been
      widely reported in literature except for a recent single center retrospective review of 10
      patients undergoing transbronchial cryobiopsies for ILD(Berim, 2017). Six of these patients
      underwent vascular localization with radial probe endobronchial localization with trends
      towards less bleeding.

      The purported benefit of radial ultrasound-guided transbronchial cryobiopsy is the avoidance
      of excessive bleeding, which has been associated with this procedure. With the systematic use
      of a prophylactic bronchial blocker, an ideal endpoint for this pilot study would be the time
      spent obtaining each biopsy. We propose to study in a prospective, double-blind, randomized
      controlled fashion, the efficacy of radial endobronchial ultrasound (in combination with
      fluoroscopy) guided transbronchial cryobiopsy as compared to conventional fluoroscopy guided
      cryobiopsy in reducing time needed to achieve hemostasis (primary endpoint) and need for
      additional modalities to control bleeding and size of biopsies obtained (secondary
      endpoints).
    
  