
    
      Rucaparib is an orally available, small molecule inhibitor of poly-adenosine diphosphate
      [ADP] ribose polymerase (PARP) being developed for treatment of ovarian cancer associated
      with homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair deficiency (HRD). The safety and efficacy of
      rucaparib has been evaluated in several Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies. An oral formulation is
      the focus of current development efforts. Rucaparib is currently being investigated as
      monotherapy in patients with cancer associated with breast cancer susceptibility gene 1
      (BRCA1) or BRCA2 mutations.

      Clinical data with PARP inhibitors indicate there is an ovarian cancer patient population
      beyond just those with germline BRCA (gBRCA) mutations that may benefit from treatment with a
      PARP inhibitor. This study will define a molecular signature of HRD in ovarian cancer that
      correlates with response to rucaparib and enables selection of appropriate ovarian cancer
      patients for treatment with rucaparib. The HRD signature will be based on an association
      between the extent of genomic scarring (a downstream consequence of HRD) in a patient's tumor
      and observed clinical benefit from rucaparib treatment. Genomic scarring can be assessed by
      quantifying the extent of loss of heterozygosity across the tumor genome (tumor genomic LOH).
      One of the main advantages of detecting tumor genomic LOH is that it can identify HRD tumors
      regardless of the underlying mechanisms, which include both known (i.e., BRCA mutations) and
      unknown genetic and other mechanisms.

      Once determined, this signature will be prospectively applied to ARIEL2 PART 2 and ARIEL3.
      This Phase 2 study (ARIEL2) will also compare archival versus recently collected tumor tissue
      in order to validate the use of archival tumor tissue for assessment of HRD status in ARIEL3.

      This study will include 2 parts:

      PART 1 (completed enrollment): Evaluation of HRD status and rucaparib efficacy in patients
      who received ≥1 prior platinum-based regimen and had platinum-sensitive disease

      PART 2 (currently enrolling): Evaluation of HRD status and rucaparib efficacy in patients who
      received at least 3 prior chemotherapy regimens
    
  