
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) can lead to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS),
      severe hypoxic respiratory failure and, death. It has been reported that the mechanism of
      COVID-19 is related to cytokine storms and subsequent immunogenic damage, especially lung
      damage. Dexamethasone, with immunomodulatory properties, decrease mortality in critically ill
      patients with COVID-19. However, the benefits in patients without hypoxia remain unknown. We
      hypothesize that early administration of dexamethasone in hospitalized adult patients with
      COVID-19 pneumonia without hypoxia on admission, but risk factors for developing ARDS might
      prevent severe acute respiratory failure and death.

      The investigators designed a multicenter prospective phase 3 parallel-group randomized and
      controlled trial. It is planned to recruit 126 hospitalized adults patients with COVID-19
      pneumonia without hypoxia on admission, but at high risk of developing ARDS, admitted to the
      emergency room or internal medicine wards. One enrolled, the participants will be randomised
      to receive oral or intravenous dexamethasone base at a dose of 6 mg once daily for 7 days or
      standard of care once enrolled. The primary outcome is the development of moderate-severe
      ARDS in patients with COVID-19 pneumonia without hypoxia on admission, but at high risk of
      disease progression. Based on the Berlin criteria, moderate ARDS is defined by a PaO2/FiO2
      ratio >100 mmHg and ≤200 mmHg. According to The American College of Chest Physicians patients
      with a PaO2/FiO2 ratio around 200 mmHg requiring supplemental oxygen in nasal cannula at 3
      L/min (FiO2 0.30) for a SpO2 of 91-92%. Safety data will be provided. The secondary endpoints
      are: All-cause mortality for 28 days after randomization, intensive Care Unit (ICU) or
      Intermediate Respiratory Care Unit (IRCU) transfer for 28 days after randomization, clinical
      status of the patient using the ordinal scale of the WHO, SOFA on admission, and 4 and 7 days
      after randomization, hospital length of stay, respiratory support at hospital discharge, and
      all-cause readmission rate for 3 months after randomization.

      This trial is considered to be safe. First, dexamethasone has been widely used in clinical
      practice for decades, and second, patients with greater potential risks of side effects were
      excluded based on the exclusion criteria. However, adverse events (AE) and serious adverse
      events (SAE) must be observed and followed in accordance with the good clinical practice
      guidelines issued by the European Medicine Agency (EMA).AE and SAE will be recorded for 7
      days of observation from enrolment. Either may occur during a subject's participation in the
      research and do not need to have a causal relationship with the treatment. Investigators will
      evaluate the relationship between the events and the intervention and report it to the ethics
      committee and data and safety monitoring board. Benefits and potential risks are written in
      the informed consent document. Patients will be informed about the purpose, interventions,
      benefits and possible risks of the study.

      Baseline data including demographic characteristics, assigned group, Sequential Organs
      Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, the clinical status of the patient using the ordinal scale
      of the WHO, SpO2, partial pressure of arterial oxygen/fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2)
      ratio calculated from SpO2/FiO2, blood routine tests, chest radiography, and concomitant
      drugs will be collected on the first day. General vital signs, changes in the SOFA score,
      changes in the ordinal scale of the WHO, SpO2, respiratory rate, PaO2/FiO2 ratio, respiratory
      support, chest radiography, concomitant drugs, adverse event monitoring will be collected on
      the first day, fourth, seventh, fourteenth day and at discharge. Participants are scheduled
      for a follow-up visit on the 30 and 90th day to track their long-term prognosis, clinical
      status and sequelae.

      Data will be collected from the clinical information system of the hospital. Every
      participant will be distinguished with a study identifier and initial without full name. An
      electronic password-protected document containing all the information from the case report
      format will be set up for statistical analysis. The analysis process will be performed by the
      primary investigator and designated teammates who are experienced with the trial case report
      format. The confidentiality and safety of participant's data are guaranteed. Data will be
      reserved for 25 years for further analysis and investigation in accordance with the European
      Clinical Trials Directive.

      We assumed that 30% of participants would meet ARDS, and the use of dexamethasone would
      reduce this percentage to 15%. This corresponds to a required sample size of 63 per arm, with
      a 5% two-sided significance level (alpha) and 80% power. The total sample size therefore is
      planned to be 126. Quantitative variables will be described as the mean with standard
      deviation when they had a normal distribution, or median and interquartile range (IQR) when
      they had a non-normal distribution. Qualitative variables were defined by the frequency
      distribution and percentages. For univariate analysis, the difference in measurement data
      will be compared between the dexamethasone and standard care groups using Student's t -test
      or the Mann-Whitney U, and qualitative variables will be compared using Chi-squared test and
      Fisher's exact test depending on the normality of the variable. Kaplan-Meier analysis will be
      used to show the effect of dexamethasone on patient survival probability. A p-value of less
      than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Results will be obtained using
      Statistical Package for the Social Sciences software, version 26.0.

      Results will be submitted for publication in peer-reviewed journals.
    
  