
    
      Despite the accumulation of data documenting the reality of extensive functional impairments
      following ICU stay, the specific treatment needs of individuals experiencing Post-Intensive
      Care Syndrome (PICS) are not well known largely because of a relative lack of knowledge about
      the specific unmet needs of patients at risk for PICS at the time of hospital discharge.
      These possible needs include oxygen prescriptions, equipment for noninvasive ventilation,
      durable medical equipment prescriptions, coordination with government assistance and
      community health programs, physical or occupational therapy in the home or at an outpatient
      clinic, medications restarted or discontinued as appropriate.

      This study will enrol individuals who were diagnosed with acute respiratory failure during an
      ICU admission and were discharged from the ICU alive. Once enrolled, participants' medical
      records will be reviewed for demographic and medical information. Questionnaires will be used
      to assess the participant's status prior to ICU admittance, including comorbidities,
      medications, physical functioning, quality of life, alcohol/smoking/substance use, social
      support and healthcare utilization. While in the ICU, participants will receive usual
      clinical care in this observational study. Data on mechanical ventilation, arterial blood gas
      values, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) diagnosis, delirium, and medical status
      will be collected. Information regarding the patients' postdischarge needs including medical
      equipment, medication, home care services, dialysis, appointments, counselling and referral
      will also be collected by reviewing the discharge note. Follow-up evaluations by phone call
      will occur at 1-4 weeks, 3 and 6 months following the ICU discharge. At 1-4 weeks, the
      investigators will evaluate, via phone call whether the patient's post-discharge needs are
      met. At 3 months and 6 months phone calls, standardized surveys will be used to assess
      mortality status, readmission, healthcare utilization, functional outcomes, quality of life,
      mental health status, coping and social support and return to work.
    
  