
    
      The investigators have demonstrated previously that the calcium channel antagonists (CCAs)
      verapamil, nifedipine, and diltiazem can block in vitro and in vivo meningioma growth at
      clinically relevant doses (Jensen, Lee et al. 1995; Jensen, Petr et al. 2000; Jensen and
      Wurster 2001). However, only modest growth inhibition was exhibited in the tumors in these
      studies with CCAs alone. Many authors have shown augmented growth inhibition by adding CCAs
      to traditional chemotherapies in other tumor types (Tsuruo, Iida et al. 1981; Tsuruo, Iida et
      al. 1983; Helson 1984; Robinson, Clutterbuck et al. 1985; Ince, Appleton et al. 1986; Merry,
      Fetherston et al. 1986; Cano-Gauci and Riordan 1987). For instance, the combination of
      verapamil and 1,3-bis (2-chloroethyl)-1-nitrosourea (BCNU) is better than BCNU alone in
      inhibiting the growth of human gliomas in vitro and in vivo (Bowles, Pantazis et al. 1990).
      Calcium antagonists seem to exert the majority of their anti-tumor effects by inhibiting
      calcium dependent secondary messenger systems (Metcalfe, 1986 #74; Jensen, 2000 #15).
      Furthermore, the investigators have more recently demonstrated that the addition of a
      verapamil or diltiazem with HU enhances the growth inhibition seen with these drugs in vitro
      and in vivo.

      Hydroxyurea inhibits DNA synthesis by inhibition of ribonucleotide diphosphate reductase and
      is a well-known drug used for the treatment of a number of tumor types including head and
      neck tumors and chronic myelogenous leukemia. It has also been used as an adjuvant for
      antiretroviral treatment for patients with HIV and as a treatment for polycythemia vera,
      essential thrombocythemia and sickle cell disease.

      Hydroxyurea is well absorbed after oral administration with the peak serum concentration
      achieved in two hours. The drug is excreted primarily in the urine, either as urea or as the
      unchanged compound. The drug is supplied as 500 mg capsules in a white crystalline powder. It
      is stored at room temperature. Dosing is usually in the range of 20 mg/kg/day with
      adjustments necessary for patients with renal insufficiency. In the current study population
      patients would be usually treated with 500mg twice a day. It is contraindicated in patients
      with myelosuppression or severe anemia.

      Verapamil is another commonly used medication. It is used for the treatment of angina,
      hypertension, supraventricular arrhythmias, and migraine prophylaxis. Dosing with standard
      verapamil is 80-120 mg pox three times a day but the sustained release form can be given
      120-480mg once or twice each day. It is contraindicated in patients with left ventricular
      dysfunction, congestive hart failure, hypotension (systolic <90bpm) 2nd or 3rd degree
      atrioventricular block (except in patients with a functioning artificial pacemakers), or sick
      sinus syndrome and atrial flutter or atrial fibrillation and an accessory bypass tract
      (Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome, Lown-Ganong-Levine Syndrome). Serious adverse reactions
      associated with Verapamil use are congestive heart failure, hypotension, bradycardia, 2nd or
      3rd degree AC block, angina, myocardial infarction, syncope and GI obstruction.

      STUDY PROCEDURES:

      Screening and pretreatment assessments: Written informed consent is obtained before
      study-specific screening evaluations are performed. After receiving a subject's agreement to
      participate in the study and verifying that the subject meets eligibility criteria, the
      following will be performed: Medical and surgical history, prior cancer therapy (including
      prior chemotherapy and radiation therapy), complete physical examination, orthostatic vital
      signs, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, weight, height, Karnofsky performance status
      (See appendix), neurological evaluation, current medications, and drug allergies. The
      following laboratory evaluations will be obtained: complete blood count (including
      differential, hemoglobin, and platelet count), serum chemistries (BUN, creatine, sodium,
      potassium, bicarbonate, chloride, calcium, glucose, LDH, total protein, total bilirubin, ALT,
      AST, alkaline phosphatase, albumin), serum pregnancy test (for woman of childbearing age, for
      all other women - documentation in the medical history will confirm that the subject is not
      of childbearing potential). All subjects will undergo an ECG test at screening. Patients with
      incomplete bundle branch or first degree AV conductions problems that don't exclude them from
      the study will be monitored with serial monthly ECG exams or more frequently if symptoms
      occur. All subjects will undergo an MRI of the brain (or CT with contrast if unable to do
      MRI) with and without Gadolinium contrast to assess tumor measurements within three to four
      weeks prior to beginning treatment. Patients will also undergo Positron Emission Tomography
      (PET) with metabolic FDG (radiopharmaceutical fluorodeoxyglucose) markers to assess tumor
      activity. Baseline FDG/PET scans will be given to all enrolled patients at screening and
      every 6 months, thereafter.

      Assessments during treatment phase: Patients receive oral hydroxyurea twice daily for 2 years
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Responders may continue
      beyond the 2 years of protocol treatment at the discretion of the physician. If the therapy
      is stopped for any reason, therapy may be reinstituted if the discontinuance does not exceed
      4 consecutive weeks. The dose is 20 mg/kg/day divided in twice daily doses. The calculated
      dose will be rounded up or down to the nearest multiple of 500 mg. Patients will typically
      receive either 1,000 mg/day or 1,500 mg/day. If the dose is 1,500 mg/day, it should be
      divided as 500 mg po every morning and 1,000 mg po. at bedtime. Verapamil sustained release
      tablets will begin at a dose of 120 mg each day for two weeks, then 240 mg each day for two
      weeks, then 360 mg each day for two weeks, then 240 mg twice a day. If the baseline SBP is
      <110 mmHg then the initial Verapamil sustained release dose will be 60 mg (1/2 of a 120 mg
      tablet) each day for two weeks. Patients will have blood pressure and heart rate measurements
      done weekly for the first month and them monthly thereafter. Other clinical and laboratory
      evaluations will be performed at 1 month intervals and include: limited physical examination,
      orthostatic vital signs, blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, Karnofsky performance
      status, neurologic evaluation, serum chemistries (BUN, creatine, sodium, potassium,
      bicarbonate, chloride, calcium, glucose, LDH, total protein, total bilirubin, ALT, AST,
      alkaline phosphatase, albumin). Concomitant medications and adverse events will also be
      collected. Complete blood counts (including differential, hemoglobin, and platelet count),
      will be done weekly throughout the study until counts stabilize for two months, and then labs
      will be done every two weeks thereafter to closely monitor the side-effect of
      myelosuppression.

      Patients with incomplete bundle branch or first degree AV conduction abnormalities that don't
      exclude them from the study will be monitored with monthly ECG exams or more frequently if
      symptoms occur. Subjects will undergo MRI with gadolinium (or CT with contrast if unable to
      do MRI) every three months after beginning treatment. Measurements will be made of the image
      slice with the largest cross sectional area. Two orthogonal measures will be made to
      determine maximal AP and lateral dimensions. PET imaging will be done at baseline and every 6
      months and proliferative and metabolic activity will be compared to baseline images. Tumor
      location and tumor size will be obtained by CT/MRI. Treatment response and clinical
      progression can frequently be difficult to measure directly. Serial neurological exams,
      CT/MRI and PET scans may provide a guide to the actual course of response and progression.
      Deterioration in neurological status and tumor regrowth on CT/MRI and PET must be sustained
      over time to declare clinical progression. The time interval until progression will be
      measured from the day of last CT/MRI before treatment and every 3-4 months until
      deterioration is documented. The patient should consistently be followed with the same
      diagnostic imaging study and formal evaluation of radiological tumor progression and tumor
      response will be done post study

      Patients will be treated for up to two years on the study. Progression of disease will be
      defined as a greater than 25% increase of largest cross sectional area by two orthogonal
      measurements. Patients will be discontinued for illness that prevents further treatment
      including unacceptable toxicity (Grade 3 or 4 that fails to resolve with dose medication per
      protocol) of study drugs.
    
  