
    
      The Cyrcadia CBR™ (Circadian Biometric Recorder) includes wearable biometric patches and a
      detachable data recording device. The CBR™ records chronobiologic data while the patient is
      totally ambulatory and going about her normal daily routine. Following removal of the
      detachable data recording device from the wearable biometric patches, the data is transferred
      to a computer for analysis. The Cyrcadia CBR™ will be placed on the patient for the duration
      of 2 to 24 hours. There is no restriction of daily activity. The study subject is requested
      to sponge bathe rather than shower while wearing the device, keeping the device dry during
      the testing procedure. After this period, the CBR™ will be removed and the data will be
      transferred to a computer for analysis.

      The primary endpoint of this 173 patient study is to determine the accuracy of Cyrcadia CBR™
      as a supplemental screening device to mammography and ultrasound in predicting a diagnosis of
      breast cancer. Specific emphasis will be on the utilization of the CBR as a secondary
      screening device to reduce the number of biopsies currently performed on non-cancerous
      tissue. A secondary emphasis will be on the CBR to act as an improved screening solution over
      mammography specifically in those patients with dense breast parenchymal tissue.

      Other endpoints of the study are:

        -  to determine the accuracy of Cyrcadia CBR™, including the positive predictive value,
           negative predictive value, false negative rate and false positive rate.

        -  to determine the optimal wear time for the Cyrcadia CBR™.

        -  to demonstrate substantial equivalent or improved results when applied to Cyrcadia
           original patient case study with identical advanced neural network analysis
           computational results.

      Study subjects will be followed at 6, 12, 18, and 24 months to update their clinical status.
    
  