
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the morbidity, mortality, and overall outcome of patients with severe aplastic
           anemia or hematologic malignancy treated with standard vs novel conditioning regimens
           followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation.

        -  Examine the influence of donor histocompatibility on outcome by comparing
           matched/related, mismatched/related (with or without T-cell depletion), and
           matched/unrelated transplants with stratification for type of preparative regimen.

        -  Ensure that patients with uncommon diagnoses will be treated in a uniform fashion with
           the best therapy available.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to risk of relapse (standard-risk: acute leukemia
      in first complete remission, chronic myelogenous leukemia in first chronic phase, lymphoma in
      sensitive first relapse or second remission, primary or untreated myelodysplastic syndromes,
      or untreated severe aplastic anemia vs high-risk: all others).

      Patients are assigned to one of the following conditioning regimens based on diagnosis, risk
      of relapse, and donor relatedness:

        -  Regimen 1: Patients receive busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours on days -7 to -4 and
           cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -3 and -2.

        -  Regimen 2: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 to -2 and
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -5 to -3.

        -  Regimen 3: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 and -4 and
           total-body irradiation (TBI) twice daily on days -3 to -1.

        -  Regimen 4: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -6 to -2 and
           melphalan IV over 1 hour on days -3 and -2.

        -  Regimen 5: Patients receive etoposide IV over 26 hours beginning on day -5,
           cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on day -4, and TBI twice daily on days -3 to -1.

        -  Regimen 6: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 24 hours, carboplatin IV over 24
           hours, and thiotepa IV over 24 hours on days -7 to -4.

        -  Regimen 7: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 30 minutes on days -5 to -1 and
           anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -5 to -2.

        -  Regimen 8: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days -5 and -4, TBI
           twice daily on days -3 to -1, and anti-thymocyte globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -3
           to -1.

        -  Regimen 9: Patients receive busulfan IV over 2 hours every 6 hours and anti-thymocyte
           globulin IV over 4-8 hours on days -7 to -4 and cyclophosphamide IV over 2 hours on days
           -3 and -2.

      All patients then receive donor stem cell infusions on day 0. Some patients may undergo
      involved-field radiotherapy 4-8 weeks after transplant.

      Patients will be taken off study after a minimum of 4 years of follow up.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 405 patients will be accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  