
    
      While patients surviving more than three years from SCT have a high probability of being
      cured of their underlying disease, they are still at risk from several categories of
      complications which could remain lifelong risks including late recurrence (or continued
      persistence) of original disease, late effects from transplant related GVHD, immune
      dysfunction, or consequences from the chemotherapy and/or radiation given during transplant
      conditioning. Since these complications are iatrogenic, the long term follow-up of SCT
      patients is the ethical responsibility of the transplant team. In addition, collecting data
      on late occurring complications allows for prospective evaluation of the long term
      consequences of surviving a particular transplant treatment approach (i.e. total body
      irradiation versus chemotherapy conditioning, T cell depleted versus T cell replete
      transplants). This protocol is designed to allow for long term evaluation, data collection,
      and when needed, standard medical care of patients (and when appropriate their stem cell
      donor) who have received allogeneic stem cell transplantation in NHLBI protocols. This may
      include patients with bone marrow failure states, cytopenias, hemoglobinopathies, metastatic
      solid tumors, or hematologic malignancies. No investigational treatments will be administered
      on this protocol. Participation will not constitute a promise of long-term medical care at
      the NIH, nor will it provide for the evaluation and treatment of any non-transplant related
      medical problems. This protocol will provide access to NIH hematologists experienced in the
      care of post transplant patients who can help transplant patients and their local physician
      manage post transplant complications. In return, data collected from subjects and their
      donors (when applicable) will provide NIH researchers valuable information and/or laboratory
      samples for the purposes of better understanding the long term consequences of stem cell
      transplantation and identifying areas in need of future research.
    
  