
    
      Methodology: two-arms cluster-randomized controlled trial. Clusters are defined as a group of
      50 households

      Expected enrolment : 4500 patients in 80 clusters located in 2 provinces (Kompong Cham and
      Siem Reap)

      Intervention

      Arm 1: Facility-based testing intervention Community Health Workers (CHWs) will provide
      information inside their groups on the possibility to be tested in health centers for HCV
      infection. HCV screening will be done using the SD Bioline HCV RDT on a finger stick
      capillary whole blood. Results will be available in 15 minutes. In case of positive HCV RDT,
      an immediate blood sample collection will be done in health center and sent to Provincial
      Hospital to perform HCV RNA using GenXpert viral load assay on plasma. Results will be sent
      back to the health center that will be in charge to give result to the participant and to
      refer to care in case of active infection.

      Arm 2: Community-based testing intervention After a dedicated training, CHWs will do the SD
      Bioline HCV RDT on a finger stick capillary whole blood directly in the village of
      participants. In case of positive HCV RDT, 5 blood spots will be collected immediately on DBS
      and sent to Phnom Penh for HCV RNA extraction and amplification (Omunis). Results will be
      sent back to the referral health center of each cluster and CHWs will be in charge to give
      result to the participant and to refer to care in case of active infection.

      Treatment phase For positive HCV RNA, a rapid consultation will be planned. The baseline
      assessment will include questionnaires (risk behaviours and socio-economic status), clinical
      exam, blood sampling and liver ultrasound. Symptomatic cirrhotic patients will be referred to
      a National Hospital in Phnom Penh in a hepatology unit. For the others patients, DAA
      treatment using sofosbuvir and daclatasvir combination for 12 weeks will be proposed, after
      checking the result of creatinine and the possible drug-drug interactions. All adverse events
      will be assessed by the investigator and documented regardless of the possible causality with
      the concomitant treatments.
    
  