
    
      The overall objective of this project, RO1 DA 13004 "Opioids and HIV Medications:
      Interactions in Drug Abusers" and the supplement "Interaction of Buprenorphine and TB
      Medications," is to continue to improve the clinical care of human immunodeficiency virus
      (HIV)-infected, substance-abusing patients by identifying significant interactions that may
      occur between drugs commonly used to treat HIV disease or tuberculosis and buprenorphine, the
      newest opioid used for maintenance treatment of opioid dependence and an important addition
      to existing substance abuse pharmacotherapies because its use is not restricted to
      specialized opiate treatment programs. The research funded by this grant over the past years
      has shown the presence of significant and clinically important drug interactions between
      methadone and LAAM in combination with antiretroviral medications. Understanding these drug
      interactions will allow physicians to safely and more effectively treat HIV disease in
      opioid-dependent patients. The following specific aims are yet to be completed for this
      project which has another 2 years of a 5 year funding period: 1. Continuation of studies to
      determine whether the pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine are affected by coadministration of
      any of the following HIV medications fosamprenavir/ritonavir, darunavir or the TB
      medications, rifampin or rifabutin. This will be done by comparing the pharmacokinetics of
      buprenorphine in the absence and presence of each HIV medication using a within subjects
      study design with participants who are opioid-dependent, without HIV infection, and receiving
      medication maintenance treatment with buprenorphine/naloxone (please note that naloxone
      absorption is negligible and is added to the buprenorphine preparation by the drug
      manufacturer to diminish the likelihood of diversion of the drug to injected abuse). These
      studies will allow an answer to a major question of concern to patients and their clinicians:
      Could starting one of these HIV medications or TB medications result in opioid overdose or
      withdrawal? These studies will determine whether buprenorphine accumulation and toxicity
      might occur or whether buprenorphine concentrations at standard medication doses will be
      subtherapeutic and/or expose the patient to the risk of opioid withdrawal symptoms during
      conjoint HIV or TB therapy. 2. Continuation of studies to determine whether the
      pharmacokinetics of the HIV medications fosamprenavir/ritonavir or darunavir, are affected by
      coadministration of buprenorphine. This will be done in between-subjects studies by comparing
      the pharmacokinetics of each HIV medication in groups of patients treated with buprenorphine
      and in a control group without opioid dependence or HIV infection. It will be important to
      identify any interaction leading to increased exposure to an HIV therapeutic with a
      concomitant increase in side-effects and toxicities. In addition to unnecessary discomfort
      and hazard, this may lead to non-adherence and/or increased substance abuse particularly if
      side effects are interpreted as opioid withdrawal. Equally important, substantial decreases
      in levels of HIV drugs could lead to subtherapeutic levels, inadequate viral suppression, and
      the development of antiretroviral resistance and therapeutic failure. (Please note that for
      the TB medications supplemental studies only the within-subjects component with buprenorphine
      will be completed due to budgetary constraints of the supplement.) Important clinical effects
      related to concomitant buprenorphine/HIV therapeutic or TB medication administration are also
      collected including: 1. Measures of opioid withdrawal symptoms will be collected prior to and
      following simultaneous buprenorphine/antiretroviral administration 2. Measures of cognitive
      function will be collected prior to and following simultaneous buprenorphine/antiretroviral
      administration 3. Measures of the occurrence of adverse events will be systematically
      collected and chronicled prior to and following simultaneous buprenorphine/antiretroviral
      administration 4. Effect of buprenorphine alone and buprenorphine in combination with
      antiretroviral administration on cardiac conduction will be obtained with serial
      electrocardiograms. 5. Effect of buprenorphine alone and in combination with antiretroviral
      or anti-TB medication administration on hepatic function through serial collection of
      laboratory blood tests of liver function to gain insight into the potential of these drugs to
      produce hepatotoxicity. The experimental protocol allows both sets of studies (Aims 1 and 2)
      to be accomplished simultaneously in the same buprenorphine-maintained subjects, thereby
      achieving substantial efficiencies in the current project. The studies offer a cost-effective
      method for rapid determination of the presence and clinical significance of drug interactions
      between buprenorphine and pharmacotherapies for infectious diseases of great clinical
      importance.
    
  