
    
      Aim of the study :

      The aim of our study is to test the different available markers for the estimation of
      glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in HIV patients in order to determine which one is the more
      appropriated in this particular population. We will analyze the role of the variation in
      muscular mass in the estimation of GFR

      Background :

      Several lines of evidence point to renal disease becoming an important complication of human
      immunodeficiency virus infection and therapy. The spectrum of renal disease in the HIV
      patient has dramatically changed with HIV associated nephropathy becoming less prevalent and
      chronic kidney disease [CKD] becoming an everyday concern parallel to the prevalence of renal
      risk factors such as aging, hypertension and diabetes. Different studies have shown that the
      prevalence of CKD defined as an estimated glomerular filtration rate below 60 ml/min/1.73m2
      is around 10% in HIV patients. CKD is associated with increased mortality, a new concept that
      has emerged in the past years putting CKD in the top 5 critical cardiovascular risk factors.
      Evaluating individual renal function in HIV patients allows better care in prevention of
      cardiovascular events as well as initiation of nephro-protection strategies in order to slow
      down the loss of renal function and alleviate or postpone the need for dialysis. Since HIV
      patients also receive chronic multi-therapy, evaluating renal function is also mandatory to
      allow drug dosage adaptation.

      Plasma creatinine dosage is routinely used to estimate GFR but it is closely correlated to
      age, sex, weight and ethnic origin of the patients. All these factors make creatinine
      unreliable for GFR estimation. Laboratory dosage of creatinine may be performed with
      different techniques (JAFFE or enzymatic dosage) with a 20% variation in the results for the
      same patient. None of the GFR estimation formulae (Cockcroft et Gault or MDRD) have been
      validated in HIV patients. Cystatin C, a new marker still under evaluation, seems to show
      some interest in such patients because of its relative independency with regard to muscle
      mass, but has not been tested in HIV patients. Some cystatin C based formulae have been
      proposed but not yet tested and validated in HIV patients. HIV infected patients may exhibit
      abnormal body composition particularly affecting lipids but also, as shown recently, muscle
      mass. Our study will precisely measure body composition in order to allow interpretation of
      the variations of the renal markers with regard to muscle mass.

      METHODS :

      60 patients (men, caucasians) with an estimated GFR between 60 and 15 ml/min/1.73m2 will be
      included in the study. After giving all necessary information and collection of informed
      consent, blood will be drown to allow creatinine, cystatin C, albumin, C reactive protein and
      urea dosages. GFR will be measured using plasmatic clearance of EDTA-51Cr. Body composition
      will be performed using DEXA scan. Two visits will be necessary to complete the evaluation
      for every patient, scheduled at the same time than the routine medical visits.

      Expected results :

      Our study should allow better definition of the ideal marker for GFR in HIV infected male. Il
      will also afford better comprehension of the factors involved in the variation of creatinine
      dosage in this population namely those related to the biochemical dosage and to the change in
      body composition.

      Conclusion :

      HIV infection and its treatment is definitely a serious risk factor for renal disease.
      Although, optimal care for HIV-infected patients becomes more and more complex due to
      multiple comorbidities, efforts must be made to diagnose a decline in glomerular filtration
      rate in order to provide improved control of CKD-associated cardiovascular risk and optimized
      antiretroviral therapy. Therefore evaluating glomerular filtration rate is critical in
      HIV-infected patients to allow determination of the optimum follow up strategy and the
      critical therapeutic measures, namely drug dosage adaptation.
    
  