
    
      Of the nearly 800,000 seniors admitted to Skilled Nursing Facilities for rehabilitation (SNF
      rehab) annually in the U.S., approximately 20% will be newly institutionalized, 25-50% are
      readmitted back to the hospital within 30 days at a cost of $4.34 billion, and 9% will die in
      the next year. Clearly this population represents an ideal target for palliative care
      interventions such as decreasing symptom burden, improving quality of life, and ensuring that
      the medical care provided is congruent with patient goals and preferences. Unfortunately,
      health professionals working in the SNF rehab setting are rarely trained in palliative care.
      While the current standard of care in the SNF rehab setting typically includes social service
      assessment and case management, the care plans developed are frequently focused only on
      immediate, short-term issues and are not communicated as the patient is discharged to a
      different level of care. Existing literature supports the need to assist patients in
      navigating care transitions through standardized systems and patient/family activation.
      However, the transition from hospital to SNF and from SNF to community has received little
      attention, even though these are some of the most complex patients at high risk for poor
      outcomes. The broad goal of the research team is to optimize care for high-risk seniors
      admitted to SNF rehab by using a social work led, therapeutic intervention designed to align
      goals of care and improve communication across multiple care settings.

      ALIGN (Assessing & Listening to Individual Goals and Needs), a palliative social work led
      intervention, focuses on defining patient and caregiver goals and values through an
      ecological assessment with standardized monitoring and reassessment, providing education
      about disease trajectory, facilitating communication between the patient and the care team,
      and developing a patient-centered care plan that accompanies the patient across all future
      transitions. ALIGN was previously tested in a long-term acute care hospital setting as part
      of a quality improvement project that demonstrated decreased hospital readmissions, increased
      use of hospice, improved self-reported patient care experience, and higher levels of advance
      directive completion. This pilot study will be conducted to determine the feasibility of
      applying ALIGN to the SNF rehab population. The current protocol will enroll 60 patients aged
      65+ at the time of admission to receive the ALIGN intervention along with at least 60
      caregivers. The Investigators will also enroll 120 patients and 60 caregivers to receive care
      as usual. The proposed specific aims (SA) and Hypotheses (H) are:

      SA1: To determine the feasibility of conducting a trial of ALIGN in older persons and their
      caregivers admitted to SNF rehab using a pragmatic, stepped-wedge design.

      H1: The ALIGN intervention will be feasible if a) eligibility, enrollment, refusal, retention
      and attrition rates are within 20% of expected; b) facility staff/providers and participants
      (patients and caregivers) find the intervention acceptable (semi-structured qualitative
      interviews)

      SA2: To conduct an exploratory analysis to estimate the effect size of ALIGN vs usual care on
      the primary patient-centered outcome, quality of life (FACT-G), and caregiver-centered
      outcome, caregiver burden (Zarit caregiver burden scale) and the secondary outcome (health
      care utilization). The investigators hypothesize that compared to control at 60-days
      post-enrollment, the ALIGN subjects will have:

      H2a: A clinically meaningful difference in the FACT-G (3-7 points on the overall scale) for
      patients.

      H2b: A clinically meaningful difference in the Zarit Caregiver burden scale (8±15) for
      caregivers.

      H2c: A 20% relative decrease in 60-day readmission to hospital.

      In addition to the key primary and secondary outcome measures listed above, the investigators
      will also explore the effect of ALIGN on utilization of palliative care/hospice, hospital
      length of stay, advance directive documentation, and care experience (Advanced Illness
      Coordinating Care Survey).
    
  