
    
      Eligible subjects in this study will have either a known abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) or
      because they do not have an AAA (control group).

      The aorta serves as the main artery to supply blood flow to the body. It is approximately the
      size of a garden hose. Due to the effects of high blood pressure (hypertension),
      atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), and tobacco use, the aorta may widen and enlarge
      to form an aneurysm. An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a dilation (enlargement) or
      ballooning out of a section of blood vessel caused by disease or weakness in the wall of the
      aorta below the level of the kidney arteries. As an AAA dilates and increases in size,
      rupture of the AAA may occur. AAA rupture carries a significant risk of death.

      Currently, aortic size is the primary factor used to assess aortic rupture risk. There are
      other imaging procedures (imaging modalities) that are being used and developed to assess AAA
      rupture risk. Finite element analysis (FEA) is a way to study the mechanical properties of
      the aortic wall, including areas of stress and strength that are used to calculate rupture
      risk. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) utilizes glucose (a form of sugar) labeled with a
      radioactivity to look at the metabolic activity and inflammation in the aortic wall.

      The purpose of this research study is to further study, through FEA, changes that occur in
      the mechanical properties of the aortic wall. The investigator will compare two radiotracers,
      18F-FDG and 11C-PBR28 to determine if one provides more useful and reliable information about
      inflammation. 18F-FDG and 11C-PBR28 are radioactive drugs that will be used for imaging
      during the PET-CT scan. The investigator will also compare the results describing the
      mechanical properties of the AAA wall to the degree of inflammation in that wall as
      determined by PET-CT imaging to define new and better predictors of AAA growth and/or
      rupture.

      The radioactive tracers that are used in this study are 18F-fludeoxyglucose (FDG) and
      11C-PBR28 (PBR) which stands for Peripheral Benzodiazepine Receptor. 11C-PBR28 is considered
      investigational, which means that it has not been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration. FDG is an approved drug by the FDA, however in this study it is considered
      investigational.

      Goal: Twenty-four subjects will be recruited for this study. Six control subjects (three
      males and three females), will be considered. Control subjects will have known
      atherosclerosis, without aneurysmal disease. Six subjects (three males and three females)
      with small AAAs (diameter 3.0-4.5cm), six subjects (three males, AAA >5.5cm and three
      females, AAA >5.0cm) with AAAs that are indicated for treatment, and six subjects (three
      males and three females) with rapidly expanding AAAs (>0.5cm over 6 months and/or >1.0cm over
      12 months) will be considered.

      Subjects will have blood drawn to perform a genetic test that will look at genes and proteins
      to determine subject eligibility. Once the blood work is assessed for eligibility, subjects
      will undergo the PET-CT scan. The imaging will take approximately 3 hours to complete.
    
  