
    
      As a result of the inability of female germ cells to regenerate after injury, a number of
      chemotherapeutic agents induce premature ovarian failure in the majority of reproductive age
      women who receive them. The long-term survival for these women has increased with more
      effective chemotherapies, making iatrogenic ovarian failure and infertility an increasingly
      significant issue. Currently the choices for maintaining fertility include in vitro
      fertilization (IVF) and embryo cryopreservation, oocyte cryopreservation and the use of GnRH
      agonist and antagonist to preserve ovarian function.

      Much of the evidence for the use of GnRH agonist to prevent premature ovarian failure is
      found in the systemic lupus erythematosus literature. Blumenfeld and colleagues have
      published a report that demonstrates preservation of ovarian function in 100% of patients
      treated with leuprolide acetate prior to cyclophosphamide therapy, compared to a 50% ovarian
      failure rate in patients not receiving leuprolide acetate. Although the results of animal
      studies and human studies are encouraging, adequately controlled trials are needed. Future
      trials will need to have sufficient numbers of patients, receiving multiple types of
      chemotherapeutic agents to adequately document the utility of medical prophylaxis. The
      experience with ovulation induction suggests GnRH antagonists may have similar efficacy to
      GnRH agonists. GnRH antagonists compete directly with GnRH in receptor binding, and as a
      result antagonists rapidly inhibit secretion of gonadotropin and sex steroids. Unlike GnRH
      agonists, GnRH antagonists have an immediate effect and antagonists can be given independent
      of menstrual cycle day. These differences represent several practical benefits offered by an
      antagonist. In a recent case series by Sauer et al, cetrorelix acetate, a GnRH antagonist,
      was given in doses of 3mg at four day intervals to four patients ages 21-30. Menses was
      preserved in all four patients and there was one spontaneous conception. Because of the
      potential advantages of the use of a GnRH antagonist when compared to an agonist, cetrorelix
      acetate will be studied against placebo in this investigation.

      Our specific aim is to compare the rates of ovarian preservation in reproductive age women
      receiving chemotherapeutic agents known to affect ovarian function who receive Cetrorelix
      acetate co treatment with women who receive these agents and do not receive Cetrorelix
      acetate. A second aim is to evaluate the ability of the Cetrorelix acetate co treatment to
      induce therapeutic amenorrhea in a study population at risk for thrombocytopenia and
      associated heavy vaginal bleeding.
    
  