
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the safety and tolerability of bintrafusp alfa (M7824) in combination with
      immunocytokine NHS-IL12 (NHS-IL-12) and radiation therapy in patients with metastatic hormone
      receptor positive (HR+)/HER2- breast cancer.

      II. To determine the recommended phase II dose (RP2D) of NHS-IL-12 in combination with M7824
      and radiation therapy in patients with metastatic HR+/HER2- breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess immunologic/molecular responses, specifically percent (%) change in tumor
      infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) pre and post therapy to M7824 in combination with NHS-IL-12
      and radiation therapy in patients with HR+/HER2- metastatic breast cancer.

      II. To explore preliminary progression free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) to power
      future definitive trial.

      III. To evaluate the in-field and abscopal effect of treatment with M7824 in combination with
      NHS-IL-12 and radiation therapy.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To characterize circulating immune cell populations and cytokine profiles in tumor and
      circulation following treatment with M7824.

      II. To conduct tissue-based ribonucleic acid sequencing (RNAseq), RNA scope, whole exome
      sequencing (WES) targeted sequencing.

      III. To correlate dosimetry to response (assessed by degree of radiation fibrosis).

      IV. To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of NHS-IL-12 in combination with M7824.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of immunocytokine NHS-IL12.

      Patients receive bintrafusp alfa intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1 and 14 and
      immunocytokine NHS-IL12 subcutaneously (SC) on day 14. Beginning on day 14 of cycle 1,
      patients undergo radiation therapy once daily (QD) for up to 4 days. Cycles repeat every 28
      days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  