
    
      The aim of this study is to investigate the quality of life (QoL) of late postmenopausal
      Finnish women. In 1995, 71 women were recruited through an advertisement in a local newspaper
      in the area of Turku in Finland. Exclusion criteria were: a history of previous head injury,
      neurological, cardiovascular, endocrinological or mental disease, medicated hyperlipidemia,
      malignancies, abuse of alcohol or medicines and smoking (over 10 cigarettes daily). Inclusion
      criteria were: previous hysterectomy for a benign reason and postmenopausal status (serum
      follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) level over 26 U/l). Finally, 65 women were approved for
      the study.

      Originally the study was a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind,
      cross-over trial. It included three different periods in which different medications were
      administered: three months of estrogen/placebo therapy, a one month wash-out period and three
      months of placebo/estrogen therapy. The women were randomized into two groups, where the
      other group received first a placebo and then estrogen and the other received first estrogen
      and then a placebo. Women completed questionnaires at the beginning of the study and after
      the both periods. After the survey women got to choose if they wanted to continue with the
      hormone replacement therapy (HRT) or not.

      Questionnaires were sent to the same women six years later. The intention was to estimate the
      present QoL of the women. Also their use of HRT, possible chronic diseases and medications
      were evaluated.

      This study is the 17 year follow-up study to the investigation described above. The goal is
      to measure the QoL of the same women and estimate the factors affecting it in late
      postmenopausal age. The questionnaires used are the Women's Health Questionnaire (WHQ), the
      Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), the Basic Nordic Sleep Questionnaire (BNSQ) and a common
      questionnaire to define the women's current life situation, their education and working
      background, their state of health, medications, the use of HRT and recent life events. The
      women also filled in the same questionnaires 17 years ago in relation to the first part of
      the study, and six years after it relating to the first follow-up study. The results of this
      study are compared to the former investigation results. The above mentioned randomization
      system is not used this time but the women are processed as only one group. The women are now
      acting as their own controls and their answers are compared to the responses they gave 17
      years earlier. In this way it is possible to determine, if the woman's QoL has changed during
      aging, and if the change is for the better or worse. The women were already postmenopausal 17
      years ago, so the effect of climacterium should be bypassed by now. Therefore, when the
      results of this study are compared to the former results, it is possible to separate the
      effect of the climacterium, and on the other hand, the effects of aging, on the QoL and on
      some symptoms attached to the perimenopausal phase.
    
  