
    
      Multiple organ dysfunction syndrome(MODS) are common debilitating complications after
      surgical repaire for ATAAD. MODS is one of the chief causes of post-operative death for acute
      type A aortic dissection(ATAAD) patients, and it was reported that MODS accounted for more
      than half of the death after surgery for ATAAD. Despite recent advance in surgical technique,
      mortality rate remains high in such critical care conditions.

      In animal models, studies have demonstrated the beneficial effects of MSCs with respect to
      ischemia-reperfusion injury of heart, lungs, kidney, brains and livers. Several pilot studies
      have provided evidence that MSC may be effective in treating critically ill patients with
      traumatic brain injury, acute renal failure, or acute respiratory distress syndrome.
      Therefore, in the present pilot study, the investigators hypothesized that timely initiation
      of mesenchymal stem cells(MSC) will positively influence survival and biochemical indexesof
      patients with MODS after ascending aortic replacement combined with open placement of
      triple-branched stent graft for ATAAD. The trial contain two parts:

      Part one(prenvention scheme): to explore the safety and efficacy of umbilical cord-derived
      MSC, we will recruit patients who are diagnosed with ATAAD, and 8 patients will be
      administrated intervenously with MSC immediately after ascending aortic replacement combined
      with open placement of triple-branched stent graft while other 8 not. Then we will monitor
      their MODS related biochemical indexes, sequential organ failure assessment(SOFA) scores,
      comparing to those don't be treated with MSC.

      Phase two(treatment scheme): for patients presenting severe MODS(SOFA score≥10) after
      ascending aortic replacement combined with open placement of triple-branched stent graft, we
      will randomly use MSC to 8 of patients while other 8 not. Then we will monitor their MODS
      related biochemical indexes, SOFA scores, comparing to those don't be treated with MSC.

      The dosage of the MSC was determined on the basis of the previous clinical studies, which is
      1000000 cells per kilogram of body weight and administrated intervenously .
    
  