
    
      The allogeneic stem cell transplantation is a successful therapeutic approach in the
      treatment of a number of hematologic diseases. Nevertheless, it is associated with
      substantial risks and complications. A major life-threatening complication that occurs in the
      post transplantation period is the graft versus host disease, especially its severe forms
      (Grade III and Grade IV). For this reason, a combined immunosuppressive therapy is standard
      in patients after a stem cell transplantation. In this regard, the combination between
      cyclosporin A and methotrexate in the prevention of GvHD has been particularly successful.
      However, the incidence rate of GvHD and consequent mortality are still fairly high. Besides,
      the therapy itself is accompanied by serious side effects. Therefore, there is a need for a
      more efficient, less toxic, combined immunosuppressive therapy. The purpose of this pilot
      study is to test a new combination of immunosuppressives (tacrolimus and everolimus) for the
      prevention of GvHD after an allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Tacrolimus is a macrolide
      immunosuppressant that acts as a calcineurin inhibitor, thereby preventing the activation and
      proliferation of the T-lymphocytes. Everolimus is a semisynthetic macrocyclic lactone that
      inhibits the activity of a key protein involved in the regulation of the cell cycle, the so
      called m-TOR protein. Both medicaments act complementary and potently inhibit the
      proliferation of immune cells. Previous studies have shown that the combination of tacrolimus
      with everolimus decreases significantly the rejection rate after solid organ transplantation
      and this combination is generally well tolerated.

      This study is designed as a prospective, single-center, non-randomized, open-label
      non-controlled pilot study. Study related visits are scheduled to take place at regular time
      intervals and the patients will be followed up to one year after the stem cell
      transplantation. The study is designed and will be conducted in accordance with the ICH-GCP
      guidelines and the respective national and international laws.
    
  