
    
      Grief is often felt before the death of a friend or relative with dementia. Grief before the
      death can be triggered by losses associated with dementia causing carers to experience
      sorrow, anger, yearning and acceptance that can wax and wane from diagnosis to the end of
      life. It occurs due to the lengthy and uncertain disease trajectory; compromised
      communication between the person with dementia and family and friends; and changes in
      relationship quality and carer freedom. Between 47-71% of family and friends of people with
      dementia (referred here as 'carers') experience grief before the death and 20% experience
      complicated grief after the death. Higher grief prior to death is associated with complicated
      grief after death, so emotional support during care rather than solely after the death may be
      beneficial.

      Preparation for end of life has medical, psychosocial, spiritual and practical components,
      including having a family member or healthcare professional to help make decisions, knowing
      what to expect about the terminal condition and having finances in place. Good communication
      with healthcare providers to discuss prognosis, treatments, cultural, spiritual and practical
      issues; and dealing with family conflict is critical. Preparation for end of life is
      associated with a lower likelihood of complicated grief in bereavement but has not been
      explored in the context of grief before the death. Preparation for end of life is influenced
      by socioeconomic factors associated with health literacy. In the UK a third of older adults
      have difficulty interpreting basic health information. Despite the potential benefits of end
      of life discussions with carers, there are many barriers to such discussions. Carers struggle
      to formalise in writing future wishes on behalf of the person with dementia and professionals
      tend to be reluctant to initiate end of life discussions. Family conflict can deter end of
      life decision making. Factors reflecting preparation for end of life are potentially
      modifiable suggesting that improving preparation could reduce grief before the death.

      This study aims to examine the relationship between family and friend carers' feelings of
      grief before the death of a person with dementia and how well carers are prepared for that
      death. The hypothesis that will be tested is that modifiable factors indicating preparation
      for end of life are associated with lower grief before the death in carers of people with
      dementia. The modifiable factors reflecting preparation for end of life include: carers'
      having a good knowledge of dementia progression; high health literacy; a lasting (enduring)
      Power of Attorney; knowing the end of life wishes of the person with dementia; being
      satisfied with support from their social network.

      Knowing which modifiable factors reflecting preparation for end of life are most closely
      associated with grief before the death will inform the development of a resource for carers
      with the potential to reduce carer distress during the lifetime of the person with dementia,
      bringing benefits for the person with dementia as well as their carer. It will enable
      discussions to ensure care at the end of life is planned and in accordance with the person's
      wishes; and may reduce the prevalence of complicated grief after the death of the person with
      dementia.

      Secondary objectives are to: examine the prevalence and severity of grief before the death in
      carers of people with dementia; identify which modifiable factors reflecting preparation for
      end of life are most strongly related to grief before the death; examine the extent to which
      carers feel prepared for the future and end-of-life care for their relative with dementia;
      explore whether carers recognize grief during caring and what supports they think would be
      helpful; identify unmet needs for information about end of life symptoms and emotional
      support for carers; and explore how carers experience and cope with changes in grief over
      time.

      This is a cross-sectional study using mixed methods. One hundred and fifty carers of people
      with a diagnosis of dementia will be recruited to take part in the study. They will take part
      in a quantitative interview with a range of questionnaires. Participants will be recruited
      through community and healthcare services and via the Join Dementia Research Register in the
      United Kingdom. Eligible carers will be sent invitations to participate. Flyers in these
      services or presentations at family meetings of these services are other potential avenues
      for recruitment. Participants will provide written consent prior to the interview.

      A sub-sample of carers will be asked whether they would also like to take part in an
      additional qualitative semi-structured interview to enable more in-depth exploration of some
      of the secondary objectives. The interview will explore the dynamic and changing nature of
      grief over time, how carers identify with the concept of grief and whether they consider they
      are going through a grief experience. It will also examine what supports they have found
      helpful and what they perceive to be unmet information and support needs and possible
      programs/resources that might address these needs. Qualitative interviews will be
      audio-recorded with permission from the participant on an encrypted digital recorder and then
      transcribed verbatim by the research team. Participants will be purposively selected to take
      part in these interviews to provide a mix of responses representing male and female
      participants, adult child and spouse participants, different ethnicity as well as carers of
      people at different severity of dementia. We will aim to interview carers until saturation of
      data is reached. We envisage this will be between 15-20 carers. Once we have achieved
      saturation we will cease inviting carers to take part in this component of the study.

      For the quantitative analysis, multivariable regression analysis will be used to explore the
      impact of the five modifiable factors reflecting preparation for end of life on the primary
      outcome of pre-death grief. We will control for potential confounding variables including:
      dementia severity, relationship type (spouse/partner, a child or another relationship),
      gender, care home status (whether or not the person with dementia is living at home or in a
      care home), and religiosity. There are ten potential co-variates to be included in the model.
      A sample of 15 participants per co-variate is preferable while ten may be sufficient. We will
      aim to recruit 150 participants for an adequately powered analysis.

      For the qualitative analysis audio-recording will be transcribed verbatim and entered into
      NVivo qualitative software package (QSR International) to support data coding. Data will be
      thematically analysed by coding chunks of text and grouping these codes into themes and
      sub-themes that address the study objectives. Two researchers will independently code and
      analyse each interview independently and then compare codes and themes to ensure rigour in
      analysis. Discrepancies will be discussed until consensus on themes is reached. Interviews
      will be coded as collected to enable subsequent interviews to draw on and explore themes
      arising. While we aim to recruit carers from a mix of categories (gender, relationship type
      and dementia severity) we will not be able to make comparisons between groups because of the
      small numbers representing each group (eg there may be only one male son caring for someone
      with mild dementia). The themes identified will help to draw out individual experiences in
      relation to carer grief and access to supports to supplement and expand the quantitative
      data.
    
  