
    
      In the course of this the procedure follows the necessary steps of routine treatment:

        1. Assignment of the patient with a suspect of pancreatic cancer.

        2. Performing time of flight (TOF)-18F-FDG-PET/CT with images 30 min and 90 min p.i.

        3. Performing a diagnostic CT of the abdomen with parenteral contrast medium and pancreatic
           protocol (in case of normal creatinine, GFR, and TSH levels) as well as oral contrast
           medium (in accordance with the ESUR-guidelines) as part of the PET/CT examination.

        4. Routine performance of the operation /fine needle puncture/biopsy

        5. Routine histopathological evaluation of the surgical specimen/biopsy

      For this study, a diagnostic CT of the abdomen with contrast medium (intravenous as well as
      oral) and with pancreatic protocol and without parenteral contrast medium in case of elevated
      creatinine or decreased TSH (thyroid-stimulating hormone) or GFR (glomerular filtration rate)
      levels is performed additionally within the routinely performed PET/CT for better
      differentiation of the target organ from adjacent structures. Furthermore, early (30 min
      p.i.) and delayed (90 min p.i.) images and a TOF-reconstruction following the PET/CT
      examination (without patient contact) should be performed for better differentiation between
      inflammatory and malignant lesions of the pancreas. The regional tracer-uptake should now be
      measured quantitatively by SUV (Standard Uptake Value) in the TOF-PET/CT images over the
      FDG-accumulating lesions in the pancreas at those two times. In case of an increased
      FDG-uptake in the early images, the lesion will be assessed as benign/inflammatory and with
      an increase of the FDG-uptake in the delayed images as malignant. No FDG-uptake in the early
      as well as in the delayed images will be classified as benign. As a reference standard, the
      histopathological diagnosis is used. Subsequently, a cut-off value of the SUV should be
      determined by ROC-analysis.

      According to current scientific evidence regarding the characterization of pancreatic masses
      by means of "Time of Flight"(TOF)-technique, there are no studies in the literature.
    
  