
    
      In spite of advances in its treatment, persons with HIV continue to develop HIV-associated
      neurocognitive disorders (HAND) over time. HAND may be an even more significant problem in
      older persons (age 50+) with HIV who may experience age-related changes in cognition in
      addition to HAND. Because of HAND's impact on patients' functioning and quality of life,
      treatments are needed. Pharmacologic treatments have, in general, been ineffective and
      investigators have argued that computer delivered cognitive training may be an effective
      alternative. While results of small studies have been encouraging, the effect size of
      cognitive training may be small and of unclear practical importance. The nature of cognitive
      training programs, often building on laboratory measures of cognition, may reduce how
      inherently interesting (i.e., fun) they are, limiting their uptake outside of paid research
      studies. Others have argued for the use of computer games targeting psychomotor speed,
      problem solving, and visuospatial skills to improve cognitive function in older adults. Data
      support the utility of this approach, but again effect sizes may be small.

      Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) may be an effective way to enhance the effects
      of cognitive training. It involves the application of a small electric current (1-2 mA) to
      the head, inducing small currents within the brain that enhance cognitive training. Multiple
      studies have shown that tDCS enhances cognition, including attention and psychomotor speed.
      The investigators previously completed a single-blind pilot study of individuals with
      HIV-related mild neurocognitive disorder using a high-interest car racing game with or
      without tDCS. Results were encouraging in showing moderate to large effect sizes consistent
      with tDCS enhancement of cognitive function after six 20-minute training sessions over two
      weeks. Participants' subjective reports of cognitive difficulties supported observed effects
      on objective measures, and their mood improved. The intervention was acceptable to
      participants, many of whom stated they enjoyed it. Everyone indicated a willingness to
      participate in a similar study in the future.

      In this study the investigators will expand on a pilot-tested training intervention with 120
      individuals randomly assigned to an attention control condition or game-based cognitive
      training with either sham or active tDCS. The investigators will employ a battery of
      cognitive measures as well as self-report measures of mood, cognitive difficulties, and
      everyday functioning in order to evaluate the effects of study interventions.

      Participants will first be screened for eligibility by telephone, and then scheduled for a
      visit during which their eligibility will be further assessed. Those who are eligible based
      on inclusion and exclusion criteria will complete a battery of measures of their cognitive
      and functional status. They will then complete six training sessions over a period of three
      weeks, and then once again complete the battery of assessments. Participants will then be
      asked to return one month after the post-training assessment to evaluate the persistence of
      training effects.
    
  