
    
      Chronic pain is continuous, long-term pain of more than 12 weeks. Patients with chronic pain
      are a heterogeneous group with varied pathologies (e.g. osteoarthritis; fibromyalgia) and
      pain sites (e.g., chronic low back pain, CLBP; chronic widespread pain). Chronic pain affects
      more than two fifths of the UK population, that is, around 28 million adults. Currently, the
      biopsychosocial model of pain is the most widely used heuristic approach to understanding
      chronic pain. The biopsychosocial perspective recognises that pain emerges from a dynamic
      interplay of a patient's physiological state, thoughts, emotions, behaviours, and
      sociocultural influences. This acknowledges that pain is a subjective experience and
      treatment approaches are aimed at management, rather than cure, of chronic pain.

      Chronic pain affects social, psychological and emotional wellbeing. Current psychological
      treatments (e.g. CBT and ACT) aim to support patients to cope with the impact of chronic pain
      and improve their quality of life. However, some critical questions remain regarding the
      effectiveness of these interventions. Research indicates that substantial numbers of patients
      do not benefit greatly from these approaches and often effects are not maintained across
      time. Audit data from a local Pain Management Programme (PMP) indicates that many patients
      remain distressed by pain after treatment, with approximately 80% scoring 5 or more out of 10
      on a pain distress scale six months later. Thus, it appears that current psychological
      therapies are not targeting all relevant issues.

      Evidence indicates that psychodynamic therapies show some efficacy in the treatment of
      chronic pain, demonstrating patterns of change in interpersonal problems, pain intensity and
      depression-anxiety. Interpersonal literature states that aspects of relating are implicated
      in chronic pain; for example, perceived burdensomeness (feeling a burden on others) and
      thwarted belongingness (loneliness and feeling alienated from others) are significantly
      associated with pain intensity, self-efficacy and functional limitations.

      Psychodynamic Interpersonal Therapy affirms that our sense of self and ability to relate to
      others are important determinants of how able we are to regulate emotion, manage adversity
      and access social support. As such, they are likely to play a fundamental role in how we cope
      with chronic pain. Studies have found an association between insecure attachment and related
      interpersonal difficulties with poor pain self-efficacy, anxiety and poor coping. Therefore,
      a psychological therapy such as PIT which focuses on addressing negative relationship
      patterns and strengthening sense of self may be of value in the treatment of chronic pain.

      Psychological interventions such as PMPs seek to address the role of relationships and social
      networks in self-management of pain but do not target the psychological issues underlying
      interpersonal problems. Where individuals report high levels of interpersonal difficulties, a
      more in-depth focus on these issues may be required. As PIT seeks to understand how
      problematic patterns of relating are contributing to a person's distress and maladaptive
      coping, it may be a helpful approach. A clinical example of this is a person whose pain is
      exacerbated by overactivity related to their inability to say no to other's demands (e.g. for
      fear of upsetting them or eliciting conflict and rejection). Additionally, PIT has many
      strengths as an approach; it is a short, manualised and evidence-based treatment which has
      previously demonstrated promising results in the treatment of other conditions characterised
      by disabling chronic pain such as multisomatoform functional syndromes disorder and irritable
      bowel syndrome.

      Presently, the efficacy of PIT in chronic pain is unknown. With that in mind, the proposed
      study seeks to conduct an evaluation of the acceptability, feasibility and efficacy of PIT in
      a chronic pain population; treatment resistant CLBP. The outcome of this study has the
      potential to inform future therapeutic options for those with chronic pain. The results may
      support the use of an alternative 1:1 therapy for those with interpersonal difficulties as it
      follows that they would require a treatment for chronic pain which has an interpersonal
      focus.

      The primary aim of this study is to conduct a preliminary evaluation of whether PIT is an
      acceptable and feasible therapy for patients with treatment resistant CLBP (where patients
      are still experiencing clinically significant pain following previous treatment) and
      interpersonal difficulties. This will be measured using adherence to therapy and patient
      satisfaction and acceptability measures.

      The secondary aim is to conduct an initial evaluation of the efficacy of PIT in people with
      treatment resistant CLBP and interpersonal problems, including its impact on pain distress,
      self -efficacy, and interpersonal functioning.
    
  