
    
      It is widely recognized that angiogenesis not only is important in physiological processes
      such as embryonic development, wound healing, and organ and tissue regeneration, but also
      play a pivotal role in tumor growth, tissue invasion, and metastasis.1 This complex,
      multistep process of angiogenesis involves interactions between tumor cells and endothelial
      cells (ECs), growth factors, and extracellular matrix components. Tumors that are unable to
      elicit angiogenesis exist in a dormant state, and are unable to grow beyond the size of 1-2
      mm. Angiogenesis is regulated by a variety of pro-angiogenesis and anti-angiogenesis factors
      and their imbalance can lead to disease. The abnormal features of the tumor vasculature
      perhaps represent an imbalanced expression of proangiogenic factors and antiangiogenic
      factors.1 Antiangiogenic therapies inhibit the growth of genetically stable endothelial
      cells, and most tumors should starve to death with little acquired resistance.
      Antiangiogenesis agents such as Avastin for the treatment of cancer have now been approved by
      the FDA in the US and in other countries.2 Endostatin, a 20 kDa C-terminal fragment of the
      carboxyterminus of collagen XVIII, has been shown to block endothelial cell proliferation,
      survival, and migration, in part through downregulating proangiogenic factor (such as Ids,
      HIF-1a, VEGF-A, bFGF) and upregulating antiangiogenic factors (such as Thrombospondin-1,2,
      vasostatin, kininogen).4,5,6 Of the endogenous antiangiogenic factors in the body, endostatin
      has broadest anti-cancer spectrum and the least toxic and no resistance anti-cancer drug in
      mice and human. Endostatin is the first endogenous angiogenesis inhibitor to introduce into
      human clinical trials.

      However, therapy with recombinant endostatin protein is hampered by their shot half-life,
      difficulties in protein production and long-term storage of bioactive protein. Furthermore,
      the inhibition of tumor angiogenesis is a long-term and chronic process of treatment. Gene
      therapy may be overcome these difficulties by introducing human endostatin cDNA into the host
      and using the body as an endogenous factory to generate highly bioactive gene product.
      Expression of endostatin by adenoviral gene transfer (Ad-rhEndo, E10A) generates a strong
      systemic therapeutic effect in several models of solid tumors in mice.7,8,9,10 Intratumoral
      injections of E10A into subcutaneous xenografts of hepatocellular carcinoma BEL-7402,
      nasopharyngeal carcinoma CNE-2, Tongue cancer Tca8113 in nude mice demonstrated significant
      tumor growth inhibition and reduce angiogenesis in tumors. No toxic effects of E10A
      administration in these pharmacology studies were identified. On the base of promising
      preclinical results in solid tumors, we undertook a dose-escalation phase I trial of E10A in
      the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors.
    
  