
    
      The project will be conducted in two phases. In Phase I, the investigators will develop the
      social marketing components by obtaining qualitative feedback from pregnant women, family
      members and elders on message content and delivery channels. In Phase II, the investigators
      will evaluate the intervention using a group-randomized design with village as the unit of
      assignment. Sixteen villages will be randomly assigned to receive the intervention or control
      condition (usual care), with > 20 pregnant women enrolled from each village. Assessments will
      be completed by enrolled women through 6 months postpartum. All aspects of the project will
      be guided by a Community Advisory Committee.

      The Specific Aims are:

      Aim 1. To develop and pre-test the social marketing campaign messages and delivery channels
      through focus groups and individual interviews of pregnant women, family members, and elders.
      The focus group work will assess reasons for initiating or continuing tobacco use during
      pregnancy and the potential role of other community members in addressing tobacco use in
      pregnancy. Findings will be used to develop campaign messages and media that will be
      pre-tested through individual interviews and refined. Session content for the individually
      targeted intervention components will also be developed to align with the campaign messages.

      Aim 2. To evaluate the efficacy of the intervention compared with the control condition on
      the biochemically confirmed 7-day point prevalence tobacco use rate at week 36 gestation and
      at 6 months postpartum.

      Hypothesis: Compared with the control condition, the intervention will be associated with
      significantly lower rates of tobacco use in late pregnancy (80% vs. 65%) and at 6 months
      postpartum (70% vs. 55%).

      Aim 3. To examine the effect of the intervention on proposed social cognitive-theory based
      mediators of change including perceived social norms about tobacco use and self-efficacy for
      non-tobacco use.

      Hypothesis: Intervention effects on tobacco use at week 36 gestation and at 6 months
      postpartum will be mediated by perceived self-efficacy and anti-tobacco norms.
    
  