
    
      This is a phase III study of Peptid Receptor Radionuclide Therapy (PRRT) with 177Lu-DOTATATE
      versus Interferon α-2b.

      Objectives of the study:

        1. To assess the benefit of 177Lu-DOTATATE versus interferon α-2b in patients with
           progressive, unresectable,non-pancreatic gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors,
           resistant to therapy with somatostatin analogues, in terms of disease control.

        2. To assess efficacy and safety parameters of both treatment arms and the predictive value
           of tumor 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT uptake at baseline, at mid (+/- 16th
           week) and end (+/- 32th week) of treatment in both arms.

      In the interferon arm: 5000000 Units of interferon will be administered subcutaneously
      preferentially in the evening three times a week (every other day) until disease progression.

      In the 177Lu-octreotate arm: Treatment will consist of 177Lu-DOTATATE intravenous injections
      fractionated in fixed activities of 7,4 GigaBecquerel (200mCi) (+/- 5%), given every 8 (+/-
      1) weeks with simultaneous nephroprotective infusion of an amino acid solution. (Before amino
      acid nephroprotection solution, ondansetron, methylprednisolone and metoclopramid, are given
      in infusions in order to prevent nausea or vomiting). Approximately 30 min after the
      beginning of the aminoacid solution, 177Lu-octreotate is injected via a second side-line over
      15-30 minutes. The amino acid infusion is continued at the same rate until end (total
      infusion time: 4-6 hours).

      In total, 4 injections of 177Lu-DOTATATE are planned. However, in respect of the absorded
      dose limits of critical organs(kidneys and bone marrow), the 4th 177Lu-DOTATATE injection
      will be tailored with a minimal administered activity of 4,6 GigaBecquerel.

      Treatment efficacy will be assessed on a patient-basis using RECIST 1.1 and by Progression
      Free Survival. The value of tumor 68Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT and 18FDG PET/CT uptake as predicting
      imaging biomarkers will also be assessed in both arms.
    
  