
    
      Gastroesophageal varices occurs in approximately half of the patients with liver cirrhosis.
      Variceal bleeding is the most common lethal complication directly from cirrhotic portal
      hypertension. The golden standard for diagnosing gastroesophageal varices and evaluating the
      risk of variceal bleeding is the esophagogastroduodenoscopy. According to the Baveno VI
      consensus, for those with high-risk varices (varies needing treatment), either non-selective
      beta blockers or endoscopic band ligation is recommended for the prevention of the first
      variceal bleeding. However, the invasiveness and uncomfortableness during the
      esophagogastroduodenoscopy procedure has hindered its routine use in clinical practice,
      especially in compensated cirrhotic patients.

      The important role of transient elastography for defining the presence of high-risk varices
      was highlighted in the Baveno VI consensus workshop that cirrhotic patients with a liver
      stiffness measurement (LSM) of less than 20 kPa and a platelet count of greater than
      150,000/μL can avoid screening endoscopy. In addition, transient elastography-based models
      (e.g. LSM combined with platelet count, liver stiffness spleen diameter-to-platelet score)
      were shown to have potentials in distinguish the absence of high-risk gastroesophageal
      varices. However, this cutoff value of LSM was validated mainly in cohorts with alcoholic or
      hepatitis C virus dominated cirrhosis. The unmet need is a precise cutoff to rule out
      high-risk varices in hepatitis B virus dominated cirrhosis, which is an outstanding issue in
      Asia-Pacific population.

      FibroTouch (Hisky Medical Technologies Co. Ltd, Wuxi, China) is a new-generation of transient
      elastography based on a two-dimensional image-guided system to ensure the precise
      orientation. In the present study, the investigators aim to conduct an international
      prospective diagnostic trial with 16 sites (Beijing Tsinghua Changgung Hospital, Lanzhou
      University, The Fifth Medical Center of Chinese PLA General Hospital, Xijing Hospital of
      Digestive Diseases Wuhan Union Hospital, Zhujiang Hospital, Second Affiliated Hospital of
      Xi'an Jiaotong University, The Central Hospital of Lishui City, Xingtai People's Hospital,
      The Seventh Medical Center of Chinese PLA General Hospital Shandong Provincial Hospital,
      Shunde Hospital, Southern Medical University Medistra Hospital; University of Indonesia,
      Ankara University School of Medicine, Osaka City University, Chulalongkorn University) to
      develop and validate the diagnostic performance of FibroTouch-based models for assessing risk
      of gastroesophageal varices bleeding in compensated cirrhosis.
    
  