
    
      Objective: To assess the feasibility of the novel multicomponent workplace cycling
      intervention that aims to support more employees to cycle regularly. There are eight related
      research questions:

        1. Can sufficient (~20-30) employees per HSBC office be recruited to take part in the
           intervention?

        2. Can participants be retained in the study for up to three months?

        3. To what extent do participants receive the intervention as intended (exposure)?

        4. To what extent is the intervention acceptable to participants, those leading the
           intervention (local cycle champions), local HSBC office management and local bike
           providers?

        5. How feasible and acceptable is it to conduct a suite of measurements, including
           self-report questionnaires, objective physical activity and blood biomarkers of
           cardiovascular disease, in this setting?

        6. Does the intervention have potential to increase cycling and cycle journeys (likely
           primary outcomes in a future RCT)?

        7. To what extent do participants improve on a range of behavioural, psychological,
           clinical and work-related outcomes?

        8. Does the intervention have potential to be cost-effective, and what are the range of
           cost and benefit outcomes that are to be considered?

      Setting and Participants: The study will be conducted at four HSBC offices across the UK,
      which have some degree of on-site cycle infrastructure (e.g. secure bike racks, showers,
      lockers). At each office, up to 40 participants will be recruited to either the foundation
      (nine-week) or intermediate (six-week) practical skills programme (up to 160 participants in
      total across the four sites). Participants will be self-identified infrequent cyclists
      (currently cycle less than once per month or not at all) aged 18 years or over who are
      current HSBC employees.

      Interventions:

      The intervention has four main components.

        1. Practical skills programme: this has two versions - a core six-week programme
           (intermediate), with an additional three weeks (nine weeks in total - foundation)
           covering basic cycling skills. It is designed to be delivered at HSBC offices by trained
           'cycle champions' - ideally HSBC staff members. Each session includes group-based
           learning activities and in-saddle, off- and on-road practical cycle training.
           Participants will receive information delivered simply in handbook format with a
           "toolkit" of skills and behaviour change techniques (e.g. goal setting) participants can
           apply to increase their cycling and maintain this long-term.

        2. Cycle provision scheme: participants will have the opportunity to have their own
           bicycles serviced or obtain a loaned bike or e-bike from local bike shops before the
           start of the programme. At the end of the programme, participants will be given support
           and advice to take part in the HSBC subsidised cycle purchase bike to work scheme.

        3. Cycle-friendly workplace culture: all of the HSBC offices taking part in the study will
           have a minimum of secure bike locks as part of an ongoing roll-out of cycle
           infrastructure across HSBC UK offices. During training, the cycle champion will be asked
           to identify (and subsequently implement) other cycle-friendly features (e.g.
           availability of cycle tools and spares, flexible hours to avoid peak commuter traffic,
           flexible dress code, altruistic reward scheme for cycling).

        4. Our Cycle Hub app: an adapted version of an existing HSBC app including route planning,
           goal setting and practical skills videos, as well as supportive social interaction among
           participants.

      Outcomes:

      The feasibility study will assess: recruitment, retention, adherence, feasibility of delivery
      of all components, fidelity to intervention protocol, acceptability (to participants and
      cycle champions, other staff in the office who are not doing the practical skills programme
      but are exposed to the cycle-friendly culture, HSBC office managers and bike providers), and
      likely primary outcomes of any future randomised controlled trial (RCT) - number of people
      cycling regularly (both monthly and weekly) and number of cycling journeys for transport or
      leisure in the last month, both self-reported. The investigators will also assess likely
      secondary outcomes in a future RCT at baseline, 9 weeks, and 13 weeks.

        1. behavioural - objectively-measured cycling and other physical activity (using the
           activPAL device and a new algorithm specifically-developed to detect cycling) and
           self-reported cycling activity, modes of transport, physical activity, sedentary
           behaviour, sleep, dietary intake.

        2. psychological - self-reported motivation, autonomy, competence, relatedness and
           perceptions of safety in relation to cycling, wellbeing, self-esteem, vitality, quality
           of life and perceived general physical health.

        3. work-related - productivity, job satisfaction, occupational stress, absenteeism and
           presenteeism.

        4. clinical - objectively-measured weight, height, BMI, waist circumference, diastolic and
           systolic blood pressure. Cardio-metabolic disease risk biomarkers related to glucose,
           insulin, HbA1c, lipids and liver function will be assessed at baseline and 13 weeks only
           (opt in).

      Participant characteristics (e.g. date of birth, gender, postcode of residence, marital
      status, education, smoking status, alcohol consumption, job description) will be recorded at
      baseline only. Extent of delivery, acceptability and perceived utility of programme
      components (practical skills programme components, bike provision, cycle-friendly culture and
      cycle app), and acceptability of the study procedures will be assessed at follow up only.
      Adverse events and injury will be assessed at all time points. Health economists will work
      with HSBC head office staff to identify available sources of cost and benefit data throughout
      the study.
    
  