
    
      The perioperative period is often anxiety-provoking experience for many of our patients. Pain
      and awareness are the two primary concerns voiced most frequently. For total knee and hip
      replacement surgery, we offer our patients a spinal anesthetic which produces complete
      sensory blockade below the level of the waist. Despite a completely insensate knee or hip,
      patients still desire sedation during the surgery in order to remain unaware of their
      surgical surroundings. Propofol is commonly used in these monitored anesthesia care
      procedures because of its favorable drug profile. However, we have observed that anesthesia
      providers often use high infusion rates of propofol in order to achieve 'adequate patient
      comfort'. In this scenario, providers are often left with the dilemma of providing deeper
      levels of sedation for a pleasant patient experience and dealing with the potential
      cardiorespiratory complications that follow from oversedation. Unwanted side-effects include
      respiratory depression, airway obstruction and hypotension. Clinicians have began looking for
      other non-pharmacological ways to provide safe anxiolysis in the operating room while
      avoiding these undesirable side-effects.

      Previous studies have shown that audiovisual distraction (AVD) can reduce stress and anxiety
      during the perioperative period. In 1997, Ganapathy et al. examined the use of sedative
      medications in elderly patients undergoing orthopedic procedures under spinal anesthesia.
      They compared patient-controlled propofol administration and anesthesiologist-controlled
      midazolam and fentanyl administration.This study found that there were no differences in
      patient satisfaction between the two groups. The secondary outcomes did show that propofol
      consumption was associated with significantly more episodes of brief respiratory rate
      depression but did not increase the need for emergency airway interventions.1

      Ayoub et al studied propofol consumption in patients undergoing orthopedic procedures under
      spinal anesthesia using auditory distraction. This study demonstrated that auditory
      distraction decreased the amount of propofol consumed in patients using auditory distraction
      compared to those who had propofol sedation alone.2

      Lee et al. began to shift the paradigm of medication induced anxiolysis and pain control
      during painful procedures through a series of studies examining different forms of
      distraction. An initial study conducted by this group confirmed that audio distraction during
      stimulating procedures (colonscopies) reduced the amount of propofol required. In 2003, they
      combined audio and visual distraction in patients undergoing and compared the dosages of
      propofol required to patients having only visual distraction or no distraction. This study
      found that patients with both audio and visual distraction required significantly less
      propofol than patients receiving visual distraction or patient-controlled sedation alone.
      Other key findings in the AVD group included reduced procedure time, a greater willingness by
      the patient to repeat the procedure under the same circumstances, and a statistically
      significant higher satisfaction score with the process.3

      None of these studies has attempted to evaluate a possible reduction in propofol consumption
      for patients having a spinal anesthetic with both audio and visual distraction. We believe
      the next step to improving the perioperative experience for our patients is to incorporate
      AVD for patients having total knee and hip replacement surgery under a spinal anesthetic. Our
      hypothesis is that AVD will significantly reduce standard of care administered propofol
      consumption while still providing a pleasant experience for our patients and reducing
      unwanted side-effects associated with higher levels of propofol sedation.
    
  