
    
      -  EEG recording: In this procedure, the researcher will assess the participant's brain
           function while performing simple computer-based tasks. The computer tasks involve
           presentation of pictures or sounds to which the participant responds by pressing a
           button. The investigators will also record some of the participant's own speech sounds
           and play them back to them. The participant will be given clear instructions and a
           chance to practice before each task. While you are performing these tasks, the
           investigator will record the weak electrical signals produced by your brain, or "brain
           waves", using a technique called electroencephalography (EEG). In order to record the
           participant's EEG, sensors (small plastic discs) will be attached to specific locations
           on their scalp. The participant's scalp will be gently scrubbed before the sensors are
           attached. The sensors are held in place on the scalp using a nylon cap that fits snugly
           on the head. Sensors will also be attached above and below the participant's eyes and
           will record their eye movements. It will take approximately one hour to attach the
           sensors. The entire EEG will take approximately 2-3 hours. Before taking part in the EEG
           session, please make sure to wash hair and scalp. Do not use conditioner or a 2-in-1
           shampoo/conditioner. The participant's hair should be dry before arrival. The
           investigators ask this in order to make the set-up process go more smoothly.

             -  During some tasks, participants will feel a vibratory sensation that is produced
                with an electrical current and it is possible that it may feel like a slight shock.
                The current is controlled and cannot reach levels that are painful or dangerous.
                Every participant experiences this sensation differently, so it is important that
                participants tell the researchers if the sensation becomes uncomfortable to you so
                the current can be adjusted or the task can be stopped.

             -  Participants may be asked to complete additional EEGs for this study, depending on
                your interest in participating and your availability. All EEG sessions will last
                approximately 2 hrs.

        -  MRI: In the fMRI procedure, we will use a magnet to measure blood flow to participants'
           brains while they do different tasks. Participants will be asked to lie down on a
           platform that can be slid into the middle of the magnet. A plastic MRI imaging coil will
           be placed around participants' heads. You will not come into contact with the coil
           during the experiment. Foam pads will be placed around the participant's head to limit
           head movement during the experiment. The investigators will then slide you into the
           magnet. At different points during the experiment, participants will be asked to do the
           same tasks they did in the training session prior to the scan. During the scan,
           participants will be asked to either lie still and rest, or do some tasks like tapping
           their fingers, remembering letters or digits, or viewing images that are designed to
           activate different parts of the brain. The entire MRI will take approximately two hours.

             -  While performing the MRI, participants may be asked to wear a cap that contains
                multiple EEG sensors applied to your scalp. A removable gel will be used. The EEG
                measures electrical activity produced by the brain while participants undergo the
                MRI. Set up for the EEG will take approximately 30 to 60 minutes.

             -  Participants may be asked to repeat an MRI session if the data the study team
                collects is not usable due to data quality issues, or if the participant is unable
                to stay awake in the magnet during your scan.

        -  Brief interview session: There will be a series of questions about participants'
           education, smoking status, and economic background. Participants will also be given a
           list of words to read to the researcher. If the participant is a patient diagnosed with
           one of the above-mentioned psychiatric disorders, they will be asked to participate in
           an additional interview, lasting about one hour, focusing on how they have been feeling
           recently.

        -  Behavioral testing: In this part, the participant will use a touch screen computer,
           mouse and/or paper and pencil to perform certain visual and auditory tests of your
           mental abilities. Specifically, these tests will assess participants' memory, attention,
           language, and motor skills. This testing will last approximately one hour. Depending on
           the participant's preference, this testing can be done on the same day as an EEG or on a
           different day. The order of the two sessions does not matter, so long as they occur
           within one week of each other.

      Additional Information:

        -  If information about a participant's mental health is needed from their current or
           former doctor(s), they will be asked to sign a separate permission form before the
           researcher can contact their doctor(s).
    
  