
    
      Several studies have shown the association between short and poor sleep quality and
      alterations in glucose metabolism as well as the appearance of insulin resistance phenomena.
      This issue makes the research on this subject relevant to establish interventions aimed at
      improving the quality of sleep. Nursing professionals in the field of Primary Care have a
      decisive role in the monitoring and control of chronic diseases, among which DM2 stands out
      due to its high prevalence, great morbidity and mortality and healthcare pressure. Therefore,
      it is necessary to check the efficiency of healthy sleep hygiene to carry out prevention and
      achieve good metabolic control of the patient. Therefore, it is, in this way, important to
      prevent the development of the disease in the case of patients with prediabetes and the
      appearance of complications in patients with DM2.

      Therefore, the overall objective is to determine the efficiency of an intervention based on
      behavioural techniques on sleep in the nursing consultation in the Primary Care setting to
      improve the level of HbA1c in patients diagnosed with DM2 or prediabetes.

      The specific objectives are:

        1. Describe the mean and range of hours that patients with DM2 or prediabetes declare to
           sleep.

        2. To analyse the assessment of the quality of sleep referred by people with DM2 or
           prediabetes through the PSQI.

        3. Calculate the correlation between the number of hours of sleep declared and the HbA1c
           values.

        4. Compare the amount and quality of sleep and HbA1c value in the control group and the
           experimental group.

           In the other hand, the hypotesis are:

           -Patients diagnosed with DM2 or prediabetes with poor sleep quality would improve their
           HbA1c levels after an intervention on healthier sleep hygiene practices.

             -  Sleeping 6 or less hours in adults diagnosed with DM2 or prediabetes would be
                related to worse results of metabolic control.

             -  Patients diagnosed with DM2 or prediabetes who would value their sleep as poor
                quality would have worse metabolic control.

           The variables are:

           Dependent variable:

             -  Value of the difference between the basal glycemia figure at the beginning and at
                the end of the study. Measurement in mg / dL.

             -  Value of the difference between the HbA1c level at the beginning and at the end of
                the study. Measure in%.

           Independent variable:

             -  Age. Measure in years.

             -  Sex. Man/Woman.

             -  Diagnosis (International Classification of Diseases, 10th version). E11
                Non-insulin-dependent Diabetes Mellitus/R73 Elevated blood glucose level/ R73.9
                Hyperglycaemia, unspecified.

             -  Antidiabetic pharmacological treatment. Yes/No.

             -  BMI. Measure in kg/m2. PSQI (pre and post-intervention). Good sleep quality (≤ 5
                points)/ Bad sleep quality (> 5 points).

             -  Declared sleeping hours (pre and post-intervention). Measure in hours/day.

             -  Sleeping efficiency (pre and post-intervention). Measure in%

             -  Change in antidiabetic pharmacological treatment 3 months after the first visit.
                Yes/No

             -  Change in diet 3 months after the first visit. Yes/No.

             -  Change in physical exercise 3 months after the first visit. Yes/No.

             -  Change in sleep hygiene (post-intervention). Yes/No.

           The data will be collected through the computerized clinical record ECAP and through the
           patient's own consent and acceptance of their participation in the study.

           Necessary data for the selection of the sample:

           - Computerized clinical and administrative database (ECAP) of the participating centres:
           this source will be used to obtain the complete list of patients with the diagnostic
           codes E11 (E11.2-E11.9), R73 and R73.9 and the criterion of age (≥ 18 years).

           Necessary data to obtain the values of the dependent variables:

           - HbA1c and baseline glycaemia values for the experimental group and control group
           performed pre and post-intervention. The results of the analytics will be obtained,
           according to laboratory criteria.

           Necessary data to obtain the values of the independent variables:

             -  Declared sleep hours, efficiency and quality of sleep from the PSQI performed on
                the patient. The average number of hours of sleep on weekdays will be requested at
                the time of introducing the individual into the study regardless of whether the
                individual is active or a pensioner. The values will be recorded in the initial and
                final visit through the PSQI.

             -  BMI obtained in the nursing consultation in the follow-up visits before 6 months
                from the date of the visit. Otherwise, it will be calculated after the measurement
                of weight and size at the time of the visit.

             -  Antidiabetic pharmacological treatment that patients currently take through the
                computer clinical history.

             -  Changes in the antidiabetic pharmacological treatment, in the diet, in physical
                exercise and in sleep hygiene through a clinical interview with the patient.

           The instrument used is the PSQI that is a validated version in Spanish facilitated by
           its authors from the University of Pittsburgh. It consists of 24 items, 19 are answered
           by the patient and 5 are answered by the couple or roommate. In the event that the
           patient only goes to the consultation, only the first 19 items will be answered.

           The maximum score of the questionnaire is 21 points. Scores greater than five points
           indicate poor quality in the sleep standard.

           The questionnaires will be completed by the nursing professionals assigned to the
           patients through an individual, directed and structured interview, after explaining the
           study and justifying the access and review of the clinical history. The data collection
           will be by manual registration in a grill.

           The data collection will be made in the Primary Care Nursing consultation when the
           patient goes to a visit.

           The principal investigator will be responsible for the review of clinical histories to
           obtain the variables and analysis of the PSQI, noting the result in the clinical
           history.

           Two sections will be used in the registry of the information collected in the
           consultation to which the principal investigator has access.

             -  General data section where all the variables mentioned above will be included.

             -  Specific data section for PSQI analysis, in which the responses of the
                questionnaire will be introduced to obtain the variables of declared hours, sleep
                efficiency and the result.

           A screening visit and three follow-up visits will be carried out to each patient
           included in the study in which the professionals will follow a support guide by
           presenting the project to the team.

             -  Screening visit:

                  -  Identify the patient with diagnosis prediabetes or DM2. Analyze inclusion and
                     exclusion criteria.

                  -  Once included, explain the study and give a fact sheet.

                  -  Provide informed consent to be signed by the patient.

                  -  Pass the first PSQI. Patients with good sleep quality will be excluded.

                  -  Ask for previous HbA1c if the last one registered exceeds 6 months.

                  -  Schedule the patient in a month. The principal investigator will write down
                     the result of the PSQI and the clinical order to follow

             -  First visit:

                • Look at clinical course. The PSQI result and the clinical order will appear
                depending on the group to which the patient belongs (experimental or control).

                - Experimental: the educational intervention will be carried out and the booklet of
                Recommendations on Sleep Hygiene will be delivered.

                - Control: no educational intervention will be carried out.

                • Ask for the analysis of HbA1c and basal glycaemia to be done in the 3 months
                after in both groups.

                • Schedule the patient for results (3 months).

                  -  Schedule a telephone contact (1 month)

             -  Second visit:

                  -  Carry out telephone contact as an educational reinforcement on sleep hygiene
                     recommendations one month after the intervention.

             -  Third visit:

                • Look at analytical results.

                  -  Ask about changes in the antidiabetic pharmacological treatment, diet,
                     physical exercise and sleep hygiene.

                  -  Re-pass PSQI. The principal researcher will review the clinical history to
                     obtain the variables to study. When the study ends at the last visit, the
                     results of the PSQI will be re-analysed, as well as the remaining variables to
                     perform the statistical analysis of the results and the final report of the
                     study.

           First, the initial comparability of the groups will be checked by calculating the
           Student's T value and its statistical significance for the quantitative variables: basal
           glycemia, HbA1c, declared sleep hours, sleep efficiency, age and BMI. The variables:
           sex, diagnosis, PSQI and antidiabetic treatment will be compared by the significance of
           the chi-square test.

           The premise of randomness will remain intact, and patients will be analysed according to
           intention to treat.

           On the other hand, subsets of the study groups will be analysed (by sex, age group,
           treatment, BMI).

           As a global result of the clinical trial, the difference between the glycemia and HbA1c
           values of the final figure with respect to the initial one will be calculated with its
           respective 95% confidence interval within the intervention group and within the control
           group and the control group with respect to the group intervention, also with the 95%
           confidence interval.

           Through our study we want to corroborate the available evidence on the influence of
           sleep duration and quality on the ethology of DM2.

           There have been few studies in the field of Primary Care on the importance of sleep on
           the health of people. Sleeping is a health habit and, as such, is a tributary of
           educational interventions in the health environment.

           The scientific demonstration that a concrete measure of health education such as the one
           proposed in this study, is useful in demonstrable biological terms, would open a door to
           healthy sleep promotion activities in routine clinical practice.

           Regarding the socioeconomic aspect, information as a basis for health education and,
           specifically, in the topic of sleep hygiene does not require expensive resources and,
           through our study, we intend to demonstrate that it can be done from the primary care
           nursing consultation.
    
  