
    
      Background: Cardiac Resynchronization Therapy (CRT) is an established treatment in heart
      failure (HF) patients with ventricular dyssynchrony who remain in sinus rhythm. Available
      clinical data has shown inferior outcomes of CRT in HF patients with co-existent atrial
      fibrillation (AF), who comprise up to 27% of HF patients, and are over-represented in
      advanced HF classes. We hypothesize, based on the results of a systematic review we recently
      published in the Journal of the American College of Cardiology, that AV nodal ablation may
      improve survival, heart failure and functional outcomes in CRT recipients with co-existent
      AF.

      Design: This study will be a multicentre, prospective, randomized controlled trial. Patients
      with ischemic or nonischemic cardiomyopathy heart failure (NYHA II, III or ambulatory class
      IV), left ventricular dysfunction (EF ≤ 35%), prolonged intraventricular conduction (QRS
      duration ≥ 120ms), and persistent or permanent AF will be considered for the study.
      Persistent AF will be defined as patients where obtaining and maintaining sinus rhythm is
      deemed either not worthwhile, or to be ineffective in the long term, or where both the
      patient and the physician accept the presence of AF, where rhythm control intervention is, by
      definition, no longer pursued. Permanent AF is defined as AF where sinus rhythm cannot be
      restored.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized into one of two arms: (1) CRT-D plus AV nodal ablation
      ("AV nodal ablation arm [AVNA]") or (2) CRT-D alone ("rate control arm").

      Enrollment: 590 subjects, with 295 subjects in the AV node ablation arm and 295 subjects in
      the control arm, will be enrolled. Study patients will undergo stratified randomization at ≥
      30 days after CRT implant. Participants in will sign informed consent and be screened prior
      to randomisation. After CRT implant, patients will have at least 30 days for optimisation of
      heart failure therapy, prior to randomisation.

      Randomisation: A computer-generated web-based randomisation schedule will be used.
      Randomisation will be stratified by trial centre. Randomisation is considered the trial entry
      point.

      Outcomes: The primary endpoint is a composite of all cause mortality and non-fatal heart
      failure events. Secondary endpoints include all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality
      (including classification in terms of suddenness and arrhythmic mechanism by prespecified
      Hinkle-Thaler criteria), non-fatal heart failure events, 6-minute walking test distance,
      quality of life, unplanned hospitalization, and ventricular arrhythmias requiring device
      therapy, inappropriate shocks, cardiovascular MRI prediction of response, percentage pacing
      and prediction of response to therapy, ventricular reverse remodeling.

      Statistical Plan: The study is powered to find a 25% relative reduction in event rate, with
      sample sizes calculated assuming a two-tailed α=0.05,1-β=0.80, and 10% sample size increment
      allow for to drop in the event rate (AV nodal ablation arm), drop out or cross-over
      (feasibly, control to AVNA arm only). It is planned to perform three interim (0.25, 0.5 0.75
      information fractions) and a final analysis requiring 295 patients per arm with a final
      P-value at ≤ 0.045; stopping rules according to the method of O'Brien and Fleming. The
      boundaries (z scores: ±4.332, ±2.963, ±2.359, ±2.014; and nominal P-values: 0.000015, 0.0031,
      0.014, 0.044)) were derived using the statistical package PASS (V12). Outside of these
      defined analyses, the Data Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will have access to data reports
      and will be able to stop the trial at any time.

      All analyses will be based on the intention-to-treat principle. The primary (binary)
      mortality-outcome will be analysed using the Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistic and logistic
      regression with pre-specified (baseline) covariates. Time-to-event analyses will be initially
      undertaken by the Kaplan-Meier survival analysis approach. Key secondary outcomes such as
      all-cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, unplanned hospitalisation, and rates of
      ventricular arrhythmia episodes will be analysed using either Cox proportional hazards models
      or Fine and Gray competing risks regression as appropriate. Continuous secondary outcomes
      such as the 6-minute walking distance, Short Form 36 (SF36) scores, Minnesota Living with
      Heart Failure (MLWHF) score will be compared between randomised groups over time using linear
      mixed effects models.

      Significance and Impact: The study will answer a central clinical question directly impacting
      the care of HF patients with AF, and will be expected to change current HF management
      guidelines.
    
  