
    
      Cognitive impairment or dementia, usually vascular dementia or Alzheimer's, co-occur in
      approximately 38% of patients with end stage renal disease (ESRD). When dementia is
      superimposed on ESRD, the risk for poor outcomes, including disability, hospitalization and
      death, sharply increases. Similarly, initiating dialysis in older adults with multiple
      comorbidities, including dementia, does not offer survival benefit. However, advance care
      planning (ACP) discussions with dialysis patients rarely occur. The reality of ESRD plus
      dementia is that most of these patients are likely to die or progress to advanced dementia
      without ever engaging in ACP discussions before the cognitive window of opportunity closes.
      Moreover, persons with dementia (regardless of their cognitive impairment level) are
      routinely excluded from clinical trials of ACP, largely because investigators assume that
      these people do not have the cognitive capability to appreciate the complexity of ACP. In an
      on-going study ("SPIRIT in Dementia") the researchers carefully adapted SPIRIT for persons
      with mild to moderate dementia (mostly due to Alzheimer's) and their surrogates. In a sample
      of 23 dementia patients without complex multimorbidity and their surrogates, the researchers
      were able to conclude that meaningful ACP conversations were possible even for individuals
      with moderate dementia. Based on these findings, this supplement study will leverage the
      infrastructure of the parent SPIRIT in ESRD trial to pilot test the adapted SPIRIT
      intervention for patients with ESRD plus dementia as a model for determining whether patients
      with dementia superimposed on complex multimorbidity can fully participate in ACP discussion.

      This purpose of this pilot randomized controlled trial with 30 patient and caregiver dyads is
      to:

        -  estimate the effects of the SPIRIT-dementia intervention on: (a) preparedness outcomes
           for end-of-life decision making (defined as dyad congruence on goals of care, patient
           decisional conflict, and surrogate decision-making confidence) 2-3 days
           post-intervention, and (b) care decisions (withdrawal from dialysis, Do-Not-Resuscitate
           order, hospice enrollment) assessed at 6 months post-intervention, or the patient's
           death, whichever occurs first,

        -  estimate the effects of the SPIRIT-dementia intervention on surrogates' post-bereavement
           distress (anxiety and depression symptoms) at 1 month after the patient's death, and

        -  explore the relationships among patients' cognitive status, decision-making capacity and
           their ability to express end-of-life wishes.
    
  