
    
      The HIV/AIDS epidemic continues to disproportionately affect African Americans. The rate of
      HIV among African American men is six times the rate for White men and the rate among African
      American women is almost 15 times the rate for White women. An estimated 56,300 new HIV cases
      was reported in 2006, of which 49% were among African Americans and 80% were from
      heterosexual transmission. Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) also disproportionately
      affect African Americans, further increasing the risk for HIV transmission. Despite the fact
      that HIV and STIs are primarily transmitted in the context of relationships, few
      interventions address HIV risk in couples. Furthermore, few evidence-based HIV prevention
      interventions have been implemented in community-based organizations (CBOs). Thus, there is a
      substantial need to strengthen the availability and use of relationship oriented prevention
      interventions in community-based treatment settings.

      This study focuses on the implementation of an evidence-based HIV risk reduction intervention
      for HIV-serodiscordant, heterosexual African American couples ("Eban II") in two geographic
      areas (Northern and Southern California - roughly, Alameda and Los Angeles Counties) that
      have a high prevalence of HIV infection and risk conditions among African Americans.

      This study builds upon the multi-site, NIMH-funded "Eban" (a Yoruba term for "fence") trial,
      which tested this culturally congruent intervention versus a control condition among 535
      heterosexual HIV serodiscordant couples in four cities. Couples in the intervention had
      significantly reduced incidents of unprotected sex and an increased proportion of condom use
      compared to couples in the control condition. Statistical projections from that study suggest
      that if Eban participants had not received the intervention, six female and four males would
      have been infected in one year, and 25 females and 15 males would have become HIV-infected in
      the next 5 years. Based on these successful outcomes in a controlled trial, it is now
      appropriate to test the effectiveness of the intervention as delivered in community-based
      setting. Thus, we propose to conduct a study of implementation - a study of methods to
      promote the uptake of Eban into community-based organizations (CBOs).

      The Specific Aims are as follows:

        1. To evaluate implementation of Eban for HIV serodiscordant African American couples in 10
           CBOs in California. To do this, we will document the implementation process and identify
           barriers and facilitators to Eban's adoption and use by the CBOs. We will interview 200
           staff at CBOs to obtain this information.

        2. To evaluate the effect of Eban on behavioral and biological outcomes among 180 couples,
           specifically incidents of protected sex, proportion of condom use, and incident sexually
           transmitted infections. Eban will be assessed using a randomized delayed enrollment
           (waitlist) control design to evaluate the impact of treatment on outcomes at posttest
           and 3-month follow-up (i.e., at these 10 CBOs, Eban will be conducted and offered to
           couples and evaluated for effectiveness - that is, how well it works in the real world.)

        3. To determine the cost-effectiveness of implementation of Eban, based on implementation
           costs and potential cost savings.

      So please note, there are essentially two levels to this study -- first to see how well
      community agencies can implement or take up and execute the intervention (thus, the
      interviews with staff) - and the second, to see how effective Eban is in real world setting.
      We know it was highly effective in a controlled study but now we need to test how well it
      works in the "real" world(thus, the testing of the intervention with 180 couples). While
      doing this, we will also be examining the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in the
      "real" world setting.
    
  