
    
      Acute and Chronic kidney diseases are important causes of mortality and morbidity worldwide.
      The associated socioeconomic burden of kidney disease and AKI, as in some cases recovery is
      incomplete and chronic kidney disease (CKD) can arise, is a growing problem around the world.
      During the COVID 19 pandemic the incidence of AKI has been reported to be as low as 0.5% to
      as high as 23%. AKI was reported to develop at a median of 15 days in one study, and another
      study reported that most AKI developed within 7 days of admission. The data on acute kidney
      injury (AKI) in patients with COVID-19 is mostly from patients who are hospitalized, and in
      some studies limited to critically ill patients in the ICU. In ICU patients the requirement
      for renal support and mortality is reported to be high, however is a lack of epidemiological
      studies specifically designed to determine the impact of COVID 19 on kidney outcomes.

      The mortality rate of patients with kidney dysfunction varies widely and is inversely related
      to country income and percentage of gross domestic product spent on total health expenditure.
      Several initiatives will be very insightful and identified important gaps in knowledge, more
      effort is required to understand this problem affecting all regions of the globe. In order to
      eventually implement resources and tools to help prevent, diagnose and treat patients with
      COVID 19 infection and kidney dysfunction, the investigators need to understand its
      incidence, risk factors, available resources and barriers to diagnosis and treatment.

      This project will collect data on kidney function progression in patients infected with COVID
      19 across the world. The study will open to individual physicians across the world who agreed
      to participate by providing de-identified clinical and lab data of patients with confirmed
      COVID 19 infection with acute and chronic kidney dysfunction.

      Primary Objectives:

      1. Establish incidence and outcomes of acute kidney injury (AKI) in different settings
      worldwide during the COVID 19 pandemic.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. Compare risk factors, etiologies, diagnosis, management and outcomes of acute and
           chronic kidney dysfunction in COVID 19 patients in different countries

        2. Determine resources available for recognition, non-dialytic and dialytic management and
           follow up of patients with acute and chronic kidney dysfunction and COVID 19 infection
           in different settings and countries.

        3. Determine long term outcomes, 6 months and 1 year, of patients with acute and chronic
           kidney dysfunction and COVID 19 infection in different settings.

        4. Evaluate barriers preventing access to the standard treatments of acute and chronic
           kidney dysfunction and COVID 19 infection across different countries.

        5. Determine the impact of COVID 19 infection on the progression of acute and chronic
           kidney disease in patient with native and transplanted kidney.

        6. Evaluate the treatment strategies of patient with ESKD on hospitalized patients with
           COVID 19.
    
  