
    
      The subjects will be recruited from adult patients who undergo elective laparoscopic
      abdominal surgery at UC Christus Clinical Hospital (Santiago, de Chile). Patients will be
      randomly divided into four groups according to the dose of intravenous methadone to be
      administered during anaesthetic induction.

      BIS-guided and standard general anaesthesia will be administered with routine monitoring.
      Methadone will be administered once the patient is intubated and has hemodynamic stability.
      The only opioids that patients will receive will be remifentanil and methadone.

      Upon admission to the Post-anesthesia care unit, the patient is given a Patient-Control
      Analgesia pump for intravenous administration of morphine. Clinic evaluations will be carried
      out periodically and blood samples for measurement of plasma methadone will be taken at
      different times. Samples will be analyzed using high-performance liquid chromatography
      spectrofluorometric method. The data obtained will be collected in a form within the REDCAP
      application, to subsequently generate an encrypted database. Groups will be compared
      regarding pain score, drugs used, opioid consumption, side effects, time of recovery, and
      patient satisfaction.

      One, two and three-compartment linear models will be used to fit the plasma methadone
      concentration data over time. Models are parameterized in terms of elimination clearance,
      compartment distribution clearance, central volume and peripheral volume of distribution, as
      appropriate. The use of rescue morphine in the Post-anesthesia care unit will be used as a
      measure to relate the methadone dose (mg/kg) with the analgesic efficacy using an EMAX model.
      The data will be modelled using NONMEM VII. A proportional term will be used for variability
      between subjects. Additive and proportional terms will be used to characterize the unknown
      residual variability.

      Sample size calculations were estimated using a simulation-based approach and previous work
      with a similar methodology. To achieve an adequate representation of all age groups 60
      patients will be required, distributed among 20 patients between 18 and 40 years, 20 patients
      between 41 and 65 years, and 20 patients> 65 years.
    
  