
    
      Thousands of patients undergo major non-cardiac open-chest surgery in the United States each
      year. These surgeries most often consist of lung surgery, in which one lobe of the lung is
      removed (lobectomy) or the entire lung is removed (pneumonectomy).

      A major complication of these non-cardiac open-chest surgeries is the occurrence of an
      irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation (AF), which develops in up to 40% of
      patients undergoing these procedures. AF is characterized by rapid, irregular, chaotic
      beating of the two smaller chambers of the heart (the atria), leading to rapid, irregular
      beating of the two larger chambers (the ventricles). The average time to occurrence of
      post-surgical AF is 2-3 days following surgery. AF occurring following major non-cardiac
      open-chest surgery can result in extremely rapid heart rates, as fast as 150-200 beats per
      minute, and may be associated with serious consequences, including severely low blood
      pressure and potentially debilitating stroke. Further, the risk of death following
      non-cardiac open-chest surgery is significantly higher in patients who develop AF compared
      with those who do not. Therefore, the occurrence of this irregular heartbeat following
      non-cardiac open-chest surgery is associated with severe, potentially life-threatening
      consequences. Prevention of this irregular heartbeat in these patients may therefore be very
      important.

      Amiodarone is a medication that is known to be effective for prevention and treatment of AF
      that occurs in patients who have not undergone surgery. In addition, amiodarone has been
      shown to be effective for prevention of AF following open-chest heart surgery. However, the
      use of medications for prevention of AF following non-cardiac open-chest surgery has not been
      well studied, and amiodarone has not been studied in a controlled trial for the prevention of
      AF in patients undergoing these procedures. In addition, amiodarone is associated with side
      effects, and it is important to determine the safety of this medication when used in this
      patient population.
    
  