
    
      Participants will be randomly assigned by a research assistant, by using a computer-generated
      randomization sequence to undergo colonoscopy with either inspection and polypectomy during
      both insertion and withdrawal of colonoscope (study group) or inspection and polypecotmy
      entirely during withdrawal of colonoscope (control group). Randomization will be done via
      concealed allocation with a sealed envelope that designate study group or control group.

      Colonoscopies will be performed by two experienced investigators by using a standard
      colonoscopy (CF-Q260AI or CF-Q260AL; Olympus Medical Systems Corp., Tokyo, Japan). All
      procedures are performed under moderate conscious sedation with fentanyl (United Biomedical,
      Taipei, Taiwan) and midazolam (Dormicum; Roche Pharmaceuticals, Basel, Switzerland) according
      to the current guidelines. Carbon dioxide insufflation is used for all endoscopic procedures.
      All participants receive 3-L polyethylene glycol (PEG; Klean-Prep, Helsinn Birex
      Pharmaceuticals Ltd., Dublin, Ireland) for bowel preparation. A split-dose of the PEG
      preparation is provided. The level of colon cleansing is prospectively evaluated with the
      Boston Bowel Preparation Scale score.

      For participants assigned into the study group, the colonic lumen is washed with saline and
      the fluid and debris are suctioned as the instrument is slowly inserted from rectum to cecum.
      Deliberate and systematic inspection of the colonic mucosa is performed with adequate luminal
      insufflations during both the insertion and withdrawal phases. Polyp size is determined by
      comparison with open colonoscopic biopsy forceps pushed against the polyp or, in some cases
      of pedunculated polyp by direct measurement after retrieval. Polyps with size <10mm are
      removed as they are identified on insertion and withdrawal. Polyps with size ≥10mm are
      removed only during withdrawal.

      For participants assigned into the control group, deliberate mucosal inspection and polyp
      removal are performed exclusively on instrument withdrawal. During insertion, minimal mucosal
      inspection and insufflation are applied to efficiently advance the instrument into cecum. If
      a polyp is found during insertion, investigators are instructed to make a mental note of it
      and find it during withdrawal for polypectomy.
    
  