
    
      Background: Primary care providers work in busy settings responding to a variety of acute and
      chronic problems. Implementing even brief evidence-based interventions for cancer risk
      behaviors, such as tobacco smoking and excess alcohol consumption, is sub-optimal due to time
      and knowledge constraints. These behaviors cluster in the same person and confer a
      multiplicative, positively associated risk for aero-digestive cancers but are often addressed
      separately, if at all, despite alcohol consumption undermining smoking cessation. Processes
      that reduce time and effort and yet increase practitioner effectiveness show promise to
      increase adoption of such practices. Computerized clinical decision support systems (CDSS)
      within practices allow for prompt procedural knowledge for practitioners, simplifies the
      decision-making process, and provides recommendations for patient care.

      The initiation of the STOP Program (Smoking Treatment for Ontario Patients - an Ontario-wide
      initiative providing smoking cessation to eligible smokers who wish to quit), has
      demonstrated that such a system allows for rapid adoption of smoking cessation interventions
      in primary care with 189 sites (80% of eligible sites) in Ontario treating 40,000 smokers in
      2 years. Approximately 36% consume alcohol above Canadian Cancer Society (CCS) guidelines
      (less than one drink per day for women; less then two drinks per day for men; no engagement
      in binge drinking) and those that do have a lower quit rate.

      A combined alcohol and tobacco intervention delivered systematically using such a platform
      has never been studied before, which constitutes a missed opportunity to simultaneously
      address two closely related risk factors for cancer. Thus, implementation of a CDSS within
      the daily clinical workflow is a novel concept for cancer prevention with high potential to
      address the lack of brief interventions by health care providers.

      Objective: Assess the effectiveness of a CDSS to increase the rates of brief alcohol
      intervention by healthcare providers and to reduce alcohol consumption in adult smokers
      making a quit attempt.

      Methodology: Organizations from the STOP Program will be randomly allocated (1:1) to Group A
      or Group B.

      Patient Population: Adult consenting smokers of the STOP Program identified as drinking above
      the sex-specific cut off at baseline will be eligible for the intervention.

      Intervention: Half the sites will have a computer prompt built into STOP's data collection
      system, which will appear for any participant identified as drinking above the sex-specific
      cut off at baseline (Group A). The reminder will provide the practitioners with a five minute
      script advising their patient to reduce alcohol consumption to increase their chances of
      quitting smoking, and will be prompted to provide a self-help booklet to reduce alcohol
      intake. Sites without the prompt (Group B) will not receive reminders but will have access to
      the same resources.
    
  