
    
      In patients with severe aortic stenosis and LV dysfunction, 76% of patients have an
      improvement of ventricular function and NYHA class, after aortic valve replacement. The
      prognostic indicators of which patients will recover EF post-operatively, has not been fully
      established, but has been linked to a history of prior MI and pre-operative aortic valve
      area. Furthermore it is hypothesized that those ventricles that do not recover are fibrosed,
      either from prior MI or long standing LVH (hypertrophy).

      Currently systolic and diastolic function will be measured pre-operatively with standard 2D
      echo and Doppler. 2D Strain and Strain rate imaging with speckle tracking is a novel method
      of assessing regional as well as global "contractility". This method overcomes many
      limitations inherent in assessing myocardial functioning with current methodology, mainly it
      is reproducible, objective, and is independent of myocardial translation, tethering and
      furthermore as speckle tracking is derived from B mode images is independent of Doppler
      angle.The applicability of this technology to patients with aortic valve stenosis and
      systolic dysfunction and its clinical significance has not been evaluated. We hypothesize
      that patients with reduced peak systolic strain rate and diastolic strain rates at baseline
      adjusted for LVEF will have poorer recovery of LVEF than those with relatively preserved
      strain or strain rate. As this is a pilot study, we plan to prospectively analyze 50
      consecutive patients who have severe aortic stenosis and left ventricular systolic
      dysfunction, EF under 40% with Speckle imaging derived strain rate imaging pre and
      post-operatively for aortic valve replacement. This would be done as part of routine
      pre-operative and post-operative transthoracic echocardiography using standard views, with
      the exception that all studies would need to be done on the GE Vivid 7 digital ultrasound
      system. Speckle derived imaging data is derived from standard B mode (Grey scale images),
      with a frame rate of 50 f/s. 3 D images will also be obtained. Post-operative TTE's will be
      performed before discharge and 4-12 months+/- 30 days after discharge. Baseline
      characteristics will be taken from the standard pre-operative baseline study including basic
      2 D valve area, EF, wall thickness and geometry, and Doppler flow data. Exclusion criteria:
      Patients with prior cardiac surgery including CABG or other valve replacement, more than mild
      mitral valve or aortic regurgitation and chronic kidney disease (Cr 1.5), emergent aortic
      valve replacement, or endocarditis, or CAD on LHC > 50%. Informed consent will be obtain on
      all patients, and they will only be included if they consent. No surgery will be delayed for
      purpose of the study if the proper hardware/GE VIVID system is not available.
    
  