
    
      Lung cancer has become a leading cause of cancer death in Taiwan. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose
      (18F-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) using has been found to be effective in
      diagnosing, staging, and restaging primary non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However,
      18F-FDG is not tumor specific. It may also show increased uptake in benign tumors and tissue
      with inflammatory cells, such as macrophages and fibroblast. Therefore, the ability of
      18F-FDG PET for characterizing lung nodule remains a challenge, especially in Taiwan where
      tuberculosis is still prevalent.

      Recently, 18F-3'-fluoro-3'-deoxy-L-thymidine (18F-FLT), a radiolabeled analog of thymidine,
      has been synthesized for imaging tumor cell proliferation in vivo. The tracer is trapped
      within the cytosol after being monophosphorylated by thymidine kinase-1 (TK-1), a principle
      enzyme in the salvage pathway of DNA synthesis. It has been demonstrated in cell culture,
      animal models and clinical studies that the accumulation of 18F-FLT is dependent on the
      presence of TK-1 and therefore is closely associated with cellular proliferation. Malignant
      lung lesions revealed significant 18F-FLT accumulation while benign lung tumors showed no
      18F-FLT uptake. Therefore, 18F-FLT PET may be more accurate than 18F-FDG PET in
      differentiating benign from malignant pulmonary lesions. In addition, the correlation between
      18F-FLT uptake and cellular proliferation hints the usefulness of 18F-FLT PET for monitoring
      treatment response with cytostatic anticancer drugs.

      In the meantime, the cyclotron and hot lab facility in National Taiwan University Hospital
      (NTUH) has developed 18F-FLT successfully. After careful quality assurance and animal
      experiments, it is now ready to perform clinical studies on human beings.

      We thus design this prospective 3-year project

        1. To evaluate the usefulness of 18F-FLT PET and 18F-FDG PET in differentiating benign from
           malignant pulmonary nodules in Taiwan where tuberculosis is still prevalent.

        2. To assess the usefulness of 18F-FLT PET in early prediction of therapeutic response of
           platinum-based chemotherapies or EGFR inhibitors for NSCLC patients.

        3. To correlate 18F-FLT uptake with EGFR mutation status, therapeutic response and survival
           for NSCLC patients.
    
  