
    
      Subjects will receive the chemotherapy through a plastic tube (catheter) placed into a vein
      under the collarbone. The antibody rituximab is given on the day of admission. The subject
      will also start a six-day course of chemotherapy at that time. The chemotherapy will consist
      of the following drugs: BCNU, etoposide also called VP-16, Ara-C also called cytosine
      arabinoside, and melphalan. BCNU is given on the first day, Ara-C and VP-16 on the second,
      third, fourth and fifth days, and melphalan on the sixth day. The infusion of blood stem
      cells is given through the catheter the day after the last dose of chemotherapy. This is
      called Day 0. A week later the subject will receive shots under the skin of Neupogen to help
      the stem cells grow quickly. Three additional doses of rituximab are given weekly starting 2
      weeks later. If the subject recovers and is discharged from the hospital before getting all
      the doses of rituximab, they can receive the remainder in clinic.

      Patients will remain in the hospital for approximately 3-4 weeks, and in the Houston area for
      about 30 days from the infusion of the donor cells. The patient will have blood, urine, bone
      marrow, and x-ray examinations performed as necessary to monitor the results of treatment.
      They will have blood tests daily while hospitalized.

      As an outpatient, the patient will be monitored to make sure their immune system (system in
      the body that helps protect the body and fights bacterial, viral and fungal infections) is
      recovering, and the patient may require additional infusions of immunoglobulins
      (infection-fighting blood proteins) until the blood protein levels are safe. The patient will
      also be taking antibiotic pills for about 6 months to prevent infections. They will have
      x-rays and other diagnostic tests (PET scans) every 6-12 months during the next 5 years to
      make sure the tumor stays under control.
    
  