
    
      Gastro-esophageal reflux disease (GERD) is a common condition defined as symptoms or mucosal
      damage produced by the abnormal reflux of gastric contents into the esophagus. Symptoms
      highly specific for GERD are heartburn, regurgitation, or both, which often occur after
      meals. The prevalence of GERD is around 20% for weekly reflux symptoms in the Western
      population, while 9.3% in Chinese population. However, approximately 20-30% of patients with
      GERD experience only a partial response of their heartburn of regurgitation symptoms to PPI
      therapy.

      There is lack of a validated Chines version of PASS questionnaire for the GERD patients with
      partial response to PPI.

      Before a treatment response assessment tool can be used clinically, various questions on
      reliability and validity of the instrument need to be addressed. The aims of this study are
      (1) to translate the PASS test from English to traditional Chinese, named PASS-HK, and (2) to
      assess the psychometric properties of the PASS-HK, before clinical application.

      Linguistic translation of the PASS questionnaire from English to Chinese version will follow
      a forward-backward procedure.

      After finalization of Chinese version of the PASS (PASS-HK), the reliability of PASS-HK will
      be evaluated for internal consistency using Cronbach's alpha. The intraclass correlation
      coefficient was calculated within 14 days for two surveys in order to evaluate the
      reproducibility of the results under constant conditions. Pearson product moment correlation
      coefficient will be used to evaluate whether PASS-HK can measure what it claims to measure by
      comparing with SF-12v2, GERD QOL and GREDSQ scores.

      All eligible subjects will be invited to complete PASS-HK twice within 14 days under a stable
      condition. In addition to PASS-HK, all patients will have to complete SF-12v2, GERD-QOL,
      GERDQ and GERDSQ questionnaires.
    
  