
    
      Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the central nervous system
      affecting 60.000 persons in France and characterized by widespread inflammation, focal
      demyelination, and a variable degree of axonal loss. In recent years the concept of MS as an
      inflammatory neurodegenerative disease has been corroborated by neuropathologic and in vivo
      MR imaging studies. A number of MR studies show that the principal pathological substrate of
      permanent disability is axonal loss as detected in MR studies as global atrophy, but also
      regionally in the white or grey matter, and that atrophy already occurs at early stages of
      the disease. Though MR imaging is a powerful tool for MS in terms of diagnosis, description
      of the natural history of the disease and treatment monitoring, the major drawback of MRI in
      MS is the lack of specificity of the MR findings. Furthermore, with the advent of disease
      modifying drugs, there is a need for robust and specific MR markers to identify e.g.
      clinically isolated syndrome (CIS) patients at presentation at high risk to develop MS or a
      more severe disease course. An increasing body of MRI evidence corroborates that CIS show
      early and dynamic changes detected by MR imaging, such as global or regional brain atrophy,
      as a sign of progressive axonal loss, but atrophy is already a late stage sign of the
      disease, when tissue is lost. Considerable efforts are spent today to identify early and
      prognostic MR markers for high risk CIS patients.

      In the current project we endeavour to study CIS patients with inflammatory disease of the
      central nervous system or early clinical deficit by using cell labelling MR imaging with
      ultra small superparamagnetic iron oxide particles (USPIO), which specifically label
      blood-borne macrophages, a key cell population in MS. We hypothesise that number/volume of
      USPIO (SH U 555 C) enhancement during the first year is a predictive marker for high risk CIS
      patients at presentation. This hypothesis is in line with recent findings in the animal model
      of MS, EAE. Secondary measures of this study will include comparison of the USPIO (SH U 555
      C) findings with other highly sensitive, but non-specific MR parameters.
    
  