
    
      Background: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive respiratory
      disorder characterized by acute exacerbations that contribute to physical impairment and
      increased healthcare use and costs. Given the increasing burden of this disease in terms of
      morbidity, disability, mortality and costs, innovative care models centered on patients and
      aiming at improving quality and comprehensiveness of care are needed. Effective
      implementation and evaluation of chronic disease management - integrated care(CDM-IC)
      programs, in the real world context is of great importance.

      Aim of the pilot study: To conduct a pilot study assessing the acceptability, feasibility and
      effectiveness of a community-based CDM-IC program for COPD patients residing in the canton of
      Valais.

      Design: The evaluation plan of this study will combine both quantitative and qualitative
      methods. A controlled before-after study design will be considered for the quantitative part
      of the project, and the qualitative part will include the conduct of focus groups with COPD
      patients and practicing healthcare professionals.

      Setting: French-speaking part of the canton of Valais.

      Patients: 50 adult (>35 years) COPD patients GOLD stage I (symptomatic) - IV of the disease,
      aged > 35 years, non-institutionalized and residing in the canton of Valais. Patients will be
      recruited by primary care and pulmonary care physicians practicing in the French-speaking
      part of the canton of Valais. The control group of patients will be constituted of age and
      gender-matched COPD patients already included in the Swiss COPD cohort study.

      Measures:

      Quantitative part:

      Primary outcomes: Generic and disease-specific health-related quality-of-life(Chronic
      Respiratory Questionnaire (CRQ), SF-36 and COPD Assessment Test (CAT)) and all-cause
      hospitalizations (past 12 months)

      Other outcomes:

        1. Processes of care (% patients having participated to self-management education sessions,
           % patients having received/used the action plan, % patients having received smoking
           cessation recommendations, % patients having received advices/participated to
           participate to pulmonary rehabilitation, % patients having received influenza
           immunization during the past 12 months, % patients receiving appropriate treatment, nb
           of consultations with primary care physician/pulmonary care physician/other, nb of
           contacts with the hotline)

        2. Patients' assessment of how care is congruent with the Chronic Care Model (PACIC
           instrument)

        3. Measure of self-efficacy (intermediary outcome)

        4. Health behaviors, symptoms and physical activity measures: 6-minutes walking test, nb of
           COPD exacerbations during past (past 12 months), % of current smokers

        5. Healthcare utilization: unscheduled ambulatory care visits

        6. Care satisfaction

        7. Measures of the process of implementation of the intervention (nb of recruiting
           practices and physicians, nb of participating practices and physicians, nb of and
           patients, of drop-outs, satisfaction of healthcare professionals towards COPD program)

      Qualitative part: conduct of two focus groups of participating COPD patients, and of two
      focus groups of participating healthcare professionals, 12 months after the start of the
      recruitment.

      Development and implementation of the intervention:

      The development of the current COPD program in Valais is being implemented in collaboration
      with physicians working in private practices (family physicians and specialists),
      physiotherapists, pharmacists and nurse specialists. It will involve academic and public
      institutions, as well as practitioners. The program has been launched in March 2013, after a
      preliminary phase involving the conduct of focus groups. Their aims were to explore the needs
      and barriers to better care, as well as the shape of the targeted CDM elements for better
      implementation in real life, from the point of view of COPD patients and healthcare
      professionals.

      The CDM intervention considered in the "Soins intégrés BPCO en Valais - Mieux vivre avec ma
      BPCO" program is based on the " Living well with COPD programme " developed by Prof. Bourbeau
      & al at McGill University, Montreal, Canada. The "Soins intégrés BPCO en Valais - Mieux vivre
      avec ma BPCO" program will include a combination of patient-related, professional and
      organizational elements. It will be centered on patients' needs and focus on self-management
      education, proactive follow-up (scheduled visits and/or phone contacts), team work,
      healthcare professionals' training, and promotion of pulmonary rehabilitation, physical
      activity as well as smoking cessation.
    
  