
    
      We propose that Pneumocystis accelerates emphysema in HIV-infected smokers by stimulating
      inflammation and tissue destruction. This grant will examine the role of co-infection with
      Pneumocystis in the pathogenesis of HIV-associated emphysema and the mechanism by which it
      causes emphysema progression. These studies will lead to information that will provide a
      rational basis for prevention and therapy of HIV-associated emphysema and provide a model for
      emphysema in the general population

      antiretroviral therapy (HAART), impressive declines in morbidity and mortality from HIV have
      been seen [18]. These improvements do not constitute a cure, however; and over 400,000 people
      are currently living with HIV in the United States and there are 40 million people infected
      worldwide. With improved treatment and increases in life expectancy, incidence of other types
      of lung diseases such as HIV-associated emphysema and pulmonary hypertension may become more
      common. Respiratory symptoms are extremely common in the HIV-infected population, even among
      those without a history of pulmonary infections. HIV-infected subjects have been noted to
      have an accelerated form of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)/emphysema [4, 5].
      This disease is seen in those with untreated HIV disease and may become more common in the
      treated HIV population as it has frequently been reported in those without a history of
      AIDS-related pulmonary complications.

      Smoking-related diseases such as emphysema are of particular concern in the HIV+ population.
      Smoking rates are high in this population and long term exposure to cigarette smoke in the
      setting of HIV infection may increase the number of complications seen. Smoking in the HIV+
      population is associated with worse general health, physical functioning, quality of life,
      and cognitive functioning Before the HAART era, HIV+ subjects were noted to have an
      accelerated form of emphysema. Unlike many of the AIDS-defining opportunistic infections,
      HIV-associated emphysema may actually be more common in the current era of HIV as it is
      frequently reported in those without a history of AIDS-related pulmonary complications and
      because the aging HIV+ population has a longer exposure to smoking and HIV. HIV-associated
      emphysema was identified as a critical area for future research by a recent NIH workshop on
      pulmonary complications of HIV.

      Whether emphysema continues to be increased in the HIV+ population in the HAART era is
      unknown. We hypothesize that emphysema may actually have increased as subjects live longer
      with chronic pulmonary exposure to the virus, to smoking, and to the inflammation that occurs
      in even treated HIV+ patients. We believe that prevalence will be increased compared to HIV-
      controls and that progression will be accelerated. Assessment of degree of emphysema and its
      distribution can be accomplished using quantitative CT morphometry density analysis. This
      technique measures lung density by pixel analysis expressed in Hounsfield units (HU) or its
      inverse (ml of gas/gram of tissue) which increases proportionately with the magnitude of
      emphysema. These measurements have been histologically-verified and give quantitative,
      reproducible measurements of percentage and distribution of lung considered normal, mildly
      emphysematous, and severely emphysematous. By adding the lung images to this protocol, we
      will be maximizing the information gained from this study with minimal increases in risk or
      subject inconvenience.

      Pneumocystis jirovecii Based on our preliminary data in humans and primates, we believe that
      Pneumocystis (Pc) is one infectious agent that is critical in the pathogenesis of
      HIV-associated emphysema. Pneumocystis jirovecii (formerly known as Pneumocystis carinii f.
      sp. hominis)[19] is a eukaryotic pathogen that causes pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts.
      Despite the fact that PCP is responsible for a large degree of morbidity and mortality in
      immunosuppressed populations, little is understood about the organism's epidemiology. The
      recent development of molecular techniques to identify and genotype Pc has provided an
      important tool with which to explore the epidemiology of the organism. Polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) detects low numbers of organisms, particularly in cases where routine
      histochemical staining methods are negative [21, 22]. Use of PCR, particularly nested PCR,
      for detection of Pc has led to discovery of the organism among asymptomatic subjects. The
      rate of colonization in asymptomatic HIV-infected subjects appears to be higher than that
      seen in the general population with estimates ranging from 12 to 46% depending on the subject
      population and respiratory samples studied [11, 12, 14, 16, 22].

      Evidence linking HIV-associated emphysema and Pc colonization Pathogenesis of HIV-associated
      emphysema is not understood. The disease is likely multifactorial with contributions from
      smoking, HIV infection, and subclinical infections. Based on several lines of preliminary
      data, we believe that Pc plays a key role in development of HIV-associated emphysema. The
      evidence linking Pc and emphysema includes the high rates of both emphysema and Pc
      colonization in HIV-infected smokers, COPD-like changes that occur after PCP, an increase in
      Pc colonization in COPD that corresponds to disease severity and is independent of smoking
      history, and similarity between the inflammatory response in Pc colonization and COPD. The
      role of Pc colonization in HIV-associated emphysema has not been tested directly.

      With the completion of the human genome project and advances in human genetic research, it is
      now possible for us to conduct comprehensive population genetic studies aimed at the
      identification of genetic factors associated with development of, and outcomes from,
      different diseases. Separately, newer technologies such as Luminex, microarray, SAGE, and
      proteomic analyses have made it possible to study expression profiles of thousands of genes.
      Simultaneous development of statistical methods to detect patterns of gene expression and
      link these patterns with clinical outcomes, have facilitated the identification of prognostic
      markers of disease (e.g. breast cancer and BRCA-1, and markers of tumor metastasis in
      melanoma). In particular, these studies both elucidate the mechanisms of disease
      pathogenesis, as well as identify targets for potential therapeutic intervention. It is
      crucial to the success of these scientific endeavors to link the cellular, protein, and gene
      expression and genetic data to clinical and demographic data on a large substrate of
      subjects, or the interpretation and results of these statistical analyses will be flawed.
    
  