
    
      Phase I: The purpose of the first part (Phase 1) of this study is to find out what side
      effects the experimental drug MG-0103 in combination with azacitidine has on your body. The
      first part, or Phase, of the study will find out how much MG-0103 can be given safely along
      with azacitidine to people with cancer without causing side effects that are too severe.
      Patients are given MG-0103 and azacitidine and are watched closely to see what side effects
      may develop and to make sure that if side effects are seen, they can be taken care of
      rapidly. If the side effects are not severe, then more patients are asked to join the study
      and are given the same or a slightly higher dose of MG-0103. If there are no severe side
      effects, patients joining the study later on will get higher doses of MG-0103 than patients
      who join earlier. All patients will get the same dose of azacitidine. This will continue
      until a dose of MG-0103 is found that causes severe side effects in a high enough portion of
      patients. This will be the maximum dose of MG-0103 that can be given to patients in this
      study. Doses higher than that will not be given. Additional patients may be asked to join the
      study and receive MG-0103 and possibly azacitidine at lower doses that did not cause severe
      side effects.

      Phase II: MG-0103 in combination with azacitidine may also have some effect on your disease.
      The purpose of the second part (Phase 2) of this study is to find out what, if any, effect
      there is. This Phase of the study will also find out more information about side effects of
      this combination of drugs. In this Phase, patients will receive a slightly lower dose than
      the maximum dose found in the first part of the study (which causes tolerable side effects).
      If a certain effect on the disease of patients is seen, then more patients are asked to join
      the study. Additional patients may also be asked to join the study and receive a lower dose
      if information collected during the study suggests that this should be done.
    
  