
    
      Background and aims of the study:

      Recent studies have suggested a risk of under-exposure to anti-infectives in critically ill
      adults. This under-exposure may be associated with poor clinical outcomes as well as a delay
      or incomplete clinical resolution of infection; The dosing regimen of anti-infectives in
      critically ill children is usually based on weight (i.e. mg per Kg). However, between-subject
      variability is known to be substantial in children and even more so in critical illness; As a
      result, concentrations and effects of anti-infectives are unpredictable and the risk of
      under- or over-exposure is thus genuine and considerable. Rationalisation of anti-infectives
      in children is therefore desirable.

      The purpose of the present study is to investigate, using a population approach, the
      pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of intravenous anti-infectives including
      usual PK/PD targets (fT(%) > minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC)) and PD endpoints
      (clinical outcomes) in critically ill children. The effects of developmental and other
      factors related to critical illness on anti-infectives PK and PK/PDs are investigated in
      order to better explain the observed between-subject variabilities and to ultimately suggest
      individualized dosage regimens.

      This prospective study will be conducted in six paediatric services of Public Hospitals in
      Paris, France

      Intervention:

      Patient selection will take place in the 6 paediatric services. The senior physician proposes
      the study to holders of parental authority whose child receives or will receive
      anti-infectives during its follow-up or hospitalization.

      The senior physician will give a briefing note to the holders of parental authority, and if
      the child is able to understand the information. The non-oral opposition for the retrieval
      and analysis of data will be collected.

      No intervention or no charge will be made for this study.
    
  