
    
      Stroke is the third leading cause of death and the leading cause of adult disability in the
      United States. More adults are affected by stroke each year than Alzheimer's disease,
      multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or Parkinson's disease. Hemorrhagic strokes
      represent the most severe subtypes of stroke. An estimated 40-50% of hemorrhagic stroke
      victims will die and more than 80% of survivors remain disabled after hemorrhagic stroke. Yet
      the vast majority of analyses on outcome after stroke have focused principally on gross
      measures of functional outcome.

      Furthermore hemorrhagic stroke differs from ischemic stroke where a loss of blood causes the
      area affected to be readily visible on scanning. But with hemorrhagic stroke, not only the
      area that we can directly see, but nearby tracts that have been compressed or stretched by
      the mass of the hemorrhage can be injured.

      The investigators propose to follow-up on 500 cases of deep and lobar ICH to perform serial
      evaluations of motor and cognitive function and advanced neuroimaging to determine predictors
      of recovery, progressive cognitive or functional impairment. Our proposal has the advantages
      of adding onto a prospective ICH study which will identify and recruit cases, ability to
      evaluate for the degree and impact of survival and severity biases, baseline neuroimaging
      which includes baseline MRI, biologic samples including genotyping for apolipoprotein E
      alleles and uniform phenotype definitions as well as expertise in recovery/outcome analyses,
      advanced neuroimaging processes and epidemiologic study. This proposal performs detailed
      cognitive, motor and functional assessments on cases of intracerebral hemorrhage and
      correlates with tractography imaging. The investigators hypothesize that unlike ischemic
      stroke, the mass effect of the hemorrhage itself may disrupt nearby tracts in some patients
      while preserving them in others and will serve as a better predictor of who may recover after
      ICH. This project will represent the largest number of ICH cases in which tractography
      imaging has been performed to date.

      Specific Aim #1: Improve motor recovery prediction after supratentorial ICH by adding
      proportion of tract injury as measured by diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) independent of the
      ICH volume, location, age, gender and intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH).

      Hypothesis #1a: Increasing severity of injury to corticospinal tracts in ICH patients will
      predict worse specific motor deficits assessed at 3-month and 6-month post-stroke.

      Hypothesis #1b. Injury to cortical-cortical tracts including the superior longitudinal
      fasciculus, uncinate fasciculus, cingulum, and arcuate fasciculus, will predict greater
      impairment in corresponding cognitive domains including attention, memory, executive
      function, and language function assessed at 3 and 6-month post-stroke.

      Specific Aim #2: Determine the association of periventricular tract injury in
      intraventricular hemorrhage complicating ICH with subsequent incontinence and gait ataxia.

      Hypothesis #2: Patients with IVH will be associated with greater periventricular tract injury
      than patients without IVH and that this injury will be independently associated with
      long-term neurogenic incontinence and gait instability after controlling for severity of the
      ICH including location and volume, age and gender.
    
  