
    
      Hypothesis: to address sleep and circadian disorders (SCD) using a Sleep and Circadian
      Intervention Program (SCIP) in patients treated with rehabilitation by chronic
      musculoskeletal pain (CMP) optimizes the rehabilitation outcomes and reduces opioids
      consumption.

      The Main Objective of this PILOT study is to evaluate the feasibility of the protocol of the
      present study that aims to assess the improvement in rehabilitation outcomes and decrease in
      opioid consumption, through the management of sleep disorders.

      Secondary objectives of the PILOT study:

        1. To identify the primary outcome to evaluate the hypothesis. Evaluate relevance and
           observed change of the main outcome for the main study. It will allow investigators to
           evaluate the effect size and variability of the SCIP in the opioids consumption in a
           sample of our population to determine if this is the potential outcome for the main
           project.

        2. To determine the patient inclusion rhythm (recruitment rate) and, if necessary, the
           reasons for non-recruitment.

        3. To determine the follow-up rate and reasons for loss to follow-up.

        4. To test the sleep circadian study's methodology in this type of population.

        5. To assess the acceptability, implementation and preliminary efficacy of the SCIP.

        6. To evaluate adherence and fidelity to the SCIP through recruitment and retention.

        7. To determine the data acquisition rate, amount of missing data and reasons for loss.

        8. To evaluate the safety of the program.

        9. To characterize the effect observed in the intervention in order to properly calculate
           the sample size necessary for the main study.

      Methodology:

      Type of study: This study aims to be the pilot project of a large-scale international
      randomized controlled trial that will include a total of 1.000 patient internationally. In
      this pilot study, using a randomised (1:1) feasibility study, 50 patients in a rehabilitation
      program referred to treatment for CMP lumbar pain will be recruited. The pilot study will
      have a total duration of 18 months (12 months of recruitment + 6 months follow-up) and all
      the interventions included in the methodology of the main study will be carried out in the
      participating patients. As a feasibility trial, aspects of feasibility will be determined and
      estimates of effect size and measured variability will be calculated to inform future planned
      study. The data for this study will be collected from standard measures administered in their
      basal visit (BV), immediately prior to the initiation of the SCIP, and 6 months after the
      initiation of the program (End of study visit-EOS). Randomisation to allocate participants to
      either intervention or control group will be performed immediately following the baseline
      assessment, and intervention delivery (SCIP) will begin directly after the BV. Participants
      will be then reassessed at 6 months after the baseline (EOS) as in the BV and for functional
      improvement and health resources consumption. Inclusion criteria: 1) Subjects older than 18
      years 2) Inclusion in a rehabilitation program by musculoskeletal lumbar pain lasting more
      than three months 3) Patients have no severe reading or learning difficulty 4) Signature of
      informed consent. Exclusion criteria: 1) Severe psychopathological co-morbidity (e.g. the
      presence of schizophrenia, bipolar disorders…) 2) Co-morbid malignant/terminal diseases (e.g.
      HIV/AIDS, cancer) 3) Shift-workers and people who work making transmeridian travels.

      All patients will provide written consent for their data to be used in an anonymized form for
      research purposes and project will have ethics and research and development committee
      approval prior to the start.

      Basal Visit: All participants will be asked to provide in the BV the basic demographic
      information, medical characteristics (age, gender, job, medication), pain characteristics
      (pain cause, time, location and intensity) and a basic physical exam (blood pressure, height,
      weight, neck, hip and waist circumference), a drugs test will be performed to assess opioids
      consumption and a circadian rhythm study (individual activity rhythms will be measured
      noninvasively with Kronowise® [with European Community marking for this indication] in all
      patients). To evaluate the effect of the SCIP pain reduction may not be sufficient for a
      comprehensive evaluation of the overall benefit of the intervention. The complexity of
      chronic pain and its negative impact on diverse aspects of function should be evaluated: 1a.
      To evaluate the improvement of pain perception and pain intensity control: pain intensity,
      sensory pain ratings and affective pain ratings will be measured before and after the
      intervention in both groups. To provide this multidimensional assessment of pain the 5-level
      EQ-5D version (EQ-5D-5L) will be completed in basal visit and after intervention.1b. To
      evaluate the improvement in quality of life (QoL) measured it will be measured by QoL
      questionnaires (SF36 and FOSQ) before and after the intervention and 1c. To measure the
      improvement in mood and anxiety patients will answer the Hospital Anxiety and Depression
      Scale (HADS) and Pain Anxiety Symptoms (Scale-PASS20).

      Groups: The patients will be selected by their rehabilitation doctor who will establish the
      indication and dose of the necessary medication to control the pain, according to the
      criteria of conventional clinical practice.

      Patients will be randomized to:

      1 Control group. Rehabilitation according to current clinical practice. 2 SCIP group.
      Rehabilitation according to current clinical practice + specific actions in the treatment
      group (the next action in this point 2 will be undergo only in the SCIP group): 2a.
      Educational and circadian rhythm intervention: 2a. I - General sleep hygiene recommendations.
      2a. II - Promotion of daily physical activity: determine sleep circadian patterns during
      rehabilitation: Each participant will record his/her sleep periods in a sleep log. In
      addition, individual rest/activity, distal skin temperature and light exposure rhythms will
      be measured noninvasively with a watch-like device (Kronowise ®) during 7 consecutive days
      and nights. Sleep disturbances as sleep onset latency longer than 30 minutes, more than two
      waking episodes per night, total sleep time shorter than 6.5 hours or a sleep efficiency
      lower than 85% will be take into account and submitted to the specialist if necessary.
      Specific circadian habits modification advise or treatment will be given depending in the
      results. All this information will be collected and analysed to determine sleep and circadian
      hygiene and the circadian rhythms of the above-mentioned variables in the BV and after the
      SCIP (EOS).

      2b. Describe the sleep disorders related to chronic pain by applying sleep studies to
      evaluate sleep quality and to diagnose sleep disturbances during rehabilitation: full
      Polysomnography 2c. Describe other sleep disorders by applying specific questionnaires: To
      evaluate quality of sleep the Pittsburgh questionnaire will be performed, the Epworth
      Sleepiness scale to assess daytime hypersomnolence and to diagnose other sleep disorders such
      as insomnia and restless legs syndrome (RLS) the Insomnia Severity Index (ISI) and the RLS
      criteria will completed respectively.

      2d. Therapeutic intervention related to the results obtained in the mentioned studies (2 a, b
      and c): advice/treatment will be recommended to determine the effect of the specific
      interventions decided (pharmacological or non-pharmacological) related to SCD detected in 2
      a,b and c. Based on the results of the studies, patients will be treated according to current
      guidelines for the management of sleep disorders and taking into account the following
      recommendations: 1) Interventions that improve rest/activity rhythms: Sleep Hygiene, bright
      light therapy and noise control, time of exercise and feeding. 2) To treat and control Sleep
      Disorder Breathing (including adaptive servo-ventilation and bi-level positive airway
      pressure ventilation for Central Sleep Apnea if needed). 3) To improve anxiety, depression
      and insomnia (to apply bright light therapy and refer to a specialist if needed). 4) To treat
      Legs Restless Syndrome if needed. 5) To try opioid dose reduction. 6) To trial of non-opioid
      therapies (NSAIDs, antiepileptic drugs, physical therapy, antidepressants…) in lieu of
      opioids. 7) Avoiding use of benzodiazepines, sedatives, hypnotics. 8) Caution against alcohol
      use.

      Blood samples extraction will be obtained from all participants at the beginning of
      rehabilitation and at the end of follow-up to study to measure serum levels of inflammatory
      and oxidative stress biomarkers implicated in pain control.

      EOS visit: After 6 months of the initiation of the SCIP the BV measurements will be repeated
      and also an evaluation of the functional improvement and consumption of health resources. The
      impact of the SCIP will be evaluated in the next aspects: 1a. Improvement of pain perception
      and pain intensity control. 1b. Improvement in quality of life (QoL). 1c. Improvement in mood
      and anxiety. 1d. Physical functioning improvement: activity registers from Kronowise ® will
      be used to assess the physical activity rhythm improvement (specific measures of the affected
      musculoskeletal component). 1e. Consumption of health resources (pharmacological and
      non-pharmacological): Pharmacological consumption: Patient pharmacologic sleep and pain
      agents and dosing will be recorder at basal visit and after the sleep intervention: opioid
      analgesics, benzodiazepine receptor agonists, nonbenzodiazepine benzodiazepine receptor
      agonists, melatonin receptor agonists, antidepressants, antipsychotics, anticonvulsants,
      general analgesic and antihistaminic drugs. Non-pharmacological consumption: days of
      rehabilitation treatment, visits to emergency department, hospitalization related to pain or
      CP treatment, duration of sick leave (days of work absenteeism). 1f. Improvement of the
      circadian system parameters.

      Ethics and Safety: There are no expected serious adverse events (SAEs) in this study. The
      proposed procedures carry minimal risk to participants, and their care and comfort will be
      ensured throughout. This research will be performed in accordance with the International
      Conference on Harmonisation-Good Clinical Practice (ICH-GCP) standards. Research Ethics
      Service ethical approval will be sought and confirmed before the start of the trial. The
      study will be overseen by a steering committee who will act as the data-monitoring committee
      to consider adverse effects and/or lack of adherence to the protocol.

      Sample Size: As this was a feasibility study, a sample size calculation was not performed.
      The study aimed to recruit 50 patients randomized (1:1) to control group (usual
      rehabilitation and circadian rhythm study) or intervention group (usual rehabilitation
      program + sleep circadian intervention program-SCIP) in patients under rehabilitation
      treatment by musculoskeletal chronic pain on the opioids consumption. Data from key outcome
      measures were later used to determine the sample size for a definitive trial.

      Statistical analysis: Descriptive statistics of mean (standard deviation) or median
      [interquartile range (IQR)] were estimated for quantitative variables with a normal or
      non-normal distribution, respectively, while absolute and relative frequencies were used for
      qualitative variables. Normal distribution was analysed using the Shapiro-Wilks test.
      Participant characteristics were compared using Student's test, analysis of variance (ANOVA),
      or non-parametric Mann-Whitney and Kruskal-Wallis tests for non-normal distribution. The
      statistical level of significance was fixed at 0.05. All analyses were performed using R
      statistical software, version 3.4.2.
    
  