
    
      This is a Phase 2, multicenter, prospective, open-label study. Once 70 patients have
      enrolled, subsequent patients enrolled should have a diagnosis of lymphoma. Patients who
      would benefit from an autologous stem cell transplant, who have failed previous collections
      or collection attempts with a mobilization regimen of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor
      (G-CSF) alone, chemotherapy and G-CSF, or any other conventional therapy including cytokines,
      chemotherapy and cytokines and bone marrow harvests, and who meet the inclusion/exclusion
      criteria are eligible to receive plerixafor as outlined in this protocol. The only change to
      standard of care of a mobilization regimen that includes G-CSF is the addition of a dose of
      plerixafor on the evening prior to each day of apheresis.

      Patients will undergo mobilization with G-CSF (10 µg/kg) for 4 days. On Day 4, plerixafor
      (240 µg/kg) will be administered in the evening prior to the first apheresis and each
      subsequent evening prior to apheresis thereafter, such that there is a 10 to 11 hour interval
      between dosing and the initiation of apheresis. Patients will continue to receive G-CSF on
      each day of apheresis. Patients will undergo a minimum of 2 and a maximum of 7 aphereses or
      until ≥2*10^6 CD34+ cells/kg are collected, whichever occurs first. In addition, the
      mobilization of NHL tumor cells and the pharmacokinetics of repeat doses of plerixafor will
      be examined.

      After the last apheresis has been completed, or after the patient has collected ≥2*10^6 CD34+
      cells/kg, he/she will be treated with high-dose chemotherapy in preparation for
      transplantation. Patients will be transplanted with cells obtained from the G-CSF with
      plerixafor mobilization regimen. In the event that the minimum number of ≥2*10^6 cells for
      transplantation are not obtained from the first mobilization with plerixafor, cells may be
      retained and pooled for transplantation with those from a second mobilization with plerixafor
      (or from prior mobilization with other agents), at the investigator's discretion. If a second
      mobilization with plerixafor is attempted, a minimum rest interval of one week should be
      allowed between the last apheresis of the first regimen and the first dose of G-CSF of the
      second. The number of CD34+ cells mobilized in the peripheral blood (PB), collected in the
      apheresis product, and the number of apheresis sessions performed will be measured. Success
      of the transplantation will be evaluated by the time to engraftment of polymorphonuclear
      leukocytes (PMN) and platelets (PLT). Participants will be assessed for durability of their
      transplant for 12 months after transplantation.

      This study was previously posted by AnorMED, Inc. In November 2006, AnorMED, Inc. was
      acquired by Genzyme Corporation. Genzyme Corporation is the sponsor of the trial.
    
  