
    
      This is a prospective, non-randomized, multi-center, cohort study involving patients with
      moderate to severe OSA. This study will compare OSA patients who accept and comply with CPAP
      therapy versus those who do not.

      Variables of Interest: 24-hour ambulatory BP, sitting BP, electrocardiogram (ECG), facial
      photographs, psychomotor vigilance test (PVT), questionnaires, and blood samples.

      Patients will complete questionnaires that pertain to demographics, lifestyle factors, and
      co-morbidities associated with CVD. The blood samples will be used to look for evidence of
      diabetes; elevated lipids; markers of heart injury, inflammation, and coagulation; and
      genetic information. Measurements will be collected at baseline and at 6-month follow-up.

      In addition, patients enrolled in this study will be contacted by telephone once a year over
      a ten year period. The purpose of the telephone interview is to determine if they are using
      any treatment for OSA, if they have developed any new health problems such as a heart attack
      or stroke, and if they have changed any of their usual medications.

      Data Analysis Approach: To correct for potential bias in the non-randomized comparison, we
      will apply a Propensity Score (PS) Design via subclassification. Models to derive the PS
      values used in this design will include a number of covariates relevant to CPAP adherence and
      cardiovascular outcomes, including age, sex, obesity (BMI, neck circumference, waist-to-hip
      ratio), current smoking, prevalent CVD at baseline, history of hypertension, HbA1c, diabetes
      mellitus (history, medications), lipid profile, hyperlipidemia (history, medications), family
      history of premature coronary disease, Charlson comorbidity index, physical activity (IPAQ),
      diet, OSA severity (AHI, ODI4, T90), sleepiness (Epworth Sleepiness Scale), educational
      attainment, socioeconomic status (postcode), insomnia symptoms (Insomnia Symptom
      Questionnaire), anxiety and depression-related symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire-2),
      self-efficacy (General self-efficacy scale), and medication adherence (Medication Adherence
      Report Scale [MARS-5]). Baseline values of outcome measures will also be included in the PS
      model. After creating the PS design, all analyses are performed accounting for PS subclass as
      a categorical stratification factor. Evaluations of the CPAP effect on binary outcomes are
      performed utilizing conditional logistic regression. Similarly, CPAP effects in the context
      of survival analyses (e.g., Cox Proportional Hazards models) or on continuous outcomes (e.g.,
      linear regression) are assessed by including PS subclass as a categorical covariate in all
      models.
    
  