
    
      After being discharged from the hospital, opioids are major source of pain relief for
      patients. Previous studies show that 71% of patients prescribed opioid medications after
      thoracic surgery admitted to taking half or less of their prescribed opioid medications. The
      analysis showed a correlation between the amount of opioids consumed during the patient
      hospitalization and after discharge. Goesling et al. surveyed patients with or without
      previous history of opioid use who underwent total knee arthroplasty (TKA) or total hip
      arthroplasty (THA). Both groups were followed for 6 months to document the "natural history"
      of opioid use postoperatively and post discharge. For patients with preoperative opioid use
      undergoing TKA, 88.5% were shown to be using opioids after 1 month, 48.2% after 3 months and
      53.5% after 6 months. For patients considered opioid naïve undergoing TKA, 66.5% were shown
      to be using opioids after 1 month, 16.6% after 3 months and 8.2% after 6 months. For patients
      with preoperative opioid use undergoing THA, 63.9% were shown to be using opioids after 1
      month, 37.8% after 3 months and 34.7% after 6 months. For patients considered opioid naïve
      undergoing THA, 22.5% were shown to be using opioids after 1 month, 4.4% after 3 months and
      4.3% after 6 months.

      This study is observational and involves consenting adult patients undergoing major
      orthopedic surgery to pre-operative assessments including the Self Administered Gerocognitive
      Exam (SAGE) questionnaire, a cognitive test to identify mild-moderate cognitive impairment,
      and collection of demographic data and medical history. Phone call follow-ups include
      assessments of post-discharge pain and opioid consumption, and completing verbally an adapted
      Activities of Daily Living questionnaire. No additional risks have been identified by
      participating in this study. Participants may not directly benefit from participating in this
      trial, but the data collected could provide valuable insight into the discrepancy between
      required opioid pain medications and opioid pain medication prescription for adequate pain
      management. This insight could then be applied to reevaluate post-discharge pain management
      procedures and standards of care, therefore curbing opioid use and abuse trends.
    
  