
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib phosphate (ruxolitinib) in combination with
      conventional neoadjuvant and post-surgical chemotherapy is safe and tolerable in the primary
      therapy for epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase I)
      II. Demonstrate whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with conventional
      neoadjuvant and post-surgical chemotherapy results in a prolonged progression-free survival
      when compared to chemotherapy alone, in primary therapy for epithelial ovarian, fallopian
      tube, or primary peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine frequency of patients who do not receive surgery within 6 weeks of completing
      cycle 3 therapy for reasons other than non-response, disease progression, or medical
      contraindications. (Phase I) II. Determine if continuation of ruxolitinib as maintenance
      therapy in participants who complete 6 cycles of standard chemotherapy in combination with
      ruxolitinib and have not experienced unacceptable toxicity or disease progression is safe and
      tolerable. (Phase I) III. Determine the impact of ruxolitinib in combination with
      chemotherapy on progression-free survival as a function of proposed exploratory biomarkers -
      ALDH+ CD133+ (possibly also CD24+ CK19+) co-staining by AQUA immunofluorescence (IF); ratio
      of tumor expression of CD8:FOXP3 by immunohistochemistry (IHC); and tumor CD3, CD4, TAI-1,
      HLA class I and II, CD68 expression by IHC in archived tumor tissue, BRCA status, and serum
      C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6 levels in pre-treatment serum. (Phase II) IV. Investigate
      the prognostic significance of exploratory laboratory parameters in terms of both
      progression-free survival and overall survival in women receiving conventional chemotherapy
      alone. (Phase II) V. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib in combination with
      conventional chemotherapy is associated with total gross resection rate at time of interval
      cytoreductive surgery. (Phase II) VI. Determine whether treatment with ruxolitinib in
      combination with conventional chemotherapy is associated with complete pathologic response
      defined at interval cytoreductive surgery. (Phase II) VII. Demonstrate whether treatment with
      ruxolitinib in combination with conventional chemotherapy results in an improvement in
      overall survival in primary management of epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
      peritoneal carcinoma. (Phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ruxolitinib phosphate, followed by a
      phase II study.

      PHASE I PORTION OF STUDY IS COMPLETE (04/06/2018)

      PHASE I (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on
      days 1-21, paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV
      over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of cycle 3,
      patients undergo tumor reductive surgery (TRS).

      PHASE I (CYCLES 4-6): Within 6 weeks of TRS, patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on
      days 1-21, paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15, and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes
      on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity. If TRS is not performed due to non-response or medical
      contraindications and criteria for discontinuation of protocol therapy have not been met,
      patients should resume ruxolitinib phosphate, paclitaxel, and carboplatin within 6 weeks of
      completing cycle 3 of therapy.

      MAINTENANCE THERAPY: Within 3 weeks after completion of cycle 6, patients receive ruxolitinib
      phosphate PO BID. Treatment continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 and
      carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of
      cycle 3, patients undergo TRS.

      ARM I (CYCLES 4-6): Within 4 weeks of surgery (or within 6 weeks of completion of cycle 3 in
      patients who do not undergo TRS), patients receive paclitaxel IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8,
      and 15 and carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3
      cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II (CYCLES 1-3): Patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-21 and
      paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Within 6 weeks after completion of
      cycle 3, patients undergo TRS.

      ARM II (CYCLES 4-6): Within 4 weeks of surgery (or within 6 weeks of completion of cycle 3 in
      patients who do not undergo TRS), patients receive ruxolitinib phosphate PO BID on days 1-21
      and paclitaxel and carboplatin as in arm I. Treatment repeats every 21 days for 3 cycles in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients in phase I are followed up until resolution of
      adverse events, and patients in phase II are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and then
      every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  