
    
      Patients will be recruited from the pool of patients referred to the investigators center for
      evaluation of food allergy. For each tree-nut (walnut, pecan, cashew, pistachio, hazelnut or
      almond) evaluated, 30 patients (ages 4-45 years old), with allergy to at least one tree-nut
      will be recruited from the database pool referred to above. Skin prick tests (SPT) using
      standardized 10 mg/ml tree-nut extracts, and BAT will be performed for all suspected
      allergens. Sera will be taken and sent to ThermoFisher for IgE and IgG4 binding analysis to
      purified components. Open OFCs will be performed for each tree-nut, unless clinically
      contraindicated. The results of the OFC will form the basis to determine the sensitivity and
      specificity of the component testing. Similarly, 40 patients with suspected sesame allergy
      will be administered SPT and component analysis for sesame, with correlations to OFC.

      The investigators will also utilize BAT to directly test whether the identified purified
      components are sufficient to elicit reactivity. This objective can be met by either utilizing
      saved patient sera on naive basophils or directly on a subsequently obtained blood sample
      from the patient. For patients enrolling in OIT (secondary objective), sera will also be
      taken after completion of the therapeutic regimen, and IgE as well as IgG4 binding to the
      same components will be assessed and compared to pre-OIT results.

      4.2 STATISTICAL ANALYSIS AND METHODS

      4.3 Patients will be grouped by OFC their allergy status result for each tree-nut (patients
      with a documented IgE-mediated reaction in the previous year or a positive OFC vs. patients
      with regular consumption of the index food or a negative OFC). Descriptive statistics
      (proportions for categorical variables, means or medians and standard deviations or
      inter-quartile range for continuous variables) will be reported for all key participant
      variables, including baseline and demographic characteristics, SPT, BAT and component testing
      results.

      For the primary objective, the sensitivity and specificity of the diagnostic tests (wheal for
      SPT, and CD63 induction for BAT) and IgE/IgG4 binding to the purified components in
      predicting OFC results allergy will be compared by receiver operating characteristic (ROC)
      analysis. To this end, the investigators will evaluate molecular allergens singly or in
      groups for their predictive utilities.

      For the secondary objective, OFC positive patients with documented allergy who undergo OIT
      for tree-nuts (n=15 for each tree-nut) or sesame (n=15) will be grouped according to OIT
      outcome. Paired t-tests comparing IgE and IgG4 binding of specific molecular allergens in
      individual patients before and after treatment will be performed. Additionally, the pre-OIT
      IgE and IgG4 profiles against particular molecular allergens will be compared between OIT
      outcome groups by t-test. 10 control patients treated with the standard of care of
      elimination diet will be compared.

      Power analysis: Using the Pearson Chi-square test for two proportions, with the assumption
      that 75% of all OFC+ to tree-nuts will be positive to at least one specific component, in
      order to detect a result with a P-value of <0.05, 15 positive and 15 negative sera for each
      tree-nut would yield a power of 0.816. Based on the investigators experience with
      immunoreactivity as assessed by western blot, in fact the investigators would expect that
      much more than 75% of OFC+ patients would show IgE reactivity against at least one component.
      Thus, the investigators feel that a total of thirty sera for each tree-nut should suffice for
      the analysis.

      Total number of patients: 180 patients to be evaluated for tree-nut allergy and 40 for sesame
      allergy.
    
  