
    
      Cystinosis is a rare inherited recessive disease belonging to the family of Lysosomal Storage
      Disorders and is characterized by lysosomal accumulation of cystine in all the cells of the
      body leading to multi-organ failure. Cystinosis has a devastating impact on the affected
      individuals, primarily children, and young adults, even with cysteamine treatment. The
      prevalence of cystinosis is 1 in 100,000 to 1 in 200,000. The gene involved in cystinosis is
      the gene CTNS that encodes for the transmembrane lysosomal cystine transporter - cystinosin.
      The current standard of care does not prevent the progression of the disease and
      significantly impacts the quality of life of patients with cystinosis.

      For this study, up to 6 subjects meeting eligibility criteria will be transplanted following
      a 3-cohort staggered treatment design with 2 subjects per cohort. The first 2 cohorts will
      consist of 4 adults (18 years or older), potentially followed by a cohort consisting of 2
      adolescents or adults (> 14 years old). Following the informed consent process, enrolled
      subjects will be screened to confirm full eligibility for participation. Eligible subjects
      will undergo hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) mobilization and collection (leukapheresis). A
      portion of cells will be kept as "back-up" for rescue purpose if necessary, and a portion
      will be ex vivo gene-modified with a lentiviral vector, pCCL-CTNS, to express CTNS gene
      (product name: CTNS-RD-04). The subjects will receive marrow cytoreduction with busulfan
      prior to infusion of CTNS-RD-04. Subjects will discontinue cysteamine treatment during the
      assessment period. The assessment follow-up period will include an initial 2 years of active
      end-point evaluations, where the subjects will be evaluated at 3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, 18- and
      24-months post-transplantation. A long-term follow-up study for a total 15-year follow-up
      period will be offered to all subjects.

      The objectives of this Phase 1/2 clinical study are to assess the safety/tolerability of
      CTNS-RD-04, and its efficacy through a number of clinical, molecular and biochemical
      assessments.
    
  