
    
      Purpose Pilot study to gather information for "United States CABG Diabetes Project" (USCDP)
      Multi-center Randomized Trial.

      For 14 years our research team has successfully implemented an increasingly aggressive series
      of intravenous insulin protocols that normalize blood glucose levels for 3 postoperative days
      in patients with diabetes who undergo cardiac surgery. This has resulted in significant
      reductions in mortality, infection and length of stay (LOS) and has normalized those outcomes
      to those of the population without diabetes (DM). The current protocol ends on the morning of
      the 3rd postoperative day.

      We believe that a logical expansion of this groundbreaking work is to extend the duration of
      intensive glycemic control beyond the third postoperative day and into the outpatient period.
      However it would be impossible to do so with the continued use of CII therapy. Therefore, we
      propose to employ intensive subcutaneous insulin therapies and oral hypoglycemic agents to
      affect continued tight glycemic control following discontinuation of CII and continue such
      therapy beyond hospital discharge for a period of at least one year.

      We hypothesize that this will lead to further reductions in major adverse cardiac outcomes in
      the high-risk diabetes coronary artery bypass grafts (CABG) subgroup. The optimal method to
      test this hypothesis is with a very large, multi-center clinical trial. However, before
      embarking on such a resource-consuming endeavor, we intend to test the concepts, methods,
      implementation strategies, patient acceptability and compliance, proposed biomarkers and
      clinical outcomes of such a trial with this proposed limited pilot study.

      If the information obtained from this pilot study is favorable, we will submit for full
      funding of the multicenter USCDP clinical trial to the NIDDK and NHLBI divisions of the NIH.
      In order to test all aspects of the proposed trial, we intend to randomize patients into this
      pilot study.
    
  