
    
      The objective of this study is to determine if tear osmolarity is a good predictor for dry
      eye following cataract surgery.

      The practice will retrospectively identify patients that have had cataract surgery from
      billing records. This will be cross referenced with patients that have had the diagnosis of
      dry eye and have had tear osmolarity testing, also from billing or electronic records
      analysis. The studies will be done at sites that have inclusion of a general statement about
      record review for research in the patient intake information at the practice. Information
      will be taken from the baseline visit at the final pre-operative examination prior to
      cataract surgery from these patients who have had tear osmolarity measured on each eye using
      the TearLab osmolarity device.

      Because this is a retrospective study, patients will have followed each surgeon's typical
      pre-operative and post-operative protocol (i.e., lid cleansing, topical antibiotics,
      steroids, NSAIDS, etc.) without other peri-surgical complications, and followed at the normal
      post-operative follow-up appointments. Whenever tear osmolarity measurements had been taken
      and recorded in the patient's chart, this information will be collected from the patient's
      chart and recorded in a database. Information from visits up to and including the 3 month
      postoperative interval will be recorded. Additional information recorded will be demographic
      information such as age, corrected vision before and after the cataract surgery at the one
      month visit as well as at any time that tear osmolarity is measured. Additionally, any
      comments made in the history of present illness statement regarding dryness will be recorded
      in the database. Presence of other ocular surface disease present such as blepharitis,
      allergic disease, or anterior basement membrane dystrophy will be recorded. Systemic
      medications that the patient is taking will also be recorded. Presence or absence of diabetes
      mellitus will also be recorded. The database will be kept in a password protected computer in
      a locked office location, and every precaution will be taken to prevent identification of any
      patient specific identifiers. Information will be de-identified as soon as possible by using
      codes to identify the data rather than patient names or chart numbers.
    
  