
    
      OSA affects 7 to 12% of the US population and is an independent risk factor for several
      clinical consequences such as systemic hypertension, cardiovascular disease, stroke, reduced
      HR-QOL, increased all-cause mortality, and motor vehicle accidents due to sleepiness.
      However, OSA and other sleep disorders are woefully underdiagnosed because of time
      constraints at the PCP's office. Such poor CPAP adherence is associated with increased risk
      for fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events. CPAP therapy has been associated with up to
      3-fold reduction in fatal and non-fatal cardiovascular events in both on-treatment analysis
      of RCTs and observational studies. CPAP therapy is associated with 7-fold reduction in
      sleepiness-related accidents. The overarching aim of this proposal is to institute a
      multi-level strategy aimed at improving guideline based care for OSA in populations with
      health disparities.

      The overarching aim of the program of research is to eventually institute a multi-level
      strategy with interventions aimed at both providers and patients in order to improve
      guideline based care for OSA in populations with health disparities. Specifically, in order
      to address the under-diagnosis of OSA, an electronic health record (EHR) based predictive
      analytics system will be implemented. A similar EHR-based alert system with reflex order sets
      for initiating testing for OSA that the investigators have developed will enable PCPs to
      effectively diagnose and treat OSA. It was found that in a nationally representative dataset
      of ~220,000 patients, lower neighborhood income was associated with lower CPAP adherence.
      Considering the time and access-related barriers in the PCP office, it is believed that such
      socioeconomic status (SES) related differences in CPAP adherence needs to be addressed by
      culturally-competent peer educators (such as promotors) with OSA serving as "peer-buddies".
      In a recent multi-site RCT, it was found that CPAP adherence and patient satisfaction was
      improved by peer-driven intervention through an interactive voice response system (PDI-IVR;
      PCORI-IHS-1306-02505), whereby the peers shared their experiences with CPAP naïve patients
      and educated them about OSA and risks of CPAP nonadherence. Whether PDI-IVR can improve
      adherence in underserved population in low resource clinics is unclear. In this proposal, 110
      CPAP naïve patients and 35 experienced peer-buddies will be recruited in from a large
      healthcare system that provides care for an underserved population with an excess burden of
      sleep disorders (Medicaid and dual-eligible Medicare beneficiaries). This study will address
      health disparities in the diagnosis and treatment of OSA using a patient-level educational
      intervention (PDI-IVR system) targeting patients and thereby promote health equity. This
      proposal will also inform future studies by gathering additional data on the effect of
      PDI-IVR on adherence to sleep study testing and CPAP adherence in an underserved population
      in low resource clinics.

      Specific Aim #1: To test a peer-driven intervention with interactive voice response (PDI-IVR)
      system to improve adherence to sleep study testing in a lower socioeconomic population.

      Hypothesis #1: A PDI-IVR support system will lead to greater adherence to sleep study testing
      in patients with OSA when compared to patients receiving conventional education.

      Specific Aim #2: To test a peer-driven intervention with interactive voice response (PDI-IVR)
      system to improve CPAP treatment adherence in a lower socioeconomic population.

      Hypothesis #2: A PDI-IVR support system will lead to greater adherence to CPAP therapy in
      patients with OSA when compared to patients receiving conventional education.
    
  