
    
      MyoCell™ mediated cellular cardiomyoplasty is a novel therapeutic approach to the management
      of progressive heart failure in patients who have damaged myocardial tissue resulting from a
      myocardial infarct. MyoCell™ consists of patient autologous skeletal myoblasts which are
      expanded ex vivo and supplied as a cell suspension in a buffered salts solution for injection
      into the area of damaged, akinetic myocardium with the goal of having the myoblasts populate
      the implant area and generate elastic, contractile skeletal muscle-like tissue within the
      damaged myocardium. Because the physiological goal is to replace inelastic, fibrous
      myocardial scar tissue with skeletal muscle-like tissue, originating from the cellular
      implants, this therapeutic approach is termed "cellular cardiomyoplasty" or "CCM".

      The purpose of this trial is to assess the safety of MyoCell™(expanded autologous skeletal
      myoblasts) using a dose escalation methodology following epicardial injection into myocardial
      scar tissue in patients who have experienced anterior, lateral, posterior or inferior wall
      myocardial infarction, require coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and who have an
      implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) in place (ICD can be implanted during the CABG
      procedure or 3 to 4 days post CABG procedure). Safety endpoints will be the evaluation of the
      nature and frequency of Adverse Events during the 12-month period following MyoCell™
      treatment.

      If a patient meets the baseline enrollment criteria, a 5-10 gram skeletal muscle biopsy will
      be obtained for myoblast isolation and expansion in vitro at Bioheart's designated facility
      for MyoCell™ production. Biopsy will occur 3 - 4 weeks prior to the anticipated implantation
      of the MyoCell™ product. At the time of the patient's CABG surgery MyoCell™ will be injected
      into the akinetic myocardial scar in the region of a previous infarct utilizing a sterile
      hypodermic syringe fitted with a 25 gauge needle.

      This will be a dose escalation study with 3 cohort groups consisting of 5 patients each. A
      report of the 1 month safety data from each cohort will be presented to the data safety
      monitoring board for permission to go to the next higher dosage. In the first cohort of this
      dose escalation study; 2 injections will be performed, for the second cohort; 6 injections
      and for the third cohort; 18 injections depending on the size of the infarct scar, so as to
      inject the entire myocardial infarct scar akinetic area.
    
  