
    
      In this prospective and randomized study, only adult ASA II to IV patients, aged over 18
      years, scheduled to undergo lower limb arterial revascularization surgery at the Hospital de
      Clínicas in Porto Alegre and at the Hospital Nossa Senhora da Conceição will be included.

      The study will be designed as a prospective clinical trial. Patients will be randomly
      allocated for treatment with spinal neuraxial anesthesia associated with spontaneous
      ventilation (nasal glasses with supplemental oxygen - Group 1) or treatment with general
      anesthesia under controlled mechanical ventilation (tidal volume from 6 to 8 ml / kg of the
      assumed weight and PEEP of 5 cmH2O - Group 2).

      Sampling will be carried out for convenience, including patients routinely seen in the
      operating room of the hospitals involved and who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria of
      this study. The allocation of patients will be performed through a table of random numbers
      generated prior to the beginning of the protocol. The process of randomization of patients in
      the groups will be carried out using random blocks. The method for blinding the study will be
      carried out using sealed envelopes and will include the blinding of the researchers,
      evaluators and those responsible for statistical analysis, but will not include the blinding
      of the attending physician and the patients.

      The data will be stored in Excel and analyzed statistically using STATA 12.0 software. The
      statistical approach will be carried out through the "intention-to-treat" model. The
      assessment of ventilatory and hemodynamic parameters between the groups will be performed
      using ANOVA associated with Bonferroni for parametric data or the Kruskal-Wallis test
      associated with the Mann-Whitney test for nonparametric data. For categorical variables, we
      will use Fisher's exact test or Chi-square test. Repeated measures ANOVA will be used to
      assess outcomes between treatment groups over the follow-up period. In order to control
      important variables, such as surgical time, surgical complications, age, body mass index, and
      ASA classification (comorbidities), a statistical approach to assess confounding factors
      (linear regression model) will be performed after the period data collection. Results will be
      considered statistically significant when type I (P) error is less than 0.05.
    
  