
    
      There is growing volume of evidences support the positive effect of exercise and physical
      therapy to Parkinson's disease. Various exercise types have shown different positive effects.
      Gait training for 4 weeks showed a moderate improvement in balancing while balance training
      of 8 to 26 weeks decreased fall rate. Cued exercise would mildly increase the speed of the
      gait. Complementary exercises, such as Tai Chi and dancing, have shown improvement in
      balancing of the patients.

      One of the main complaints of Parkinson's disease is rigidity. It is because of the
      musculoskeletal impairments which compromise the flexibility and stability of both axial
      structure (spine) and the extremities. Truncal stiffness and rigidity results in a stooped
      posture, which further undermines one's balance and agility. Flexibility training
      (stretching) is shown to be beneficial to all stages of patients with Parkinson's disease, in
      terms of improved both range of movement in joints and spinal stability. It is recommended
      that regular stretching should be the first step in one's exercise program to combat the
      muscle rigidity. High quality clinical trial and meta-analysis have demonstrated short term,
      and to a lesser extent, long term benefits in various outcome measures. To achieve positive
      effects, supervised progressive strength and aerobic endurance training program of 12 weeks
      was required. Extended progressive strength training improved muscle strength for up to 24
      months. While aerobic endurance training would increase walking capacity up to 16 months.

      There are data suggested a threshold of intensity of exercise to be reached for the positive
      effect. This overall body of evidence suggests that regular vigorous exercise should be
      accorded a central place in the treatment of Parkinson's disease.

      In this study, the investigators are to investigate the effect of regular vigorous aerobic
      exercise training of running on motor and non-motor symptoms, and quality-of-life of people
      with Parkinson's disease.
    
  