
    
      Involuntary childlessness imposes significant psychological burden on those affected,
      particularly those involved in assisted reproductive technology (ART). The reduction of
      psychological distress has been shown to improve the quality of life of those affected and to
      possibly increase chances of pregnancy. While in more developed countries psychological
      support is largely available in routine fertility care, it is not yet part of the Hungarian
      ART protocol.

      In this study, the effects of a psychosocial intervention, namely, the Hungarian version of
      the Mind/Body Program for Fertility (Domar et al., 2011), will be tested on the psychological
      well-being and ART outcomes of women in reproductive treatment, in a randomized controlled
      pre-post design.

      For this purpose, women in ART treatment will fill in screening questionnaires (on
      depression, anxiety, stress, etc.), and moderate to high scorers will be randomized into an
      intervention (Mind/Body) group (N=70) and a comparison intervention (Fertility Support) group
      (N=70), lasting for 10 weeks each, before and/or during an ART cycle. Both interventions will
      be delivered by the same clinical psychologist, listed as central contact person below,
      officially trained in the Mind/Body Program for Fertility by Dr. Alice Domar at Boston IVF,
      Waltham, Massachusetts. A smartphone application for rating subjective stress levels twice a
      day, from the start of the stimulation to the day of the pregnancy test, will also be
      administered. Additionally, whole-night sleep EEGs will be recorded.

      Medical data (such as diagnosis, hormone levels, previous treatment cycles, etc.) and
      sociodemographic (such as age, education, etc.) and psychological variables (such as
      personality traits, chronotype, intelligence, etc.) as potential moderators, as well as ART
      outcomes will be reported. Data of respondents willing to fill in pre- and
      post-questionnaires but 1) not motivated to take part in the study, or 2) motivated to take
      part in the study, but not able to make it, will be registered but excluded from statistical
      analysis comparing RCT results.
    
  