
    
      This prospective study will utilize investigational MRI sequences both in a volunteer
      population as well as in patients in addition to standard of care MR imaging to develop and
      optimize MRI sequence post-processing techniques as well as to generate preliminary and
      comparative data for potential clinical trials. These post-processing techniques include but
      are not limited to visual inspection of image quality and known anatomy, semi-quantitative
      analysis including the use of rating schemes, signal-to-noise-ratios and
      contrast-to-noise-ratios measurements for quantitative assessment, standard fitting
      procedures for measuring MRI parameters, and using various published methods for image
      post-processing. The MRI methodologies we plan to use as part of this study will allow us to
      obtain morphological, functional and molecular information. For the patient population:
      Patients receiving a standard of care 1.5 or 3T MRI will be asked by study personnel if they
      are interested in undergoing additional investigational imaging sequences after their
      standard of care imaging. If the patient agrees, he/she will remain in the same position on
      the MRI scanner for up to an additional 30 minutes while more images are obtained. Each
      patient will be imaged for no longer than 2 hours (standard of care imaging and additional
      investigational imaging). A routine clinical report will be generated for the clinically
      indicated MRI by a radiologist. Once this routine clinical MRI scan is dictated and
      finalized, a study team member will obtain the report via IHIS and manually remove all
      identifiers. This report is being obtained for comparative purposes. All the data being
      compared will be coded using a unique study number. For the volunteer population: Healthy
      volunteers recruited through the OSU Wexner Medical Center or accompanying patients to their
      standard of care imaging appointments at The Wright Center of Innovation will be asked by
      study personnel if they are interested in undergoing investigational MR imaging sequences. If
      the volunteer agrees, he/she will be imaged on the MRI scanner for up to 60 minutes while
      images are obtained. Other than the participant signing the informed consent form, no
      participant information or protected health information (PHI) will be recorded. Following the
      informed consent authorization, the participant's name will be coded using a unique study
      number.
    
  