
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Respiratory distress syndrome is the most frequent respiratory cause of death and morbidity
      in infants less than 1 year of age in the United States. Of approximately 28,500 infant
      deaths in 2006, 5,421 (19.7%) were diagnosed with respiratory distress as either the primary
      (1,011 - 3.7%) or secondary (4,410 - 16%) cause of death. Despite improvement in infant
      mortality rates over the last 20 years, survivors of respiratory distress syndrome with
      chronic respiratory disease consume twenty times more annualized dollars than unaffected
      children and 5.9% of all dollars spent on children from 0-18 years of age. More recent
      estimates including data from California and New York, the Institute of Medicine, and the
      2001 Nationwide Inpatient Sample from the Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project suggest
      that the average cost of hospitalization for each of the 49,900 infants with a diagnosis of
      respiratory distress syndrome was $56,800 vs. $10,700 for a premature infant without
      respiratory distress syndrome. The recent increase in late preterm births has contributed to
      both the frequency of respiratory distress syndrome and its economic impact. These medical
      costs do not include the economic consequences of infant respiratory morbidity for families,
      e.g., absence from work, and early intervention costs to optimize outcome. In addition,
      despite 2-3 fold greater risk of infant mortality for African American infants than European
      American infants from all other causes, European American infants have greater risk of death
      from respiratory distress than African American infants, and this increased risk is not
      attributable to differences in surfactant phospholipid composition, birth weight, gestational
      age, or confounding socioeconomic factors. Understanding the genetic mechanisms that cause
      respiratory distress syndrome is critical for improving outcomes of children in the United
      States, reducing costs of their health care, and reducing racial disparity in infant
      mortality. Since the original description of deficiency of the pulmonary surfactant in
      premature newborn infants by Avery and Mead in 1959, respiratory distress syndrome has most
      commonly been attributed to developmental immaturity of pulmonary surfactant production.
      Despite improvement in neonatal survival associated with availability of surfactant
      replacement therapy for premature infants, gender and race based disparities in disease
      frequency, morbidity and mortality have persisted, an observation that suggests that genetic
      factors play an important role in disease pathogenesis. In addition, twin studies indicate
      high heritability (h2) of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome (0.2 and 0.8). Recent
      clinical reports of monogenic causes of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome, statistical
      association of candidate gene variants with increased disease risk, and studies of targeted
      gene ablation in murine lineages have also strongly suggested that genetic mechanisms
      contribute to risk of respiratory distress syndrome in newborn infants. When we examined
      genetic variants in large population-based and case-control cohorts, we found that the
      population-based frequencies of individual, disruptive mutations in 3 candidate genes (SFTPB,
      SFTPC, and ABCA3) (<2%) account for <0.1% of the population attributable risk in term or near
      term infants, and that individual, rare, disruptive mutations are not associated with disease
      in case-control cohorts. In addition, when we attempted to establish an association between
      an intermediate biochemical phenotype (surfactant protein-B peptide mobility on western blot)
      and SFTPB variants (assessed by complete resequencing) in term and near term infants with and
      without respiratory distress, we failed to identify a SFTPB variant or combination of
      variants associated with respiratory distress and altered surfactant protein-B structure.
      Finally, we have recently found that tagSNPs in genes from gene networks expressed in lung
      but not part of the pulmonary surfactant network (ion channel, lung remodeling, and unfolded
      protein response genes) confer race-specific risk of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome.
      These studies suggest that variation in SFTPB, SFTPC, and ABCA3 is under significant
      purifying selection pressure and that the genetic contribution to neonatal respiratory
      distress syndrome is based on contributions of rare, independent risk alleles in multiple
      genes and gene networks.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Rare mutations in the surfactant protein-B gene (SFTPB) and other genes in the pulmonary
      surfactant metabolic network cause lethal neonatal respiratory distress syndrome in human
      newborn infants by disrupting metabolism and function of the pulmonary surfactant. Mutation
      frequencies (<1-2%) in SFTPB and 2 other candidate genes in the pulmonary surfactant network
      (SFTPC and ABCA3) do not account for heritability of neonatal respiratory distress syndrome
      (h2~0.2-0.8) suggested by twin studies. To develop a comprehensive catalogue of genes and
      gene networks that account for the heritability of this complex disease, we propose to test
      the hypothesis that excess, rare, functionally disruptive single nucleotide polymorphisms
      (SNPs) characterize genes and gene networks associated with increased risk of neonatal
      respiratory distress syndrome. Specifically, using trio whole exome or whole genome
      sequencing of affected infant (progressive, severe respiratory distress in term or near term
      infants or children with unexplained interstitial lung disease or other rare lung
      phenotypes)/parent trios, we will identify de novo or recessively inherited pathogenic
      variants including single nucleotide variants, small insertions/deletions, and copy number or
      structural variants (>100 kb). To predict pathogenicity, we will use a suite of computational
      prediction algorithms (e.g., ANNOVAR, CADD). To confirm variants in genes and gene pathways
      not previously associated with human infant/child rare respiratory phenotypes, we will use
      GeneMatcher to identify other affected infants with pathogenic variants at the same gene
      locus or in the same gene pathway or functional testing of identified variants in a variety
      of cell-based jor model organism models. Using next-generation sequencing technology and
      state of the art statistical methods to elucidate the genetic complexity of neonatal
      respiratory distress syndrome and rare infant lung phenotypes will permit the development of
      personalized diagnostic tools and preventive therapeutic strategies for high risk infants and
      young children.
    
  