
    
      Introduction: Cirrhosis is one of the leading causes of death in the United States. Minimal
      hepatic encephalopathy (MHE) is a significant complication of cirrhosis, which is often not
      treated because of perceived subclinical nature of this condition and the adverse effects and
      expense of available medications such as lactulose or rifaximin. There is evidence that small
      intestinal bacterial overgrowth can contribute to the development of MHE and cirrhosis in
      murine and human studies. Probiotics are live bacteria that can modify the indigenous
      intestinal bacterial flora and have been recently used in the treatment of hepatic
      encephalopathy in patients with cirrhosis.

      Our aim is to evaluate the effect of probiotic supplementation via yogurt on liver function
      and inflammatory markers of bacterial translocation and psychometric test performance in
      cirrhotic patients with MHE in a prospective pilot trial.

      Methods: 30 patients with MHE 2:1 i.e. 20 will be randomized into supplementation with yogurt
      to be taken 6 ounces twice a day for 60 days and 10 patients will be followed up without
      yogurt supplementation. All patients will undergo liver function tests, basic metabolic
      panel, INR, venous ammonia, IL-6 and TNF-alpha at baseline, 30 days and at 60 days. All
      patients will also undergo psychometric testing with number connection test A, digit symbol
      test, block design and inhibitory control test at baseline and 60 days. Regular questioning
      about adherence to yogurt. Collection of yogurt tops as proof of yogurt consumption and
      review of intake diary will be done at 30 and 60 days from patients randomized to yogurt
      supplementation.

      Importance: There has been only one human study on the modification of gut flora as a
      therapeutic tool for improvement of MHE in cirrhosis, however that study included alcoholic
      liver disease and comprised of Chinese patients, therefore etiologies of liver diseases
      studied were different from those predominant in the United States. Since MHE can adversely
      affect quality of life and overall prognosis, simple, targeted therapies are needed to treat
      it. We believe that our pilot study will help delineate human gut flora as a definite target
      for therapy of cirrhosis and MHE and pave the way for future large-scale studies on this
      subject.
    
  