
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the 1-year survival of patients undergoing unrelated umbilical cord blood
           transplantation (UCBT) for hematologic malignancies treated with myeloablative
           preparative regimen comprising fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and fractionated
           total-body irradiation.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the incidence of transplant-related mortality at 6 months after UCBT.

        -  Evaluate the pattern of chimerism after double UCBT.

        -  Determine the incidence of neutrophil engraftment at day 42 after UCBT.

        -  Determine the incidence of platelet engraftment at 6 months after UCBT.

        -  Determine the incidence of grade II-IV and grade III-IV acute graft-versus-host disease
           (GVHD) at day 100 after UCBT.

        -  Determine the incidence of chronic GVHD at 1 year after UCBT.

        -  Determine the disease-free survival at 1 and 2 years after UCBT.

        -  Determine the incidence of relapse at 1 year after UCBT.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, multicenter study.

        -  Preparative Regimen: Patients receive fludarabine IV over 1 hour on days -8 to -6 and
           cyclophosphamide IV on days -7 and -6. Patients also undergo total-body irradiation
           twice daily on days -4 to -1.

        -  Umbilical Cord Blood Transplantation (UCBT): Patients undergo 1 or 2 units of UCBT on
           day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) IV once daily beginning on day 1 and
           continuing until blood counts recover.

        -  Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis: Patients receive cyclosporine IV over 2
           hours 2 or 3 times daily beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 100 followed by a
           taper until day 180. Patients also receive mycophenolate mofetil IV or orally 2 or 3
           times a day beginning on day -3 and continuing until day 30 or 7 days after engraftment
           in the absence of acute GVHD.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for at least 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 150 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  