
    
      Ataxia telangiectasia (A-T) is a devastating human recessive disorder characterized by
      progressive cerebellar ataxia, immunodeficiency, chromosomal instability, and cancer
      susceptibility. For clinicians and scientists the underlying mechanism and process of
      neurodegeneration leading to loss of cerebellar neurons and neurological function is largely
      unknown. In addition no surrogate marker of neurological degeneration and disease progression
      exist.

      Three major factors may be responsible for progression of neurodegeneration:

        1. A-T patients exhibit elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and reduced
           anti-oxidative capacity. It has been proposed that ROS is responsible for destruction of
           the purkinje cells in the cerebellum.

        2. Ongoing low grade inflammation due to immunodeficiency. Elevated serum interleukin-8
           (IL-8) levels in patients with A-T are postulated that systemic inflammation may
           contribute to the disease phenotype. How inflammation and neurodegeneration interact is,
           however, a matter of ongoing debate.

        3. Low levels of growth hormones (GH). Extracerebellar MRI - lesions in A-T go along with
           deficiency of the GH axis, high Ataxia scores and advanced age.

      The aim of the proposal is to investigate oxidative stress, low grade inflammation, tissue
      breakdown and biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), a fluid that is in direct contact with
      central nervous system (CNS), of A-T patients.

        -  To analyse functional gene expression of oxidative stress and low grade inflammation by
           means of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and cytometric bead
           array.

        -  To characterize the alterations in protein expression related to A-T, a LC/MS-based
           quantitative proteomic analysis of CSF from control and A-T patients

        -  To compare alterations in protein expression levels in CSF with MRI findings in
           different age groups of classical A-T.

        -  To determine candidate proteins whose relative expression levels could be used as
           surrogate marker of disease progression?

        -  To established an analysis system on a basis of multiplex ELISA-technique to evaluate
           potential candidates/surrogate markers for disease progression in a larger cohort of
           patients.
    
  