
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States.
      To reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and its associated health care costs,
      nutrition and health recommendations strongly advocate the consumption of a diet rich in
      fruits and vegetables. In addition to essential vitamins and minerals, fruits and vegetables
      contain a number of bioactive compounds that may be involved in vascular function.

      The "French Paradox" refers to diet patterns that, despite being high in saturated fat, are
      associated with a relatively low cardiovascular risk. An important aspect of many of the
      diets that were identified in the French Paradox studies is a significant intake of wine,
      particularly red wine, which can contain an array of phytochemicals that have been postulated
      to improve cardiovascular health. A polyphenolic that has received particular attention is
      this regard is resveratrol.

      The stilbene resveratrol is found predominately in red grapes, red wine, peanuts and some
      berries, and it has been touted in the popular press for its potential health-promoting
      benefits. Emerging evidence suggests a role for resveratrol in the protection against
      numerous degenerative health problems including CVD and certain cancers, diabetes and some
      forms of neurodegeneration.

      The amount of resveratrol in most foods is very low; thus obtaining the amounts of this
      compound that have been associated with improved health in animal models is difficult for
      humans. ResA is a product produced using patented technology that physically binds
      resveratrol to arginine, creating a novel conjugate. In the preliminary studies the ResA
      conjugate produced higher peak plasma levels, as well as total plasma levels that persist for
      a longer period of time when fed to rats. Whether similar results would occur in humans, and
      the extent to which increasing blood resveratrol concentration can be associated with
      positive cardiovascular effects in an at-risk population is the subject of this project.
    
  