
    
      Over 70% of dialysis patients suffer chronically from severe fatigue and tiredness. A
      possible inciting factor may be high levels of circulating endotoxin, which is
      well-established as a potent stimulator of inflammatory cytokine release.

      The source of increased endotoxin in dialysis patients remains unclear, with the most popular
      hypotheses including back-diffusion of bacterial products from nonsterile dialysate and
      translocation of bacterial products across what in most dialysis patients is an edematous gut
      wall. This endotoxin does not appear to be associated with the dialysis procedure itself and
      indeed, appears to be cleared with some efficiency by the procedure. However, by the next
      dialysis treatment, endotoxin levels rise rapidly to levels that are in some cases
      significantly higher than even those measured (via EAA) in patients suffering from septic
      shock. Although the mechanisms by which dialysis patients tolerate these high endotoxin
      levels without hemodynamic collapse are not understood, high levels have been shown by The
      Rogosin Institute to significantly correlate with patient fatigue.

      Given the potent ability of endotoxin to induce expression of inflammatory cytokines (which
      in turn are likely responsible for the debilitating symptoms of fatigue and malaise that
      afflict the majority of the dialysis population), it is logical that binding and inactivation
      of endotoxin may lead to improved clinical outcomes. Unfortunately, there are no products
      currently approved for this purpose in dialysis patients.

      One approach to this problem may be to augment the endogenous systems for endotoxin
      inactivation. For example, it has been suggested that the various serum lipoprotein fractions
      may in fact be a physiologic "sink" for endotoxin (and other toxins) via binding with surface
      phospholipids. Therefore, dialysis patients, who as a population are characterized with
      hypocholesterolemia and hypolipoproteinemia, are particularly at risk for the deleterious
      effects of endotoxemia.

      This has led to the development of "LIPIDOSE," a protein-free phospholipid emulsion. The
      proposed mechanism of action of this compound is via remodeling of the infused phospholipids
      into lipoproteins, thereby increasing lipoprotein and phospholipid content and facilitating
      greater endotoxin binding and neutralization. "LIPIDOSE" has undergone extensive testing in
      both animals and humans, and has been found to significantly increase serum phospholipid and
      lipoprotein concentrations, improve survival in a lethal animal model of septic peritonitis,
      and mitigate the symptoms of endotoxemia in healthy volunteers.
    
  