
    
      The study will take place in the Medical ICU of Pitié-Salpêtrière Hospital in Paris. The ICU
      have an established and successful clinical research program and infrastructure.

      ICU patients will be enrolled if eligible (based on inclusion and non inclusion criteria)
      after their first spontaneous breathing trial failure.

      Diaphragm function will be assessed by its capacity to generate a pressure with the phrenic
      nerves stimulation technique (reference method) and by ultrasonography (thickening fraction).
      Weaning induced pulmonary edema will be diagnosed with cardiac echo and markers of plasma
      contraction (plasma protein concentration).

      Phrenic nerves stimulation, diaphragm and cardiac ultrasound will be repeated as part of the
      research before the spontaneous breathing trial.

      After obtaining consent and before starting the second spontaneous breathing trial, clinical
      and biological will be collected. EKG and maximal inspiratory pressure will be done. Then, a
      diaphragm ultrasound and cardiac echo will be done and the phrenic nerves stimulation method
      will be undertaken. After these measurements, the spontaneous breathing trial will start. At
      the end of the spontaneous breathing trial (30 minutes with pressure support 7 cmH2O and 0
      positive end expiratory pressure) or sooner in case of intolerance (respiratory distress), a
      new cardiac echo and diaphragm ultrasound will be performed as part of standard care before
      resuming the initial ventilator settings. As recommended by the usual medical practice, a
      second phrenic nerves stimulation will be eventually done after resuming the initial
      ventilator settings.

      Diaphragm capacity to generate pressure :

      Twitch airway pressure (Ptr, stim) will be measured during phrenic nerve stimulation. Phrenic
      nerve stimulation will be performed by bilateral anterior magnetic stimulation.

      Cardiac echo :

      Cardiac echo will be performed with a Philips Sparq ultrasound with a dedicated probe. The
      following variables will be obtained: left ventricular ejection fraction, E wave, A wave, E'
      wave, TAPSE

      Diaphragm ultrasound :

      Diaphragm thickening fraction will be measured by placing 13 MHz transducer on the right
      chest wall in the ninth intercostal space mid-way between the anterior and mid-axillary line
      and held perpendicular to the chest wall. Thickening fraction will be computed as the
      percentage change in thickness between end-expiration (i.e. minimum muscle thickness) and
      peak inspiration (i.e. maximal muscle thickness) visualized in M-mode.
    
  