
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To identify the dose of pazopanib that is feasible when given in combination with
      radiation or chemoradiation in pediatric and adult patients newly diagnosed with unresected
      intermediate- and high-risk non rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas (NRSTS).

      II. To compare the rates of near complete pathologic response (> 90% necrosis) with the
      addition of pazopanib to preoperative chemoradiation versus preoperative chemoradiation alone
      for potentially resectable > 5 cm, grade 2 or 3 intermediate to high risk
      chemotherapy-sensitive NRSTS in the phase II portion of the study for this cohort.

      III. To compare the rates of near complete pathologic response (> 90% necrosis) with the
      addition of pazopanib to preoperative radiotherapy versus preoperative radiotherapy alone for
      potentially resectable intermediate to high risk adult and pediatric NRSTS in the phase II
      portion of the study for this cohort (using a phase II decision rule to go onto the phase III
      portion of the study).

      IV. To compare the rates of event-free survival (EFS) with the addition of pazopanib to
      preoperative radiotherapy versus preoperative radiotherapy alone for localized intermediate
      to high risk adult and pediatric NRSTS in the phase III portion of the study for this cohort
      if the phase II decision rule is passed.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the rates of local failure, regional failure, distant metastasis free
      survival, disease-free survival, and overall survival with the addition of pazopanib to
      preoperative chemoradiation or preoperative radiation in intermediate to high risk adult and
      pediatric NRSTS.

      II. To compare the pattern of recurrence (local, regional and distant) between preoperative
      chemoradiation or radiation with the addition of pazopanib for adult and pediatric NRSTS.

      III. To define the toxicities of ifosfamide and doxorubicin chemotherapy and radiation when
      used in combination with pazopanib in intermediate to high risk adult and pediatric NRSTS.

      IV. To define the toxicities of preoperative radiotherapy when used in combination with
      pazopanib in intermediate to high risk adult and pediatric NRSTS.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To gain insight into the disease biology of childhood and adult NRSTS through analysis of
      actionable mutations and whole genome sequencing.

      II. To determine if microvessel density and circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      predict response to pazopanib and outcome.

      III. To determine the effect of pazopanib on doxorubicin exposure in children and adults with
      NRSTS.

      IV. To evaluate change in fludeoxyglucose F 18 (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)
      maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax) from baseline to week 10 or 13 in patients with
      unresected tumors and to correlate this change with pathologic response and EFS.

      V. To compare the rate of response by standard imaging and pathologic assessment to determine
      which correlates better with local tumor control, distant tumor control, EFS, and overall
      survival.

      OUTLINE: This study starts as a dose-escalation study of pazopanib.

      CHEMOTHERAPY COHORT: Patients eligible for chemotherapy cohort are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment regimens.

      REGIMEN A:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive pazopanib orally (PO) once daily (QD) on weeks 1-12,
      ifosfamide intravenously (IV) over 2-4 hours on days 1-3 on weeks 1, 4, 7, 10, and
      doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2 on weeks 1 and 4. At least 24 hours after the
      completion of week 4 doxorubicin, patients undergo radiation therapy on weeks 4-10.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery on week 13.

      CONTINUATION PHASE: Patients receive pazopanib PO QD on weeks 16-25, ifosfamide IV over 2-4
      hours on days 1-3 on weeks 16 and 19, and doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2 on
      weeks 16, 19, and 22. If applicable, patients undergo additional radiation therapy at week 16

      REGIMEN B:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 2-4 hours on days 1-3 on weeks 1, 4, 7,
      10 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2 on weeks 1 and 4. At least
      24 hours after the completion of week 4 doxorubicin, patients undergo radiation therapy on
      weeks 4-10.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery on week 13.

      CONTINUATION PHASE: Patients receive ifosfamide IV over 2-4 hours on days 1-3 on weeks 16 and
      19 and doxorubicin IV over 1-15 minutes on days 1-2 on weeks 16, 19, and 22. If applicable,
      patients undergo additional radiation therapy at week 16.

      NON-CHEMOTHERAPY COHORT: Patients eligible for non-chemotherapy cohort are randomized to 1 of
      2 treatment regimens.

      REGIMEN C:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients receive pazopanib PO QD on weeks 1-9. Patients undergo radiation
      therapy on weeks 1-7.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery on week 10.

      CONTINUATION PHASE: Patients receive pazopanib PO QD on weeks 13-25. If applicable, patients
      undergo additional radiation therapy at week 13.

      REGIMEN D:

      INDUCTION PHASE: Patients undergo radiation therapy on weeks 1-7.

      SURGERY: Patients undergo surgery on week 10.

      CONTINUATION PHASE: If applicable, patients undergo additional radiation therapy at week 13.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 6, 12, 18, 24, 30, 36, 48,
      and 60 months.
    
  