
    
      Approximately twenty adult patients (≥ 18 years of age), of any sex, ethnicity, and race with
      histologically confirmed MCC or cSCC with accessible lesions, will be eligible for study
      enrollment and treatment with IFx-Hu2.0 (i.e. 20 total patients across both indications).
      These types of non-melanoma cancers are very rare in the pediatric population (< 18 years of
      age) with only scattered case reports. The potential for development of this product for
      pediatric subjects with MCC or cSCC will be evaluated after the results of this study are
      available.

      Patients must have at least one injectable lesion, defined as an easily palpable superficial
      lesion (cutaneous, subcutaneous or lymph nodal metastasis) that can be accurately localized,
      stabilized by palpation, and is superficial enough to enable intralesional injection.

      To be eligible for this study, patients must have progressed despite standard therapy(ies),
      or are intolerant to or refused standard therapy(ies).

      Enrollees will receive IFx-Hu2.0 as a monotherapy at up to three time points. Depending on
      the number of accessible lesions, a patient could receive up to three doses across three
      lesions (one dose per lesion). The maximum number of lesions to be injected at any time point
      under this protocol is three lesions. Blood will be collected from these patients prior to
      treatment administration at every drug administration visit. These samples will be used to
      perform CBC and clinical chemistry tests. A urine sample will be obtained for urinalysis for
      protein and blood at the same frequency. Blood samples will also be drawn at the same
      intervals for immune response evaluation as well.

      This is primarily a safety study that is designed to evaluate IFx-Hu2.0 monotherapy and
      provide foundational evidence to potentially support further studies investigating IFx-Hu2.0
      + anti-PD-1 combination therapy for patients with advanced MCC or cSCC.
    
  