
    
      Design: a multicenter, placebo-controlled, double-blind randomized clinical trial in parallel
      groups.

      The study will include both male and female patients aged 18-70 years with clinical signs of
      ARVI within the first 24 hours of the onset of illness. Study participants will be enrolled
      during a ARVI season. After the patients provide signed Participant Information Sheet and
      Informed Consent form an anamnesis, thermometry, objective examination, laboratory tests are
      carried out, concomitant therapy is recorded. Symptom severity in subjects with vARI will be
      rated on a 4-point scale.

      To confirm ARVI etiology, pharyngeal swabs will be obtained from study subjects before the
      beginning of treatment for subsequent RT-PCR detection and verification of respiratory
      viruses.

      If a patient meets all inclusion criteria and does not meet any of the exclusion criteria at
      Visit 1 (Day 1), he/she will be randomized into one of the treatment groups: Group 1: ММН-407
      for 5 days, or Group 2: Placebo on the ММН-407 regimen for 5 days.

      The subjects will use electronic patient diaries to daily record their morning and evening
      axillary temperature (taken using a Geratherm mercury-free thermometer) and rate their
      symptoms (using the ARVI Symptom Severity scale). In addition to this, the participants will
      record doses of antipyretic drugs taken (when applicable) and any worsening of their health
      status (when applicable, to assess treatment safety and collect AE data). The physician
      investigator will instruct each subject on how to complete the diary, for which the subjects
      will record their body temperature and mark their symptom score under the investigator's
      supervision at Visit 1.

      In total, study subjects will be observed for 14 days (screening and randomization - up to 24
      hours, treatment - 5 days, subsequent observation - up to 2 days; and a follow-up 'telephone'
      visit - Day 14).

      During the treatment period, 3 visits from a subject (to the physician's office) or from the
      physician and a follow-up telephone visit will be accomplished: 1) physician/subject visits -
      Days 1, 5 and 7 (Visits 1, 2, and 3) at the medical center or at the subject's home; 2)
      telephone visit from the physician (Visit 4) - Day 14.

      During Visits 2 and 3, the physician will perform a physical examination, record the changes
      in subjects' symptoms and the use of concomitant medications and check the completion of
      patient diaries. Visit 3 will involve an assessment of treatment compliance, and laboratory
      tests. The telephone visit is intended to provide information on a subject's health status,
      presence/absence of secondary bacterial/viral complications and the use of antibiotics.

      During the study, subjects will be allowed to use symptomatic therapy and medications for
      their co-morbidities, except for the medicines listed in the "Prohibited Concomitant
      Medications" section.
    
  