
    
      Aims and Objectives. The proposed research aims: firstly, to enhance our understanding of
      patient concerns, lifestyles, and values, that influence their choice of bladder
      reconstruction and predict their treatment satisfaction and quality of life (QoL); and,
      secondly, to initiate the development a novel decision-aid tool to help bladder-cancer
      patients, their families, and medical/health professionals to choose the reconstructive
      surgery following bladder removal that best suits a patient's needs. To these ends, a
      complementary combination of qualitative and quantitative research approaches will be
      employed to obtain information from patients about the reasons for their reconstructive
      surgery choices, the aspects of their lifestyle that were most important to them in reaching
      their decisions, and the degree to which they are satisfied with their reconstruction. These
      findings will be used to inform the items to be contained in a pilot joint decision-making
      tool to support patients and medical professionals when planning such life-changing surgery.
      Such a tool ultimately could support patient choice, enhance QoL, and influence
      decision-making practice. Thus, the specific objectives of the research will be to: (1)
      identify the factors important for patients when choosing a bladder reconstruction; (2)
      establish the degree to which these factors predict satisfaction with the reconstruction;
      and, ultimately, (3) start to develop a joint decision-aid tool for patients and medical
      staff, to use when deciding on the choice of diversionary procedure, that highlights these
      key factors predicting success and better QoL following different forms of bladder
      reconstruction.

      Methodology and Project Plan. Participants Participants will be recruited from Health Board
      databases of those who have had advanced bladder cancer (grade pT1 and above) and undergone
      either IC or NB procedures within the last five years. Around 40 patients per year are
      referred to the ABMU; this is in line with expectations, given the size of the ABMU patient
      population (600,000) and rates of bladder cancer, giving a potential sample of 200 patients
      over the previous five years. This will provide an adequate population from which to sample
      participants. No form of payment will be offered for participation, but participants will be
      reimbursed for travel expenses. There will be no other inclusion or exclusion criteria in
      order to access a wide range of patients with potentially different values and lifestyles,
      and to aid in the recruitment of adequate sample sizes.

      Qualitative Study Forty participants (equal numbers with each surgical procedure) will be
      randomly selected from the patient databases and invited for interview. This number is
      achievable given the size of the database, and exceeds the usual criteria (12-18; Guest et
      al., 2006) for saturation in qualitative research, even with expectation of some
      non-participation.

      The participants will be interviewed by a Researcher and a Clinical Nurse Specialist in a
      quiet room in the Clinical Research Unit of the Hospital. A semi-structured interview format
      will be adopted to allow participants latitude in expressing issues that are important to
      them, and without forcing particular issues. The same semi-structured interview script will
      be used for each participant, ensuring all are asked the same questions. The general themes
      to be asked about will be: Who patients consulted and discussed options with; What types of
      information, support, and advice were they offered; What were the attributes or aspects of
      the NB/IC that influenced their choice; Which aspects of their lifestyle were most important
      in making a decision; What factors could have been considered that were not; What types of
      help have they been offered since; Could they have been offered other information at the
      time; How do they feel their choice influences their life today; Are they satisfied with
      their decision. These questions will allow a wide range of patient needs, values, and
      experiences to be elicited.

      Transcribed interview recordings will be subjected to thematic content analysis, in line with
      previous recommendations (Vaughn et al., 1996), and accepted procedures in health contexts
      (Osborne et al., 2012a; 2012b; Osborne & Reed, 2008). Transcripts will be examined
      independently by two Researchers to identify key themes and ensure reliability. Individual
      'units of information' contained within each transcript will be highlighted (a 'unit' is any
      piece of text that relates to an identified theme, and that can be interpreted on its own to
      provide a meaningful and informative comment). From reading the unitised comments, the
      initial themes will be refined, so that all 'units of information' can be categorised
      according to those themes. Coding of 'units' into themes will be conducted independently by
      two Researchers, and Cohen's Kappa will be used to establish reliability.

      Quantitative Study One hundred participants (equal numbers with IC and NB) will be randomly
      selected from the Health Board database, as described above. The numbers in the database
      (200) will allow recruitment of these participants, and, assuming a 50% non-return rate, this
      will allow sufficient power for subsequent analyses. G-Power calculations suggest that, to
      identify a moderate relationship (r = .3) with 85% power, a sample size of 90 will be needed.
      If recruitment appears to be low, then other health boards (in particular, Newcastle with
      whom Mr. Younis is currently employed) will be approached.

      Participants will be asked to complete three questionnaires and to return them using a
      prepaid envelope. Participants will be provided with contact details of a Clinical Nurse
      Specialist known to them if they require help completing three questionnaires: Bladder
      Reconstruction Satisfaction Questionnaire measures levels of satisfaction with bladder
      reconstruction, the relative ease of adapting to the new bladder, and specific aspects
      patients are happy or unhappy with regarding their procedure; EORTC QLQ-30 (Aaronson et al.,
      1993) assesses QoL aspects relevant to cancer patients concerning: physical functioning; role
      functioning; emotional functioning; cognitive functioning; social functioning; and global
      health status. This questionnaire is reliable and has been used by a large number of
      researchers (Mystakidou et al., 2001); The Life Values Inventory (Crace & Brown, 1996)
      measures values across: achievement, belonging, concern for the environment, concern for
      others, creativity, financial prosperity, health and activity, humility, independence,
      loyalty to family or group, privacy, responsibility, scientific understanding, and
      spirituality. The internal reliability is high (Cheng & Fleischmann, 2010).

      The values identified will be related by regression analyses to QoL and satisfaction in order
      to identify whether there are different predictors of outcome for different forms of bladder
      reconstruction.

      Pilot Tool Development Converging themes emerging from the two studies in terms of predicting
      satisfaction with IC and NB will be drawn together, and a decision-aid tool will be produced
      for future study. The items identified for inclusion in the tool will be sent to a range of
      health professionals involved in delivery of surgery and physiotherapy (consultant surgeons,
      registrars, clinical nurse specialists, and past patients) to obtain their views on its face
      validity. Items that are rated as inappropriate or redundant will be re-assessed and
      potentially excluded from the tool, and any missing areas of importance identified by the
      expert panel will be re-examined.
    
  