
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility, tolerability, toxicities, and maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      of entinostat plus clofarabine for: adult patients age 40 and over with newly diagnosed,
      poor-risk Philadelphia chromosome negative (Ph-) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or
      bilineage/biphenotypic leukemia (ABL) prior to traditional cyclical multi-agent chemotherapy,
      and adults age 21 and over with relapsed or refractory ALL/ABL.

      II. To determine if entinostat plus clofarabine can induce clinical responses in adults with
      newly diagnosed, poor-risk ALL/ABL and in adults with relapsed/refractory ALL/ABL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine pharmacokinetics (PK) of entinostat alone and in combination with
      clofarabine.

      II. To obtain descriptive preliminary pharmacodynamic (PD) data regarding the effects of
      entinostat alone and in combination with clofarabine on histone acetylation and global and
      gene specific methylation in leukemic blasts.

      III. To obtain descriptive preliminary data regarding the effects of entinostat alone and in
      combination with clofarabine on deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage and apoptosis in leukemic
      blasts and residual disease monitored by 6-color flow cytometry.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of entinostat.

      Patients receive entinostat orally (PO) on days 1 and 8 and clofarabine intravenously (IV)
      over 2 hours on days 3-7. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity (only for patients at least 60 years of age with newly diagnosed ALL
      or ABL who are unable or unwilling to tolerate standard multi-agent chemotherapy and patients
      with relapsed or refractory ALL or ABL).

      Patients 40-59 years of age with newly diagnosed ALL receive standard multi-agent induction
      chemotherapy beginning on day 11. Patients at least 21 years of age in their first relapse
      with sensitive disease begin initiation of allogeneic transplant after one course of
      entinostat and clofarabine.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30, 60, 90, 180, and 360
      days.
    
  