
    
      In recent years, many clinical trials have demonstrated the myocardial protective properties
      of volatile anaesthetic agent through a similar mechanism as ischaemic pre-conditioning. It
      is hypothesised that volatile anaesthetic agent promotes the generation of nitric oxide and
      reactive oxygen species, which then activates the adenosine receptor, and subsequently
      initiates the opening of mitochondrial potassium ion channel to minimise perioperative
      myocardial injury. Many researchers have studied the protective benefit of volatile
      anaesthesia in heart surgery that involves CPB machine over the last 10 years. In 2006, a
      meta-analysis of 27 clinical trials have demonstrated that patients receiving volatile
      anaesthesia either isoflurane, sevoflurane, desflurane or enflurane, experienced lesser
      myocardial injury, required shorter duration of mechanical ventilation and shorter hospital
      stay as compared to those tranquilised with a total intravenous anaesthesia technique.

      In the administration of volatile anaesthetic agent, the literature review of optimal dosing
      and timing are not clinically well-established. Unpublished data from the investigators shows
      that isoflurane requires slightly longer duration to achieve equilibrium between coronary
      sinus and radial artery, indicating that coronary sinus isoflurane concentration does not
      accurately reflect its level in myocardium. Also, the temperature of CPB, haematocrit level
      and gas flow rate appeared to affect the plasma isoflurane concentration to a certain extent.
      In addition, the investigators only managed to look at isoflurane itself, where other types
      of volatile anaesthetics namely sevoflurane and desflurane have different nature
      characteristics and possibly yield to different findings. Furthermore, lactate is believed to
      be a useful indicator for the outcome of recovery post-operatively. However, it remains
      unknown that whether would the lactate levels change significantly before, during and after
      cardiac surgery.

      Theoretically, the measurement of volatile anaesthetics concentration in the heart would
      require a biopsy of heart muscle. Able to identify the level of myocardial anaesthetic level
      from coronary sinus could be a non-invasive measurement for future studies to look at the
      optimal concentrations of volatile anaesthetics required to achieve its pharmacological
      ischaemic pre-conditioning to minimise myocardial damage perioperatively.

      The main aim of this study is to determine the level of myocardial sevoflurane or desflurane
      concentration from coronary sinus blood sample that taken from a coronary sinus catheter,
      which is routinely inserted to administer retrograde cardioplegia solution instead of
      invasive biopsy method. This study will also examine the association between the coronary
      sinus sevoflurane or desflurane concentration and its oxygenator exhaust level during CPB and
      investigate the influence of temperature, gas flow rate and haematocrit level on plasma
      sevoflurane or desflurane concentrations. A secondary analysis aims to determine the changes
      of lactate levels before, during and after cardiac surgery, and the recovery outcomes of
      cardiac patients in intensive care unit.
    
  