
    
      Hypothesis Measuring urinary 3-methylhistidine is a simple tool to assess proteolysis in
      clinical practice. However it is not totally specific of muscle proteolysis because it may
      reflect an intestinal catabolism. Moreover, its dosage cannot be used in patients with renal
      impairment especially in case of anuria. Apart from achieving muscle biopsy or measuring the
      overall kinetics of proteins it does not yet exist simple and reproducible diagnostic tool
      for measuring muscle proteolysis. With the present study, the investigators expect to
      identify in the blood of patients a particular transcriptomic profile related to the
      activation of muscle proteolysis, including increased proinflammatory cytokine transcripts.

      Rodent models of CKD were used to identify major proteolytic system and signal pathway
      implicated in muscle wasting caused by uremia. These finding needs to be confirmed in humans
      studies. Also, other actors of muscle atrophy could be identified in humans. Notably, so far,
      few studies have been performed in order to determine which E2 are involved in muscle
      atrophy, and to knowledge of the investigators no one in CKD. Finally, data on muscle
      proteasome substrates are limited since only actin was clearly identified in humans by the
      team. The investigators expect an activation of the proteasome system with an increase in the
      expression of enzymes E2s, E3s including MURF1 and MAFbx and proteasome subunit in patients
      treated with hemodialysis. The investigators could also observe an activation of caspase
      system which is thought to work in concert with the UPS.

      Materials and methods 2.1. Population The experiments will be performed using blood sample
      and human muscle biopsies obtained during programmed orthopedic surgery (negative control),
      cancer (positive control) and hemodialysis patients. This translational research program has
      already been accepted (DGS 2008-A00479-46) and inclusion of patients already started. A
      maximum of 15 patients per group will be included. Inclusion and exclusion criteria were
      set-up according to the objectives (absence of any pathology for controls, etc.) and the
      legislation (written consent, etc.). Thirty-two patients have already been included so far,
      and biopsies are stored in liquid nitrogen. Blood samples are collected just before surgery
      using Paxgene RNA tubes and stored following the manufacturer's instructions until analysis.

      2.2. Blood sample Total RNA will be extracted from blood using Paxgene RNA Extraction kit and
      analysed by RNAseq 2.3. Muscle biopsies 2.3.1. Transcriptomic analysis Total RNA will be
      extracted from human muscle biopsies using commercial kits. The investigators will first
      verify that known muscles markers are up-regulated in cancer patient biopsies (positive
      controls) and address their levels in muscle biopsies from hemodialysis patients. We will
      thus perform qRT-PCR UBE2B, UBE2D2, MaFbx, MuRF1, Ozz, ASB2, E4B, Nedd4, Mdm2 and 26S
      proteasome subunits.

      2.3.2. Proteomic analysis Proteomic analysis will be performed usin shot gun spectrometry
      analysis
    
  