
    
      Trapeziometacarpal (TMC) arthrosis is so common, particularly in women, that it should be
      considered a normal part of the aging process. Overall radiographic prevalence of TMC
      arthrosis has been described to be as high as 91% in patients older than eighty years of age.
      It increases steadily from the age of 41 years, more rapidly in women than in men. Another
      study, conducted in the Netherlands, showed that in a population of 55 years and older, 67%
      of women and 55% of men had radiographic signs of arthrosis of the hand. It also found that
      the distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints are most commonly affected (47%), followed by the TMC
      joint (36%). However, it has been reported that in symptomatic arthrosis, TMC arthrosis
      contributes more to pain and disability than arthrosis of the interphalangeal joints.
      Psychosocial factors have been recognized as the strongest determinants of highly variable
      pain intensity and arm-specific disability. The pathophysiologic and psychosocial differences
      between patients who present to the doctor for treatment and those who do not are
      incompletely understood.

      A hand-based thumb spica splint with the interphalangeal (IP) joint free is a specific
      nonoperative palliative treatment for TMC arthrosis. The goals of splint wear are improved
      comfort and function. The data regarding specific splint materials are limited, but suggest
      that shorter more flexible splints are preferred by patients and equally effective. Recently,
      the investigators looked into if there was a difference between thermoplast and neoprene
      hand-based thumb spica splints for treatment of TMC arthrosis. The neoprene splint was rated
      more comfortable than the thermoplast splint but otherwise there was no difference.

      To the investigators' knowledge no studies have looked at the added value of occupational
      therapy in splint treatment for TMC arthrosis. The investigators believe that the time spent
      by occupational therapists (OTs) coaching patients on adaptive and palliative measures is
      valuable in addition to their technical skills but the investigators cannot draw any
      conclusions until the investigators research this in a prospective trial.

      The investigators propose a two arm unblinded, randomized (1:1) controlled trial to evaluate
      if there is a difference between prefabricated off-the-shelf splints and splints provided by
      an OT with standard care coaching. The investigators want to determine if there is a
      difference in arm-specific disability, average pain, and satisfaction at an average of 2
      months between splints provided by an OT and prefabricated off-the-shelf splints.
    
  