
    
      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Males and females ≥ 20 years of age

        2. ECOG performance status of 0-1

        3. Histologically or cytologically verified non-squamous NSCLC

        4. Stage IV disease, as defined by American Joint Committee on Cancer 7th edition staging,
           prior to first-line or second-line chemotherapy with pemetrexed plus platinum

        5. At least one measurable lesion as defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
           Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1

        6. Completion of 4 cycles of first-line or second-line chemotherapy with pemetrexed plus
           platinum and documented radiographic evidence of a complete or partial tumor response or
           stable disease by RECIST 1.1

        7. Adequate organ function, including followings:

           Bone marrow:

           Absolute neutrophil count ≥ 1.5 x 103 /μL White blood cell ≥ 3.0 x 103 /μL Platelet
           count ≥ 75 x 103 /μL Hemoglobin ≥ 8.0 g/dL

           Hepatic:

           Total bilirubin ≤ 1.5 x upper normal limit (UNL) Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) ≤ 3.0
           x UNL (≤ 5.0 x UNL if liver metastasis) Alanine aminotransferase (ALT) ≤ 3.0 x UNL (≤
           5.0 x UNL if liver metastasis)

           Renal:

           Estimated glomerular filtration rate ≥ 30 mL/min

        8. Estimated life expectancy of at least 6 months

        9. Ability to comply with study and follow-up procedures

       10. Signed informed consent document

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Squamous cell and/or mixed small-cell, non-small-cell histology

        2. Prior participation in any investigational drug study within 4 weeks

        3. Prior malignancy other than NSCLC, except those remain disease-free for ≥ 3 years after
           curative treatment, non-melanoma skin cancer or in situ cervical cancer

        4. Serious concomitant systemic disorders, such as acute or recent myocardial infarction (<
           6 months before enrollment), congestive heart failure with New York Heart Association
           functional class II~IV, frequent exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
           (≥ 2 hospitalizations per year), or recent cerebrovascular disease (< 6 months before
           enrollment)

        5. Active uncontrolled infections or HIV infection

        6. Current or planned pregnancy, or breast feeding in women

        7. Symptomatic central nervous system metastasis unless the patient has completed
           successful local therapy and has been off corticosteroids for ≥ 4 weeks

        8. Concurrent administration of any other antitumor therapy including chemotherapy, target
           therapy, immunotherapy, and hormone therapy

        9. Psychiatric disorders that would compromise the patient's compliance or decision

      Criteria for evaluation:

      QoL:

      QoL will be measured using the EuroQol 5-dimensional questionnaire (EQ-5D), World Health
      Organization Quality-of-Life, brief version (WHOQOL-BREF), European Organization for Research
      and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) questionnaires.

      Efficacy:

      Tumor response rate will be determined by RECIST 1.1. Data of progression-free survival and
      overall survival will be collected for all subjects.

      QA-PFS and QALE:

      Investigators will adjust the progression-free survival by the utility values of QoL measured
      from the EQ-5D to obtain the QA-PFS. In addition, investigators will extrapolate the survival
      function to lifetime based on the survival ratios between patients and age- and sex-matched
      referents simulated from the life tables of Taiwan. After adjusting the lifetime survival by
      the utility values of QoL, the QALE will also be estimated using quality-adjusted life-year
      (QALY) as the unit.

      Cost-effectiveness:

      The monthly healthcare expenditures, which included National Health Insurance-reimbursed and
      out-of-pocket direct medical costs, will be obtained from the reimbursement database of
      National Cheng Kung University Hospital. These values were multiplied by the corresponding
      survival probabilities to calculate the lifetime costs or costs during the progression-free
      period. Hence, costs/life-year or costs/QALY can be obtained for comparison of
      cost-effectiveness.

      Adverse events:

      Safety parameters include laboratory adverse events (e.g., anemia, leukopenia, neutropenia,
      thrombocytopenia, creatinine, AST, ALT) and non-laboratory adverse events (e.g., fatigue,
      nausea, vomiting, mucositis/stomatitis, anorexia, diarrhea, constipation, infection, febrile
      neutropenia, pain, sensory neuropathy, rash, edema, watery eye). Common Terminology Criteria
      for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.0 will be used to grade toxicities.
    
  