
    
      Intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) consists of about a quarter of stroke subtype. For elderly,
      cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common etiology of ICH. In National Taiwan University
      Hospital, we have established a CAA team including neurologists, radiologists and nuclear
      medicine physicians since 2014. We hope to go deep into the diagnosis and pathophysiology of
      CAA. To the best of our knowledge, there is no other CAA team in Taiwan.

      In patients with CAA, abnormal beta amyloid protein diffusely deposits at cerebral
      vasculatures, which disrupts the normal vessel structure and increases the risk of bleeding.
      The standard diagnosis for CAA requires pathological evidences of amyloid deposition at
      cerebral arteries. Clinically, a diagnosis of CAA-related ICH is usually only made in an
      elderly developing cortical or subcortical lobar ICH without undergoing biopsy. Brain images
      using the SWI sequence of MRI study may show lobar microbleeds in patients with CAA. However,
      there is still no direct and precise non-invasive diagnostic tool for CAA until now.

      Amyloid PET, using 11C-PiB to image amyloid burden, has been used for detecting the cerebral
      amyloid protein deposition in patients with Alzheimer's dementia (AD) for years. Recently,
      amyloid PET has also been applied in the diagnosis of CAA. CAA patients showed diffusely
      increased global PiB retention as compared to control subjects and the distribution of PiB
      retention is also different from that seen in patients with AD in general. Nevertheless, the
      applications of amyloid PET in CAA diagnosis are still not well established and many
      important issues still need to be extensively addressed. Furthermore, tau PET has emerged as
      a potential molecular imaging marker for SVD. Tau PET provides a noninvasive method for
      measuring brain tau load. The correlation of tau PET findings in patients with CAA has not
      been investigated before.

      In addition, ApoE gene has been reported to be risk factor for sporadic CAA as well as AD.
      Biochemical biomarkers, such as the levels of Aβ40 and Aβ42, also help us understand the
      pathophysiology of CAA. Recently, immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) assay, using
      bio-functionalized magnetic nanoparticles, has been proved to be a sensitive and accurate
      tool for the detection of these biological molecules.

      By combination of plasma (Aβ40, Aβ42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau, etc.), genetic (ApoE
      ε2 or ε4 allele), MRI (cerebral perfusion, microbleeds, cortical superficial siderosis,
      enlarged perivascular space, etc.) and PET imaging (amyloid and tau) biomarkers, the study
      aims to

        1. Enhance the diagnostic potentials of the radiological biomarkers by combining MRI and
           amyloid PET in CAA patients.

        2. Investigate the biological pathogenesis in CAA patients using the less invasive plasma
           biomarkers and to correlate with structural and function imaging, including MRI, amyloid
           and tau imaging.

        3. Study the characteristics of long-term progression of amyloid deposition in CAA patients
           using the radiological, biochemical and genetic biomarkers.

        4. Study the prognosis predicting markers.
    
  