
    
      Background: China is one of the countries with the highest number of people with dementia
      (PWD), while over 90% of PWD are cared by informal caregivers in the community. Informal
      caregivers are found to have higher level of stress, and lower level of well-being than
      non-caregivers. However, positive outcomes of caregiving have also been noted. Caregiving
      appraisal is caregivers' cognitive evaluation of potential caregiving stressors and the
      efficacy of their coping efforts related to caregiving experience. Based on Lawton's
      Caregiving Appraisal and Psychological Well-being Model, caregiving appraisal is an important
      factor that leads to the positive or negative well-being outcomes of caregivers. Addressing
      the caregiving appraisal of informal caregiver may be able to help in promoting the caregiver
      well-being and delay premature institutionalization. Intervention for improving dementia
      caregiving appraisal is still scarce, especially in China. Bibliotherapy is the process of
      learning from high-quality written materials for therapeutic benefits, it has been proved to
      be effective in improving caregiving appraisal of informal caregivers of people with
      psychosis and depression, its effect on dementia caregivers is unsure.

      Objectives: There are two research objectives in this study: (1) To determine the feasibility
      and acceptability of the evidence-based bibliotherapy protocol among informal caregivers of
      PWD in China. (2) To preliminarily explore the efficacy of bibliotherapy on improving
      caregiving appraisal.

      Methods:

      Sixty participants will be recruited from Zhengzhou, China, and will be randomly allocated to
      either the intervention group or usual care group. The feasibility of the intervention will
      be explored in terms of the ease of participant recruitment, attendance rate and the
      attrition rate. The acceptability will be explored by interviews of participants in the
      intervention group at post-intervention. The Chinese version of Caregiving Appraisal Scale,
      the Chinese version of Ways of Coping Questionnaire, the Chinese version of Positive Aspects
      of Caregiving Scale, the Chinese version of Ryff's Psychological Well-being Scale,
      Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge Scale and Dementia Attitude Scale will be used to measure
      caregiving appraisal, coping, positive aspects of caregiving, psychological well-being,
      knowledge of dementia and attitude toward dementia of informal caregivers of PWD
      respectively. Descriptive statistics, Chi-square test, Mann Whitney U test, and independent
      t-test will be used to describe the participants' characteristics and compare the difference
      between groups at baseline. GEE will be used to examine the intervention efficacy.
    
  