
    
      INTRODUCTION:

      Instrumental office-based procedures are usually indicated for internal hemorrhoidal disease
      grade I and II which are refractory to conservative medical treatments and in selected cases
      of grade III hemorrhoidal disease. Despite being invasive, these techniques are more
      conservative than surgical treatments and are also effective. The primary goals are to
      decrease the amount of redundant tissue, reduce vascularity, and affix the hemorrhoidal
      cushions to minimize prolapse. Office-based procedures include rubber band ligation (RBL),
      sclerotherapy (liquid and foam agents), infrared photocoagulation, cryotherapy,
      radiofrequency ablation among others.

      Hemorrhoidal sclerosis is a procedure indicated to treat grade I and II hemorrhoidal disease.
      It has also been used in the treatment of internal grade III hemorrhoidal disease, but there
      are limited data on its efficacy. Performed through an anoscope and according to Blanchard
      technique, internal hemorrhoids are located and injected with a sclerosant material into the
      submucosa at the base of the hemorrhoid, above the anterolateral line. The sclerosant
      subsequently causes an inflammatory response and fibrosis that interrupts the vascular blood
      supply. A variety of sclerosants have been used including ethanolamine, quinine, hypertonic
      saline, aluminum potassium sulfate and tannic acid (ALTA), and 5% phenol in oil. Recently, a
      new sclerosing agent, polidocanol, started to be employed in the treatment of hemorrhoidal
      disease. It is a nonionic detergent and consists of a hydrophilic polyethylene oxide chain
      combined with hydrophobic aliphatic dodecyl alcohol. When injected into varicose veins,
      polidocanol damages the endothelium of blood vessels, allowing platelets to aggregate.
      Eventually, a dense network of platelets, cellular debris, and fibrin occludes the vessel,
      which is subsequently replaced with connective fibrous tissue. In addition to the treatment
      of hemorrhoidal disease, polidocanol is used for sclerotherapy of varicose veins of the lower
      extremities and for the treatment of esophageal varices. The advantages of this sclerosing
      agent include a highly satisfactory efficiency, a low necrotic potential, and a good general
      tolerance. At the same time, it has a local anesthetic effect which permits almost painless
      sclerotherapy. Nevertheless, its use is contraindicated in patients with acute thromboembolic
      diseases and in those with allergy to the drug. Polidocanol can be used in its liquid or foam
      form. It has been proved the foam formulation allows for greater efficacy, since it requires
      lower doses of sclerosant agent. This is because the sclerotic effect is maximized by
      increasing the contact surface area with varices walls. This foam is previously prepared
      according to the Tessari's method, in which two 10 mL syringes are connected by a 3-way
      stopcock. The syringes contain air and a sclerosing agent (3% polydocanol), with a ratio of
      4:1, respectively, and twenty passages from one syringe to the other are made in order to
      obtain a sclerosing foam. Several studies reported the efficacy of the use of sclerotherapy
      with liquid polidocanol in hemorrhoidal disease. Specifically for the treatment of grade I
      hemorrhoids, there is one study showing the superiority of polidocanol foam compared to its
      liquid formulation. However, there's a lack of research about its use in hemorrhoidal disease
      other than grade I. The most common complications of sclerotherapy include minor discomfort
      or bleeding. Although it is a very safe treatment option, some serious side effects,
      including erectile dysfunction and urinary retention, have been reported. The proper
      injection technique of sclerosant is essential to avoid complications such as mucosal
      ulceration or necrosis, prostatic abscess and retroperitoneal sepsis. Sclerotherapy is a
      valid alternative when conservative therapy has failed. Moreover, this procedure can also be
      used for the treatment of patients whose hemorrhage is the main symptom, for patients on
      antithrombotic medication, as well as cirrhotic and immunocompromised patients.

      Surgical treatment is reserved for refractory cases to nonsurgical approaches, grade IV or
      mixed hemorrhoidal disease (internal and external components), symptomatic hemorrhoidal
      disease with concomitant anorectal pathology and lastly if it's the patient's choice.
      Although surgical approach is apparently more effective than instrumental treatment, it is
      also associated with substantial postsurgical morbidity, particularly postoperative pain and
      limitation in day-life activities. Several surgical methods have been described including
      open and closed hemorrhoidectomy, doppler guided hemorrhoidal artery ligation (HAL) and
      hemorrhoidectomy stapler. The choice of each method should consider the grade of hemorrhoidal
      disease and the predominant symptoms of the patient, together with the experience of the
      center.

      HAL technique involves the use of Doppler ultrasound and a specialized anoscope. The
      principles include the use of a Doppler probe to identify the six main feeding arteries
      within the anal canal and their ligation with absorbable suture above the dentate line,
      therefore associated with less pain. Finally, plication of redundant hemorrhoidal mucosa is
      performed (if there is hemorrhoidal or muco-hemorrhoidal prolapse), known as
      recto-anal-repair (RAR), mucopexy or hemorrhoidopexy. The aim of this recent surgical
      procedure is to treat patients' symptoms without tissue destruction. Early results of HAL
      were promising, with lower pain scores than hemorrhoidectomy, and relief of bleeding and
      tissue prolapse in over 90% of patients. Since then, several randomized clinical trials have
      been performed with mixed results. Currently, HAL remains a viable approach to multicolumn
      internal hemorrhoids. However, the short-term benefits regarding postoperative pain have
      recently not been as remarkable as in the earlier studies. Also, there has been a progressive
      increase in long term recurrence rates, especially for grade III and IV hemorrhoids.

      Some studies have been conducted with the purpose of comparing the efficacy of nonsurgical
      office-based treatments with surgical ones.

      A multicentric, open-label, randomized controlled trial, compared RBL and HAL, revealing
      higher efficacy of the surgical procedure. If, however, RBL is considered a course of
      treatment involving repeat banding, the procedures are equally effective. Besides, HAL was
      proved to be more painful than RBL. Another study comparing infrared photocoagulation with
      HAL showed that both procedures are minimally invasive and associated with minimal
      discomfort, but HAL is more effective than infrared photocoagulation in controlling symptoms
      of hemorrhoids. There has been no comparative studies between polidocanol foam sclerotherapy
      and hemorrhoidal artery ligation, to date.

      Therefore, the purpose of the present study is to evaluate and compare the safety and
      efficacy of the treatment of hemorrhoidal disease with polidocanol foam sclerotherapy and
      HAL-RAR.

      METHODS:

      Prospective, unicentric study (Centro Hospitalar Universitário do Porto) which is aimed to
      compare the efficacy and safety of the treatment techniques in patients with hemorrhoidal
      disease grade II and III.

      Patients referred were randomly allocated to one of the two treatments considered in this
      study (SP and HAL-RAR).

      All participants should have had prior endoscopic study, at least sigmoidoscopy, or total
      colonoscopy if they were older than 50 years or younger, with a family history of colorectal
      cancer, colon adenomas, or suspected inflammatory bowel disease.

      Only patients who agreed to informed consent were included, after a clear explanation of the
      type of study and the intervention that was going to be made.

      In screening visits, demographic and anthropometric data (such as age, sex, weight and
      height, education and employment status) were collected, as well as grade of hemorrhoidal
      disease. Baseline questionnaires were used to assess Sodergren's scale of symptoms and the
      severity of bleeding.

      Informed consent and an information brochure, explaining the study and adequate dietary and
      behavioral care, were provided. Additionally, all participants were given a direct contact
      for any doubts and notification of complications, in which case additional observation should
      be made.

      When office-based treatment was performed, an intervention period was considered, in which
      patients were observed at 3-week intervals (the required number of sessions, maximum of 3,
      depended on the clinical response - if 3 weeks after the previous treatment, the participant
      scored zero points in the Sodergren scale and had a hemorrhage grade ≤1, he was not a
      candidate for additional instrumental therapy.).

      Surgical treatment was performed only once. One month after this intervention period,
      Sodergren's scale of symptoms and severity of bleeding were reevaluated. In addition,
      complications registry, and implication in personal and professional life, measured in number
      of work-loss days, if applied, were also assessed. Patients was followed-up every 3 months
      for total of 6 months for evaluation of hemorrhoidal disease symptoms recurrence.
    
  