
    
      The study consists of two arms in this crossover design study. The first arm of this study
      will receive intravenous and oral NAC, which is a strong antioxidant that increases brain
      glutathione, which may be beneficial in PD. NAC, is the N-acetyl derivative of the naturally
      occurring amino acid, L-cysteine. It is a common over-the-counter supplement and also is
      available as an injectable pharmaceutical that protects the liver in cases of acetaminophen
      overdose. Laboratory studies have displayed some benefits to use of NAC, such as its
      potential to counteract intracellular damage that leads to dopaminergic neuron death. It also
      has the potential to reduce markers of oxidative damage, protect against dopamine cell death
      from 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) toxicity, and to increase
      glutathione in blood, which might be useful in preventing oxidative damage in PD patients.
      The second arm will be a waitlist control receiving standard PD care. It should be noted that
      both arms will receive standard of care treatment for PD which will be augmented with NAC. A
      key component of this study is to evaluate the effects of NAC on dopamine, using PET imaging
      with FDOPA. Specifically, we will plan to study changes in dopamine levels before and after
      receiving approximately nutritional support with NAC.. This will allow us to evaluate whether
      NAC helps to support dopamine function. FDOPA PET imaging will be conducted at baseline and
      then after the nutritional support or standard of care for the waitlist arm. Then the
      waitlist group will receive NAC and the arm that received NAC initially will be crossed over
      to a standard of care group. FDOPA imaging will be conducted at the end of that period.

      For evaluation of the dopamine function, [F-18] Fluorodopa (FDOPA), dose (5-10 millicurie
      (mCi), ± 20%) will be injected intravenously into an antecubital vein. Subjects will be
      premedicated with 200 mg of carbidopa orally approximately one hour prior to injection.

      FDOPA has been available for over 30 years but has not been previously approved for
      commercial use by the FDA..We will be obtaining the FDOPA from the University of Pennsylvania
      cyclotron that has produced FDOPA for many INDs..

      It will also be beneficial to assess whether there are specific changes in levels of
      different molecules that are related to energy consumption and oxidative stress. Proton MR
      spectroscopy (1H-MRS) has been previously performed in Parkinson's disease (PD) and
      parkinsonian syndromes to evaluate in vivo concentrations of basal ganglia and cerebral
      cortex metabolites such as N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline (Cho), and creatine (Cr). We plan
      to include MRS as an additional biomarker to evaluate the potential effects of the
      nutritional supplements and/or NAC on oxidative stress and cerebral activity in PD patients.
    
  