
    
      Laser therapy provides an alternative therapeutic regimen for the reduction of subcutaneous
      tissue volume. Although the biochemical mechanism is not yet fully understood, histological
      studies clearly and effectively identify the formation of the transitory pore and subsequent
      cell collapse immediately following laser irradiation. More importantly, a
      placebo-controlled, randomized, double-blind clinical investigation using the Erchonia MLS
      with 67 enrolled participants revealed a statistically significant reduction of overall
      circumference measurements of the waist, hip, and thighs following two weeks of treatment,
      resulting in Food and Drug Administration (FDA) clearance for the indication.

      Laser therapy operates under the principle of photochemistry, activating and/or suppressing
      natural biochemical processes. Because Low Level Laser Therapy (LLLT) does not induce
      cellular apoptosis, there is no upregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines nor is there a
      large burden placed on the lymphatic system. The fatty material secreted from the adipocytes
      following laser irradiation are absorbed by the lymphatic system, broken down by the liver,
      and naturally secreted. Fatty acids released are bound to albumin, and are transported
      through the circulatory system to the liver to undergo fatty acid oxidation. The
      triglycerides released are bound as lipoproteins and transported to the liver to be
      processed. Moreover, a lipase known as lipoprotein lipase, has been demonstrated to breakdown
      emulsified triglycerides; therefore breaking the molecule down into three fatty acids and one
      glycerol molecule. The most important aspect of laser therapy is that cellular apoptosis is
      not induced. The fatty material being evacuated from the cell must be absorbed by the
      lymphatic system, and because laser therapy does not destroy the cell, the complex organelles
      and the entire cell structure will not be absorbed by the lymphatic system. It is not well
      understood how much the lymphatic system can absorb; therefore, creating a mass amount of
      cellular debris by destroying adipose tissue may result in serious long term effects.
      Moreover, adipose tissue is not just composed of fat storing cells; there is also a
      collection of immune cells, fibroblasts, vessels, and stromal stem cells. By creating the
      transitory pore in the fat storing cell only, the viability of the surrounding, non-fat
      storing cells is preserved.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to demonstrate and document the anatomical modulation of
      subcutaneous fat across the waist and hips that occurs through application of the Erchonia®
      ML Scanner (MLS) Laser manufactured for non-invasive body contouring of the waist and hips.
    
  