
    
      In recent years, nonoperative treatment has challenged appendectomy as a first-line treatment
      of acute uncomplicated appendicitis by demonstrating its safety and short-term efficacy in
      adults. Several randomized controlled trials comparing appendectomy to antibiotics alone in
      children with acute uncomplicated appendicitis have been reported from other countries. These
      studies reveal that non-operative management of appendicitis is a safe treatment for
      appendicitis and is associated with a significantly lower risk of complications than
      appendectomy. However, the success rate of nonoperative management was 75% at 1year. Chronic
      appendicitis has been described as a possible cause of persistent right lower quadrant (RLQ)
      pain and laparoscopic appendectomy has been shown to benefit a large number of children，but
      there are no high-quality clinical trials. There are more than 200 million children in China.
      According to preliminary clinical data, the incidence of pediatric appendicitis in China is
      higher than Europe and America. Due to the Chinese parents have different cultures and
      educational backgrounds, more high-quality clinical trials are needed to guide parents to
      choose appropriate treatment for chronic appendicitis in children. Therefore, the
      investigators propose a multi-institutional trial in which patients and their families choose
      between antibiotics therapy (AT group) or laparoscopic appendectomy (LAAPT group) to chronic
      appendicitis in children aged 3-15 years. The investigators hypothesize that laparoscopic
      appendectomy will be successful in 90% of patients at 1 year follow-up and will be associated
      with fewer disability days, higher quality of life scores, and higher pain reduce scores than
      antibiotic therapy. This study will enroll 200 patients, age 3-15 years, with chronic
      appendicitis at 8-10 hospitals.
    
  