
    
      Incarcerated women have a disproportionately high risk for both Sexually Transmitted
      Infections (STIs) and Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)/Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
      (AIDS)and the prevalence of HIV and STIs are higher among women than men prisoners. More than
      half of the HIV/AIDS cases reported by State and Federal prisons in 2005 were in the South.
      The second highest regional burden for HIV among women released from correction facilities is
      in the South.

      Working in collaboration, the staff of the North Carolina Department of Correction (NCDOC)
      and faculty at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Nursing (SON),
      School of Medicine (SOM), Center for AIDS Research (CFAR) and the School of Social Work (SSW)
      will systematically adapt and test the efficacy of Project SAFE, an existing evidence-based
      intervention (EBI), to increase protective behaviors, reduce high-risk behaviors, and prevent
      STIs in HIV-negative incarcerated women in the Southern United States.

      Using Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines for adaptation (McKleroy,
      Galbraith, Cummings et al. 2006), we will:

        1. Assess the fit between intervention delivery and the needs and resources of the NCDOC
           and the fit between intervention materials and the behavioral, social, and contextual
           conditions of incarcerated women's lives following release from prison that may
           contribute to continuing sexual risk behavior and explore their ideas regarding ways to
           prevent STI/HIV with the intent of strengthening the approach to sexual risk reduction.

        2. Adapt and tailor the Project SAFE behavioral risk reduction intervention for women
           prisoners in the rural Southeastern U.S. who are HIV-negative and have sex with men.

        3. Pilot the adapted Project SAFE intervention.

        4. Test the adapted Project SAFE risk-reduction intervention with incarcerated women to
           determine its efficacy in decreasing risk for non-viral STI infections (Chlamydia,
           trichomoniasis or gonorrhea), decreasing sexual risk behaviors and increasing risk
           reduction practices after release. We will also determine whether participants maintain
           these changes over time.
    
  