
    
      Adequate maternal nutrition is important for maternal health and wellness and represents a
      major determinant of pregnancy outcomes. In low-and middle-income countries, maternal and
      child malnutrition is a public health concern resulting in increases of morbidity and
      mortality. In Burkina Faso, despite continued improvement, the adjusted maternal mortality
      ratio (371 deaths per 100,000 live births) and the neonatal mortality rate (25 deaths per
      1,000 live births) remain high. Routine ANC offers opportunities to receive a broad range of
      health promotion and prevention services including support for adequate nutritional care for
      pregnant women and their newborns.

      A&T Burkina Faso, with the Ministry of Health, will develop and test the integration of an
      intensive package of maternal nutrition interventions into existing ANC services delivered
      through government health facilities that will align with the latest global recommendations.
      These include intensified counseling and support on dietary diversity and quality during
      pregnancy, counseling on IFA supplementation, counseling on the importance of ANC and
      increasing the number of ANC visits and contacts, adequate weight-gain monitoring, and
      promotion of early and exclusive breastfeeding. The impacts of these intensive interventions
      in users of government ANC services will be compared with standard ANC services, and used to
      provide the Ministry of Health and its partners with important information needed to scale up
      interventions to achieve the new ANC recommendations.

      The evaluation will use a two-arm cluster-randomized, non-masked trial design, consisting of
      two cross-sectional surveys of pregnant and recently delivered women (i.e. with a child under
      6 months of age). The study will be implemented in two health districts (Boromo and Toma) in
      the Boucle du Mouhoun region, and two health districts (Dande and Lena) in the Hauts-Bassins
      region. The unit of randomization is the health and social promotion center (CSPS) catchment
      area. 40 CSPS in Boucle du Mouhoun and 40 CSPS in Hauts-Bassins will be randomly assigned to
      intervention/control.

      The objectives of the proposed evaluation are to answer the following questions:

        1. Is it feasible to integrate locally relevant maternal nutrition interventions based on
           the WHO ANC guidelines into existing ANC services delivered through government health
           facilities?

        2. Can the coverage and utilization of key nutrition interventions (nutrition counseling,
           weight gain monitoring, IFA supplement consumption) be improved by integrating
           nutrition-focused social and behavior change communication (SBCC; community mobilization
           and interpersonal communication) and systems strengthening approaches into existing ANC
           services?

        3. Can the quality of diets (dietary diversity and adequate intake of micronutrients,
           protein, and energy) among pregnant women and early breastfeeding practices (early
           initiation of and exclusive breastfeeding) be improved by the nutrition-focused SBCC
           interventions?

        4. What are the barriers and opportunities for completing 8 ANC contacts?
    
  