
    
      BACKGROUND Hypertension is a medical condition that acts as an important public health
      problem worldwide. It contributes to the disease which is mostly seen in primary health care
      settings such as cardiovascular disease, stroke, kidney failure, and premature death if it is
      not diagnosed as soon as possible. The World Health Organization (WHO) significantly mentions
      that an estimation of 1.13 billion people worldwide from poor countries where the healthcare
      system is weak have been detected with hypertension. Hypertension also puts an enormous
      financial pressure towards individuals and medical services via utilizing limited resources .
      Hypertension is predisposed to multiple factors. Such factors vary from country to country
      and there is also a disparity between urban and rural areas of the same location.

      In Malaysia, 30% of adults above 18 have hypertension. Based on another study, it was proven
      that adults with uncontrolled hypertensive portrayed a higher risk of CVD mortality when
      compared to normotensive adults. It was reported that there were 3550 of them all caused
      hypertensive death and based on that 1027 are caused by cardiovascular disease; 771 are
      caused by heart-specific diseases and 256 by a cerebrovascular specific disease. However,
      untreated hypertension was stated to be the high risk of all caused death.

      Based on a study by Grad I. et al, global knowledge on hypertension among adults is
      relatively low which is almost 49.2%. Whereas for medium knowledge on hypertension has 38%
      and only reported that 13% has higher knowledge on hypertension

      . Besides, adults also have insufficient knowledge on epidemiology, method of treatment, and
      avoidance of hypertension(6).In addition, a good understanding of hypertension has also been
      linked with enhanced compliance with medications and good control of blood pressure.

      According to Loiselle (1995), health information behavior is basically defined as a
      self-regulatory technique used by patients to coordinate transactions between self-related
      and health-related settings with the goal of balancing instrumental benefits and informative
      subjective costs. The students use electronic health knowledge to take some essential
      health-related decisions and actions. Students reported using the health details gathered
      more as a guide for lifestyle changes (72.4%) and the rest is dealing with healthcare
      practitioners online about the change in medication and guide of lifestyle changes.

      WHO states that many people, primarily in the developing world, have access to online medical
      information, engage in online groups, buy well-being goods and services.

      From the other side, hospital reports are often linked up by health agencies. The search for
      online health information has been on the increase and the knowledge gained has diverse
      influences on the healthcare outcomes of human beings. Based on a study conducted on 4504
      respondents about mobile health use and perception among Malaysians in Selangor, only 1 in 5
      respondents reported using some health-related application or mobile health device. The
      analysis of the health details that Malaysia is pursuing is still limited. From the point of
      view of scientific research, not much study has been done on different problems that occurred
      in the sense of finding health knowledge.

      One of the interventional strategies to the elimination of health inequalities is by
      utilizing social media as a popular way to get health information. Depending on the concepts
      of loyalty and mutuality, social media promotes the sharing of life-enhancing services, such
      as health-related knowledge and social ties. In fact, social media sites are activating
      feedback systems that result in an enhanced degree of self-efficacy, which is vital in
      sustaining healthier behaviors and adhering to treatment. It becomes a mixture of direct
      contact and mainstream media which is personalized and responsive. Social networking media,
      including Facebook, one of the social media networking platforms, has such connectivity
      features in their architecture. As of 2004, it has been extremely popular with more than 350
      million users around the world.

      Non-communicable diseases constitute a worldwide crisis that contributes to more than 36
      million (63 %) of all mortality globally. Almost 29 million (80%) of such deaths arise in
      low-and middle-income nations. Increasing use of social media implies a strategy to achieve
      scalability or even overcome barriers that often impede public health measures. For example,
      a smartphone-based home glucose monitoring service has been implemented through which
      community health professionals have given clinical advice for diabetic patients through
      smartphones.

      The social media use, health information seeking, and knowledge on hypertension in Malaysia
      are not well studied. It is beneficial to have an overview of the social media use, health
      information seeking and knowledge on hypertension among the students of Faculty of Medicine
      and Health Science (FMHS), UPM because they are individuals who will work in a healthcare
      setting in the near future.

      In conclusion, knowledge of hypertension is relatively very important to reduce the
      prevalence of hypertension and to create more awareness among the public. Ways of getting
      knowledge and online health information like social media are important as it is becoming a
      popular form of information. This study will be conducted among the students in FMHS, UPM
      because of the variety of sociodemographic factors present that will be a platform to see the
      association between the factors and their level of knowledge on hypertension. Moreover, this
      may be a good start to plan an awareness program on Hypertension and also initiate programs
      to increase the knowledge of hypertension among the students.

      STUDY OBJECTIVE General Objective To determine the social media use, online health
      information seeking and knowledge on hypertension among students in FMHS, UPM.

      Specific Objective I. To determine the socio-demographic factors (age, gender, race, family
      income status, undergraduate course and year of study) of students of FMHS, UPM. II. To
      determine the social media use of students among FMHS, UPM. III. To determine the online
      health information-seeking behavior on hypertension among students of FMHS, UPM. IV. To
      determine the level of knowledge on hypertension among students of FMHS, UPM. V. To study the
      association of socio-demographic factors, social media use and online health information
      seeking on the knowledge of hypertension.

      STUDY INSTRUMENTS Study instruments include a questionnaire adapted from a previously
      published questionnaire. The questionnaire to assess the social media use and health
      information seeking was adapted from a study about Health Information Seeking and Social
      Media Use on the Internet among people with Diabetes. The hypertension knowledge
      questionnaire was adapted from a tool developed to assess hypertension knowledge among urban
      patients. This questionnaire is prepared in English and is divided into four parts.
    
  