
    
      The evidence base for practicing medicine continues to improve. However, abundant data show
      that gaps exist between best evidence and practice. Moreover, health care costs are climbing
      at an alarming rate. We propose to ask three related questions: 1) how effective are computer
      decision-support systems for improving compliance with evidence-based guidelines and costs in
      the ambulatory setting; 2) what is the impact on guideline compliance of applications that
      allow clinicians to track and follow-up test results; and 3) what are the main barriers to
      acceptance of guidelines delivered via real-time clinical decision-support systems.

      Our work and that of others has shown that computerized decision-support in the form of
      alerts and reminders can improve outcomes and reduce costs in the inpatient setting. However,
      fewer data are available in the outpatient setting. An elegant series of studies from
      Regenstrief found that certain computer-based interventions, such as displaying charges for
      tests, prior test results, and the likelihood that a particular test would be abnormal, all
      reduced outpatient utilization, and that reminders to perform health maintenance procedures
      improved compliance. However, such systems are still not used broadly and the full potential
      of computer-based technology remains to be tested.

      Also, there is ample evidence that physicians do not always act optimally on the results of
      patient studies and often are remiss at communicating satisfactorily with patients about the
      results of these studies. This situation may be exacerbated by increasing patient volumes in
      the face of managed care. The ability of the computer to assist in the tracking and follow-up
      of test results as well as communication with patients remains to be evaluated.

      Even though some benefits of computer-based decision-support systems have been documented,
      such systems are slow to be adopted. Moreover, even when computerized guidelines have
      resulted in demonstrable improvements, often this improvement has been smaller than
      anticipated. This proposal aims to better understand the barriers to guideline acceptance so
      that the benefits of computer based decision-support can be realized.

      Our organization, Brigham and Women's Hospital, is in a particularly good position to study
      these issues. We have in place a highly developed clinical information system including an
      outpatient electronic medical records (EMR) application that has been an active part of the
      clinical workflow since 1999. The EMR application currently is used by primary care
      physicians at one of our major medical centers to track their patients' problems,
      medications, allergies, and health maintenance data. We are developing a new EMR that will be
      used more broadly across our network, and that features a new interface with added
      functionality. The new EMR will allow us to evaluate the state of the patient at the time of
      the visit and generate reminders if the patient is out of compliance for certain guidelines.
      It also includes outpatient order entry that allows physicians to enter medication and
      laboratory orders directly into the computer. Decision-support in order entry will allow us
      to guide physician decision making at the most opportune time, and then evaluate the result
      of that guidance. For automated decision-support applications to be widely adopted, it is
      critical that their benefits be demonstrated in a wide variety of situations. We plan to
      implement several different types of interventions targeted at various phases of the clinical
      workflow to determine which strategies can achieve the greatest benefit.

      Specific Aims:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of paper-based and interactive computer-based alerts and
           reminders for improving compliance with guidelines and reducing costs in the ambulatory
           setting.

        2. To evaluate the impact of computer-based tracking and follow-up reminder systems on
           guideline compliance.

        3. To identify and address patient, clinician, and system barriers to the effective use of
           computer-based clinical decision-support strategies in a diverse array of clinical
           settings.
    
  