
    
      Oral mucositis, is a common and debilitating complication of cancer therapy. It is an
      inflammatory injury to the epithelial and sub-epithelial cells of the oral mucosa. The
      incidence and severity of oral mucositis depends on many factors including the age and
      diagnosis of the patient, the specific treatment regimen, underlying oral hygiene and genetic
      factors 2-4. This ranges from around 40% of patients getting chemotherapy for solid tumors to
      70-90% of patients getting chemotherapy for before stem cell transplant.

      Oral mucositis causes significant pain, interferes with eating, talking and swallowing,
      significantly diminishes enteral nutritional intake and has a substantial negative impact on
      quality of life. Patients may require hospitalization for management of the complications of
      mucositis, including poor nutrition, dehydration and pain. Injury to the oral mucosa also
      increases the risk of systemic infections. Finally, the development of oral mucositis may
      require delays or dose reductions in future chemotherapy courses, potentially jeopardizing
      disease cure rates.

      Despite all that is known about the mechanism, course and complications of oral mucositis,
      there are no consensus guidelines on prevention or treatment of chemotherapy-induced oral
      mucositis and there is significant variation on approach to mucositis across treatment
      centers.

      Caphosol (Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Palo Alto, CA) was designed in part to replace the
      normal ionic and pH balance of the oral cavity and been used to prevent and/or treat oral
      mucositis. Caphosol is hypothesized to diffuse into epithelial intracellular spaces and
      permeate mucosal lesions in oral mucositis.

      This study is a randomized, controlled trial evaluating the use of topical Caphosol therapy
      to prevent oral mucositis (Grade ≥ 2) in children, adolescents and young adults undergoing
      chemotherapy. At the time of enrollment, patients will be randomized to either the control
      arm or the Caphosol arm. The treatment period will extend from the start of chemotherapy and
      continue for 7 days after completion of chemotherapy AND until the ANC is > 500 after nadir
      (count recovery) or until the symptoms of oral mucositis resolve; whichever occurs last.

      Study patients will be recruited from the MACC Fund Center and the oncology inpatient
      service. Study entry is open to patients regardless of gender or ethnic background. While
      there will be every effort to seek out and include females and minority patients, the patient
      population is expected to be no different than that of other oncology studies at the Medical
      College of Wisconsin.
    
  