
    
      Hypothesis:

      Enoxaparin dosed to maintain a TEG® ΔR greater than 1.0 minute will decrease the incidence of
      DVT compared to standard dosing.

      Initiation of enoxaparin thromboprophylaxis will be done by the treatment team. Once
      enrolled, the subject will be randomized to continue receiving standard dose enoxaparin (30
      mg twice daily) or variable TEG® guided enoxaparin dosing. The treatment team and the subject
      will be blinded regarding the arm in which the patient is enrolled. Patient characteristics:
      age, gender, body mass index (BMI), comorbidities, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health
      Evaluation II score (APACHE II), injuries, and operations will be collected. As part of
      standard protocol in the ICU, all patients will undergo weekly ultrasound duplex examination
      of the lower extremities for presence of deep venous thrombosis.

      A baseline TEG® will be completed on each patient when they are enrolled in the study. The
      blood will be drawn between four and six hours after the morning dose is administered,
      corresponding to maximum tissue levels of enoxaparin. TEG® assays will be run in duplicate
      for each patient, with and without heparinase, which negates the effects of enoxaparin in the
      assay.

      Those patients randomized to the control arm of the study will have TEG® performed at
      baseline and daily for one week, then twice weekly. The twice weekly TEG® assays will be done
      until the patient is discharged from inpatient care or enoxaparin is discontinued by the
      treatment team. No adjustments will be made to their enoxaparin dosing.

      Patients in the TEG® guided enoxaparin dosing arm will start treatment as ordered by the
      primary treatment team. After the second TEG®, the dose of enoxaparin will be adjusted in 10
      mg increments per dose in order to reach a target ΔR between 1.0 and 1.4 minutes. If the
      initial ΔR is greater than 1.4 minutes, the dose of enoxaparin will be decreased by 10 mg
      increments until the target ΔR is achieved. Patients will have TEGs® performed daily and
      adjustment of dosing until the target ΔR is reached. Once the target ΔR is achieved, TEG®
      will be done twice weekly until the patient is discharged from inpatient care or enoxaparin
      is discontinued by the treatment team. All patients will be assessed daily by study personnel
      for bleeding complications. If bleeding complications occur, subjects will be withdrawn from
      the study. If interim analysis identifies a significant difference in bleeding complications
      between groups the study will be terminated.
    
  