
    
      Patients with PPS are often severely functionally impaired and. They consume large amounts of
      healthcare and welfare benefits. There is an accumulating body of evidence showing that
      cognitive behavioural interventions can reduce levels of symptoms and improve overall
      functioning in patients with PPS. CBT has demonstrated both short-term and long-term efficacy
      with small to medium effect sizes for PPS. Larger treatment effects have been reported for
      specific PPS syndromes, including non-cardiac chest pain, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS), and
      Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS).

      General practitioners (GPs) play a major role in identifying and managing patients with PPS.
      A previous randomised parallel group pilot trial investigated the feasibility (i.e.
      recruitment, retention and acceptability) of implementing a primary care Symptoms Clinic for
      patients with PPS). The Symptoms Clinic comprised a structured set of consultations delivered
      by a specially trained GP with a strong interest in PPS. The intervention included exploring
      potential biological mechanisms underlying the PPS condition, empathetic support, and
      training patients in symptom-management (i.e. medication or cognitive behavioural
      techniques). The results indicated that the Symptoms Clinic was acceptable to the majority of
      patients randomised to the intervention group, and may have the potential to generate
      clinically significant benefits. However, this pilot study did not assess feasibility
      parameters referring to GPs' willingness to participate in the study and undergo specialised
      psychological training. Moreover, the intervention was carried out by only one GP, raising
      questions about the generalizability of the study.

      Managing patients with PPS can be highly challenging in general practice. Although GPs
      recognise the treatment of PPS as a responsibility of primary care, previous studies show
      that GPs often feel powerless, frustrated and helpless when encountering these patients.
      Furthermore, GPs frequently report that factors such as time constraints and the lack of
      psychological training prevents them from effectively addressing patients' psychosocial needs
      and developing appropriate doctor-patient communication skills.

      The aim of this study is to assess whether it is feasible to conduct an adequately powered
      future trial to evaluate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a CBT-based integrated GP
      care approach for treating patients with PPS (please refer to arms and interventions for more
      details).
    
  