
    
      Chronic pain is a serious public health problem with estimates as high as nearly half of the
      adult population experiencing some form of pain that lasts for more than 6 months. Chronic
      use of opiates is a rapidly escalating crisis in the United States, with over 4.3 million
      Americans dependent on opiate analgesics, an escalating rate of opiate overdose deaths, and a
      resurgence of intravenous heroin use leading to total societal cost exceeding $55 billion.
      While opiates are effective at treating acute pain, tolerance to the analgesic effects
      develops quickly, leading to high abuse liability and dependence potential. Consequently, the
      development of a new, non-pharmacologic intervention to treat pain, such as repetitive
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), which would provide analgesic benefit while also
      directly remodeling the neural circuitry responsible for cognitive control over opiate
      craving, would fill an increasingly urgent public health need.

      Acute pain is associated with elevated magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal in targets of ascending nociceptive fibers
      including the insula, dorsal anterior cingulate (dACC), thalamus and somatosensory cortex -
      the 'Pain Network'. Perceived pain, and corresponding BOLD signal in the Pain Network, is
      attenuated by 10 Hz rTMS (a form of brain stimulation that results in long term potentiation
      (LTP) to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC, a node of the Executive Control
      Network). Dr. Borckardt was the first person to demonstrate that when LTP-like dlPFC rTMS was
      delivered in the postoperative recovery room, patients used less morphine in the hospital and
      require less morphine long-term. These analgesic effects are now widely known, with over 33
      clinical trials utilizing rTMS as a tool to decrease acute and chronic pain in various
      clinical populations.

      These data all suggest that LTP-like DLPFC rTMS is a very strong candidate alleviating
      chronic pain (LTP-like dlPFC rTMS (Strategy 1, Aim 1)). An alternative approach, however,
      *which may also target opiate craving*, is to attenuate the Pain Network (through long term
      depression (LTD) of the ventromedial PFC) (LTD-like mPFC rTMS, Strategy 2, Aim 1). In a
      cohort of 49 individuals with chronic pain, Dr. Hanlon (Primary Investigator) recently
      demonstrated that LTD-like mPFC rTMS reduced baseline BOLD signal in multiple regions of
      interest (ROIs) *involved in craving which also overlap with the Pain Network* (e.g. dACC and
      Insula). To parametrically evaluate these 2 promising treatment strategies, the investigator
      has developed a 1-visit cross-sectional design wherein a cohort of healthy control
      individuals will receive Quantitative Sensory Testing before and after rTMS with the H1 and
      H7-coil for dlPFC stimulation (Strategy 1) and mPFC depression (Strategy 2), respectively.
      The investigator will also measure subjective pain ratings. The investigator aims to:

      Aim 1. Quantify the effects of LTP-like and LTD-like RTMS on Quantitative Sensory Testing
      Hypothesis: The thermal pain tolerance of individuals in these two group will increase after
      one session of rTMS administered by the H1- and H7-coil design relative to sham.

      Aim 2. Evaluate the effects of rTMS on subjective experience of discomfort. Hypothesis:
      Subjective experience of discomfort will decrease relative to sham in individuals after one
      session of LTP-like or LTD-like rTMS administered to the dlPFC and mPFC, respectively.

      The relative efficacy of Strategy 1 vs 2 will directly translate to development of a large
      clinical trial of rTMS as an innovative, new treatment option for pain in opiate dependent
      individuals.
    
  