
    
      Aphasia is an acquired multi-modality disturbance of language, resulting from focal damage to
      portions of the brain, typically within the left hemisphere, that are responsible for
      language. The disorder impairs, in varying degrees, the understanding and expression of oral
      language, as well as reading and writing. The research literature is replete with information
      about the treatment of aphasia. Individual studies, together with expert opinion and
      meta-analyses indicate that those with aphasia benefit from treatments that focus on
      improving linguistic skills. Furthermore, recent studies have indicated that patients with
      aphasia, even those beyond the period of spontaneous recovery, benefit from treatment that is
      provided more frequently. Yet people with aphasia represent an underserved population.
      Legislation and reimbursement have seriously curtailed the amount of treatment a patient with
      aphasia may receive. Often patients may be eligible for only a limited number of treatment
      sessions over a limited period of time. In some cases, patients may not receive any treatment
      for their communication disorder following their acute hospitalization. Communication
      treatment costs delivered to patients with chronic aphasia (beyond six months after onset)
      are seldom reimbursable. Therefore, the establishment and maintenance of programs for
      effective aphasia remediation are posing new challenges.

      There is clearly a need for the development of innovative and effective ways for individuals
      with aphasia to continue to receive much needed intensive and long-term services that are
      typically unavailable beyond the acute stage of this disability. Web-based treatment may be a
      cost-effective way of extending therapy beyond the hospital and clinic, thereby meeting the
      needs of the growing numbers of individuals with chronic aphasia. This project evaluates the
      effectiveness of a theoretically-motivated and efficacious treatment that has been integrated
      with novel computer-based virtual therapy systems and is provided via the internet to
      individuals with chronic aphasia.

      The treatment, Oral Reading for Language in Aphasia (ORLA), is based on a theoretical
      framework that incorporates two lines of work: the neuropsychological models of reading and
      observation-execution-matching. Preliminary studies have indicated that this treatment is
      efficacious when provided by a speech-language pathologist. The treatment has been
      computerized and the current version of ORLA uses state-of-the-art virtual therapist
      technology that allows the individual with aphasia to read aloud, and ultimately speak,
      sentences at the same time as the words are produced by a perceptive, life-like, animated
      computer agent, using visible speech. In the web-based version, individuals with aphasia work
      independently on their home computer. The clinician is able to monitor patient use and
      progress remotely either in real time during the treatment session or after the session at a
      convenient time.

      In this clinical trial, ORLA treatment is delivered via the internet and outcomes are
      compared to a placebo computer treatment. Thirty-five individuals with chronic aphasia (at
      least 6 months post onset) are randomized to one of two groups: oral reading (ORLA) treatment
      group and a control group in which subjects participate in non-language computer activities.
      Both groups practice for 9 hours per week and treatment continues for a six week period of
      time. Laptops and high-speed internet connections are provided to the subjects for home
      practice. Language and communication skills are evaluated pre-treatment, immediately
      post-treatment, and at 6 weeks after the end of treatment to assess maintenance effects. The
      primary outcome measure is the Language Quotient of the Western Aphasia Battery.

      We hypothesize that implementation of a web-based ORLA treatment for patients with chronic
      aphasia will result in significant improvements in language, that these improvements are
      significantly greater than those resulting from placebo computer treatment, and that these
      improvements will be maintained over time.
    
  