
    
      In recent years, the need for tests that reliably diagnose the early stages of Alzheimer's
      disease (AD) with high accuracy has been strongly emphasised. Detecting AD in its earliest
      stages increases the likelihood that therapeutic agents (e.g. newly-developed drugs) and
      interventions (e.g. changes in diet and exercise) can prolong the period of high-quality,
      independent living and reduce the impact on patients, families and care providers. An ideal
      test would have the sensitivity to detect everyone who has early-stage AD, while
      simultaneously not giving a 'false alarm' to anyone who shows some age-related impairments in
      cognition but who does not have early-stage AD. Secondly, an ideal test should be free and
      simple to administer on a national scale, without requiring extensive training on the part of
      the testers to set up, run, and interpret. Unfortunately, currently used tests do not come
      close to this ideal. There are some good biomarker-based tests for early stages of AD, but
      they are costly, highly invasive and in effect impossible to use for national screening
      purposes. MRI imaging of brain regions affected early in AD detects early AD no better than
      neuropsychological testing and whilst it is non-invasive, many patients find it aversive.
      Here, we propose to examine whether the use of spatial and episodic memory tests can get us
      nearer to this ideal, whether used singly, together, or in combination with other tests.

      The project has two stages. In stage 1, we will administer recently-developed spatial and
      episodic memory tests (along with more established neuropsychological tests) to patients who
      have recently been diagnosed with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI). At stage 2, clinical
      follow up (c.15-30 months after MCI diagnosis) we will establish those patients who have, and
      have not, progressed to AD. Analysis will then determine which tests at stage 1 best
      predicted progression-to-AD at stage 2.
    
  