
    
      In this protocol the researchers wish to elaborate prior investigations on factors which may
      affect prevalence and malarial parasite density in pregnant women in Malawi. Primarily, this
      investigation will evaluate the efficacy of the current Malawian national policy,
      sulfadoxine-pyrimethamine (SP) 2-dose intermittent protective treatment (IPT) strategy, and
      compare it to a monthly SP strategy for use in preventing malaria during pregnancy. Previous
      investigations in Malawi have demonstrated that: prevention of malaria during pregnancy is
      most important during the first and second pregnancies, particularly during the rainy season
      when malaria transmission is highest; and an efficacious antimalarial regimen which clears
      parasitemia and placental infection will result in a reduction in the incidence of low birth
      weight, the single greatest risk factor for neonatal and early infant mortality. There
      appears to be an interaction between HIV infection and placental malaria, with HIV-positive
      pregnant women having higher prevalences and densities of peripheral and placental
      parasitemia compared with HIV-negative pregnant women. This finding requires closer
      examination, in light of the high prevalence and incidence of HIV infection in Malawi and
      other African countries. Previously in Malawi, a 2-dose IPT regimen of SP administered during
      the second and third trimester of pregnancy was effective at clearing placental malaria
      infection at delivery More recent studies in both Malawi and Kenya show that 2 doses may not
      be adequate in clearing placental parasitemia especially in women who are HIV infected. In
      the Kenya study, HIV-positive women required 3 doses of SP (that were delivered in a monthly
      dosing scheme) to achieve similar reductions in placental parasitemia that were seen in
      HIV-negative women at 2 doses. There remains a need to identify the optimal dosing schedule
      for an intermittent treatment regimen; the Kenya findings need to be confirmed before
      decisions are made on national and global levels. This is especially important given the
      possibility of increasing SP resistance in Malawi. The question of HIV infection and its role
      in malaria during pregnancy, both in terms of impact on regimen effectiveness and on the
      incidence of adverse sulfa reactions needs to be examined. This study proposes to determine
      the efficacy of the current regimen of 2-dose SP intermittent protective treatment (IPT) and
      to compare it to monthly SP dosing in clearing placental parasitemia at delivery in Machinga
      district in Malawi where there is a high level of malaria transmission and an HIV
      seropositivity rate of nearly 20% in reproductive age woman. This study will also explore the
      effect of HIV seropositivity on the safety and efficacy of intermittent preventive treatment
      during pregnancy.
    
  