
    
      Milk and dairy product consumption has been associated with lower risk of metabolic disorders
      and cardiovascular diseases (1). A population-based prospective study (CARDIA) revealed that
      dairy consumption was inversely associated with the prevalence of all components of the
      insulin resistance syndrome (IRS) in overweight individuals (2).

      Whey accounts for about 20% of whole milk protein, while casein accounts for the rest. Whey
      protein is a source of bioactive components and branch chained amino acids (BCAAs) which
      could play a further role in the control of food intake and management of glucose metabolism,
      obesity and diabetes (1,3,4).

      Whey protein appears to have insulinotropic and glucose lowering properties in healthy adults
      (6-9), and also in individuals with type 2 diabetes (10,11). The magnitude of postprandial
      blood glucose reduction following ingestion of whey protein is comparable to that observed
      with pharmaceutical interventions such as sulfonylureas (12) or nateglinide (13). These
      findings imply an important role for whey protein in the management of type 2 diabetes (10).

      Whey protein seems to induce insulinotropic/β-cell-stimulating and glucose lowering effects
      via bioactive peptides generated during gastrointestinal digestion of BCAAs contained in
      β-lactoglobulin, the major whey protein (14).

      These bioactive peptides stimulate the release of several gut hormones, especially the
      incretins, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide-1
      (GLP-1), which potentiate insulin secretion from β-cells and are also associated with the
      control of food intake (9, 15-17). Increased plasma levels of GIP and GLP-1 have been
      reported following whey ingestion in patients with type 2 diabetes (10). The stimulatory
      effect of whey protein on GLP-1 is especially important since it has been shown that
      postprandial GLP-1 secretion is reduced in type 2 diabetes (18).

      The bioactive peptides generated from whey protein may also serve as endogenous inhibitors of
      dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) in the proximal gut, preventing incretin (GIP and GLP-1)
      degradation (19, 20). Indeed, recently DPP-4 inhibitors have been found and identified in
      Whey protein (21). All these may reduce postprandial blood glucose levels.

      Incretin action is enhanced by whey protein ingestion, possibly through incretin degradation
      via inhibition of DPP-4 (19,20). This is important in light of several incretin-based
      therapies such as continuous administration of GLP-1 (19), treatment with
      degradation-resistant GLP-1R agonists (Exendin-4) (15,23-25), and therapy with DPP-4
      inhibitors (Sitagliptin, Liraglutide and others gliptines ) (15,23-27) all of which have lead
      to substantial improvements in glucose control and β-cell function in subjects with type 2
      diabetes.

      Whey protein stimulates GLP-1 secretion and prevents its inactivation by DPP 4. Thus, by
      potentiating GLP-1 secretion and enhancing its action, (15), whey protein may represent a
      valuable tool for treating type 2 diabetes.
    
  