
    
      Burden: Globally around 6.3 million children under five years of age died in 2013, two third
      of which occur in the low & middle income countries. Bangladesh is one of the LMICs countries
      with high burden of maternal and neonatal mortalities. In Bangladesh, there has been a
      considerable progress in reduction of both child and maternal mortality in recent decades.
      From 1994 to 2014 under-5 mortality rate has reduced from 133 to 46 per 1000 live births in
      Bangladesh; however, within the same timeframe neonatal mortality declined from 52 to 28 per
      1000 live births. This slow decrease in newborn deaths means that it now constitutes a
      greater share of total under-5 deaths. At present, neonatal mortality accounts for 74% of
      deaths in infants and 61% in children aged less than 5 years. Similarly, the country was able
      to decline MMR by 70% between 1990 and 2013, from 574 to 170 per 100,000 live births, with an
      annual reduction rate of 5.0%. Such statistics highlights the importance of focusing on
      perinatal and early postnatal periods to prevent maternal and neonatal mortalities.

      Knowledge gap: Safe motherhood promotion project (SMPP) was a five (5 yr) year pilot project,
      launched in July 2006, by the Government of Bangladesh (GOB) in collaboration with JICA. The
      aim of the project was to improve the health status of pregnant and postpartum women and
      neonates. SMPP implemented three linked activities i.e., advocacy at the central level,
      strengthening of health facilities and empowerment of community. Evaluation of SMPP found
      positive changes in UN process indicators on EmOC including met needs (up from 31% to 55%),
      case fatality rate (<0.1%) and skilled birth attendance rate (from 18% to 25%). The major
      weakness of the previous assessment of SMPP were use of a before-after design without any
      concurrent comparison area and the assessment lacked population based mortality estimates,
      only measured hospital case fatality rate. Hence, there is lack of strong evidences regarding
      the impact of the project.

      Relevance: The proposed project is expected to provide essential evidences to the GOB and
      other development partners with the help of stronger design and valid evaluation processes.
      It would help not only in prioritizing, planning, and further scaling-up of SMPNS
      interventions in other areas of Bangladesh but in informing other developing countries in
      similar settings also.

      Hypothesis: Safe Motherhood and Newborn Survival intervention package will reduce neonatal
      mortality by 25%, in comparison to the routine services in Chandpur district, Bangladesh

      Methods: A community-based, cluster-randomized design will be used to evaluate the
      effectiveness of an integrated "Safe Motherhood and Newborn Health Promotion Package" in
      Chandpur district, Bangladesh. Both quantitative and qualitative approaches will be employed
      to address the primary and secondary objectives. Baseline, midterm and end of intervention
      household survey will be conducted using validated structured questionnaire to assess the
      coverage of maternal & newborn health interventions. Health facility assessments surveys will
      be conducted periodically to assess facility readiness and utilization of maternal and
      neonatal health services in the participating health facilities. Additionally, relevant data
      from routine Health Management Information System (HMIS) will be regularly collected and
      extracted An ongoing investigating system will be in place at the health facilities to
      identify and document maternal near miss cases.

      Qualitative data will be collected for process documentation and in depth exploration of
      implementation challenges and contextual factors. Social capitals will be measured both
      quantitatively and qualitatively to assess the non health impact of the interventions.
      Qualitative data collection methods will include stakeholders' meeting, focus group
      discussions (FGD), periodic in-depth assessments, social mapping and other participatory
      exercises.

      Outcome measures/variables: The primary outcome measure for evaluation of SMPNS intervention
      is reduction of neonatal mortality. In addition, changes in coverage and utilization of
      maternal & newborn health services, cost effectiveness of implementation of intervention will
      also be measured.
    
  