
    
      A safety and Immunological assessment of JRC sensitive (atopic) subjects will be assessed in
      terms of current skin test reactivity. Subjects that are eligible to participate in this
      study will be assigned by whether they are sensitive or non sensitive to CryJ2 or Mountain
      Cedar to one of 3 study vaccine cohorts:

      Cohort 1: These Japanese Red Cedar atopic and non-atopic subjects will be recruited as a
      placebo control. This cohort will be composed of 5 atopic and 5 non-atopic subjects (half of
      the subjects will be atopic and half non-atopic), that will receive 4 vaccinations, 14 days
      apart, of a saline control in four separate 0.200 ml volumes administered Intradermally (ID)
      using the needle-free Biojector device.

      Cohort 2: These Japanese Red Cedar atopic subjects will receive intradermal (ID) injections
      of the same CryJ2-DNA-LAMP vaccine previously used in Phase IA and IB studies. Cohort #2 will
      receive four (4) 2.16 mg doses at 14 day intervals. Each 2.16 mg dose will require
      administration of four (4) separate 0.200 ml volumes of a 2.7 mg/ml vaccine concentrate using
      the needle-free Biojector device. Each of the four volumes will be injected at different
      sites on the same or different deltoid muscle.

      Cohort 3: These Japanese Red Cedar atopic subjects will receive intradermal (ID) injections
      of the same CryJ2-DNA-LAMP vaccine previously used in Phase IA and IB studies. Cohort #3 will
      receive four (4) 1.08 mg doses at 14 day intervals. Each 1.08 mg dose will require
      administration of two (2) separate 0.200 ml volumes of a 2.7 mg/ml vaccine concentrate using
      the needle-free Biojector device. Each of the four volumes will be injected at different
      sites on the same or different deltoid muscle.

      There will be between 18 to 26 men and women participating in the study at one location. Your
      participation in this study will last approximately 132 days.
    
  