
    
      Background:

      Solid tumors represent approximately one fourth of cancer diagnoses in children. Despite
      intensive regimens, patients with metastatic or recurrent solid tumors have unsatisfactory
      survival rates. Therefore new therapies are needed to improve outcomes.

      Accumulating preclinical and clinical evidence supports the use of biologic approaches to
      heighten antitumor immunity in order to improve the effectiveness of immune based therapy.
      Both directly activating immune based therapies such as cytokines and tumor vaccines as well
      as therapies which disrupt negative counterregulatory signals such as those mediated by
      CTLA-4:B7 may enhance existent antitumor immune responses.

      Antibodies directed against CTLA-4 potently augment immune responses in animal models and
      anti-CTLA-4 antibodies have demonstrated antitumor effects in a variety of preclinical tumor
      models.

      Phase I and phase II studies using ipilimumab have been performed in adults with a variety of
      tumor types. Clinical responses have been observed in renal cell carcinoma, melanoma, and
      prostate cancer. No trials have yet been performed to evaluate ipilimumab in children with
      malignancy.

      Objectives:

      To determine the tolerance and toxicity profile of ipilimumab at a range of doses up to, but
      not exceeding, the highest dose tolerated in adults, in patients less than or equal to 21
      years of age with refractory solid tumors.

      To assess the pharmacokinetics of ipilimumab administered intravenously in patients less than
      or equal to 21 years of age with advanced and/or refractory solid tumors.

      Eligibility:

      Patients must be 1-21 years of age at the time of enrollment with solid malignant tumors
      refractory to standard therapy.

      Design:

      A Phase I dose finding study with 4 planned dose levels.

      Three patients will be enrolled at each dose level with an expanded cohort of 12 at the
      highest or maximum torlerated dose with intent to include 6 patients < 12 years.

      Re-induction with 4 infusions of ipilimumab at the assigned dose followed by another
      maintenance phase is possible for subjects who have progressed during maintenance therapy.
    
  