
    
      Management of NASH and NAFLD remain a significant unmet medical challenge that is growing in
      importance as part of the obesity epidemic. Minimally invasive tools for monitoring disease
      progression and evaluating therapeutic interventions in NASH would be extremely valuable.
      Utilizing in vivo heavy water labeling, multiple pathways related to protein metabolism
      (fibrogenesis) and lipid metabolism can be quantified in human subjects. We have recently
      discovered that plasma lumicam synthesis represents a non-invasive kinetic biomarker of
      tissue fibrogenesis in patients with viral hepatitis. In addition, synthesis of fatty acids
      in plasma VLDL-triglycerides provide a window into hepatic lipid metabolism.

      Stable isotopes have a long history as a safe, effective tracer for measuring synthesis of
      molecules in humans (1). Recently, new developments in stable isotope labeling techniques and
      advances in mass spectrometry have made in vivo kinetic measurement of slow metabolic
      processes possible. Through the use of 2H2O as the source of labeling, we and others have
      measured T-cell proliferation (2), mammary epithelial cell proliferation (3), prostate
      epithelial cell proliferation (4), triglyceride synthesis (5) and protein synthesis (6) in
      humans. We have recently evaluated this approach for the measurement of fibrogenesis patients
      with fibrotic liver disease.

      Excess accumulation of collagen in the liver is termed fibrosis. Fibrosis is a common
      pathological feature of several chronic liver diseases (e.g. Hepatitis C, alcoholic liver
      disease, primary biliary sclerosis, drug/toxin induced liver disease, etc.). Currently, the
      standard method for detection of fibrosis is liver biopsy and histochemical analyses of
      tissue collagen content (8, 9). Although effective in diagnosing existing, advanced fibrosis,
      a single biopsy cannot measure current disease activity or predict rate of progression. To
      determine whether disease is progressing using current methods, a second biopsy is required.
      If significant additional collagen has accumulated since the first biopsy, this suggests that
      the disease is progressing. However, this measurement represents the history of the disease,
      not the current disease activity at the time of the second biopsy. There are also significant
      limitations in current methods, since changes in collagen pool size measurable by
      histochemistry cannot measure small changes in collagen content and intra-laboratory
      variability inherent in histochemical assays reduce their sensitivity (10, 11).

      This stable isotope / mass spectrometry based method will be applied here for the
      quantification of fibrogenesis in vivo (from a bone marrow biopsy) and the identification of
      novel biomarkers of fibrogenesis in plasma in patients receiving investigational therapies.

      If successful, this research will identify plasma proteins which can be easily measured by
      tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) methods and whose synthesis rate reflects disease
      activity in the heart. Ideally, a set of markers related to NASH/ NAFLD will be developed
      that can detect and differentiate among multiple disease phenotypes, based on the kinetic
      signature measured in a single blood draw from a patient labeled with deuterated water.

      The role of de novo lipogenesis (DNL) has been suggested by several clinical studies
      (Donnelly JCI 2005, Puri Hepatology 2009). DNL contributes significantly to the accumulation
      of lipid in NASH (Donnelly JCI 2005). Moreover DNL is elevated in many other inflammatory
      states and may be a useful marker of hepatic inflammation. DNL as well as hepatic TG assembly
      and cholesterogenesis are easily measured in plasma or dried blood spot samples from patients
      consuming 2H2O, after several days of labeling the plasma DNL reaches a steady state and
      reflects hepatic DNL rates.
    
  