
    
      Normal gingival display has been defined by as the gum exposure between the inferior border
      of upper lip and gingival margin of anterior central incisors when smiling. An exposure of
      gingiva around 0-2 mm when smiling, and 2-4 mm of the maxillary incisor edges when the lips
      are at the rest state are considered as acceptable. While more than 2 mm of gingival exposure
      when a person smiles is stated by experts as an excessive gingival display, or what is known
      as "Gummy Smile",which is more of a descriptive term than a diagnosed condition, and affects
      a notable proportion of the population, especially women who are affected more than men.

      Many studies have stated the main causes of excessive gingival display, presenting the most
      important factors which may lead to having a gummy Smile. The study of Roe described that lip
      length and the upper lip mobility rate are the main contributing factors. The previous
      research stated that the exposure of teeth and gingiva depends on the integrated effects of a
      number of variables (increased muscle capacity, vertical maxillary excess, greater
      inter-labial gap at resting position, and the amount of over-jet and over-bite). Pausch &
      Katsoulis mentioned that abnormal gingival and maxillary anterior teeth display may take
      place due to numerous anatomic or functional factors, either hereditary or inborn. A narrow
      upper lip, an irregular eruption of teeth, excessive protuberance or vertical maxillary
      growth, and hypermobility of the maxillary lip and elevator muscle are common reasons for a
      gummy Smile. In fact, several contributing factors are affecting individuals to have a gummy
      Smile. Sometimes one of them is presented, although in some cases more than only one cause
      can be seen. Correct diagnosis of the reason leads to a proper treatment plan.

      Excessive gingival display can be managed by a variety of procedures. These procedures
      include surgical and non-surgical methods The underlying cause of excessive gingival display
      or gummy Smile has the main effect on the type of procedure that will be performed.
    
  