
    
      All patients scheduled for radical prostatectomy in the Martini-Klinik are admitted the day
      prior to the surgery. In case a patient gives his informed consent mpUS (multiparametric
      Ultrasound) scanning is performed on the day prior to surgery, the day of admittance. The
      patient will be prepared with an intravenous access to administer the contrast agent.
      Ultrasound Scanning will be performed in the left-lateral decubitus position and start with
      regular B-mode scanning and volumetry. A base to apex sweeps and left to right sweep will be
      acquired to allow building a 3D reconstruction of the prostate. The imaging protocol will
      then start with SWE. Stiffness of the tissue is measured in Shear modulus (kPa) and
      visualized in a color scale. SWE results will be recorded for later interpretation and
      analysis. Then 2 minute recordings of CEUS imaging will be made following the administration
      of a 2.4ml bolus of the contrast agent SonoVue® (Bracco, Geneva) through the intravenous
      canula. A maximum of four recordings will be made. For every recording a new bolus of
      contrast agent will be administered. In this way, for planes the contrast inflow can be
      recorded. Data will be stored and transported to an image processing system for dispersion
      analysis. On this system a dispersion (CUDI) parametric map will be constructed from each
      acquired CEUS recording. At the time of interpretation imaging results will be scored
      separately for the standard prostate sextants, base left, base right, mid left, mid right,
      apex left and apex right.

      The radical prostatectomy will be performed as in accordance to institution standards. This
      procedure will not be altered because of the trial. In many cases this means frozen sections
      are taken intraoperatively from the lateral sides of the prostate. These frozen sections are
      processed separately from the resection specimen in the pathology lab. Following the radical
      prostatectomy the resection specimen is fixated according to institution standards. This
      means that the specimen is photographed and the location and orientation of all coupes is
      recorded. This will enable allocating pathology findings to the standard prostate sextants
      described earlier.
    
  