
    
      CT colonography has been shown to be accurate in detection of colorectal neoplasia in
      enriched patient populations and is generally preferred by patients to conventional endoscopy
      and barium enema. It is advocated as an acceptable alternative for colorectal cancer
      screening and is increasingly used in the investigation of symptomatic patients. Ideally,
      like conventional colonoscopy, CT colonography requires a clean colon, free of residual stool
      and fluid. There is however good evidence that the arduous bowel purgation regimes required
      may produce adverse effects such as electrolyte imbalance, and are more detrimental to
      overall patient experience and compliance than any subsequent investigation. An ability to
      perform CT colonography with reduced bowel purgation, whilst maintaining acceptable
      diagnostic accuracy, would undoubtedly make the technique a more attractive proposition both
      for population screening and investigation of symptomatic patients.

      Interest has been generated in the use of orally ingested dilute barium or ionated contrast
      medium prior ro CT colonography to "label" or "tag" residual fluid or faecal matter reduced
      laxative. Such oral contrast agents are highly attenuating to X-rays such that labeled
      residual bowel contents appear white on CT scanning and are readily distinguished from true
      colonic pathology.

      Despite the early promise of a few limited studies, there is no consensus as to the optimum
      oral contrast type, dose and concentration. Anecdotally barium tends to best label solid
      residue whereas iodinated contrast best labels fluid, but this assumption has not been
      proven. Furthermore it is known that iodinated contrast tends to draw fluid into the bowel,
      producing a wet colon, which may not be suited to CT colonography. However, this indrawing of
      fluid by iodinated contrast such as gastrograffin produces a mild laxative effect, which may
      obviate the need for further formal purgation.

      The study aims to establish the optimum reduced preparation-tagging regimen, establish
      patient experience and document diagnostic performance compared to conventional colonoscopy.
    
  