
    
      This is a prospective, cross-over study. This study cannot be blinded or placebo controlled
      due to the risk of adrenal crisis in the study population with primary and secondary adrenal
      insufficiency.

      The aim of study is to assess the effect of immediate release and modified release
      hydrocortisone therapy on corticosteroid metabolism and 11-HSD1 in vivo (by assessment of
      urine metabolites and liver/ adipose tissue metabolism) by using several translational
      research approaches. This will also be compared to normal healthy controls to assess which
      treatment protocol is most physiological.

      Study Objectives

        -  To assess the effect of changing to modified release hydrocortisone therapy on global
           corticosteroid metabolism as assessed by urinary steroid metabolite profiles.

        -  To assess the effect of changing to modified release hydrocortisone therapy on adipose
           tissue corticosteroid metabolism and action

        -  To assess the effect of changing to modified release hydrocortisone on hepatic
           corticosteroid metabolism.

        -  To assess the effect of changing to modified release hydrocortisone therapy on patient
           quality of life (QoL) as assessed through validated QoL questionnaires.

        -  To compare results to normal healthy controls to assess which treatment protocol is most
           physiological.

        -  To assess potential biomarkers for adequacy of hydrocortisone replacement therapy.

      Patients will switch from their usual conventional immediate release hydrocortisone to daily
      dose equivalent of modified release hydrocortisone (Plenadren®) for 12 weeks.Other hormone
      replacement therapy regimens will not be adjusted during the study period.

      Research laboratory measurements will be performed at baseline and 12 weeks of modified
      release hydrocortisone. At the end of the intervention treatment period, the patients will be
      shifted to their usual hydrocortisone treatment and will be followed at the outpatient clinic
      according to the directives of the clinic.
    
  