
    
      X-linked Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) is an inherited disorder caused by an abnormal
      gene that fails to make the protein known as gp91 phox. This protein is part of a group of
      proteins that work to create hydrogen peroxide in neutrophils. Neutrophils are a type of
      white blood cell that helps fight infections. As a result, patients who do not make this gp91
      phox frequently develop life-threatening infections. In addition, these neutrophils often act
      abnormally, resulting in the creation of a granuloma, which is an abnormal collection of
      cells. These granulomas can then become large enough to block organs, such as the bladder
      and/or intestines, causing significant problems. Patients are usually treated with
      antibiotics (often needed for extended periods of time) for the infections caused by CGD, and
      with corticosteroids for the granulomas. However, these drugs do not cure CGD itself, and can
      have significant side effects. Thus patients with CGD do not have a normal life expectancy.

      The only available cure to date for CGD is Bone Marrow Transplantation (BMT), where the
      blood-making cells from a specially matched brother or sister donor (allogeneic) or a
      similarly matched unrelated donor are given to the patient after the patient has undergone
      some kind of chemotherapy or radiation in preparation for receiving the cells. If the cells
      from the donor engraft (or survive in the marrow), the patient can be cured; however, there
      is a risk that the cells may not engraft or that they may later get rejected from the body.
      Also, the cells from the donor can react against the patient, causing a serious disorder
      called Graft Versus Host Disease (GVHD). Although there are a number of methods used to try
      to reduce and/or prevent graft rejection and/or GVHD, these complications can still occur
      even with the newer methods now being developed. The risks of such complications are lower
      when a brother or sister is used as the donor; however, not all patients (even those with
      siblings) will have an ideally matched donor. Hence, transplantation, especially when using
      an unrelated donor, is not always a perfect cure.

      Because the gene responsible for making the gp91 phox is known, it is possible to use gene
      therapy to try to cure this disease. In gene therapy, some of the blood-making cells are
      taken from the patient using a technique called apheresis. The normal gene is placed into the
      cells using special viruses called retroviruses. The cells are then able to produce the
      normal protein. In this trial, the patient will receive a small dose of chemotherapy called
      busulfan, lower than what is traditionally used in allogeneic BMT. Then the newly corrected
      cells will be put back into the patient.

      Even with the best standard of care, a number of patients with CGD will still die from
      infection. For those patients who have an unresponsive or progressive infection and do not
      have a possible sibling donor, their only hope is either a Matched Unrelated Donor (MUD)
      transplant, which has a high risk of causing death itself, or gene therapy. Hence, we would
      propose using gene therapy in these patients as this has less risk of causing death, but can
      still possibly offer a cure. Even if the corrected cells do not remain lifelong to rid the
      patients entirely of their disease, as long as they persist for even a few months, they would
      be able to at least clear the current infection for which the patients are being considered
      for enrollment in this protocol. Further, they would still be eligible to undergo a matched
      unrelated donor transplant in the event that gene therapy does not confer any benefit.
    
  