
    
      Design: Prospective single-blinded randomized controlled trial. Patients were randomly
      assigned to control group or study group through a computer-based randomization list by a
      technician. See also inclusion and exclusion criteria.

      Colonoscopy was performed using high-definition colonoscope (GIF-HQ290I) after bowel
      preparation. Experienced endoscopists (each with over 3000 colonoscopies performed) and
      fellows (performed more than 600 colonoscopies) performed all procedures. During the
      insertion phase, air pump was turned off to avoid inadvertent insufflations. Water exchange
      with infusion pump was used to open the lumen and simultaneous suction of infused water to
      allow passage of the scope in clear water. Suction of water can maximize cleanliness and
      minimize distension. Air pockets at any location of the lumen were always aspirated. In a
      collapsed colon, water turbulence formation at the tip of the scope facilitates residual
      feces removal, salvage cleansing also be provided during insertion. Simethicone was used to
      remove bubbles over the mucosa. Cecal intubation was defined as the passage of the scope tip
      beyond the ileocecal valve with visualization of the cecal appendix. After cecal intubation,
      as much residual water as possible was aspirated before beginning the withdrawal phase. The
      same endoscopist uses the same assigned method to perform tandem or back-to-back colonoscopy
      on all patients. After the first colonoscopic examination with the colonoscope removed from
      the anus, using the same entry method for insertion and the same assigned method for the
      second colon examination. In all arms, withdrawal lasted at least 9 minutes and was done
      using air insufflation to obtain adequate distension. A stopwatch was used to time the
      procedures, and time for polypectomy was not included.

      Colon cleanliness was assessed using the Boston Bowel Preparation Scale (BBPS) and bubble
      scores. Cardiopulmonary function was monitored throughout, and adverse outcomes were
      recorded.

      Study end points The primary outcome was to compare the ADR of the 290-NBI with the HD-WL.
      Secondary outcomes included Right and left colon Adenoma Detection Rate. Right and left colon
      <10 mm Adenoma Detection Rate. Mean adenomas resected per procedure. Cecal intubation rate.
      Cecal intubation time. Total withdrawal time. Amount of water used during the procedure.
      Adenoma and polyp miss rate between the two group.
    
  