
    
      Study Groups:

      If participant is found to be eligible to take part in this study, they will be assigned to
      either Part 1 or Part 2 based on when they join this study.

      If participant is enrolled in Part 1, they will receive ponatinib alone for the first cycle.
      If the doctor thinks it is needed, the dose level may be increased. If the disease does not
      respond to ponatinib alone, participant will continue on to Part 2 of this study.

      Part 2 of this clinical research study will have 2 phases: Phase 1 (dose escalation) and
      Phase 2 (dose expansion).

      In Part 2, participant will be assigned to a study group based on when they join this study.
      Up to 3 groups of 30 participants will be enrolled in Phase 1 of Part 2, and up to 60
      participants will be enrolled in Phase 2.

      If participant is enrolled in Phase 1, the dose of ponatinib they receive will depend on when
      they join this study. The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level of
      ponatinib. Each new group will receive a higher dose of ponatinib than the group before it,
      if no intolerable side effects were seen. This will continue until the highest tolerable dose
      of ponatinib is found.

      If participant is enrolled in Phase 2, they will receive ponatinib at the highest dose that
      was tolerated in Phase 1.

      All participants in Part 2 will receive the same dose level of 5-azacytidine.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 28 days.

      Participant will take ponatinib tablets by mouth 1 time every day while they are on study.
      Participant should swallow the tablets whole. Participant should not crush them.

      If participant is enrolled in Part 2, they will receive 5-azacytidine either by vein over
      about 1 hour or as an injection under the skin on Days 1-7 of each study cycle or on Days
      1-5, 8, and 9 of each study cycle (if the clinic is closed on a weekend).

      If the doctor thinks it is needed, the dose level, dosing schedule, or study cycle may be
      changed and/or delayed. The study doctor will discuss any changes with participant.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle (+/- 4 days), participant will have a physical exam.

      On Day 1 (+/-1 day) of Cycles 1-3 and then every 3 cycles after that (Cycles 6, 9, 12, and so
      on), participant will have an EKG.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2 and then every 3 cycles after that, participant will have an ECHO or MUGA
      performed.

      One (1) time each week during Cycles 1-3 and then 1 time every 2-4 weeks after that, blood
      (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests. Participant may be able to have these
      blood draws performed at a local lab or clinic that is closer to their home. The results of
      the testing will be sent to MD Anderson for review.

      On Day 28 (+/- 7 days) of Cycles 1, 3, and then every 1-3 cycles after that, participant will
      have a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      One (1) time every 3 cycles, if participant can become pregnant, blood (about 1-2
      tablespoons) will be drawn for a pregnancy test.

      At any time while participant is on study, if the doctor thinks it is needed:

        -  Blood (about 1-2 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  Participant may have a bone marrow aspiration/biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Study:

      Participant will receive ponatinib alone or ponatinib and 5-azacytidine for as long as the
      doctor thinks it is in their best interest. Participant will no longer be able to take the
      study drugs if the disease gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if they are
      unable to follow study directions.

      Patient's participation on the study will be over after the follow-up visits.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 14 days after participant's last dose of study drug(s):

        -  Participant will have a physical exam.

        -  Blood (about 2-3 tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, participant will have a bone marrow aspirate/biopsy
           to check the status of the disease.

      Follow-Up:

      About 30 days after the end-of-study visit, a member of the study staff will call participant
      to ask if they have had any side effects and/or started any new treatment(s). This call
      should last about 5 minutes. If the study staff thinks it is needed, participant may also be
      asked to come into the clinic for a physical exam.

      Long-Term Follow-Up:

      If the disease appears to be responding to the study drugs, a member of the study staff will
      call participant every 3-6 months for up to 5 years to ask how they are doing and about any
      side effects they may be having. Each call should last about 5 minutes. Participant may also
      be asked to come into the clinic for a physical exam, if the study staff thinks it is needed.

      This is an investigational study. 5-azacytidine is FDA approved and commercially available
      for the treatment of myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). Ponatinib is commercially available and
      FDA approved for the treatment of specific groups of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML)
      participants. Their use in this study is considered investigational. The study doctor can
      explain how the study drugs are designed to work.

      Up to 132 participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  