
    
      Global HIV treatment initiatives have focused on increasing access to antiretroviral therapy
      (ART), with the goal of creating an "AIDS-free generation." There is growing evidence,
      however, that treatment availability alone is insufficient to stop the spread of the disease.
      Countries where HIV is hyperendemic, such as South Africa, will not achieve population-level
      reductions in HIV until incident infections have been dramatically reduced over a lifetime,
      and people living with HIV (PLWH) no longer wait to start treatment until they have symptoms
      of advanced AIDS. As South Africa expands ART eligibility to all people living with HIV, it
      remains unclear if promoting earlier ART initiation will lead to widespread uptake. These
      operational realities raise two fundamental questions: how will we close the gap from the 3.4
      million PLWH currently on ART to treating the over seven million people who need care; and
      what does this portend for the future of Treatment as Prevention in South Africa? The
      investigators' prior research suggests that optimizing ART initiation for PLWH in South
      Africa will require an intervention to reduce individual barriers to starting ART, promote
      social support, and enhance linkages to the healthcare system. In the proposed study, the
      investigators will build upon our prior research to pilot test a socio-behavioral
      multi-component peer intervention, to ensure that South Africans living with HIV initiate and
      sustain treatment. Investigators will test this intervention through a pilot
      randomized-controlled trial. This multi-component intervention is designed to address
      barriers to ART initiation identified in prior qualitative research, framed through the
      Theory of Triadic Influence (TTI). TTI focuses upon three "streams of influence" that impact
      health behavior at the individual-, social-, and structural-levels. The intervention will be
      delivered by "Treatment Ambassadors," who are PLWH who will function in multiple capacities,
      and have received intensive training in motivational interviewing (MI), peer-support, and
      peer navigation. They will then provide the intervention in eight sessions over 8-14 weeks.
      The intervention will be individually tailored to address the three streams of influence on
      patient decision-making as follows: MI will address individual perceived risk and ambivalence
      in decision-making; peer-support will target interpersonal social factors; and patient
      navigation will promote ART initiation and counter structural barriers.

      Investigators will enroll 90 participants (45 in each arm) with the goal of assessing
      feasibility and acceptability. Investigators enrolled 86 participants in total. The 90
      participant mark was not met due to time constraints and our eligibility requirements. In
      addition, preliminary efficacy will be assessed through the following measures:

      Primary Outcome Measure: Timely ART initiation (initiation within 3 months of enrollment)
      (assessed through the National Health Laboratory Service, pharmacy records, and medical chart
      abstraction).

      Secondary Outcomes Measures: 1) HIV-1 RNA Suppression within the first 6 months of study
      enrollment (assessed through the National Health Laboratory Service).

      2) Behavioral Factors associated with failure to initiate ART in a timely manner.
    
  