
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness of gabapentin in controlling delayed chemotherapy-induced
           nausea and vomiting (CINV) in patients receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy as
           defined by the percentage of complete responders (no emetic episodes and no rescue
           medication) on days 2 through 6 (five days after receipt of highly emetogenic
           chemotherapy) compared to an effective prophylactic regimen.

        -  To evaluate the effectiveness of gabapentin in controlling delayed CINV in patients
           receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy as defined by the percentage of complete
           responders (no emetic episodes, no more than mild nausea, and no rescue medication) on
           days 2 through 6 compared to an effective prophylactic regimen.

        -  To compare the effectiveness of these regimens in controlling acute CINV on day 1 of
           treatment in these patients.

        -  To compare the use of rescue agents in these patients.

        -  To determine the tolerability of gabapentin in these patients.

        -  To evaluate the effect of gabapentin for delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and
           vomiting on symptom distress and functional abilities in these patients.

        -  To compare alternative endpoints and methods for assessing nausea and vomiting and to
           determine how these measures compare to patient's satisfaction with symptom control,
           distress and function.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to gender, age (< 50
      years vs > 50 years), history of alcoholism (yes vs no), and history of motion sickness or
      history of pregnancy induced nausea/vomiting (yes vs no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral dexamethasone with 5HT3 receptor antagonist and oral
           gabapentin once daily on day 1 of chemotherapy. Patients then receive oral dexamethasone
           twice daily with or without 5HT3 receptor antagonist on days 2-4, and oral gabapentin
           either two or three times daily on days 2-5 of chemotherapy.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral dexamethasone with 5HT3 receptor antagonist and oral
           placebo once daily on day 1 of chemotherapy. Patients then receive oral dexamethasone
           twice daily with or without 5HT3 receptor antagonist on days 2-4, and oral placebo
           either two or three times daily on days 2-5 of chemotherapy.

      Patients complete a Functional Living Index - Emesis questionnaire, an overall satisfaction
      survey, and a side effect experience diary at baseline and on day 6. Patients also complete a
      nausea and vomiting diary at baseline and periodically during study therapy.
    
  