
    
      A single-blind randomised controlled pilot trial will be conducted comparing a Cognitive
      Behaviour Therapy formulation driven internalised stigma intervention (experimental group)
      against a psychoeducational control intervention (control group). It will follow
      recommendations outlined by the Medical Research Council's framework for the development and
      evaluation of complex interventions. This will allow for the medication of the intervention
      if necessary in order to examine what type of intervention is best suited to the inpatient
      environment.

      Aim: To examine the efficacy of a formulation driven intervention for internalised stigma in
      psychosis with acute inpatients. The intervention will be compared to a brief
      psychoeducational internalised stigma intervention.

      Description of therapies:

      Experimental Condition The experimental condition will receive a two hour intervention
      session (across one or two sessions) which will be based on a Cognitive Behaviour therapy
      formulation. These sessions will be undertaken within a two week period. The sessions will
      collaboratively assess and create a narrative of the participants' experiences of stigma, and
      develop a personalised stigma formulation. A stigma-related goal will be identified and a
      brief intervention will be collaboratively developed to tackle this goal. The intervention
      formulation and change mechanisms will draw upon strategies for people who experience
      psychosis. Intervention strategies may include guided discovery, skills development,
      normalising and belief change strategies, including behavioural experiments targeting
      stigma-relevant appraisals and negative beliefs about self including public stereotypes of
      psychosis, and supporting decisions about whether to disclose.

      Control Condition The control condition will receive a two hour session receiving
      psychoeducation and normalising material relating to stigma in psychosis. The aim of the
      material is normalise experiences of psychosis and stigma. Information includes prevalence
      rates of psychosis, experiences of stigma and discrimination commonly reported by those who
      experience psychosis.

      Both interventions will be delivered by the same therapist.
    
  