
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in the United States.
      Historically, CVD has been under diagnosed and inadequately treated in women related to
      issues of gender bias, lack of public and medical awareness of its prevalence, and its unique
      presenting symptomatology. Despite increasing awareness, as well as better diagnostics and
      treatment, women are still more likely than men to present with advanced disease and
      experience higher CVD-related morbidity and mortality. Given these facts, prevention of CVD
      is critical. Cardiometabolic risk (CMR) is a relatively new term for a set of risk factors
      that, when viewed together, are indicators of overall risk for developing CVD. CMR is useful
      for assessing, modifying, and ultimately preventing the development of CVD. Prevention of CVD
      in women may best be achieved by early identification and treatment of evolving CMR. Central
      or abdominal obesity, reflecting the presence of visceral adipose tissue and evidenced by
      increased waist circumference, has been shown to be a significant predictor of CVD. In this
      PNI-based model of CMR and fatigue, abdominal adiposity and fatigue are products of
      allostatic load. Resulting from cumulative wear and tear, fatigue gives rise to dysregulation
      of metabolic processes, ultimately resulting in subjective symptomatology and disease risk.
      Additionally, fatigue often accompanies metabolic changes, potentiating a trajectory of CMR
      related to decreased physical activity and self-care. Tai chi may enhance relaxation and
      could potentially reduce CMR. The specific aims of this project are to refine a tai chi
      intervention using a wait-list pretest-posttest design with repeated measures. Feasibility
      and acceptability of the intervention and identification of potential indicators of
      effectiveness also will be assessed. Additionally, a PNI-based model of fatigue and CMR will
      be further refined. The first aim will be analyzed using a mixed effects model. The second
      specific aim, to refine a PNI-based model of fatigue and CMR, will be examined using
      descriptive statistics, graphical methods and pairwise correlations and, as a second step,
      variable reduction methods including factor analysis, principle component analysis and
      canonical correlation analysis. The project is based on a theoretically and scientifically
      sound framework to investigate a more comprehensive, sensitive, and innovative model for
      understanding, measuring, and potentially reducing CMR in women. With further studies, the
      goal of this line of research is to reduce CMR and perhaps reduce morbidity and mortality
      related to CVD.
    
  