
    
      Interventions that engage adolescents living with HIV to improve adherence to antiretroviral
      therapy (ART) are urgently needed. Adolescents repeatedly demonstrate suboptimal adherence to
      ART, which is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Developing
      adherence-promoting interventions for adolescents requires an understanding of factors that
      shape adherence from multiple levels. Developmental theories suggest that adolescents are
      particularly sensitive to their social networks. Mobile health (mHealth) interventions, those
      that use mobile technology (e.g., smartphones apps) to transmit health information, hold
      promise as an effective way to improve ART adherence. These smartphone apps can be used to
      engage social networks and provide social support. Access to mobile phone technology is
      rapidly increasing among youth in South Africa, making mHealth interventions feasible and
      potentially scalable in this setting.

      This study will customize HealthMpowerment, a smartphone app-based (Android and iOS)
      intervention originally developed by Dr. Lisa Hightow-Weidman, to improve ART adherence among
      South African adolescents living with HIV. HealthMpowerment was developed based on the
      Institute of Medicine's Integrated Behavior Model with extensive input from youth. The app is
      designed to foster social support, offer tools for self-monitoring and habit formation,
      provide resources for goal setting and action planning, and present users with engaging
      informational resources.

      This pilot randomized-controlled trial (RCT) is funded through a K01 Mentored Research
      Scientist Development Award. Prior to the pilot RCT, the study team will iteratively
      customize the HealthMpowerment app through in-depth interviews and focus group discussions
      with adolescents living with HIV in Cape Town. For the pilot RCT, participants will be
      randomized to either the intervention or control (standard of care) condition (1:1).
      Participants randomized to the intervention will be asked to engage with the app for 6
      months. All participants will complete baseline and follow-up assessments at 3- and 6-months.
    
  