
    
      24 Twenty-four male Sprague Dawley rats weighing 250--300 gr were used in the study. For
      preliminary study, 1 one rat was used on each experimental day . During the study period, the
      animals were kept in cages in groups of five and taken to daily care under standard care
      conditions without restriction ofno feed and water supply restrictions.

      ProRoot White MTA, Medcem Pure Portland Cement, and Medcem MTA mixed according to the
      manufacturer's' instructions were filled placed into sterile p olyethylene tubules (internal
      diameter: 1.3 mm internal diameter, x external diameter: 1.6 mm external diameter, x length:
      5.0 mm length) sterilized with ethylene oxide gas, as specified by ISO , with using a sterile
      Llentulo. Twenty-one empty polyethylene tubes remained empty to bewere used as in the control
      group.

      Surgical Procedures The rats were anesthetized in an ether jar, followed byand then received
      intraperitoneal administration of 70- mg/kg ketamine and 10- mg/kg xylazine
      intraperitoneally. The operation area (backs) of the anesthetizedeach rats were was shaved
      with a certain razor blade, and the surgical area was disinfected with Betadine skin
      disinfectant ,. After shaving, the operation area wasand covered with sterile drapes to be
      exposed. In orderTo induce local hemostasis, operations of 0.5 cc, 0.006- mg/ml 4% articaine
      containing epinephrine (Ultracaine D-S-Aventis Forte, Istanbul, Turkey) by infiltrating local
      anesthesia was performedadministered.

      Incision lines were determined marked on the dorsal, anterior, and posterior extremities of
      the experimental animals, two in the anterior and two in the posterior region and two in the
      posterior region. When determining the incision lines, cCare was taken to keep a distance of
      at least 2 cm distance between the placed materials to prevent them from being affected .
      Skin iIncisions of approximately 1 cm length long was performedwere made with the a sterile
      scalpel in the designated areas. The cCanals were entered through the incision site with a
      sterile periosteal elevator, and ducts were opened under the skin by blunt dissection
      approximately 2 cm deep. Subsequently, polyethylene tubules filled with the experimental
      material according toof the each groups and sterile empty polyethylene tubules for the
      control groups were placed in the prepared subcutaneous canals. The incision sites were then
      closed primarily using 3/0 silk sutures. Antibacterial spray was applied on the sutures.

      Histological Procedures After surgery, on the 7th, 30th and 60th days, 7seven animals from
      each group, (21 animals) were euthanized intraperitoneally with high doses of
      thiopentalsodium (Pental, İ.E. Ulagay Med. San. , Istanbul, Turkey) administered
      intraperitoneally under ether anesthesia on Days 7, 30, and 60. Then, tThe test tubules
      placed were then removed together with the surrounding tissues and placed in bottles
      containing 10% neutral formalin. Paraffin blocks were prepared from test samples fixed in
      bottles containing 10% formalin for 2 two days. From the tissues embedded in the paraffin
      blocks, 4- μm serial sections parallel to the long axis of the tube were taken cut with a
      microtome (Leica SM 2000R, Leica Instruments, Wetzlar, Germany) and stained with hematoxylin
      and eosin (H&E).

      All histological evaluations were performed The tissue samples were histologically examined
      under an optical microscope (Nikon Eclipse E 600, Nikon Corp., Tokyo, Japan) at 40×x, 100×x,
      200×x, and 400×x magnifications. All the slides were examined and rated by a pathologists
      blinded to all procedures.
    
  