
    
      The developmental origins of adult disease are now recognized to be related to intrauterine
      conditions during embryonic and fetal life. Pregnancy begins with embryo implantation and its
      impact in adult life remains unknown. It has been demonstrated that human endometrial
      epithelium secretes specific microRNAs (miRNAs) during the time frame when the embryo enters
      the uterine cavity and initiates its adhesion to the uterine wall. Maternal miRNAs are
      secreted to the endometrial fluid, transported through exosomes or bound to proteins and
      consequently uptaken by the preimplantation embryo, before implantation occurs. As a
      consequence they suffer transcriptomic modifications that induce profound molecular and
      functional changes. The data already published demonstrate a novel paradigm: the
      transcriptomic maternal endometrial regulation of the pre-implantation embryo in health.

      Here, this novel maternal endometrium-based mechanism will be applied in order to understand
      and prevent the developmental origin of adult diseases induced during embryonic implantation
      either by metabolic disorders of future mothers who have developed obesity or by the exposure
      to certain contaminants such as tobacco. In this project, the expression profiles of secreted
      miRNAs will be identified in the endometrial fluid in obese women compared to normo-weight
      women. Also, it will be studied how this "obese" endometrial miRNA pattern is reversed after
      weight-loss. In parallel, murine models of obesity will be used to proof this concept. In
      addition, the expression profiles of secreted endometrial miRNAs will be identified in
      smokers versus future non-smokers mothers. As in the previous case, the reversion of this
      signature will be analysed after stopping the exposure to this contaminant.

      Then, "in silico" analysis will be done to select putative genes and functional pathways
      targeted by the signature of secreted endometrial miRNAs in the human and murine models in
      both pathological conditions. The determination of the transcriptomic and/or epigenome
      modifications induced by "obese" or/and "smoker" endometrial miRNAs in preimplantation mouse
      embryos is expected. As preliminary results, to support this project our accepted model of
      transcriptomic maternal endometrial regulation of the pre-implantation embryo in health, and
      the identification of a differential pattern of secreted miRNAs in the endometrial fluid of
      obese women compared to normo-weight counterparts is presented. In consequence, the
      application of this novel endometrium-based mechanism to the understanding and prevention of
      the origin of adult diseases related to obesity and/or tobacco exposure is proposed.
    
  