
    
      Adult Tay-Sachs (TSD) and Sandhoff disease (SD) result from a deficiency of lysosomal
      heterodimeric β-hexosaminidase A (Hex A, αβ). These disorders are characterized by
      progressive neurological deterioration that mainly affects motor, cerebral and
      spinocerebellar function. They affect fewer than 1000 people in the United States. There is
      no effective treatment for these diseases.

      Substantial evidence supports a disease model for TSD and SD which attributes pathology to
      decreased or absent Hex A levels in neuronal lysosomes of the brain. The problem in GM2 -
      gangliosidosis is the inability of the cell to metabolize GM2 gangliosides. When the residual
      activity of Hex A falls below a critical threshold level, GM2 ganglioside influx into the
      lysosome (the site of Hex A activity) exceeds the degradation rate and excess substrate
      continuously accumulates. Consequently, the lysosomes increase in size and number, giving
      rise to a storage disease.

      The majority of the mutations in Hex A affect the ability of the enzyme to obtain and/or
      retain its native 3-dimensional fold in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) where intracellular
      quality control is performed to retain and degrade defective enzymes. Pharmacological
      chaperones (PC)s are small molecules that can stabilize the native conformation of a mutant
      enzyme in the ER and allow it to escape the ER's quality control system and its associated
      degradation pathway (ERAD). PCs have the potential to act as drugs when they can stabilize
      the native conformation of a mutant enzyme.

      In 2006 ExSAR applied for orphan drug designation from the FDA for Pyrimethamine
      (Pyrimethamine) for the treatment of patients affected with late-onset GM2-gangliosidosis.
      The application is pending the positive outcome of clinical trials. Pyrimethamine is an
      FDA-approved drug which readily passes the bloodbrain barrier (BBB). It is currently used to
      treat malaria and toxoplasmosis. Our in vitro cell-based studies with fibroblasts from these
      patients show that Pyrimethamine can function as a PC for Hex A and raise intracellular Hex A
      levels. Our hypothesis is that Pyrimethamine administered to adult TSD and SD patients can
      improve neurological function and health.

      The over objective of the project is to assess the safety and tolerability of the drug. We
      first conduct a Phase I trial, which is the current study, using Pyrimethamine to treat
      patients affected with GM2-gangliosidosis. Hex A and B (αβ) activities in plasma and
      peripheral blood leukocytes will also be measured. The working hypotheses of the Phase I
      trial are that Pyrimethamine administered according to the regimen of the trial will be
      tolerated and safe and result in increased Hex A levels in blood and brain.
    
  