
    
      Purpose of the research:

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of aerobic exercise on neurophysiological
      values and functionality in individuals with multiple sclerosis.

      The aim of this study is to determine whether aerobic exercise has positive effects on
      neurophysiological values and functionality in MS patients and to investigate this in a
      multidisciplinary and multidisciplinary manner.

      Materials and Methods:

      Patients with MS who were referred to the physiotherapy and rehabilitation program by the
      Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation specialist at Fırat University Training and Research
      Hospital will be included in the study.

      In this study, patients with MS will be divided into two groups by stratified randomization
      method. Stratification will be performed in the early period of MS (EDSS 0.5-2.5) and in the
      late period of MS (EDSS 3-5.5). For a total of 18 sessions, only Frenkel Coordination
      exercises will be done to the control group, and Frenkel Coordination exercises and aerobic
      exercise will be applied to the study group.

      Physiotherapy and Rehabilitation Program Control Group: Patients will receive Frenkel
      Coordination exercises (4 different exercises 4-5 repetitions depending on the individual's
      functional and motor status) for 6 weeks. There will be a 1 minute break between each
      exercise set.

      Study Group: Patients will receive Frenkel Coordination exercises (4 different exercises 4-5
      repetitions depending on the individual's functional and motor status) for 6 weeks. There
      will be a 1 minute break between each exercise set. Following this, an aerobic exercise of 30
      minutes will be performed on the bicycle ergometer with electronic brake. Subjects will be
      advised not to do any exercise two days before or on that day and to eat only a light meal at
      least two hours before the test. The intensity of the exercise will be adjusted based on
      maximum oxygen consumption (VO2 max) specific to each individual.

      Each exercise session;

        -  5 min warm-up = 30% of VO2 max

        -  20 min exercise = 50-60% of VO2 max

        -  5 minutes cooling in the form. The goal of aerobic exercise is to increase physical
           capacity, which is represented by maximum oxygen uptake (VO2max) and mechanical power
           generated during exercise. Training programs should be conducted at least 2 to 3 times
           per week (60-80% maximum work rate or 60% VO2max) for 30 to 60 minutes at moderate
           concentrations. These programs are effective in increasing aerobic capacity and power
           output in MS (16).

      Oxygen consumption (VO2), exhaled carbon dioxide (VCO2), minute ventilation (VE), respiratory
      rate (RR), respiration change rate (RER) and oxygen saturation (SaO2) will be recorded.

      Evaluation Protocol:

      Electromyography (EMG), max VO2 values and iris levels are analyzed before and after
      treatment and scales and questionnaires will be applied to evaluate the functional levels.

      Within the scope of EMG evaluation, motor and sensory conduction studies of ulnar and median
      nerve in upper extremity, peroneal and tibial nerve in lower extremity, F response and
      H-reflex study in motor nerves, sensory conduction study of sural nerve in lower extremity
      are planned. H reflex is a monosynaptic reflection carried by 1a sensory fibers that synapse
      with alpha motor neuron. Response F shows the repeated discharges of alpha motor neurons and
      is a test used for the evaluation of diseases that cause transmission slowdown.

      The VO2 max measurement will be performed using the incremental exercise test to determine
      the maximum aerobic capacity. After resting for 5 minutes (sitting on the ergometer),
      patients will be asked to start cycling on the ergometer starting at 25W. The load will be
      increased by 25W every 3 minutes until depletion. Subjects will be encouraged to continue the
      exercise as much as possible orally. Oxygen consumption (VO2), exhaled carbon dioxide (VCO2),
      minute ventilation (VE), respiration rate (RR), respiration change rate (RER), oxygen
      saturation (SaO2) and heart rate will be recorded. In the statistical analysis, only VO2 max
      values will be examined.

      For the analysis of the level of iris, blood samples will be taken from gel biochemistry
      tubes as appropriate for the analyzes to be performed from the patients at the end of the
      aerobic capacity assessment. Blood samples will be separated by centrifugation at 3000rpm for
      10min and the obtained sera will be placed in small portions in ependorf tubes and stored at
      -80 ° C until analysis. Irisin levels will be studied using commercial ELISA (enzyme-linked
      immunosorbent assay) kits in accordance with the kit user manual.

      Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC), Ataxia Assessment and Rating Scale (SARA),
      Modified Borg Scale (MBS) to determine the effect of aerobic exercise on functionality in
      individuals with MS , Fatigue Impact Scale (FIS), Leeds Multiple Sclerosis Quality of Life
      Scale (Leeds Multiple Sclerosis Quality of L)
    
  