
    
      Elevated maternal serum free choline has the potential to improve fetal brain development .
      However, in humans, choline can be metabolized by gut flora into two metabolites with adverse
      outcomes: trimethylurea (which causes body odor) and Trimethylamine (TMA) which is then, once
      absorbed, metabolized into Trimethylamine-N-Oxide (TMAO). There is some concern that TMAO may
      be atherogenic and thus, if elevated over an extended period of time, may increase risk for
      cardiac disease. Thus, while maternal choline supplementation may improve fetal brain
      development, there is a potential for maternal adverse effects.

      However, humans have an active choline metabolic pathway, and other components of the choline
      metabolic pathway (e.g. phosphatidylcholine and betaine) may be interchangeable with choline
      post absorption but are resistant to gut bacteria metabolism (i.e. serum TMA does not
      increase). Thus, these other compounds would be expected to increase serum but with no impact
      on TMA or trimethylurea levels. An initial study of phosphatidylcholine supplementation in
      pregnant women was consistent with this hypothesis; infant offspring demonstrated improved
      cerebral inhibition; while no adverse events were identified for either mother or infant.

      Unfortunately, because of the lipid groups incorporated into phosphatidylcholine, its
      molecular weight is high and reasonable doses require consuming several large capsules a day.
      The study represents the first attempt to determine if betaine, an alternative compound
      within the same metabolic pathway but with a much lower molecular weight, also increases
      serum choline levels. As the first step, this proposal seeks to address this in non-pregnant
      women. Specifically, the goals are to (a) assess whether changes in serum choline levels in
      response to molar equivalent supplementation of phosphatidylcholine versus betaine are
      similar, and (b) whether, for betaine, there is a dose response relationship between
      supplementation dose and serum choline levels.
    
  