
    
      Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) is one of the most common chronic bacterial infections in
      man. And it is the causative factor for peptic ulcer and regarded as a class I carcinogen for
      gastric adenocarcinoma. Therefore, accurate detection of infection is crucial for devising
      proper eradication regimens and preventing the more severe GI complications. Detection of H.
      pylori in the gastric mucosa can be performed via (1) direct detection of the bacterium;
      culture, histology and polymerase chain reaction or (2) indirect detection of its enzymatic
      products particularly urease and serum H. pylori-specific antibody examinations. The direct
      detection methods are complicated and time-consuming. While the indirect detection methods
      are less accurate. With the wide use of endoscopy, diagnosis of H. pylori infection by
      endoscopy should be more accurate and easily available. However, there are still lack of
      endoscopic criteria for diagnosing H. pylori infection by conventional white light imaging
      (WLI), which correlates poorly with histopathological findings of H. pylori-induced gastritis
      . The newly modified LCI system (FUJIFILM Co.) can obtain clear and bright endoscopic images
      by using short-wavelength narrow-band laser light combined with white laser light. LCI
      technique can enhance the color of the endoscopic images by digital processing, which makes
      red regions seem redder and white regions seem whiter. Therefore, LCI may facilitate the
      detection of certain kinds of gastric lesions. As the common thinking, H. pylori-associated
      gastritis regions are redder than normal mucosa under WLI because of hyperemia following
      inflammation. And such redness can be enhanced by LCI. However, there is no criterion for
      this estimating. Red, green and blue (RGB) color model is a basic component system of the
      hue, of which each color is a composition of different proportions. Thus, the color obtained
      by endoscopic images can be quantified by RGB model. The study aimed at comparing the ability
      of WLI and LCI for diagnosing H. pylori infection by using RGB color model and investigating
      objective and quantifiable endoscopic criteria for predicting H. pylori infection.
    
  