
    
      b.) Current European guidelines for prevention of cardiovascular disease recommend regular
      training for patients suffering from any cardiovascular disease. Studies have shown that
      regular training results in an improvement of cardiopulmonary exercise capacity. Objective
      parameters such as peak VO2 and VE/ VCO2 slope can be positively influenced by training in
      patients with heart failure. Only few studies suggest a beneficial impact on exercise
      capacity in patients with an implanted ventricular assist device (LVAD), but literature on
      this topic is scarce. So far there are no recommendations for a standardized exercise
      protocol for LVAD.

      The aim of this prospective monocentric study is to examine the influence of an
      individualized, spiroergometry- guided training protocol on cardiopulmonary fitness in
      patients with an implanted LVAD. Secondary endpoints are to establish an individualized but
      standardized and clinically safe training protocol for patients with implanted LVAD.

      The investigators goal is to include sixty patients with first implanted LVAD in this study
      over a term of 24 months. After providing written informed consent, randomization into a
      control group and into a training group will be conducted. All study participants will
      perform cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) initially before randomization and at the end
      of the study. The control group will receive the established recommended standard
      physiotherapeutic treatment, including respiratory supportive therapy, chest muscle
      mobilization, coordination and stability training as well as walking exercise units. The
      training group will additionally undergo five spiroergometry- guided training sessions on
      ergometer per week. Three training sessions will consist of interval training; the other two
      sessions will consist of endurance training. Interval training hereby consists of training
      unit of 30 seconds at VO2 peak (maximal oxygen uptake) followed by 60 seconds below the
      anaerobic threshold (VT1). Endurance training units will consist of training below VT1.
      Criteria to stop exercise include patient exertion (Borg scale > 14), reduction in LVAD pump
      flow, pump speed or pump power. Both groups will perform CPET and 6 minute walk test (6 MWT)
      at study initiation and at study end. The training group will perform CPET including blood
      gas analysis every two weeks in order to adjust their individual training protocol.
    
  