
    
      Botulinum toxin is a neurotransmitter produced by clostridium Botulinum. It is the one of the
      most beneficial method for treating spasticity and providing functional improvement. By
      reducing the spasticity, the available muscle can be utilized to perform functional
      activities. Muscle volume decreases following the administration of Botulinum toxin to the
      neuromuscular junction. Strength training has positive impact on improving muscle volume.
      There are few studies are available regarding the exercise training following the
      administration of Botulinum toxin to the neuromuscular junction. But to the best of the
      investigators knowledge, there is no study available regarding the effectiveness of strength
      training on muscle volume and gross motor function following the administration of Botulinum
      toxin to the neuromuscular junction.2. To determine the effectiveness of strength training on
      muscle volume estimated by Ultrasound imaging following the administration of Botulinum toxin
      to hamstring and gastrocnemius is the objective of the study. The study protocol was approved
      by the institutional research advisory committee (RAC) and registered under the Universal
      Trial Number (UTN), U1111-1240-0890. The protocol will be registered under
      ClinicalTrials.gov, under World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry
      Platform and then the study will be submitted for the ethical approval by institutional
      ethics committee of Maharishi Markandeshwar Deemed to Be University, Mullana, and Haryana
      with unique reference number. The study will be executed in accordance with the principles of
      the Declaration of Helsinki (Revised, 2013) and National ethical guidelines for Biomedical
      and Health research involving human participants by Indian council for medical research
      (ICMR, 2017). The purpose of the study will be clearly explained to the patient with Head and
      neck cancer. Written informed consent form will be obtained from the recruited patients.
      Total of X CSDCP and CHCP will be screened and through convenience sampling method, 34
      children will be selected based on the inclusion criteria for the cross-over trail design.
      Demographic data will be recorded for all the recruited children.

      .
    
  