
    
      The study will be conducted in Cairo university hospitals and Dar Al-Teb Infertility and
      Assisted conception center, Giza Egypt. All patients attending the centre will be evaluated
      for expected ovarian response. Patients fulfilling the Bologna criteria definition of poor
      ovarian response will be invited to participate in the study and to sign informed consent
      forms.

      300 women with expected poor ovarian response undergoing IVF/ICSI will be randomly divided
      into 2 equal groups using computer generated random numbers. Group 1 will receive DHEA 25 mg
      ( DHEA 25mg, Natrol , USA) t.d.s daily for 12 weeks before starting IVF/ICSI cycle and a
      placebo similar to GH daily from day 6 of stimulation until the day of hCG trigger. Group 2
      will receive an oral placebo t.d.s. daily for 12 weeks before ICSI in addition to GH Growth
      hormone (Somatotropin, Sedico, Egypt) 4 IU on day 6 of hMG stimulation in a daily dose of 2.5
      mg SC until the day of hCG triggering.

      Patients included in the study will be subjected to full history taking and clinical
      examination. On the second day of menstruation serum FSH, LH, Prolactin and Oestradiol will
      be assessed and the antral follicular count (AFC) will be assessed using a vaginal ultrasound
      scan. AFC will be defined as the number of follicles measuring 3-10mm.

      All patients will have gonadotropin antagonist protocol with Human menopausal gonadotrophin
      (HMG) stimulation until the day of (Human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) administration. On
      the second day of menstruation serum FSH, LH, Prolactin and Oestradiol will be assessed and
      the antral follicular count (AFC) will be assessed using a vaginal ultrasound scan. AFC will
      be defined as the number of follicles measuring 3-10mm.

      The stimulation protocol will start on day 2 using 450-300 IU HMG ( Merional速 IBSA, Lugano,
      Switzerland) and gonadotrophin releasing hormone antagonist, cetrorelix (Cetrotide速 Merck
      Serono, Darmstadt, Germany) 0.025 mg daily. Gonadotropins will be administered for 4 to 5
      days, after which the dose will be adjusted according to the ovarian response. The ovarian
      response will be monitored by transvaginal ultrasound and serum E2 levels. When three or more
      follicles reached a maximum diameter of 16 mm, highly purified HCG 5000 or 10,000 IU
      (Choriomon 速IBSA) will be administered. The procedure will be cancelled if less than 3
      follicles 16 mm in size are present 12 days after starting gonadotropins despite doses
      reaching 450 IU. The cycle will be also cancelled if there is risk of ovarian
      hyperstimulation like massive ovarian enlargement or serum estradiol exceeds 3000pg/L
      Transvaginal oocyte retrieval will be performed 34-36 h after the administration of HCG.
      Oocytes will be fertilized either via IVF or ICSI based on the couple's history.
      Fertilization will be assessed 16-18 h after IVF or ICSI . Embryos will be transferred on Day
      3 or 5. Vaginal tablets containing progesterone (Prontogest速 IBSA) 400 mg/day will be given
      when fertilization is confirmed. A pregnancy test will be done 2 weeks after embryo transfer.
      For patients with a positive pregnancy test, progesterone is to be continued for an
      additional 4 weeks. Clinical pregnancy will be defined as Visualization of an intrauterine
      gestational sac 5 weeks after embryo transfer. And ongoing pregnancy will be defined as the
      sonographic confirmation of fetal heart pulsations at 12 weeks.

      Sample size calculation:

      Investigators are planning a study of independent cases and controls with 1 control(s) per
      case. Kotb et al found that the ongoing pregnancy rate in women undergoing IVF/ICSI with
      expected POR according to the Bologna controls is 0.285. On the other hand Bassiouny et al
      found that the ongoing pregnancy rate in women undergoing ICSI with expected POR who received
      growth hormone is 0.147, investigators will need to study 138 case patients who will receive
      DHEA and 138 patients who will receive GH to be able to reject the null hypothesis that the
      ongoing pregnancy rates for DHEA and GH are equal with probability (power) 0.8. Investigators
      will add 12 patients to each arm to account for missing data and dropout patients. The Type I
      error probability associated with this test of this null hypothesis is 0.05. Investigators
      will use an uncorrected chi-squared statistic to evaluate this null hypothesis.

      The primary outcome will be the ongoing pregnancy rate defined as sonographic confirmation of
      fetal heart beat at 12 weeks of gestation.
    
  