
    
      Smoking during pregnancy is the leading preventable cause of poor pregnancy outcomes in the
      U.S. Most pregnant smokers continue smoking through pregnancy producing serious immediate and
      longer-term adverse health consequences for the infant. Smoking during pregnancy is highly
      associated with economic disadvantage and a substantive contributor to health disparities.

      Efficacious interventions are available, but cessation rates are low (<20%) and improvements
      in birth outcomes often modest or absent. Current treatments usually entail relatively brief,
      lower-cost interventions (e.g., pregnancy specific quit lines). There is broad consensus that
      more effective interventions are sorely needed. This team of investigators has developed a
      novel behavioral economic intervention in which women earn financial incentives contingent on
      smoking abstinence. In a metaanalysis of treatments for smoking during pregnancy, effect
      sizes achieved with financial incentives were several fold larger than those achieved with
      lower intensity approaches or medications. The intervention also appears to improve birth
      outcomes and increase breastfeeding duration. While highly promising, further research is
      needed in at least three areas. (1) The evidence on birth outcomes and breastfeeding is from
      studies that combined data across trials rather than a single prospective trial, (2) whether
      the intervention produces other postpartum improvements in health has not been investigated,
      and (3) the overall cost-effectiveness of this approach has not been examined.

      To examine these unanswered questions, the investigators are proposing a randomized,
      controlled clinical trial comparing the efficacy and cost effectiveness through one year
      postpartum of current best practices for smoking cessation during pregnancy vs. best
      practices plus financial incentives among 230 pregnant, Medicaid recipients. A third
      condition of 115 pregnant nonsmokers matched to the smokers on sociodemographic and health
      conditions will be included as well to compare the extent to which the treatments reduce the
      burden of smoking and to estimate how much more might be accomplished by further improvements
      in this incentives intervention without exceeding cost-effectiveness.

      The investigators hypothesize that best practices plus financial incentives will be more
      effective than usual care practices alone, that the incentives intervention will be cost
      effective, and that while adding the incentives reduces a greater proportion of the health
      and economic burden of smoking than best practices alone, more can be done while remaining
      cost effective.

      Overall, the proposed study has the potential to substantially advance knowledge on
      cost-effective smoking cessation for pregnant women. Importantly, because of the strong
      association between smoking during pregnancy and economic disadvantage, the proposed study
      also has the potential to contribute new knowledge relevant to reducing the serious
      challenges of health disparities.
    
  