
    
      A maximum of 42 subjects will participate in the treatment part of this study.

      The investigators will collect up to 180 mL of the participants blood. The investigators will
      use this blood to grow T cells. They will grow the T cells and use a retrovirus (a special
      virus that can carry the GPC3 CAR gene into the T cells) to genetically engineer them. After
      the CAR gene are put into the T cells, the investigators will make sure that they are able to
      kill hepatocellular carcinoma or hepatoblastoma cells in the laboratory.

      LYMPHODEPLETION CHEMOTHERAPY:

      Several studies suggest that the infused T cells need room to be able to proliferate and
      accomplish their functions and that this may not happen if there are too many other T cells
      in circulation. Because of that, participants will receive treatment with cyclophosphamide
      (Cytoxan) and fludarabine for 3 days before receiving the T-cell infusion. These drugs will
      decrease the numbers of the participants' T cells before the investigator infuse the GPC3-CAR
      T cells.

      WHAT THE INFUSION WILL BE LIKE:

      After making these cells, they were frozen. If the patient agrees to participate in this
      study, they will be scheduled to be treated, the cells will then be thawed and injected into
      the participant over 5 to 10 minutes. The participant will receive the GPC3-CAR T CELLS 48-72
      hours after completing the chemotherapy. The participant may be pretreated with Tylenol
      (acetaminophen) and Benadryl (diphenhydramine). Tylenol and Benadryl are given to prevent a
      possible allergic reaction to the T cell administration.

      This is a dose escalation study, which means that investigator does not know the highest dose
      of GPC3-CAR T cells that is safe. To find out, the investigator will give the cells to at
      least 3 participants at one dose level. If that is safe, the investigator will raise the dose
      given to the next group of participants. The dose each patient gets will depend on how many
      participants get the agent before that patient and how they react. The investigator will tell
      each patient this information. This will help the patient think about possible harms and
      benefits. Since the treatment is experimental, what is likely to happen at any dose is not
      known.

      All of the Treatments will be given by the Center for Cell and Gene Therapy at Houston
      Methodist Hospital.

      Medical tests before treatment:

        -  Physical exam and History

        -  EKG (electrocardiogram) to assess heart function

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function and blood clotting (INR).

        -  If the patient is infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV) they will do a test to
           measure the levels of the virus

        -  Pregnancy test (if the patient is a female who can get pregnant)

        -  Measurements of the patient's tumor by scans (CT/MRI) and the tumor marker
           alfa-fetoprotein (AFP), if the patient's tumor produces this protein.

      Medical tests during and after treatment:

        -  Physical exams and History

        -  Blood tests to measure blood cells, kidney and liver function and blood clotting (INR)

        -  If the patient is infected with the hepatitis B virus (HBV), the investigator will do a
           test to measure the levels of the virus

        -  Measurements of the tumor maker alfa-fetoprotein (AFP), if the patient's tumor produces
           this protein

        -  Measurements of the patient's tumor by CT/MRI scans (6 -8 weeks after the infusion)

        -  Tumor biopsy

      FOLLOW-UP STUDIES

      The investigators will follow the participant during and after the injections. To learn more
      about the way the T cells are working in the patient's body, up to 60 mL (12 teaspoons) of
      blood will be taken from the participant before the chemotherapy, before the T-cell infusion,
      3 to 4 hours after the infusion, 3 to 4 days after the infusion (this time point is optional)
      at 1 week, 2 weeks, 4 weeks, 6 weeks and 8 weeks after the injection, every 3 months for 1
      year, every 6 months for 4 years and then every year for the next 10 years. Total time
      participation for this study will be 15 years.

      During the time points listed above, if the T cells are found in the patient's blood at a
      certain amount an extra 5 mL of blood may need to be collected for additional testing.

      The investigator will use this blood to look for the frequency and activity of the cells that
      they have given ; that is, to learn more about the way the T cells are working and how long
      they last in the body. The investigator will also use this blood to see if there are any
      long-term side effects of putting the new gene (chimeric antigen receptor, CAR) into the
      cells. In addition to the blood draws, because patient's have received cells that have had a
      new gene put in them, they will need to have long term follow up for 15 years so the
      investigator can see if there are any long term side effects of the gene transfer.

      Once a year, the patient will be asked to have their blood drawn and answer questions about
      their general health and medical condition. The investigators may ask the patient to report
      any recent hospitalizations, new medications, or the development of conditions or illness
      that were not present when the patient enrolled in the study and may request that physical
      exams and/or laboratory tests be performed if necessary.

      In the event that a tumor biopsy is performed for clinical reasons the investigators will
      request permission to obtain excess sample to learn more about the effects of the treatment
      on the patient's disease. In the event of death, the investigators will request permission to
      perform an autopsy to learn more about the effects of the treatment on the patient's disease
      and if there were any side effects from the cells with the new gene .

      In addition, the investigators will obtain tumor biopsy for research purposes only.
      Associated risk with the biopsy will be discussed with the participant in detail in a
      procedure specific consent form. The investigators will test the sample to see if the
      GPC3-CAR T cells can be found in the tumor and what effect they had on the tumor cells.

      If the patient develops a second abnormal cancer growth, significant blood or nervous system
      disorder during the trial, a biopsy sample of the tissue will be tested (if a sample can be
      obtained).
    
  