
    
      This study will explore whether brain microglial activation (which leads to an inflammatory
      response) is more extensive in individuals with clinical evidence of neuropsychiatric
      syndromes and whether the extent of microglial activation is proportional to the extent of
      neuropsychiatric symptoms.

      More specifically, the hypothesis is that:

        1. Brain microglial activation is more substantial in the presence of neuropsychiatric
           illness, and the extent of brain microglial activation is proportional to severity of
           phenotypic presentation of neuropsychiatric illness (i.e. depression, cognitive
           impairment, fatigue, etc.) in a given patient.

        2. Specific brain regions where enhanced microglial activation is present underlie a
           portion of phenotypic variance in neuropsychiatric patients

        3. Combinations of neuropsychiatric phenotypes rather than specific differences in immune
           mechanisms underlie the contribution of central immune activation to a specific
           neuropsychiatric diagnosis.

      The following measures will be obtained:

        1. microglial activation as quantified by PET using the radiotracer [11C]PBR-28.
           ([11C]PBR-28 specifically binds translocator protein (TSPO), which is associated with
           microglial activation and can thus serve as an in vivo biomarker of microglial
           activation and neuroinflammation. TSPO is also called the peripheral benzodiazepine
           receptor (PBR))

        2. dimension of specific neuropsychiatric symptoms (Hamilton Depression Rating Scale
           (HDRS), Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Positive and Negative Affect Schedule
           (PANAS))

        3. presence/absence of a specific neuropsychiatric diagnosis (Dementing Illnesses,
           Traumatic Brain Injury, Major Depression, Bipolar Disorder, Pain Syndromes, Other
           Affective Disorders, etc.)

      Using the above measures, correlations (and brain regional correlations) between the extent
      of microglial activation and the presence of a dimension of neuropsychiatric symptoms will be
      tested for. Following this, the presence of microglial activation (and brain regional
      microglial activation) 1) between healthy control volunteers and volunteers with
      neuropsychiatric syndromes and 2) between the various neuropsychiatric syndromes/diagnoses
      will be tested for.
    
  