
    
      Project 2 (PI: Dr. Darius Paduch): Role of Small RNAs in male infertility. The leading
      hypothesis of this project is based on extensive preliminary results obtained by this group
      showing that 70% of miRNA expressed from human testis are highly conserved in humans and
      rodents. The investigators hypothesize that differentially expressed miRNAs in men with
      infertility lead to changes in levels of target messenger RNAs (mRNAs) involved in key
      regulatory pathways in cell biology. The results of this project will lead to better
      understanding of miRNAs' role in male reproduction and have strong potential to enable the
      development of new miRNA-based or miRNA-regulating therapies. This project will help to
      develop new transgenic animals to study miRNA in vivo with implications not only for
      infertility, but also biology of testicular cancer. Derived RNA based therapies have the
      potential to be less invasive, less toxic, and more effective in treating these serious and
      increasingly prevalent conditions.

      Core A (PI: Dr. Paula E. Cohen): Administration Core. The main objective of the
      Administrative Core (Core A) is to provide a structure and support mechanism to the entire
      Center for Reproductive Genomics (CRG). The Admin core will facilitate interactions across
      the Ithaca and Manhattan campuses of Cornell University, will encourage research in small RNA
      biology, both in reproductive medicine and across clinical disciplines, and will promote
      strong training in reproductive medicine that encourages a translational focus. In general,
      the Admin core will focus efforts on three major philosophies: translational and innovative
      research, teaching, and outreach.

      Core B (PI: Dr. Andrew Grimson): RNA Sequencing Core. The main objective of the RNA
      Sequencing Core (RSC) is to provide users with efficient and high quality access to
      cutting-edge sequencing technologies. These sequencing technologies will be used by all
      members of this P50-proposal, and made available to other P50-centers. Importantly, all
      members of this P50 are relying on access to these technologies to achieve their project
      goals. By centralizing sequencing at the RSC, sequencing will be performed at a lower cost
      and with greater efficiency that would be possible for individual users.

      Core C (PI: Dr. Peter Schlegel): Outreach Core The goals of this outreach core are two-fold:
      (1) to provide a scientific and technical resource for clinicians interested in embarking on
      research involving small RNA biology in their physiological system of interest, and (2) to
      provide outreach to the community by means of a state- of-the-art lecture series. The
      Innovation Seminars in Reproductive Technologies Series (InSeRT), in order to educate
      patients about the latest advances in our understanding of the genetic and epigenetic basis
      for human disease.
    
  