
    
      1. INTRODUCTION

      1.1 Research Area

      Hemiplegic shoulder pain (HSP) is a common clinical consequence of stroke with reported
      frequency as high as 72% (1). Onset of HSP is more common at 2-3 months post stroke(2). HSP
      can reduce participation in rehabilitation activities and reduce quality of life(3). The
      etiology of HSP includes neurological and mechanical factors, although mechanical factors are
      more common. Mechanical factors include structural injury from glenohumeral subluxation, or
      rotator cuff pathology (3). In hemiplegic patients, the nociceptive pain ratio was higher at
      86.7% compared to neuropathic pain ratio; 13.3% (4). Management of HSP focused on reducing
      pain and improving shoulder ROM. Minimally invasive treatment of HSP with intra-articular
      steroid (IAS) injection and supra-scapular nerve block (SSNB) have lately gained interest.
      However, 2 studies done so far showed that while both SSNB and IAS showed significant
      differences in reducing shoulder pain and improving ROM with time, there was no significant
      difference of these injection method in comparison to conventional treatment. None of the
      studies done to date documents functional outcome of patients post injection with IAS or
      SSNB. The main purpose of this study is to assess the analgesic effect of SSNB vs IAS in HSP
      among Malaysian stroke population as well as to look at the improvement of shoulder ROM and
      functional outcome measure.

      1.2 Research Questions

      Does supra-scapular nerve block (SSNB) provide better pain relief, passive range of motion
      (PROM) and functional outcome compared to intraarticular steroid (IAS) injection in
      hemiplegic shoulder pain?

      1.3 Significance of this study

      SSNB is an effective and safe method for pain relief and increases ROM in many group of
      patients who had shoulder pain such as non specific shoulder pain (5),chronic shoulder
      pain(6) and rotator cuff tendinitis(7). SSNB can be performed using ultrasound guidance where
      injection of Bupivacaine is made at posterior shoulder towards suprascapular notch. Side
      effects include; worsening pain, soreness, bruising, nerve damage, allergic reaction.

      IAS on the other hand is performed by injecting 40 mg of Triamcinolone Acetonide along with 2
      ml of Lidocaine 1% into glenohumeral articular space (8). Systematic reviews of treatments
      for sub acromial pain favor IAS over the following options: ergonomic changes, NSAID,
      acupuncture, ROM and strengthening exercises, ultrasound, ice, heat, and physical therapy
      (9,10). Side effects include; post injection flare, disturbance of menstrual pattern, facial
      flushing, subcutaneous tissue atrophy, skin depigmentation, infection, and tendon rupture
      (13).

      2 studies done so far that compare IAS vs SSNB head to head; Yasar et al,2011 and Jeon et al,
      2014 only followed up the patients up to 1/12 only. Besides, there was no functional outcome
      measure done (11,12). Other study done with longer follow up times such as Adey-Wakeling et
      al, 2013 SSNB vs s/c saline (Placebo) consistently demonstrated superior, statistically
      significant pain reduction compared with s/c saline (placebo) even at 12/52 post injection
      (13).

      Another randomized controlled trial (RCT) by Rah et al,2012 in comparing IAS vs subacromial
      lignocaine (placebo) showed significant improvement of visual analogue scale (VAS)-day/night,
      ROM as well as SDQ, in the treatment group even at 8/52(14). Besides, stroke is extremely
      common in Malaysia and is the 3rd leading cause of death in our country. Stroke patients in
      Malaysia is generally younger with mean age of stroke onset between 54.5 and 62.6 (15).

      HSP will affect stroke recovery as the pain interfere with rehabilitation and has a potential
      to worsen the disability in hemiplegic patients and negatively impaired quality of life (QOL)
      (16).

      2.0 Methodology

      2.1 Study Design

      This study design is prospective, double blinded interventional study. In this study, patient
      will be blinded from the interventions they are receiving; intraarticular steroid injection
      or supra-scapular nerve block. Investigator that will be assessor will also be blinded from
      knowing the interventions that patients received.

      2.1.1 Enrollment Patients referred to SMART Clinic for hemiplegic shoulder pain will be
      examined and recruited. Patients who did not fulfill the inclusion and exclusion criteria
      will be excluded.

      Numerical rating score (NRS) pain score at maximum passive ROM of shoulder flexion,
      abduction, internal and external rotation, Maximum passive ROM of shoulder flexion,
      abduction, internal and external rotation, Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and
      Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ) will be measured prior to intervention.

      2.1.2 Allocation The patients recruited will then be randomly allocated using a randomization
      computer program into 2 separate groups; Suprascapular nerve block(SSNB) group and
      Intraarticular steroid(IAS) group. The assessor and patients are blinded to the type of
      intervention the patient is receiving. The injector who is a skilled interventionist will not
      be blinded.

      2.1.3 Intervention Suprascapular nerve block (SSNB) and Intraaticular steoid(IAS) injection
      will be performed by skilled interventionist.

      2.1.4 Evaluations Numerical rating score (NRS) pain score at maximum passive ROM of shoulder
      flexion, abduction, internal and external rotation and maximum passive ROM of shoulder
      flexion, abduction, internal and external rotation will be assessed and recorded at 1 hour, 1
      month and 3 months after intervention. Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and
      Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ) will be measured at 1 month and 3 months post
      intervention.

      2.2 Setting

      • Rehabilitation Clinic, University of Malaya Medical Center (UMMC)

      2.3 Sample Size

      A power analysis program G* Power was used to calculate the sample size. The effect size of
      study by Jeon et al is 0.3. With the power of study set at 0.8 and alpha set at 0.05, the
      sample size for this study based on G* Power sample size calculator is set at 64; 32 each
      arm. However, to allow for 25% attrition rate, the sample size is set at 86; 43 each arm.

      3.0 Data Collection Methods

      Primary Outcome :

        -  Numerical rating score (NRS) pain score at maximum passive ROM of shoulder flexion,
           abduction, internal and external rotation

        -  To be collected at baseline, 1 hour, 1 month and 3 months post injection

      Secondary outcome :

        -  Maximum passive ROM of shoulder flexion, abduction, internal and external rotation

        -  Measured at baseline, 1 hour, 1 month and 3 months post injection.

        -  Shoulder Pain and Disability Index (SPADI) and Shoulder Disability Questionnaire (SDQ)

        -  Measured at baseline, 1 month and 3 months post intervention.

        -  Using face to face interview

      3.1 Data Analysis

      Data from this study will be analysed using Statistical Package for Social Science (SPSS)
      software.

      Demographics of 2 groups will be analyzed using Mann-Whitney U tests and Chi-Square test of
      association.

      Primary objective:

      Pain reduction:

      Pre-post intervention intra-group; post-intervention inter-group: paired t-test

      Secondary objectives:

      ROM improvement: pre-post intragroup; post-intervention inter-group: paired t-test and
      analysis of variance (ANOVA)

      Functional improvement of SDQ and SPADI: pre-post intra-group; post-intervention inter-group:
      paired t-test

      4.0 Strength and Limitation

      Strength

        -  Secondary outcomes include functional outcomes such as SPADI Score and SDQ

        -  Longer follow up period at 3 months compared to study by Jeon et al and Yasar et al at 1
           month

        -  Bigger sample size Limitation

        -  Single center study

        -  Risk of patient loss to follow-up

        -  Recruitment will be a challenge
    
  