
    
      We plan to perform nasal inoculation with N. lactamica (wild type strain Y92-1009) in healthy
      pregnant women, to establish whether horizontal N. lactamica transfer to their neonates
      occurs, and to characterise the impact on the developing neonatal upper respiratory tract
      (URT) microbiome. If successful, this study will provide a novel model for inducing and
      capturing a natural colonisation event in neonates. Unlike traditional controlled human
      infection models, which capture inoculation-induced colonisation, this first-in-man model
      would study person-to-person commensal transmission, allowing comparison of microbiome
      changes and adaptive commensal microevolution in mother-infant pairs. We have already
      conducted relevant Patient and Public Involvement research, in which all 12 pregnant women
      interviewed reported approval for this proposed study, and 11 expressed that they would have
      been interested in taking part in such a study.

      We will approach healthy pregnant women in their second and third trimesters of pregnancy.
      Eligibility screening and enrolment will take place at 34+0 to 36+6 weeks gestation, and 20
      women (not already colonised with N. lactamica) will be inoculated nasally with 10^5 colony
      forming units N. lactamica Y92-1009 at 36+0 to 37+6 weeks gestation. Samples will be obtained
      from new mothers (nasopharyngeal, oropharyngeal and saliva) and their neonates
      (nasopharyngeal and saliva) at 1 day, 1 week and 1 month post-partum. If possible, and with
      the volunteer's consent, we will collect an umbilical cord blood sample at delivery and an
      infant venous blood sample at 1 month post-partum, for storage and use in future studies. Any
      natural N. lactamica carriers identified at screening will not be inoculated, but will be
      followed-up with their neonates for biological sampling.

      Pharyngeal swabs and saliva will be suspended in storage medium, aliquoted and stored at
      -80°C. N. lactamica colonisation will be confirmed using selective agar, Gram stain,
      microscopy, and analytical profile index testing (and matrix-assisted laser
      desorption/ionization time-of-flight for inconclusive results). N. lactamica colonisation
      density will be quantified, isolates will be stored at -80°C, and Y92-1009 strain identity
      will be confirmed using targeted polymerase chain reaction (PCR).

      Microbiome analysis will be performed on thawed aliquots of paired mother-neonate samples, by
      DNA extraction, 16S ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) gene PCR, and amplicon sequencing. Poor
      quality and chimeric sequence reads will be removed, and high quality reads will be trimmed,
      aligned and clustered for taxonomic classification and statistical analysis.

      Paired maternal and neonatal isolates confirmed as N. lactamica Y92-1009 will be sequenced,
      and resulting genomes will be mapped to a complete N. lactamica Y92-1009 closed reference
      genome, to assess for evidence of distinct microevolution.

      We will also compare paired microbiome profiles to identify candidate organisms that are
      present in mothers and their infants. Paired mother-neonate sample aliquots will be thawed
      and plated onto selective media, and isolates of candidate species will be identified using
      Gram stain, microscopy, and other relevant microbiological tests. Resulting isolates will be
      sequenced and analysed for evidence of strain sharing between mothers and their neonates,
      suggesting horizontal transfer.
    
  