
    
      -  Background: Different research strategies aim at understanding the mechanisms underlying
           the maintenance of atrial fibrillation (AF), while preventing ventricular pro-arrhythmia
           related to the use of anti-arrhythmic drugs to restore sinus rhythm. Such aims might be
           achieved by drugs that effectively terminate reentrant sources identified during AF,
           along with an atrial specific and atria-preferential blockade of ionic currents. The
           latter may be especially relevant in paroxysmal AF episodes with fast atrial activation
           rates, in which INa and IK,ACh are involved in the maintenance of fast atrial reentrant
           sources underlying AF.

        -  Objective: The main objective of this project is to study the efficacy and the
           mechanistic value of blocking both atrial specific and atria-preferential dynamics of
           ionic currents to terminate paroxysmal AF.

        -  The hypothesis is that a drug blocking atrial specific and atria-preferential dynamics
           of ionic currents (IK,ACh and INa, respectively) will be more effective to terminate
           paroxysmal AF episodes with fast atrial activation rates, than a classical INa blocker,
           which will be more effective to terminate AF episodes with slower activation rates.

        -  Design: Double blind and single center study, in which patients will be randomly
           assigned to a cardioversion group using intravenous flecainide or to an
           atria-preferential and atrial-specific blockade group using intravenous vernakalant.
           Patients will be routinely monitored in the electrophysiology room for 90 minutes upon
           drug administration to acquire both 12-lead digitized ECG signals and non-invasive body
           surface potential mapping. Body surface recordings and conventional ECG signals will be
           exported to obtain temporal and spectral parameters of atrial activity during AF, and
           measure organization and atrial rate in both groups of patients undergoing
           pharmacological cardioversion. The success rate of cardioversion obtained in both groups
           will be correlated with the patterns of activation and spectral parameters obtained from
           the body surface, which will provide what type of paroxysmal AF episodes are suitable to
           terminate upon administration of anti-arrhythmic drugs with an atrial specific and
           atria-preferential profile.

      Electrical cardioversion will be performed in subjects with unsuccessful pharmacological
      cardioversion within the first 24 h. after vernakalant or flecainide administration.

      The results obtained in the clinical setting will be studied in realistic mathematical models
      to further understand the capability of both drugs to terminate paroxysmal AF.
    
  