
    
      The primary objective of the study is to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and
      Recommended Phase 2 Dose (RP2D) for CA-4948 in patients with AML and high risk MDS based on
      the safety and tolerability, dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs), and Pharmacokinetic
      (PK)/Pharmacodynamic (PD) findings.

      CA-4948 is formulated as tablets for twice daily oral administration. Each treatment cycle
      will be 28 days in length and repeated in the absence of toxicity. Patients who tolerate
      CA-4948 may continue to receive CA-4948 until progression of disease, intolerable toxicity,
      withdrawal from the trial, or study termination.

      The starting dose level will be 200 mg twice daily (BID) which was determined to be safe,
      capable of achieving relevant levels of drug exposure as well as demonstrating signs of
      biologic activity and clinical efficacy in an ongoing study (Study CA-4948-101). Three
      patients with AML or MDS will be enrolled at the designated dose. If none of the first 3
      patients experience a DLT during the first cycle, patients may be enrolled into the next
      higher dose level. If 1 patient out of the first 3 experiences a DLT, the dose level may be
      expanded with an additional 3 patients. If 2 or 3 patients out of the first six experience a
      DLT, this will be considered a DLT rate above the MTD (> 33%), and additional enrollment will
      proceed at a lower dose level. Any adverse reaction that leads to dose reduction or
      discontinuation is considered a DLT unless the adverse reaction is clearly and solely related
      to disease.

      The RP2D will be determined by the Clinical Safety Committee in collaboration with the
      Sponsor, considering all aspects of safety, tolerability, biologic activity, pharmacokinetics
      and preliminary efficacy in the trial population. The intent of the RP2D is to provide a dose
      and schedule that will maximize the opportunity for clinical benefit, while minimizing the
      risk of toxicity. The RP2D may be below the MTD. The CSC may request enrollment of additional
      patients at any previously-explored dose level in order to make an appropriate RP2D or MTD
      determination.
    
  