
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is the major neurological movement disorder in terms of both
      prevalence and morbidity, and in associated health care and social care costs. In the United
      Kingdom about 120,000 people are affected and associated costs are estimated at £ 2 billion
      per year. The current gold standard treatment for PD is levodopa therapy, however its use is
      limited by the development of motor complications in up to 80% of patients over a 5-10 year
      period. This has led to a resurgence in functional neurosurgery for PD over the last three
      decades.

      Deep brain stimulation (DBS) is now accepted treatment for patients with severe PD and is
      supported by the Food and Drug Administration in the USA and National Institute of Clinical
      Excellence in the UK with trials providing evidence that it improves quality of life over
      best medical treatment. However, due to partial efficacy and side effects its potential is
      relatively limited and it has so far generally been restricted to patients with severe
      disease and uncontrollable motor complications with medical therapy.

      Currently DBS provides continuous and fixed stimulation, but this constant stimulation
      promotes side-effects like speech disturbance. Research by the investigators has shown that
      by controlling the stimulation and only delivering it when needed side-effects can be
      reduced. To show this the investigators developed a form of adaptive DBS in which they
      controlled how much stimulation is delivered by directly recording the brain's activity from
      the electrode used for brain stimulation. This provides a feedback signal.

      However, although adaptive DBS works in an acute research setting, there are still several
      questions to be answered before it can be translated in to a durable therapy option. The main
      remaining questions are whether the amelioration of Parkinsonian symptoms is maintained over
      periods longer than an hour or so, and whether it is triggered when arousals occur during
      sleep. The latter is important to ensure that mobility is maintained when turning in bed and
      during bathroom visits.

      The Investigators would like to contrast conventional (continuous) DBS with adaptive DBS when
      the same patients with Parkinsons are treated while both awake and asleep. Thus they can
      follow treatment effects during the day and at night, in sleep. Patients will receive the two
      types of stimulation in randomised order. Patients will not be told which form of stimulation
      is being applied and the main measures used to evaluate the outcome of the study will be
      video-taped performance on a number of motor tasks and the video-taping of mobility during
      arousals and awakenings from sleep. Assessment of video-tapes is desirable as assessors can
      then be blind to the treatment being applied. Thus assessments should not be biased.

      Patients will undergo our standard 2-part DBS implantation. The experiments will be performed
      whilst the patients are inpatients between the two operations and will therefore not require
      any extra procedures, extra hospital stay or incur delay in starting therapeutic DBS.

      The DBS electrode has four contacts, and the electrodes are bilaterally implanted. Patients
      will be requested to withhold their usual medication overnight so that they are first
      assessed off medication on each morning. Each morning we will start with some screening. On
      the first of day this will involve finding the best contact for adaptive stimulation on the
      DBS electrode on the two sides. DBS stimulation will be evaluated in order to find the best
      contact, voltage and stimulation settings for each individual patient. This assessment is
      similar to the standard clinical procedure experienced by patients when seen as outpatients
      following surgery. The investigators will confirm that the settings remain appropriate during
      the morning screening on the next day.

      The investigators will use our custom-built externalized research system (ERS) to allow
      recordings and stimulation. The ERS will be affixed to the subject with sticky tape or a
      bandage. The device is small and lightweight and communicates with a personal computer. The
      electrical connections to the DBS leads will be through temporary extensions with appropriate
      mechanical slack. The temporary extensions will be later replaced at stimulator implant with
      new sterile extensions. To allow for stimulation return, a conductive clip to the ERS case
      will be connected to a conducting (ECG) pad placed over chest. Periodic impedance checks will
      ensure this connection is robust through the course of the experiment. The patient can be
      ambulant whilst wearing the device. The safety of the ERS will be reviewed independently
      prior to the start of the study.

      Patients will be randomised as to whether they receive conventional DBS or adaptive DBS and
      will then cross-over to the second type of stimulation. All procedures will be repeated in
      matched form in the two treatment periods. The patient's usual medication will be started
      once each screening test is completed and the medication continued through-out the day.
    
  