
    
      Fecal incontinence (FI), defined as the involuntary passage of either formed or liquid stool,
      affects 8-15% of ambulatory Americans, mostly women and elderly and 45% of nursing home
      residents. It occurs at least weekly in 3% of adults, and in 37% of patients attending
      primary care clinics. FI has a major impact on quality of life, causes significant distress
      including anxiety and depression, and carries a considerable health care burden. FI is
      characterized by multifactorial dysfunctions that include lumbosacral neuropathy, anorectal
      sensori-motor dysfunction, and decreased rectosigmoid reservoir capacity and maladaptive
      pelvic floor-brain innervation. Consequently, treatments that help a single dysfunction, for
      example, anal dextranomer injection or anal sphincteroplasty could improve FI by reinforcing
      the anal barrier, but unlikely to improve the multidimensional problem of FI. Also, anal
      sphincteroplasty felt to be effective initially, was disappointing long-term with only 30%
      remaining continent at 10 years. An-other surgical procedure, sacral nerve stimulation (SNS)
      has been shown to be useful in 54% of FI patients, but has significant complications (33%)
      and a failure rate of 15%, its mechanism of action is unknown, and lacks rigorous
      sham-controlled trial. Furthermore, a comparative assessment of the effectiveness of current
      treatments has not been performed, and none of the current therapies have been shown to
      improve the multifactorial pathophysiological dysfunction(s) in FI.

      A critical barrier to progress in the treatment of FI is the lack of RCTs, and absence of
      mechanistically based non-invasive therapies that modify the pathophysiology of FI.
      Consequently, most current remedies have remained ineffective. These findings were
      highlighted by experts at a recent NIDDK workshop focused on research in FI. Our long-term
      goal is to address the problem of lack of effective treatments for FI by investigating
      therapies that modulate peripheral and central neuronal perturbations, and to understand the
      neurobiologic basis of these treatments. Translumbosacral Neuromodulation Therapy (TNT) is a
      novel, non-invasive technique that involves the focal delivery of magnetic energy through an
      insulated coil to the lumbo-sacral nerves that regulate anorectal function. The pulses
      generated are of the same strength as clin-ical MRI machines. It builds on the concept of
      neuromodulation therapies such as repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) that
      uses a computerized electromechanical medical device to deliver brief pulses of magnetic
      energy and has been shown to be effective in major depression , refractory auditory
      hallucinations (AH), and visceral pain, and our studies in post-stroke dysphagia. Our central
      hypothesis is that TNT will significantly improve FI, both in the short-term and long-term,
      by enhancing neural excitability and inducing neuroplasticity, and thereby will provide a
      multidimensional thera-peutic benefit- improve neuropathy, enhance anal strength, improve
      rectal perception and capacity.
    
  