
    
      Additional information extracted from study protocol is provided below:

      Study duration:

      The planned study start date is August 2019. Enrollment at all sites will last for 18 months,
      meaning that the last participant will complete treatment 20 months (if in 2 month study arm)
      or 22 months (if in 4 month study arm) after the study begans at a site. Participants are
      followed for 26 months following randomization, so at each site the study will end 44 months
      after the first participant is enrolled.

      Study procedures:

      The treatment should be given at the time of randomization; participants will be followed for
      the duration of treatment (i.e. 2-4 months), and for 2 years after treatments is finished.

      Follow up during treatment consists of 3 clinic visits for participants in all arms. At each
      visit, a pill count and monitoring of possible side effects will be performed.

      Follow-up after treatment will consist of contacting participants by phone every 3 months for
      2 years, to check for symptoms of active TB.

      Outcomes definitions:

      Primary outcomes:

        1. Treatment completion (i.e. comparing how many people in each group completed treatment).
           Treatment completion is defined as taking at least 80% of the doses in 120% of the
           allowed time. The number of pills taken will be known by counting the pills dispensed
           and brought back by participants at each visit while they are on treatment.

        2. Safety: Grade 3-5 adverse events that result in permanent discontinuation of study drug
           and are considered probably or possibly related to the study drug by an independent
           3-member adjudication panel blinded to study treatment.

      Secondary outcomes:

        1. Safety: grade 1-2 adverse events that result in permanent discontinuation of study drug
           and are considered probably or possibly related to the study drug by the same
           independent 3-member adjudication panel.

        2. Efficacy: comparing rates of active TB in the 26 months post-randomization

      Statistical analyses:

      There are two planned primary analyses, comparing each of the two intervention arms to the
      conventional arm: 1) Superiority of treatment completion, using a logistic regression; 2)
      Non-inferiority of safety, using a Poisson regression to compare the occurrence of the grade
      3-5 adverse events. We will use the confidence interval approach, and compare the upper limit
      of the difference using a margin of 4%.

      Given that some exclusion post randomization could occur (for example if drug sensitivity
      test (DST) results for the index case were not available at the time of randomization but
      later showed resistance to rifampin- their contacts would not be eligible for the study and
      would be subsequently be excluded), a modified intention to treat analysis will be used -
      with these valid post-randomization exclusions. A secondary analysis will be done among
      patients who completed therapy per protocol.

      Other planned secondary analyses are: 1) Non-inferiority of completion. The maximum allowable
      difference will be 5%, with one-sided significance level; 2) Non-inferiority of grade 1-2
      adverse events (in the same way as grade 3-5 adverse events done for primary analysis); 3)
      Comparison of incidence of active TB per 100 person-years of follow-up, in the 26 months
      post-randomization. All analyses will include adjustment for clustering by household. In
      stratified analysis, results will be presented by indication for LTBI treatment. Sensitivity
      analyses will be conducted where by analysis are stratified by study centre and by country.

      Interim Analyses:

      There will be at least two interim analyses of study regimen completion and of Grade 3-5
      adverse events. The first analysis will be conducted after the first 150 participants have
      completed therapy, the second after 450 participants have completed therapy or sooner if
      there are concerns about excess toxicity with either high-dose arm. The Data and Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) will be responsible to review the two planned interim analyses, as
      well as any unexpected Grade 4 adverse events, or deaths that could be related to study
      regimens. Rather than having a formal stopping rule, the decision to stop enrollment, would
      be made by the DSMB, based on the safety reports received and the results of interim
      analyses.
    
  