
    
      Idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) is characterized by proteinuria and hypoalbuminemia
      associated with dyslipidemia and hypercoagulability. Oral corticosteroids are the cornerstone
      of therapy and induce disease remission in approximately 90% of cases. However, up to 85% of
      patients relapse and many develop steroid dependence (SDNS), requiring prolonged dose of
      steroids to maintain remission. Clinical practice guidelines (KDIGO) suggest using low-dose
      prednisone to maintain remission in SDNS and Mycophenolate Mofetil (MMF) or calcineurin
      inhibitors (CNI) as corticosteroid-sparing agents for children who develop steroid adverse
      effects. Given the toxicity of all these drugs (steroids, CNI and MMF), there is a need to
      investigate alternative options. Recent evidence supports the use of chimeric anti-CD20
      monoclonal antibodies in simple SDNS (Rituximab, RTX).

      The RTX4 trial is an open-label, two-parallel-arm, controlled and randomized clinical trial
      testing the superiority of RTX over MMF in maintaining steroid free disease remission in
      patients with SDNS.

      Eligible participants are children and young adults (age between 3 and 24 years) with
      nephrotic syndrome who are dependent on prednisone 0.3-1mg/Kg/day and have received
      prednisone for at least six months before enrolment. Previous treatment with MMF will be
      allowed. All participants will enter a 45 days run-in period, during which children treated
      with steroids alone will start MMF 1,200 mg/1,73 sqm orally in 2 daily doses and will taper
      steroids after 15 days by 0.3 mg/kg per week until complete withdrawal. Patients already
      receiving MMF alone will continue the treatment. During the same period, instruction on urine
      collection and dipstick readings will be carefully reviewed and compliance assessed. After
      run-in period, children will be randomized to either the intervention arm (Rituximab,
      375mg/m2) or the comparator arm (continuing or starting MMF). In the intervention arm, 1
      month after infusion MMF will be decreased by 50% and withdrawn within 2 additional weeks,
      whereas MMF will be maintained in the comparator. All patients will be followed for up to 24
      months. In case of relapses during this period (see outcome section for definition) patients
      will be treated with oral prednisone (60 mg/sqm day). Following remission, steroids will be
      maintained at the initial dose for 7 days and then tapered off by 0.3 mg/kg per week until
      complete withdrawal in patients of the MMF arm. Patients of the intervention arm will instead
      be treated with another infusion of RTX (same dose) immediately following steroid-induced
      remission. After infusion of RTX, steroids will be maintained at the initial dose for 7 days
      and then tapered off by 0.3 mg/kg per week until complete withdrawal. In this way relapsed
      patients in both arms will receive the same cumulative dose of prednisone. In case following
      relapse of proteinuria patients fail to respond to prednisone (they will terminate the study
      and be considered as treatment failure). The study allows drop-in from one arm to the other
      after 3 relapses (i.e., investigators will be allowed to use RTX in the comparator arm and
      vice versa MMF in intervention arm). The economic balance will be calculated on the basis of
      RTX doses needed to maintain remittance.

      All patients will be followed for 24 months. In person visits will occure at enrollment, at
      T0 (infusion), after 1 month and every 3/6 months later.

      The investigators are going to enroll 160 patients.
    
  