
    
      The primary goals of the final two years of medical school are to provide an experience that
      develops the fundamental clinical skills necessary to succeed as a resident and to offer
      opportunities for medical students to explore career interests. Largely unchanged for many
      years, the final two years of medical school include a series of required third year
      clerkships that include obstetrics and gynecology (OB-GYN) and general surgery. Following the
      completion of the third year, many students may have already decided on a specialty, and thus
      use the final year for electives and rotations that hone their skills and prepare them for
      residency. For those students planning for a procedural-based career such as OB-GYN or
      surgery, a considerable amount of time may be spent learning advanced surgical techniques,
      such as knot-tying, suturing, or other such procedures. In addition to traditional learning
      through didactic experiences, texts, and 'hands-on' patient interaction, some programs have
      developed supplemental curricula using simulators and cadaveric dissection. While studies
      demonstrate that these methods enhance students' readiness for procedural-based residencies,
      these studies have only focused on surgical residents or select fourth-year medical students
      who have a specific interest in surgery.

      No study has focused on a comprehensive, streamlined approach using these supplemental
      techniques for third-year medical students. A standardized curriculum using simulation and
      cadaveric laboratories in the third year may provide students with the necessary skills to
      succeed in their required OB-GYN and surgical clerkships, while hopefully improving their
      examination scores and overall experience. The investigators intend to utilize a 'hands-on'
      series of laboratory experiences using the simulation center and cadavers to enhance the
      traditional learning structure. The investigators believe that a two-day course design would
      provide the necessary information and experience without the use of excessive resources.

      Typically, work using cadavers is relegated to the study of gross human anatomy in the first
      year of medical school. Students experience an in-depth review of human anatomy, while
      learning the basic skills for dissection. After the completion of this introductory course,
      few medical schools routinely use cadavers or a simulation laboratory, despite the
      well-documented benefits for advanced learners. The usefulness of such an experience was well
      demonstrated in a pilot study performed by Morgan et al, which provided an intensive 78-hour
      (4-week) multifaceted curriculum designed for fourth year medical students prior to entering
      an OB-GYN residency. The course included didactic lectures, simulation training, cadaver
      dissection, a knot and suture experience, and surgical procedures performed on cadavers and
      simulation equipment. The authors concluded that despite being time-consuming and expensive,
      students significantly enhanced surgical skills and readiness to begin residency. Similar
      results have also been demonstrated in courses focused on suturing, knot-tying, and
      procedure-based techniques for select fourth year students entering a surgical residency
      program; the intent of these courses was to enhance the necessary skills to achieve
      appropriate required milestones. While these elective rotation pilot programs were successful
      in achieving their primary outcome, the drawbacks were that they were performed in fourth
      year students only, relegated to a select few entering surgical fields, and were costly and
      time-consuming.

      Accordingly, the primary goal is to utilize a comprehensive, streamlined, and cost-effective
      approach using simulation and cadaver experiences for all eligible third-year medical
      students. The investigators believe that this experience will enhance scores on the Shelf and
      USMLE examination and improve procedural skills and overall satisfaction while remaining
      inexpensive and efficient. To achieve this goal, this course will be offered while students
      are completing their OB-GYN or general surgery rotations, both of which are heavily
      procedure-based and require a similar skill set. This combined effort will also allow this
      course to be performed six times per year instead of up to 12 times per year, which will
      lower costs and lessen faculty workload. If this study proves to be successful, the hope is
      that this curriculum could be implemented at other medical schools. The study design is also
      unique because the investigators will be recruiting a large student population from a
      national medical school instead of having students serve as their own controls in a
      single-center experience. The students in this study will be randomized into one of two
      groups: a traditional learning experience or a traditional learning experience that also
      includes supplemental cadaver-based and simulation-based learning.

      The primary focus of this study is to determine whether the use of a comprehensive, combined,
      and simplified approach of using cadavers and simulation laboratories to train third-year
      medical students will have a beneficial effect on student performance in the OB-GYN and
      surgical clerkships.

      Aim 1: To determine if the combined use of a 'hands-on' cadaver and simulation laboratory
      course will improve performance, NBME Shelf and USMLE Step 2 examination scores, and the
      overall experience during the third year OB-GYN and surgical clerkships.

      Aim 2: To assess whether this experience can be accomplished in an efficient, cost-effective
      manner that would make it generalizable to other medical school curricula.
    
  