
    
      Chronic subdural hematoma (cSDH) is a collection of blood and its breakdown products in the
      subdural compartment. It is a condition frequently seen in any neurosurgical practice. cSDH
      is believed to arise from tearing of bridging veins as a result of trauma, which may be minor
      and unapparent to the patient. The one-year incidence rate is 1 to 8.2 per 100 000 in those
      65 years or older. Advanced age is one of several risk factors and the incidence is expected
      to increase due to improved life expectancy. Other risk factors include brain atrophy,
      chronic alcoholism, intracranial hypotension, male gender and coagulopathy (including
      antiplatelet and antithrombotic therapy).

      Management of cSDH is widely varied. A "wait-and-see" or "wait-and-rescan" approach may be
      acceptable in asymptomatic patients with a relatively small hematoma whilst cSDH with severe
      neurological deficits or decreased level of consciousness may require surgical decompression
      by burr-hole craniostomy, twist drill craniostomy or craniotomy. Surgery is associated with
      serious morbidity and mortality of up to 17% and recurrence rates of 4%-33% requiring further
      treatment in some instances.The safety and efficacy of different neurosurgical procedures
      have been evaluated but there is a paucity of well-designed randomized controlled trials in
      the literature. Consequently, there is no consensus on the best treatment with respect to
      surgical technique, pre-operative and post-operative management and nonsurgical alternatives
      including the use of Corticosteroids, Tranexamic acid, Osmotic diuretics, Atorvastatin or
      Angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors.

      Corticosteroids may be a therapeutic option in the management of cSDH. There is very little
      data on the efficacy of corticosteroids in the treatment of cSDH and certainly no randomized
      trials. The purpose of the study is to prove dexamethasone can be just as efficacious as
      surgery in treating chronic subdural hematoma. The investigators also hope to show that those
      patients treated with dexamethasone suffer less complication compared to those who undergo
      surgery.
    
  