
    
      Stoma formation is a commonly performed procedure in colorectal surgery as part of treatment
      for malignant- and inflammatory bowel disease. A parastomal bulge (PB) is a frequent
      long-term complication with an incidence varying from 4% to more than 40% depending on ostomy
      type, follow-up and definitions.

      A bulge may be relatively obvious or extremely difficult to diagnose. Most parastomal bulging
      occurs within two years of stoma formation but is seen up to 20 years post-surgery. Despite
      advances in primary surgical and repair techniques a rising incidence of parastomal bulging
      is expected in the future due to increased survival of cancer patients with an ostomy and
      limited dissemination of new techniques. Approximately one in three patients with a
      parastomal hernia requires a surgical hernia repair. However, the majority of patients are
      referred to non-surgical treatment by the enterostomal therapist in the outpatient clinic or
      do not seek professional help to manage the bulge. Previous studies report that quality of
      life as well as physical, psychological and social function are affected in patients with
      parastomal bulging.

      Descriptions of symptoms vary from 'asymptomatic', 'symptomatic' to 'high symptom load'. Most
      frequently reported symptoms include ostomy leakage, skin problems, difficulty with ostomy
      appliance, limitation of activity, difficulty with clothing, cosmetic complaints, social
      restriction, erratic action of the stoma and a bearing down sensation at the site of the
      stoma. Rare, but serious complications include complete obstruction, strangulation or
      incarceration. However, there is a lack of knowledge of patients' lived experiences with
      parastomal bulging. Insight into patients' experiences of symptoms in relation to parastomal
      bulging and the impact on everyday life may help identify issues of importance from the
      patient perspective. This, in turn, may help professionals to better understand and support
      patients with PB, and be of help when identifying patients' symptoms and determining relevant
      treatment strategies.

      Purpose: The aim is to study stoma patients experiences of parastomal bulging and symptoms in
      everyday life (in relation to an ileostomy and colostomy)
    
  