
    
      Project:

      This study will compare glyceryl nitrate (GN) treatment to non-active treatment for the
      prevention of post-ERCP acute pancreatitis, which is an inflammation of the pancreas that can
      occur after a procedure known as ERCP.

      Background:

      ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography) is an examination of the pancreas by
      which it is possible to perform therapeutic measures such as stone removal from the common
      bile duct and visualisation of the pancreas. Inflammation of the pancreas after the ERCP
      procedure (called: post-ERCP pancreatitis) is the most feared and common complication of the
      ERCP. It occurs in 1-40% of patients, with rates of 5% or more being more typical. Currently,
      the background of post-ERCP pancreatitis is poorly known.

      Attempts at preventing post-ERCP pancreatitis have been carried out through a change to
      low-risk techniques, by avoiding high-risk patients, and by use of pharmacological
      prophylaxis.

      Glyceryl Nitrate:

      Glyceryl nitrate is a well-known medicine used for many years in other diseases. Possible
      side effects are headache and low blood pressure. Other side effects such as dizziness,
      tiredness, nausea, local redness at the application site and allergic reactions of the skin
      are rare.

      Aim:

      The purpose of this study is to document that pre-treatment with GN is effective in
      preventing post-ERCP pancreatitis. In two earlier GN studies, sample sizes were relatively
      small (less than one hundred) and the rates of post-ERCP pancreatitis in the control group
      were quite high (15-17%). Therefore, further studies are needed to confirm the promising
      effect of GN in the prophylaxis of post-ERCP pancreatitis.

      Participants:

      The study includes every patient undergoing ERCP above the age of 18 years. Patients are
      excluded if they have active acute pancreatitis, previous sphincterotomy (cut in the
      sphincter at the end of the biliary and pancreatic ducts in the duodenum) or chronic
      pancreatitis with calcifications. Also, patients may not take sildenafil (Viagra) as GN
      should not be taken together with sildenafil. Patients allergic to glyceryl nitrate or glue
      should not be included. Patients with constrictive pericarditis (inflammation and fibrosis in
      the sack around the heart); pericardial tamponade (blood or liquor in the sack around the
      heart); low blood pressure; aortic stenosis (stenosis of the aortic valve); hypertrophic
      obstructive cardiomyopathy (a special disease with thickness of the heart); mitral stenosis
      (stenosis of the mitral valve); anemia (low hemoglobin); and untreated hypothyroidism
      (thyroid disease) are excluded because these are other diseases to which glyceryl nitrate
      should not be used. Pregnant women are excluded. Patients can only be included once.

      Practical:

      Patients have been preparing for the study as if it was a normal procedure. Prior to the
      procedure, patients will be asked to participate in the study. If the patients accept, after
      oral and written consent, they will receive either a GN patch or non-active patch on the
      chestwall 40-60 minutes prior to the ERCP procedure.

      A canula is inserted in a cubital vein for medication. The ERCP is initiated, and patients
      are observed afterwards according to local practice, which is typically 3 hours. Patients are
      asked to fill out a letter with questions related to symptoms of pancreatitis (pain, fever,
      nausea, vomiting, hospitalization) to send to the investigating center after 7 days. If
      patients do not send the letter they will be contacted by phone within 14 days.

      Interim analysis:

      An interim analysis will be made, when 800 patients have been included. The study will stop,
      if 1) the interim analysis shows a significant higher mortality in one group than in the
      other or 2) if the study has proceeded more than 2 years.

      Economy:

      The project is a multicenter trial of the European Post-ERCP Pancreatitis Preventing Study
      Group. This local project is located at XX-department. No commercial interests are involved.
      The investigators/authors work for free against authorship. Finances are sought through funds
      for research.

      References:

        1. Freeman M. Post-ERCP pancreatitis: patient and technique-related risk factors. JOP
           2002;3(6):169-176.

        2. Demols A, Deviere J. New frontiers in the pharmacological prevention of post-ERCP
           pancreatitis: the cytokines. JOP 2003; 4(1):49-57.

        3. Testoni P. Preventing post-ERCP pancreatitis: where are we?. JOP 2003; 4(1):22-32.

        4. Mariani A. Pharmacological prevention of post-ERCP pancreatitis:which therapy is best?.
           JOP 2003; 4(1):68-74.

        5. Murray B, Carter R et al. Diclofenac reduces the incidence of acute pancreatitis after
           endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. Gastroenterology 2003; 124:1786-1791.

        6. Sand J, Nordback I. Prospective randomized trial of the effect of nifedipine on
           pancreatic irritation after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography. Digestion
           1993; 54:105-11.

        7. Sudhindran S, Bromwich E et al. Prospective randomized double-blind placebo-controlled
           trial of glyceryl trinitrate in endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography-induced
           pancreatitis. British J of Surg 2001; 88:1178-1182.

        8. Moreto M, Zaballa M. et al. Transdermal glyceryl trinitrate for prevention of post-ERCP
           pancreatitis: a randomized double-blind trial. Gastrointest Endoscopy 2003;57:1-7.

        9. Harrison et al. Bioequivalence comparison of two drug-in-adhesive transdermal
           nitroglycerine patches. Am J Ther 1996;3:580-585.

       10. Pande H, Thuluvath PJ. Pharmacological prevention of post-endoscopic retrograde
           cholangiopancreatography pancreatitis. Drugs 2003;63(17):1799-1812.

       11. Freeman ML. Prevention of post-ERCP pancreatitis: Pharmacologic solution or patient
           selection and pancreatic stents? Gastroenterology 2003;124(7):1977-1980.

       12. Cotton PB, Lehman G, Vennes J, Geenen JE, et al. Endoscopic sphincterotomy complications
           and their management: an attempt at consensus. Gastrointest Endosc 1991;37:383-393.
    
  