
    
      Subtotal esophagectomy with tubular gastroplasty to upper mediastinum and esophagogastric
      anastomosis (Ivor-Lewis procedure) is a very complex surgical technique. It is performed in
      patients with infracarinal esophageal carcinoma and is associated with a high morbidity rate
      in specialized centers (up to 60% in some groups). One of the most important postoperative
      complications is the oesophagogastric anastomotic leakage which leads to high morbidity
      (mediastinitis, respiratory failure, pleural effusion) and mortality rate (up to 60%
      depending on the reports).

      The most important cause of anastomotic leakage is the stomach's extreme sensitivity to
      ischemic injury. There are several experimental studies that have demonstrated that the delay
      phenomenon before the esophageal resection surgery aims to improve blood perfusion after a
      period of time. Few studies, only case-reports, describe a decrease in the incidence of
      intrathoracic and cervical anastomotic leakage. May the delay phenomenon reduce the incidence
      of anastomotic intrathoracic leakage?. There aren't any prospective randomized controlled
      trials to answer this question.

      For this reason the investigators propose to perform a prospective randomized controlled
      trial in patients who underwent a subtotal esophagectomy (Ivor-Lewis procedure), comparing
      two groups: one of them will be submitted to a delay phenomenon by arteriographic procedure
      before esophageal resection surgery, and the other one will be operated on directly, to
      demonstrate if the delay phenomenon can reduce the incidence of anastomotic esophagogastric
      leakage.

      We decided to conduct this trial as a pilot study due to the fact that the number of patients
      needed to achieve statistical significance was to high and would have taken almost 10 years.
      We established a recruitment period of 3 years, in wich we intend to include 60 patients.
    
  