
    
      Trabeculectomy is widely used as a surgical treatment of uncontrolled open glaucoma. Success
      of trabeculectomy at halting or slowing glaucoma progression primarily relies on the extent
      of conjunctival and sclera wound healing. The success rates of trabeculectomy increased
      dramatically with the introduction of anti-metabolites. For more than two decades mitomycin-c
      (MMC), a chemotherapeutic agent capable of decreasing fibroblast activity and modulating
      wound healing at the bleb, has been used with trabeculectomy. The complications of MMC are
      well known and several studies have described various methods of application based on
      exposure time, dose and surface area. Numerous retrospective and prospective studies have
      compared the efficacy of MMC applied beneath the conjunctival flap with soaked sponges versus
      intrascleral application. In 2008, Lee et al. first described an alternative route of
      application: subconjunctival injection of MMC directly into the intra-Tenon area. Seventy-six
      eyes with primary and secondary open angle glaucoma underwent trabeculectomy with this
      approach and were followed for one year post-operatively. Eighty-six percent of eyes achieved
      an IOP <21 mm Hg and 57% an IOP<14 mm Hg at one year without adjunctive drops. Transient
      complications included hyphema, bleb leak and choroidal detachment. The advantages of
      injected MMC are primarily in controlling the exact dosage and area of application and
      reduced surgical time. Lim et al. retrospectively reviewed the outcomes of trabeculectomy in
      57 eyes using sponge application directly to the sclera versus intra-tenon injection. IOP was
      significantly lower in the injection group at 1 month, 1, 2, and 3 years. Trabeculectomy
      success (IOP<21mm Hg or IOP >20% below baseline without medications or additional surgery)
      was greater in the injection group at 3 years. The sponge group experienced more encapsulated
      blebs but complication rates were similar in both groups. To date, there have been no
      prospective studies comparing the IOP-lowering efficacy and safety of intra-tenon injection
      versus direct scleral application of MMC.
    
  