
    
      Sepsis and septic shock are major health concerns worldwide. Sepsis is the consequence of
      inflammatory processes and humoral and cellular reactions to severe infection. Its clinical
      presentation is variable, with a continuum from a systemic response to infection to fulminant
      disease refractory to resuscitation and with multiple organ failure. Septic shock is the most
      severe form of sepsis and the leading cause of death in intensive care patients with a high
      mortality despite modern resuscitation and treatment.

      Septic shock is dominated clinically by circulatory changes presenting with profound
      vasodilatation and hypotension. Cardiac output values are often seemingly normal, or even
      enhanced, when compared with the physiological range. However, relative to the
      vasodilatation, cardiac output is often not adequately enhanced. Thus, the degree of
      myocardial depression in sepsis is often underestimated by the clinician, albeit a factor
      that markedly increases mortality.

      Septic cardiomyopathy typically engages both ventricles globally, and involves diminished
      cardiac response to volume and circulating catecholamines. It is not primarily hypoxic, but
      rather has a multifactorial origin. In survivors, it is typically reversible, but long-term
      consequences are not known.

      Cardiac biomarkers, i.e. troponins and natriuretic peptides, are all associated with worse
      outcome in septic shock. Cardiac troponins are frequently elevated and correlate to the
      duration of hypotension and the intensity of vasopressor support. Elevated natriuretic
      peptides predict adverse outcome, and values are often markedly elevated even in seemingly
      normal echocardiographic findings. It is not clear whether this indicates structural
      myocardial damage, or rather demonstrate a global septic membrane leakage. Thus, with the
      complexity of sepsis, combinations of cardiac biomarkers and markers of global inflammation
      may provide a more robust tool for stratification and prognostication and for evaluation of
      septic organ dysfunction. In clinical cardiology, combinations of biomarkers of myocardial
      stress are used for stratification and prognostication of myocardial failure, but the role of
      such multimarker panels in septic cardiomyopathy has not been studied.

      Echocardiography is used clinically, and has been the focus of several studies, to
      characterize septic cardiomyopathy. Echocardiographic signs of systolic dysfunction has been
      the main focus of previous investigations, and the systolic component is the focus of modern
      guidelines of clinical management in septic cardiomyopathy. The role of diastolic dysfunction
      is gaining interest, with data suggesting higher mortality in patients with diastolic
      dysfunction than in those with systolic dysfunction. To date, the correlation of
      echocardiographic signs of systolic or diastolic dysfunction myocardial stress biomarker
      panels, and the dynamics of any correlation, has not been studied.

      The hypothesis of this study is that biological markers of cardiac stress correlate with
      echocardiographic signs of cardiac failure, that they can predict outcome, and that they
      correlate to conventional methods of outcome prediction.
    
  