
    
      Study rationale: Empagliflozin and dapagliflozin are sodium-glucose transporter-2 (SGLT-2)
      inhibitors which prevent the reabsorption of glucose via proximal renal tubules, and are the
      most recently approved class for treating hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes. Besides effective
      glucose lowering effects as documented by ~ 0.7-1.2% HbA1c reduction, these agents also
      promote weight loss and reduce blood pressure (BP). Furthermore, recent data from the
      Empagliflozin Cardiovascular Outcome Trial in type 2 diabetes (EMPA-REG OUTCOME) reported
      significant reduction in main cardiovascular disease (CVD) outcomes and CVD death in patients
      with type 2 diabetes (T2D). The exact mechanism of the beneficial effects on cardiovascular
      outcomes is not yet understood, although their effects on body weight, glucose control and BP
      reduction were suggested. However, other classes of drugs with similar effects such as GLP-1
      receptor agonist, thiazolidinedione did not clearly show the beneficial effects in CVD
      outcomes. The interesting observation is that improvement in BP with SGLT-2 inhibitors
      occurred without a compensatory increase in HR and that most benefit was obtained also in
      patients with some evidence of heart failure.

      Thus, the investigators postulated the hypothesis that SGLT-2 may also have a modulatory
      effect on the sympathetic/parasympathetic balance, and this may contribute to the potential
      benefits on cardiovascular outcomes in patients with diabetes.

      Study Design: The investigators plan to test this hypothesis in a randomized, double-blind,
      2-period crossover clinical trial comparing 12-weeks of glycemic intervention with
      dapagliflozin versus glimepiride. The investigators include an active comparator with
      glimepiride which have a similar glucose lowering in patients with T2D, to account for the
      effects of reductions in blood glucose on measures of CAN, and will evaluate whether changes
      in measures of CAN are different among patients who are taking glimepiride or dapagliflozin.
      The two crossover periods will be separated by a 2-week wash-out period.

      All subjects will be allocated and randomized to each treatment sequence. Participants will
      receive blindly either dapagliflozin 5 mg or glimepiride 2 mg 1 tablet daily initially for 4
      weeks then titrating the dose based on blood glucose levels up to 2 tablets daily for 8 more
      weeks (total 12 weeks) followed by 2-week washout period and then they will receive the study
      drugs in reverse order to the first period during second crossover period for 12 weeks.

      Study population: 45 patients with T2D on background metformin monotherapy who are not
      meeting ADA recommended glycemic target.

      Primary outcomes: changes in measures of cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy such as heart
      rate variability (HRV) as defined by frequency domain measures of HRV: low frequency (LF)
      power (ms2); high frequency (HF) power (ms2) as measured as LF:HF ratio.

      Secondary outcomes: (i) changes in measures of HRV as defined by time domain measures of HRV:
      standard deviation of the normal RR interval (SDNN) (msec) and root mean square of the
      differences of successive RR intervals (rmsSD) (msec); (ii) changes in cardiovascular
      autonomic reflex tests (CARTs) as defined by: expiration/inspiration (E/I) ratio, Valsalva
      ratio, and 30:15 ratio; (iii) changes in measures of systolic and diastolic function will be
      assessed by using stress echocardiogram and evaluate the following measures: i) LVEF, ii) LV
      end diastolic volume, iii) LV end systolic volume, iv) LV mass, v) cardiac output.
    
  