
    
      To evaluate changes from baseline in brain activation patterns, by using functional magnetic
      resonance imaging (fMRI) techniques and sexual stimuli, in postmenopausal women with moderate
      to severe vulvovaginal atrophy and FSIAD after 3 months treatment with ospemifene 60mg/day
      compared to those treated with placebo. fMRI technique allows the study of brain activation
      by detecting brain blood flow and oxygen level dependent changes induced by neuronal
      activation.

      The brain activation patterns will be defined by the number of voxels that significantly
      changed their signal intensity during the stimuli presentation compared to the neutral
      stimuli. Brain connectivity will be evaluated by using the activation map and the atlas of
      neuroanatomic regions and comparing the number of voxels, its level of significance and the
      different regions activated.

      Brain activation patterns changes (with fMRI) after sexual stimuli (visual or olfactive), in
      postmenopausal women with moderate to severe VVA and FSIAD after 3 months treatment with
      ospemifene 60mg/day compared to those treated with placebo.

      During the fMRI session, the activation of each brain circuits/pattern is measured by the
      blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal and with the Statistical Parametric Mapping method
      regularly used in fMRI studies to visualize brain activation.

      For the longitudinal study, a paired t-test will be used within each group to detect changes
      in activation over time. The statistical threshold criterion to compare the different
      activation maps between both groups is p < 0.001 uncorrected with a minimum extent of 10
      voxels. Only clusters that survive a p < 0.05 FWE (family wise error) correction for multiple
      comparisons will be considered statistically significant The region of interests who were
      mainly observed are: medial occipital gyrus, anterior cingulate cortex, bilateral thalamus,
      caudate nucleus, left pale globe, cerebellum, left inferior parietal lobe, postcentral gyrus,
      praecuneus, right medial frontal gyrus and left praecuneus.

      A total of 20 consecutive postmenopausal women with moderate to severe VVA and FSIAD with
      symptomatology will be recruited to participate in the study, 10 of which will be randomised
      to the ospemifene group (VVA-FSIAD ospemifene group) and 10 will be randomised to the placebo
      group (VVA-FSIAD placebo group). Additionally, a total of 5 consecutive postmenopausal women
      with moderate to severe VVA not treated with ospemifene neither with any other VVA treatment
      and without FSIAD will also be recruited (VVA not treated patients without FSIAD).
    
  