
    
      Subjects admitted on this protocol will have elevated eosinophil counts in the peripheral
      blood or tissues or will be relatives of subjects with eosinophilia. Eosinophilic subjects
      will undergo an extensive clinical evaluation focused on the identification of the cause of
      eosinophilia and the presence of end organ manifestations. In addition, they will be
      characterized in detail immunologically, and their blood cells and/or serum will be collected
      to provide reagents (e.g., specific antibodies, T-cell clones, etc.) that will be used in the
      laboratory to address broader questions relating to the etiology of eosinophilia, its
      immunoregulation, the degree and source of eosinophil activation, and/or the functional role
      of eosinophils in the afferent arm of those immune response where they are prominent. While
      the protocol is not primarily designed to study treatment of patients with blood and tissue
      eosinophilia, the clinical and immunological responses to various medically indicated
      therapies will be carefully monitored. The subjects themselves will be followed over time to
      determine the kinetics and nature of the factors affecting their degree of eosinophilia and
      the level of activation or degranulation of the eosinophils at various time points and in
      response to various stimuli. It is anticipated that the subjects will receive a degree of
      clinical evaluation, care and monitoring more extensive than that generally available and
      that the specimens collected from them will prove to be valuable reagents for laboratory
      studies related to eosinophilia, eosinophil activation and function. Recognized causes of
      subjects hypereosinophilia will be treated appropriately either by our own clinical service
      or by the referring physicians. Standard of care therapy may be provided when indicated for
      HES variants. This protocol will also allow clinical and laboratory evaluation of family
      members of subjects with eosinophilia in order to help identify genetic causes of
      eosinophilia and to provide controls for immunologic studies. A subset of HES patients will
      be interviewed and/or asked to fill out questionnaires to provide information about patient
      signs and symptoms for use in the development of a patient-related outcomes questionnaire for
      use in future treatment studies. Finally, adult subjects with gastrointestinal involvement
      may be asked to provide stool samples for microbiome analysis and assessment of stool levels
      of eosinophil granule proteins to explore the role of the microbiome in eosinophilic
      gastrointestinal disease. Stool samples may also be obtained from adult subjects undergoing
      endoscopy and/or colonoscopy as part of their initial evaluation and/or assessment of
      response to treatment. Potential confounding variables, including body mass index, diet,
      stool transit time and vitamin D levels will be assessed at the time of stool collection.
    
  