
    
      Familial adenomatous polyposis is a kind of colorectal cancer syndrome, which belongs to rare
      diseases. It is estimated that the number of patients in China is about 100,000, accounting
      for about 1% of all colorectal cancer patients. This type of patients onset between the ages
      of ten and thirty years old. The typical manifestation is the growth of tens to thousands of
      colorectal adenomas, and the lifetime risk of colorectal cancer is close to 100%, accompanied
      by multiple extraintestinal manifestations . Without treatment, the average life span is
      40-50 years. The current internationally accepted treatment method is prophylactic total
      colorectal resection combined with endoscopic follow-up. This program has a significant
      effect and can extend life expectancy by 10-20 years. However, total colorectal resection
      will bring a sharp decline in the quality of life of patients. The patients will lose many
      abilities (working ability, social ability, fertility, etc.) from the age of 20, and the
      prolonged survival period also brings more misery. This, in turn, also reduces the compliance
      of treatment. Many patients refuse to accept surgery and turn to endoscopic treatment or even
      give up treatment. However, there is currently no evidence that methods other than
      prophylactic surgery can effectively control the risk of colorectal cancer in such patients.
      Therefore, how to improve treatment methods and improve the quality of life for such patients
      under the premise of medical quality is the current medical focus. This study intends to
      establish three parallel observation cohorts, namely the surgical treatment group, the
      intensive colonoscopy treatment group, and the autonomous monitoring group. Among them, the
      intensive colonoscopy treatment group will be treated with colonoscopy intensive treatment
      (that is, colonoscopy treatment is performed every 3 months, Carry out colorectal tumor
      reduction in segments, and continue to control the growth of adenomas several times) for
      patients who refuse surgery. During the three-year study period, the investigators observed
      changes in the number of adenomas, carcinogenesis, and medical expenses in each group during
      the 3-year study period, and compared the groups to determine whether the intensive
      colonoscopy therapy has the possibility of delaying or replacing preventive surgery, so as to
      explore ways to improve the quality of life of such patients.
    
  