
    
      Colorectal cancer is one commonly diagnosed malignancy worldwide, with an estimated 10
      million new cases and 6 million deaths . Around 8%-29% of patients with colorectal cancer
      present with acute colonic obstruction, and 70% of all malignant obstruction occurs in the
      left-sided colon. It has been reported that about 15%-20 % of patients with colorectal cancer
      present with acute obstructive symptoms at the time of diagnosis.

      Conventionally, these patients are treated with emergency surgery to restore luminal
      continuity, which includes a variety of strategies such as the so-called two-stage surgery
      involving primary resection with colostomy (i.e., Hartmann's procedure) or proximal colostomy
      followed by resection, and one-stage surgery involving primary resection with anastomosis.
      Whatever the strategy chosen, the emergency surgery has an associated high risk of morbidity
      and mortality, and about two-thirds of such patients end up with a permanent stoma, which
      caused lower health-related quality of life and costs associated with stoma care.

      Since 1991, the colonic stenting has been applied as palliative treatment for patients with
      unresectable colorectal cancer. In 1993, Tejero et al. reported using colonic stenting as a
      bridge to definitive surgery. Recently, Zhang et al. conducted a meta-analysis of 8 studies
      (6 retrospective and 2 randomized trials) and indicated that stent placement before elective
      surgery, also known as a bridge to surgery, lead to a reduction in need of intensive care
      (risk ratio [RR], 0.42; 95% confidence interval, 0.19-0.93), stoma creation (RR, 0.70;
      0.50-0.99), and overall complications (RR, 0.42; 0.24-0.71) compared with the emergency
      surgery cohort, meanwhile, colonic stenting with elective surgery achieved higher primary
      anastomosis rate (RR, 1.62; 1.21-2.16), and did not adversely affect the mortality and
      long-term survival. The most common complications of colonic stenting were re-obstruction
      (12%), migration (11%), and perforation (4.5%).

      However, the available body of literature addressing the benefit of colonic stenting with
      elective surgery is contradictory, and limited by the lack of the prospective randomised
      controlled trials. Therefore, we plan to conduct this multicenter, prospective, open
      label,cohort study, to determine the efficacy and safety of colonic stenting with elective
      surgery versus emergency surgery in the management of acute malignant colonic obstruction.
    
  