
    
      This is a pilot and feasibility study in adult inpatients and outpatients at MGH.
      Participants will have Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) and are required to report suboptimal adherence
      to health behaviors, measured by the Medical Outcomes Study Specific Adherence Scale (MOS
      SAS). All participants will receive a 12-week PP intervention and pre- and post-intervention
      assessments of mood and physical symptoms.

      Participants will be enrolled from the outpatient Diabetes Center and inpatient medical units
      of MGH; research staff will introduce the study, assess for inclusion and exclusion criteria,
      and obtain written informed consent. Post-enrollment, and prior to initiation of the
      intervention, participants will complete baseline self-report measures of clinical outcomes.

      During the initial enrollment visit, participants will receive a treatment manual. In person
      or by telephone, the study interventionist will review the introductory portion of the manual
      and discuss the first exercise (Gratitude for Positive Events) with the participant. In
      subsequent weeks, exercises will be completed independently by participants, recorded in
      their treatment manual, and then discussed over the phone with their trainer. In the final
      week, after the final exercise is reviewed, the interventionist and participant will discuss
      future implementation and ways to incorporate the principles into daily life.

      The 12-week intervention will consist of 7 distinct PP exercises, to be completed weekly for
      the first 4 weeks and then biweekly over the next 8 weeks.

      For feasibility, interventionists will record rates of exercise completion at each
      participant phone session. For acceptability, participants will rate their optimism and
      positive affect on a 0-10 scale prior to completing the exercise and then immediately
      following the exercise. Additionally, participants will also rate the ease and overall
      utility of the exercise on a 0-10 scale after each exercise.

      At baseline, 6 weeks, and 12 weeks, non-interventionist study staff obtained the following
      validated measures of study outcomes:

        -  Optimism = Life Orientation Test-Revised (LOT-R)

        -  Gratitude = Gratitude Questionnaire-6 (GQ-6)

        -  Anxiety and depression = Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS)

        -  Diabetes-related distress = Diabetes Distress Scale (DDS)

        -  Health-related quality of life and function = Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement
           Information System physical function scale (PROMIS-PF-10)

        -  Diabetes self-care behaviors = Summary of Diabetes Self-Care Activities Measure (SDSCA)

        -  Health behavior adherence = Medical Outcomes Study Specific Adherence Scale (MOS SAS)
    
  