
    
      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to number of positive
      lymph nodes* (1-3 vs 4 or more) and concurrent regular low-dose of aspirin (yes vs no).
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 4 treatment arms. Please see the "Arms" section for more
      information. In all arms, treatment with celecoxib or placebo continues for 3 years in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Blood and tissue samples maybe
      collected for biomarker analysis and pharmacogenomic studies. The primary and secondary
      objectives for the research study are described below.

      Primary objective:

      1. To compare disease-free survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to
      standard chemotherapy only FOLFOX or standard chemotherapy FOLFOX with 3 years of celecoxib
      400 mg daily.

      Secondary objectives:

        1. To contribute to an international prospective pooled analysis that will compare
           disease-free survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to 6 treatments
           of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy.

        2. To compare overall survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to
           standard chemotherapy only (FOLFOX) or standard chemotherapy (FOLFOX) with 3 years of
           celecoxib 400 mg daily.

        3. To contribute to an international prospective pooled analysis that will compare overall
           survival of patients with stage III colon cancer randomized to 6 treatments of adjuvant
           FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy or 12 treatments of
           adjuvant FOLFOX chemotherapy.

        4. To assess toxicities of celecoxib as maintenance adjuvant therapy in patients with stage
           III colon cancer.

        5. To assess differences in cardiovascular-specific events with celecoxib versus placebo in
           a population of stage III colon cancer survivors.

        6. To evaluate differences in toxicities, particularly cumulative peripheral neuropathy,
           for patients treated with 6 treatments of FOLFOX compared to those treated with 12
           treatments of FOLFOX.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed up every 6 months for up to 6 years.
    
  