
    
      This is a prospective, non-interventional, observational, multicenter study to document the
      prevalence of alexithymia in adult men and women, 18 years of age and older, who have had the
      onset of the first symptoms of plaque psoriasis less than 10 years before study entry, are
      naïve or experienced to topical treatment, and are eligible for phototherapy or systemic
      treatment. Only data available from routine clinical practice will be collected and all
      treatment decisions will be made at the discretion of the treating physician. Additionally,
      where local regulations permit, participating physicians will be asked to obtain
      Patient-Reported Outcome (PRO) data from patients participating in this observational study.
      A target of 800 adult patients will participate in this study at approximately 80 sites. The
      enrollment period of this study is expected to continue for approximately 9 months. Each
      patient will receive treatment as per standard clinical practice and will be followed up for
      12 months. Therefore, the total duration of this observational study is expected to be
      approximately 21 months. Overall psoriasis disease severity as assessed by the physician will
      be documented at baseline (cross-sectional) and in the observational (longitudinal) phase of
      the study. Several outcomes related to psychosocial comorbidities (eg, alexithymia, anxiety,
      depression), addiction, and work and activity impairment as measured by PRO questionnaires
      and scales will also be collected. Information on psoriasis treatment(s) (topical,
      phototherapy, systemic [non-biologic, biologic]), mental health drugs (including those used
      for sleep), and concomitant medications given for comorbid medical conditions will also be
      collected. The data for this study will be analyzed and reported separately for the
      cross-sectional data (baseline) and for the longitudinal data (from baseline to Month 12).
    
  