
    
      The research is a collaborative project by The University of Hong Kong and Yan Chai Hospital,
      with the aim of investigating the potential benefits of applying acupressure regularly on
      frail elderly. The study is designed as a prospective randomized control trial with the
      primary objective to investigate if acupressure could help the elderlies to improve their
      general quality of life.

      "Frailty" is a geriatric syndrome of growing importance in the medical field. Although there
      is still a lack of universally accepted clinical definition for frailty, the syndrome is now
      commonly understood as decreased reserves in multiple systems, and lowered resilience to
      negative stress. Frailty could affect the emotional state of the elderlies; meanwhile,
      positive affect is protective against the functional and physical decline associated with
      frailty. Since there is limited treatment or medication for frailty. The investigators would
      like to investigate if acupressure could be a possible non-invasive means to improve the
      general health conditions, including the psycho-social well being of the frail elderly.

      The aim of this research is to study potential beneficial effects of acupressure on a group
      of frail elderly living in the Homes for the Aged and Care and Attention Homes for the
      Elderly.

      In this study, the investigators will use Tilburg Frailty Indicator (TFI) to assess the
      frailty level of the elderly.

      I. Trial Design:

      This is a multicenter, pragmatic randomized control trial (PRCT) with a prospective design.

      Hypothesis:

        1. Applying regular acupressure (4 times a week, totally 12 weeks) on frail elderly in
           residential care will improve one or more of the following aspects:

             -  Elderly's quality of life

             -  Elderly's sleeping quality

             -  Elderly's Blood pressure/heart rate

        2. Regular acupressure provides additional benefit to the frail elderly in residential care
           on top of their regular exercise program 108 frail elderlies currently served by the
           Homes for the Aged and Care and Attention Homes for the Elderly of the Yan Chai
           Hospital, Social Services Department (YCHSS) will be recruited. All these elderlies are
           currently participating in the exercise program offered by the residential services of
           YCHSS. All applications will be screened by the para-medical staffs in the residential
           services based on the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Qualified applicants will be
           invited for a health assessment conducted by registered Traditional Chinese Medicine
           practitioner in the research team to confirm their suitability and invite them to sign
           the consent form. The consented elderlies will be allocated randomly into treatment
           group and control group. Randomization is done by computer generated number list in
           block of 4.

      II. Intervention The enrolled elderly will participate in all the assessments and continue to
      participate in the exercise program offered by the residential care of YCHSS.

      Acupressure Group:

      A 15 minutes structured acupressure protocol with specific acupoints and applications
      technique will be performed on the elderly participants twice a week by the research team in
      YCHSS Homes. Designated para-medical staffs working in the elderly home or informal care
      giver of the elderly will be trained and perform the same acupressure protocol on the elderly
      at 2 additional occasions during the week. The total trial period is 12 weeks.

      The acupressure treatment involved 12 steps, and mainly concentrates on the acupoints on
      face, head, neck and shoulder. The treatment is designed to be operated by layman. The
      acupoints chosen are all easy to be located. All the movements/steps selected are well
      established and commonly used in the Traditional Chinese Medicine practices. Any movement
      that demand professional training or involve potential risk (e.g. joint mobilization) is
      excluded from the protocol. The total treatment process will last for approximately 15 mins.

      All the elderly will be invited to participate in a lecture of health care in Chinese
      medicine after the research.

      Control group:

      No acupressure therapy will be provided during the study. All the elderly will be invited to
      participate in a lecture of health care in Chinese medicine after the research.

      III. Assessment of Efficacy Efficacy of the treatments will be measured in multi dimensions
      before and after the treatment for both groups. Time Frame of the assessment are: (1)
      Baseline; (2) Change from baseline after 12 weeks; (3) Change from baseline at 6th month. The
      primary outcomes will be the change in quality of life of the frail elderly. The secondary
      outcomes will be sleeping quality and physiological aspects of the frail elderly. All
      instruments employed are international recognized and provide an absolute score in
      measurement.
    
  