
    
      Fungal infections are a serious threat to immunocompromised patients and represent a major
      burden in the critical care setting. The azole antifungal drugs are the most important drugs
      for managing infections caused by Aspergillus moulds and the prevention of invasive fungal
      infections in general. Azoles are currently used as first line prophylaxis and treatment of
      invasive aspergillosis and their use has substantially improved the survival of the overall
      population. Recently, there has been increased awareness for invasive aspergillosis cases in
      critically ill patients, including patients with severe influenza (influenza associated
      pulmonary aspergillosis, IAPA), and recently COVID-19 associated pulmonary aspergillosis
      (CAPA). These patients require azole-based therapy, for which voriconazole and isavuconazole
      are recommended first choice drugs.

      Isavuconazole is a relatively novel azole drug with promising efficacy, a broad antifungal
      spectrum, favourable side effect profile and limited drug-drug interactions compared to other
      azole agents. Isavuconazole is registered for the primary treatment of adults with invasive
      aspergillosis, and patients with mucormycosis where amphotericin B is not suitable. Efficacy
      and safety information in the isavuconazole label is mostly derived from clinical studies in
      healthy volunteers. However, the pharmacokinetics in some specific patient populations may
      differ greatly from those in the healthy population. Changes in pharmacokinetics of
      isavuconazole in ICU patients are to be expected due to a wide variety of factors, e.g.
      changes in protein binding and changes in fluid distribution. Therefore, it is likely that
      the present standard dosing regimens of isavuconazole lead to suboptimal outcomes for ICU
      patients, similar to observations made for fluconazole and echinocandins. Optimizing dosing
      regimens in ICU patients for existing antifungal agents such as isavuconazole is important to
      improve clinical outcome rates. To date, limited information on the pharmacokinetics of
      isavuconazole in critically ill patients is available and optimal dosing regimens remain
      uncertain. With this study we aim to describe isavuconazole pharmacokinetics in ICU admitted
      patients.

      20 patients admitted to the ICU department and receiving isavuconazole as part of standard
      care for the treatment of fungal infections will be included in the study. Between day 3 and
      7, 8 samples will be collected at t = 0 (pre-dose), and t = 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 hours
      after end of infusion to obtain a PK curve. An optional, additional sample can be collected
      after discontinuation of isavuconazole therapy if possible. Total and free isavuconazole
      concentrations will be determined. A pharmacokinetic model will be fitted to the data from
      all individuals simultaneously. Data will be analysed using non-linear mixed effects
      modelling (NONMEM). NONMEM is a one-stage analysis that simultaneously estimates mean
      parameters, fixed effect parameters, interindividual variability, and residual random
      effects. Since allowance can be made for individual differences, this method can be used with
      both intensive sampling and sparse data (and in the occasion of missing values: an unbalanced
      number of data points per patients).

      Primary objective:

      • To determine the pharmacokinetics of isavuconazole given as treatment of invasive fungal
      infections in ICU patients as part of standard care.

      Secondary objectives:

        -  To investigate the protein binding of isavuconazole in ICU patients and the variability
           in protein binding between patients in the ICU population.

        -  To explore if unbound isavuconazole concentrations can be predicted from total
           isavuconazole concentrations.

        -  To assess pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic target attainment in the ICU patient
           population.
    
  