
    
      Among patients with cancer and their families, early integration of palliative care may
      improve quality of life. This is particularly important for Adolescents and Young Adults
      (AYAs) because their distinct developmental challenges related to identity, relationships,
      and vocation may add to the burden of cancer.1-5 Among AYAs with advanced cancer, most
      understand that they may die and report that discussing end-of-life preferences, goals, and
      fears would be helpful; however, only 53% engage in such conversations.6-8 While national
      guidelines call for integrated palliative care in AYA oncology,9-11 developmentally targeted,
      evidence-based interventions designed to meet psychosocial and communication needs are
      lacking.

      A potential barrier to improving the experiences of AYAs with advanced cancer may be their
      limited opportunities to develop "resilience resources" such as stress-management,
      goal-setting, positive reframing, and meaning-making skills.12 These resources may mitigate
      negative outcomes, facilitate engagement in goals of care discussions, and improve quality of
      life.13-15 Furthermore, promoting these resources among AYAs may give them the tools to more
      successfully navigate the challenges of the cancer experience.

      Our research program is built on the central hypothesis that promoting resilience resources
      will improve psychosocial well-being. Over a series of studies, we developed a conceptual
      framework of resilience in pediatric cancer,12,16 affirmed associations between resilience
      resources and outcomes,17 and developed a novel resilience resources intervention (Promoting
      Resilience in Stress Management, PRISM).18 PRISM is a manualized, skills-based training
      program comprised of four 30-60 minute, in-person, one-on-one sessions plus a facilitated
      parent/caregiver/spouse/significant other family-meeting.

      We recently completed a pilot Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) to test the efficacy of PRISM
      among 100 AYAs, 6-months following their diagnosis of new (n=73) or recurrent (n=27) cancer
      (manuscript under review). Final results suggest PRISM is feasible, highly acceptable, and
      associated with increased patient-reported resilience as well as key clinically significant
      patient-centered outcomes such as quality of life and psychological distress. Subgroup
      analyses comparing patients with advanced cancer to those with new cancer suggested
      differentially stronger positive effects in the advanced cancer group, raising a hypothesis
      to be tested in dedicated trials. However, qualitative feedback from patients with advanced
      cancer suggested refinements targeting hopes, worries, and contextual meaning-making might
      strengthen PRISM's usefulness.

      The overall objective of this project is to refine PRISM to meet the distinct needs of AYAs
      with Advanced Cancer. We will first adapt and iteratively test the existing PRISM based on
      established guidelines for intervention development.19 Then, we will conduct a multi-site
      randomized controlled trial to test the efficacy of a new PRISM for Advanced Cancer
      (PRISM-AC). Findings will inform the development of larger dissemination studies and
      standards of AYA end-of-life and palliative care. Ultimately, this research has the potential
      to reduce the burden of cancer in a highly vulnerable population.
    
  