
    
      Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a severe disorder resulting in not only in motor deficits (i.e.
      paralysis) but also a myriad of autonomic dysfunctions (i.e. urinary tract/bowel/sexual
      impairments and blood pressure instability). The restoration of motor as well as autonomic
      functions remains among the top priorities for individuals with SCI. Individuals with SCI
      develop cardiovascular (CV) disease at a younger age and at greater rates than individuals
      without injury. Both low levels of physical activity and profound blood pressure (BP)
      instability, commonly experienced by individuals with injuries at or above the sixth thoracic
      level, likely explains the heightened risk.

      Neurogenic lower urinary tract (LUT) dysfunction impacts over 90% of individuals with SCI.
      This dysfunction leads to vesico-ureteral-renal reflux, urinary tract infections, bladder
      stone formation, and impaired renal function - ultimately leading to significant disease
      burden and poorer health-related quality of life. Bowel function is also significantly
      compromised after SCI, presenting as constipation, impaired colonic motility and loss of
      volitional control resulting in episodes of fecal incontinence - predisposing an individual
      to increased risk of long-term complications. Over 60% report that bowel dysfunction
      adversely impacts quality of life. Lastly, severe impairments in sexual function following
      SCI include erectile dysfunction, ejaculatory disorders/ anejaculation in men and reduced
      vaginal lubrication in women, with both sexes experiencing orgasmic difficulties or
      anorgasmia as well as alterations in sexual drive and sexual satisfaction.

      Activity-based therapy (ABT) is a common and an effective means to improve walking function
      post-injury and can facilitate general health maintenance; this includes an enhancement of
      neural BP control, as well as bladder, bowel, and sexual functions. The more recent
      development of robotic-assisted gait training (e.g. Lokomat) in contrast to labor-intensive
      manually assisted therapeutic strategies also reduces the load on therapists and health care
      expenditures. The Lokomat is a computer-controlled rehabilitation system for walking that
      consists of a pair of robotic legs to which an participant's thighs and legs are strapped.
      This device provides full assistance for the legs to go through the motion of walking with
      hip and knee motors. An over-head harness system holds the participant's body-weight above
      the treadmill.

      Neuromodulation, potentially activating isolated spinal cord neuronal circuitry, has received
      significant recognition in recent years as a promising approach to target various
      neurological dysfunctions. The immense therapeutic potential of epidural spinal cord
      stimulation demonstrates mitigation of spasticity in individuals with motor-incomplete
      injuries. Moreover, this stimulation improved standing ability, ability to generate rhythmic,
      locomotor-like limb movements, and restored voluntary control of functional movements in
      individuals with motor-complete injuries. Our past exciting and ground-breaking pilot work
      highlights the capacity for TCSCS to modulate spinal circuits (An Autonomic Neuroprosthesis:
      Noninvasive Electrical Spinal Cord Stimulation Restores Autonomic Cardiovascular Function in
      Individuals with Spinal Cord Injury. J Neurotrauma. 2018;35(3):446- 451.
      doi:10.1089/neu.2017.5082). To administer TCSCS, small adhesive electrodes are placed on the
      skin around the spinal cord and hips. The electrodes are connected to a machine that
      generates a small electric current. After turning the machine on, the participant may feel a
      small electric current under the electrodes, though it should not elicit any pain.

      Despite literature supporting the benefits of TCSCS and ABT, the effects of pairing TCSCS
      with ABT is largely unknown. These therapies are adaptable, non-invasive, and relatively
      affordable, with the potential to simultaneously benefit both motor and autonomic functions.
      Randomized controlled trials are needed to better validate these interventions for clinical
      settings.

      Project Rationale:

      Motor paralysis and autonomic dysfunctions have been identified as a major priority for
      recovery by individuals with SCI. Addressing these dysfunctions may ultimately translate to
      improved health-related quality of life (HRQOL). The use of ABT with non-invasive and
      adaptable TCSCS has the potential to reduce CV disease risk factors and other autonomic
      dysfunctions in this at-risk population.
    
  