
    
      This study aims to develop highly sensitive methods for early detection of relapse based on
      the patients unique mutations.

      Screening of mutations In collaboration with Department for clinical genetics, Uppsala, an
      initial screening of mutations will be performed using the commercial TrueSight© sequencing
      panel which includes 54 genes recurrently mutated in myeloid diseases. Based on the mutations
      identified, PCR-primers for all patient-specific mutations will be designed. Patients without
      any mutation will be excluded from the study. The mutational screen is performed as soon as a
      patient is being identified as a potential candidate for allogeneic stem cell transplantation
      (SCT) and evaluated for most optimal pre-SCT treatment. The patient is included in the study
      before the bone marrow sampling preceding SCT. In case a mutational screen has not been
      performed before pre-SCT MDS treatment, a mutational screen from the diagnostic national
      biobank sample (peripheral blood) can be performed.

      MRD surveillance After the transplantation, peripheral blood samples will be collected once
      monthly; and bone marrow samples will be collected at month 1, 3, 6 after SCT followed by
      sampling every third month until relapse or death. The samples are sent to Biobanking and
      Molecular Resource Infrastructure of Sweden (bbmri) who will extract DNA and store the
      samples. By using the highly sensitive digital-PCR method the investigators will determine
      the size of the different clones at the different time points. In addition to biobanking of
      DNA, bbmri will collect and vital froze mononuclear cells (MNCs) to be used for experimental
      studies.

      Statistics Landmark analyses will be performed at different time points after SCT, using
      presence of MRDs as a risk factor included in a multivariate analysis. Furthermore, the
      investigators will calculate sensitivity, specificity and predictive value for MRDs in
      relation to relapse. For each specific mutation, with high enough frequency in the cohort,
      the investigators will define cut-off values of the MRD where relapse is impending.
    
  