
    
      This is a pilot study to trial audio-recording of consent and evaluate its potential for use
      in day to day clinical care. This study will be a quantitative, observational survey of 20
      antenatal maternity patients scheduled for elective caesarean section, who have attended 5-15
      days before their planned surgery for anaesthetic consent discussions with audio-recording.
      Participants will complete a questionnaire immediately following the recorded discussion and
      again within the 48 hours following surgery. The study aims to establish participants' views
      on the process of audio-recording of consent and the potential usefulness/acceptability of
      the audio-recording.

      The antenatal maternity patients will be a random/convenience sample of women booked for
      elective caesarean section at Chelsea and Westminster Hospital. These women will be expected
      to have a fairly uniform consent discussion with an anaesthetist before their surgery.
      Participants will be selected according to the date of the planned caesarean section, their
      availability and that of the research team, in turn until 20 women have completed the study
      (i.e. have had a recorded discussion, undergone elective caesarean section, and completed the
      postnatal questionnaire).

      The doctors involved in consent discussions will be a small group of anaesthetists (n = 3) to
      maintain consistency; these anaesthetists will also complete questionnaires in order to raise
      any themes/issues for further evaluation, whilst accepting that the sample size will be too
      small for firm conclusions.

      The questionnaires will be completely anonymous and have been designed to minimise bias in
      the question wording and structure, with input from patients and staff in the design process.
      An anaesthetist will be on hand to facilitate completion of the questionnaires and to assist
      with understanding of the questions.
    
  