
    
      Behavior problems occur frequently and are a persistent source of treatment needs in
      individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD). Problem behaviors such as
      aggression, self-injurious behaviors (SIB), destruction of property, and irritability can
      result in harm to self or others, interfere with social relationships, disrupt important
      family processes, and compromise positive individual and family adaptation. The impact of
      problem behaviors can have long term impacts for the individual, including reduced exposure
      to education, reduced quantity and quality of social interactions, and increased likelihood
      of more restrictive learning and living environments. Individuals with IDD who exhibit severe
      aggression are more likely to be placed in residential treatment facilities and to be placed
      on antipsychotic medications. Challenging behaviors have also repeatedly been shown to be
      strongly associated with poorer mental and physical health in caregivers. While there is a
      long history of both behavioral and pharmacologic interventions for aggression and SIB, the
      evidence base is considered slim compared to other fields in health care. A key challenge for
      clinicians and researchers in the IDD field is determining the efficacy of treatments to meet
      the complex needs of their patients. The ability to adequately assess the efficacy of any
      pharmacological or behavioral treatment has been limited by the lack of objective, real-time
      measurement tools. While there are many measures of behavior, including behavioral
      observation tools designed to assess the frequency, severity, and functions of specific
      behaviors, these measures are often limited. Most behavior measures rely either on recall
      (e.g., parent rating scales), or trained observers who, in addition to requiring specific
      training in behavior observation techniques also, as a factor of their presence, may change
      the behaviors and/or outcomes. The limitations inherent in these traditional measurement
      techniques have at best made it difficult to test the true efficacy of a clinical
      intervention, and, at worst, potentially resulted in the failure of clinical trials for
      medications which may have shown positive results with more sensitive and objective outcome
      measures.

      MOCHA was developed in response to these challenges as an innovative yet simple method to
      capture behaviors in real time. MOCHA is available for both iOS and android platforms and can
      be sent remotely via a link to an individual's phone. MOCHA allows parents or teachers to
      record a behavior event simply by opening an app on their phone or tablet. A series of
      questions about the event allow for a brief yet comprehensive description of the event for
      use in understanding potential antecedents and functions of the behavior. Data is securely
      uploaded to a remote server at RTI whenever the participant is online. MOCHA was originally
      developed and piloted through internal funding to Dr. Wheeler at RTI International. The pilot
      study of four parents and three teachers of children with IDD was conducted primarily to
      establish feasibility and acceptability data and to engage stakeholders in a user-centered
      design approach to the development of the tool. Results from the pilot suggest that MOCHA is
      an acceptable and feasible tool to capture behaviors during or shortly after a behavior
      event. All parents and teachers in the pilot endorsed that MOCHA was easy to learn, clear and
      understandable, easy to answer questions, easy to use and a useful tool. Participants also
      reported the ability to record the behaviors and answer all follow up questions either when
      the behavior occurred or shortly after. In order to optimize the potential for MOCHA as an
      outcome measure there is a need to test its utility for measuring behaviors over time and in
      response to treatment.

      The aims for this next phase of feasibility of MOCHA are as follows:

      Aim 1. Expand the current MOCHA application to include additional clinically relevant
      features. Several features were suggested by participants in the development study to improve
      the usability of MOCHA. Specifically, the ability to personalize the target behaviors ahead
      of data collection; the use of a sync-able, wearable external event marker (EEM); and a
      feedback feature with graphed data to assist with monitoring behavior over time were
      requested features. Fortunately, MOCHA was developed using the Personal Health Informatics
      Toolkit (PHIT), a RTI developed, configurable, mHealth platform for developing apps and
      facilitating research. The PHIT platform has been used successfully for other apps with
      features such EEM and physiological sensors, similar to the features the investigators are
      proposing. Further, RTI has become an international leader in clinical informatics and
      provides shared resources and access to experts through its iSHARE (Integrating Signals and
      Human Response) program. Capitalizing on these resources, our first goal will be to develop
      and integrate these proposed features, using user-centered design procedures and engaging
      stakeholders in development.

      Aim 2. Test the use of the MOCHA application to measure change in behaviors over time and in
      response to intervention. In order to assess the ability to use MOCHA the investigators will
      provide MOCHA to 10 families of individuals with IDD who are receiving intervention services
      through an established behavioral medicine clinic. The primary purpose of this aim is to
      examine the feasibility of the MOCHA app for use in recording frequency, intensity, and
      occurrence of behaviors and considering that information with parent perception/report.

      Aim 3. Explore the ability to sync MOCHA with physiological data via wearable sensors. An
      ultimate vision of the MOCHA system includes the ability for the app to provide "ground
      truth" observable behavior that occurs in conjunction with physiological changes. Although
      full testing of a syncable system is outside the budgetary and time restrictions of this
      funding mechanism, the investigators propose to move this vision closer to reality by a)
      identifying wearable sensors that are acceptable and tolerable to the population and b)
      testing the feasibility of time syncing physiological markers with MOCHA identified
      behaviors.
    
  