
    
      Cannabis has long been suggested to stimulate appetite, decrease nausea and vomiting, and
      improve quality of life in cancer patients. Studies on the efficacy of cannabis for improving
      CACS and S-NIS have had mixed results. After trials showing improvement in weight gain among
      AIDS patients, cannabinoids were tested on cancer patients as well. In a controlled, random
      study comparing dronabinol to a placebo among cancer patients, dronabinol was associated with
      increased appetite in 38% vs 8% for placebo, and decreased nausea in 20% vs 7%, using
      acceptable measurement scales. Of the dronabinol patients, 22% gained ≥2 kg, compared with
      10.5% of placebo recipients, but this datum did not reach significance, perhaps due to the
      advanced stage of cancer and the high mortality in both placebo and experimental group (30).

      Another randomized study compared dronabinol to megestrol acetate or both treatments
      together. The research included 469 advanced cancer patients who had been suffering from a
      substantial appetite loss. A greater percentage of megestrol acetate-treated patients
      reported appetite improvement compared with dronabinol-treated patients, 75% vs 49%
      (p=0.0001). Combination treatment resulted in no significant differences compared with
      megestrol acetate alone. Another study, which included 243 patients, compared the
      administration of a combination of tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabinol to
      tetrahydrocannabinol alone, compared to placebo. It should be noted that cannabinoid dosages
      in the study were low, even in comparison to other studies. No significant differences
      between the groups were seen regarding improvement in appetite or weight-gain. In these two
      studies, no substantial side effects of cannabis products were found compared to the other
      arms. This may be related to the dosages of the drugs given.

      A more recent study demonstrated improved chemosensory perception, appetite, sleep, and
      macronutrient preference in advanced cancer patients. However, the study included less than
      50 patients. This research showed improvement in taste and smell perception in patients
      receiving chemotherapy, as well as appetite and caloric intake in the arm that received
      dronabinol compared to placebo.

      Assessment: Base-line assessment

        1. Physician anamnesis and physical examination

        2. Complete blood cell count (CBC) and biochemistry test: electrolytes, renal and liver
           function tests, albumin level, total cholesterol level

        3. Blood test for TNF-alpha level

        4. Nutrition evaluation, including daily caloric calculation (by using 3 day food diary)
           and weighting the patient

        5. QoL assessment by EORTC C30 and Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy assessment by FAACT
           questionnaire

        6. Evaluation of muscle strength by using hand dynamometer as estimation for muscle mass.

      Treatment assessment

        1. Physician anamnesis including toxicity assessment according to CTCAE recommendations for
           acute toxicity, and physical examination including weighing the patient every two weeks
           in the first month, every month in the coming two months, and every six weeks in the
           next three months

        2. CBC, biochemistry blood test, TNF-alpha level on day 1, and after three months

        3. Nutritional intake evaluation on the first week and after three months, based on daily
           caloric calculation of three day food diary

        4. Muscle strength evaluation on day 1 and after three months

        5. QOL assessment by EORTC C30 and Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy assessment by FAACT
           questionnaire on day 1 and after three and six months

        6. Safety assessment for early psychiatric side-effects by the Community Assessment of
           Psychic Experiences (CAPE) questionnaire on day 1 and after 2 weeks and after 3 months.

        7. Urine THC- levels one day 1, 2 weeks, 3 months.

      Quality-of-Life (QOL) Assessment

      QOL will be assessed using the European Organization of Research and Treatment of Cancer core
      questions on the Quality of Life Questionnaire, version 2 (QLQ-C30) (43) and the
      Anorexia/Cachexia Therapy (FAACT) questionnaire (44).

      Nutrition assessment

        1. Daily caloric calculation will be based on the three day food diary. On day 1, the
           patient will meet the dietitian and receive guidance and instruction of how to complete
           the diary. The cannabis pills will be given on day 4, after bringing back the three day
           diary. After three months, the patient will again do a three day food diary and caloric
           calculation will be made.

        2. The caloric calculation will be made with the Ministry of Health Computer software
           "Zameret".

        3. The patient will have telephone support from the dietitian as needed during the days of
           the diary completion.

        4. Cannabics capsules will be given on day 4, after bringing back the three day diary.

      Safety assessment:

      Community Assessment of Psychic Experiences (CAPE) questionnaire to evaluated possible early
      psychiatric side-effects will be given in 3 time points, together with measuring the THC
      level in the urine. Evaluation of other side-effects will be done in every physician visit.
    
  