
    
      For most adults in late Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD Stage 4 or 5), kidney transplantation
      yields superior outcomes compared to long-term dialysis. Unfortunately, the demand for kidney
      transplantation far exceeds the supply of deceased donor organs. For those patients with
      healthy and willing living kidney donors, live donor kidney transplantation (LDKT) produces
      superior graft and patient survival rates, lower acute rejection rates, more rapid
      improvements in functional status, and lower healthcare costs. However, there are profound
      racial and income disparities in access to LDKT. Minorities, especially Blacks and Hispanics,
      are substantially less likely to receive LDKT compared to Whites. Also, the overall decline
      in LDKTs in the United States in recent years has been more pronounced for Blacks and
      patients with less household income. These lower LDKT rates contribute to longer waiting
      times for transplantation, more dialysis exposure, higher likelihood of death before
      transplantation, declining functional capacity, less optimal graft outcomes after
      transplantation, and higher healthcare costs. Therefore, interventions that expand access to
      LDKT, especially those targeting minority and low-income populations, are needed given the
      current and projected shortage of deceased donor organs.

      There are several hypothesized barriers to LDKT for minorities and low-income patients,
      including perceived discrimination, health care mistrust, social network differences, higher
      rates of conditions that preclude living kidney donation, higher indirect costs of living
      donation, less knowledge and more concerns about LDKT, and failure to provide culturally
      competent education to patients and their support systems. In the last decade, the PI has
      developed and evaluated an innovative House Calls intervention designed to remove LDKT
      barriers.28-30 Health educators deliver a comprehensive and interactive program on kidney
      transplantation and living donation in the patient's home with members of their social
      network present. Relative to standard clinic-based educational programs, the House Calls
      intervention is superior at improving LDKT knowledge, reducing LDKT concerns, increasing LDKT
      willingness, and increasing rates of LDKT, particularly in minority and low-income patients
      (see Preliminary Studies section). However, the effectiveness of the House Calls intervention
      may be limited by the absence of decision-making aids, exposure to appropriate peer models,
      and assistance in developing an LDKT action plan beyond the House Calls intervention. This
      limitation and feedback from study participants have informed our strategy to enhance the
      House Calls intervention by incorporating a Patient-Centered Decision Support component.
      Additionally, there is a pressing need to identify factors that are most critical to the
      success of the House Calls intervention and to determine whether it can reduce the gender
      disparity in living kidney donation.8 Therefore, in the proposed study, we plan to pursue two
      primary aims and one exploratory aim:

      Primary Aims

        1. Evaluate the differential benefit of adding a patient-centered decision support
           component to the House Calls intervention. In a randomized controlled trial, we will
           compare House Calls (HC) alone to House Calls + Decision Support (HC+DS) in a sample of
           minorities and low-income patients. It is hypothesized that, compared to HC alone, the
           HC+DS group will have a higher proportion of patients with LDKT by the 2-yr study
           endpoint (primary outcome) and higher proportions of patients with ≥1 live donor
           inquiry, ≥1 live donor evaluation, and in LDKT Readiness Stages 4/5 by the 12-wk
           assessment (secondary outcomes).

        2. Identify mediators of the relationship between the interventions and the occurrence of
           LDKT. We will investigate a set of mediators through which House Calls may increase the
           occurrence of LDKT, including increased LDKT knowledge, change in LDKT readiness,
           reduced LDKT concerns, reduced health care mistrust, the amount of time discussing LDKT
           with others and the quality of those interactions, and improvement in self-efficacy
           discussing LDKT with others.

           Exploratory Aim

        3. Examine whether the House Calls intervention reduces the gender disparity in rates of
           living kidney donation. Women comprise 60% of all living kidney donors in the past
           decade. We have shown that the House Calls intervention directly educates significantly
           more potential living donors, including men, compared to standard clinic-based
           educational approaches. We hypothesize that a higher proportion of patients receiving
           the House Calls intervention (either HC alone or HC+DS) will have at least one potential
           male donor evaluated and be more likely to receive a LDKT from a male living donor,
           relative to a non-intervention control group, controlling for patient race/ethnicity,
           gender, age, and household income.
    
  