
    
      Scientific Background Anesthesia and surgery are stressful situations which cause
      neuro-endocrine, metabolic and neurological responses. Cancer surgery may cause a decrease in
      anti-angiogenic factors, and enable dissemination of tumor cells through manipulation of the
      tumor and it blood vessels, as well as local and systemic secretion of growth hormones, and
      immune suppression. The magnitude of the response depends on many factors, including the
      extent of tissue injury, technique of anesthesia and type of analgesia, transfusions,
      temperature changes, psychological stress and genetic factors (1-3). The tissue damage starts
      a cascade of local and systemic processes which include secretion of hormones and cytokines
      (1).

      Post operatively, suppression of several immune functions occurs, and may last for weeks. The
      cellular immunity undergoes suppression, while the humoral immunity remains almost entirely
      intact (1). These changes in cell mediated immunity may impact systemic resistance to
      infection as well as metastatic processes. Specifically, NK cells have a pivotal role in
      defense from neoplastic processes. Studies have shown that high levels of activity of NK
      cells are associated with long term survival (1). Therefore, understanding of the processes
      which cause post-operative immune suppression, and prevention of such suppression, are of
      clinical significance.

      Several substances which are secreted after surgery are thought to contribute to immune
      suppression in general and NK cell dysfunction in particular. These include prostaglandins,
      catecholamines, steroids and endorphins, have all been shown to suppress several
      immunological functions in vitro (1). Animal studies have shown that administration of
      prostaglandins and catecholamines to rats suppresses NK cell activity in vivo, in association
      with elevated susceptibility to metastases 4-6).

      In rats undergoing a laparotomy, peri-operative administration of beta- adrenergic blockers
      together with COX-2 inhibitors significantly abrogated the NK cell suppression as well as the
      enhanced susceptibility to metastases after surgery (4,7).

      The mechanism of effect of prostaglandins and catecholamines on NK cells has been elucidated
      (1): beta- adrenergic receptors and prostanoid receptors on the cell membrane cause elevated
      levels of intra-cellular cAMP when activated by their ligand, which in turn interferes with
      the NK cell cytotoxic activity against cancer cells or viral pathogens. Since the elevated
      intra-cellular levels of cAMP is caused by each type of receptor independently, blockade of
      only one of these pathways will enable an increase in intracellular cAMP levels via the other
      pathway, and have no effect of the suppression of cytotoxic activity. Therefore, simultaneous
      blockade of both pathways may be more effective. Research in rats directly supports this
      hypothesis (7).

      Cells of the immune system express mostly beta-2 adrenergic receptors, and to a lesser degree
      beta-1 receptors (9, 10), so pharmacological blockade requires use of a non specific blocker
      which can block both types of receptors. The beta-antagonist propranolol was chosen for this
      experiment since it is a non specific beta-blocker, capable of blocking both types of
      receptors, as well as extensive clinical experience with this drug and the fact that it is a
      relatively safe drug. The COX-2 inhibitor chosen is Etodlac (Etopan), which has the advantage
      of being a selective COX-2 inhibitor,synthesized during injury and inflammation, with little
      effect on the COX-1 enzyme, which is associated with ongoing maintenance of tissues.

      Anesthetics and opiate analgesics also cause NK cell suppression. Research in animals and in
      humans has shown that morphine and fentanyl cause suppression of NK cell activity, and
      enhance susceptibility to breast cancer metastases in rats (11,12). Lower doses of opiates in
      patients have been reported to decrease the immune suppression magnitude and duration (13).
      Therefore, peri-operative interventions which decrease the use of opiates (or their
      endogenous secretion) may be clinically important factors in cancer recurrence.

      In addition to immune suppression, endogenous and exogenous opiates (endorphins morphine,
      fentanyl) have been implicated as promoting metastatic spread and neoplastic proliferation
      via other mechanisms:

        -  Catecholamines have been reported to increase VEGF secretion by human cancer cells, and
           enhance tumor cell invasion (14-16).

        -  Morphine causes increased proliferation of human tumor cells and enhances tumor
           vascularization (17)

        -  COX2 inhibitors enhance sensitivity of human tumor cells to induction of apoptosis, and
           decrease capillary density in cancer tissue (18, 19).

      Therefore, minimization of peri-operative opiate use and prevention or blockade of
      prostaglandin and catecholamine effects may delay the metastatic process and the development
      of existing micro-metastases.

      A retrospective clinical study published in 2006 indirectly supports the proposed study: In
      this study breast cancer patients were treated per-operatively with a COX inhibitor
      (diclofenac) along with local blockade of the sympathetic and pain pathways (paravertebral
      anesthesia). These treatments no doubt lowered the use of opiates during and after surgery.
      Among patients thus treated a three fold decrease in recurrence rates was found three years
      after surgery (21). Of note, this study quotes the previously mentioned study in rats (6,22)
      and involves the same interventions.

      AIM The aim of the proposed study is to examine whether peri-operative administration of COX2
      inhibitors with beta- adrenergic blockers decreases immune suppression during surgery,
      decreases stress hormone and pro-angiogenic factor secretion, and is associated with a
      decrease in cancer recurrence rates.

      The peri-operative variables which will be examined will include number and activity of NK
      cells in the blood, levels of Th1 and Th2 cytokines, stress hormones and pro-angiogenic
      factors, and Th1 and 2 cytokine production by leukocytes in response to in vitro stimulation.
      As part of the clinical monitoring meticulous recording of type and doses of analgesics given
      post operatively, as well as post operative pain assessment (NAS VAS). In addition to these
      parameters, long term follow up will be conducted to determine long term effects of the
      intervention on cancer recurrence.

      Peri-operative administration of COX inhibitors and beta- adrenergic blockers Routine pre
      medication before surgery generally includes anxiolytics such as benzodiazepines, drugs
      routinely taken by the patient, and additional drugs for specific indications. Preventive
      administration of beta- blockers and COX inhibitors are recommended in the literature
      pertaining to anesthesia and pain. Administration of beta- blockers has been shown to
      stabilize the cardio vascular system and decrease peri-operative ischemic events (23), while
      preventive administration of COX inhibitors decreases post operative pain (5). Post operative
      pain has significant immunological effects: it causes secretion of endogenous opiates, and is
      often treated with synthetic opiates such as morphine. The opiates cause a stress response,
      suppress immune functions and promote tumor growth and spread. Studies have shown that
      administration of COX inhibitors together with morphine caused a decrease in morphine
      requirements. Administration of COX inhibitors can help control pain by abrogation of
      prostaglandin mediated pain pathways while at the same time decreasing opiate requirements.
      An additional benefit of COX inhibitors is it's direct activity against tumor cells by
      enhancing apoptosis and decreasing tumor blood supply as reported in a recently published
      study (21). These studies indicate that peri-operative use of these drugs does not have any
      detrimental effects, is not associated with increased complication - and in fact may be
      beneficial.

      Patients and Methods

      Patients and treatments:

      Immune system activity will be determined among 80 operated breast cancer patients, and 20
      health women in the following groups:

        -  Treatment arm: 40 patients undergoing elective surgery for primary breast cancer will be
           treated orally according to the following protocol:

             -  Propranolol (Deralin) - patients will receive a low dose of 40 mg/day (4X10mg)
                starting two days before surgery (immediately following the first blood draw) until
                the evening of surgery. The first dose will be given under supervision (described
                later). On the morning of surgery, a single tablet of propranolol XL 80mg will be
                administered together with other pre-medication drugs, and will be continued once
                daily for three days after surgery. Pulse and blood pressure will be monitored
                during the first day of treatment, during the day of surgery and on the following
                days until discharge from the hospital. If pulse decreases to <50/min or blood
                pressure decreases to <100 systolic - the dose will be halved.

             -  Etodolac (Etopan) - patients will receive 400mg of etodolac XL twice a day starting
                two days before and continuing through two days after surgery.

        -  Control arm: Forty patients undergoing the same operations will be treated with placebo
           drugs on the same schedule.

        -  Healthy controls: a third control arm will include 20 healthy age-matched women
           presenting for routine breast exams and not undergoing surgery will undergo blood tests
           only.

      Patients will be randomized to one of the two groups, and patient, physicians and laboratory
      personnel will be blinded to the patient's assignment.

      Dependent variables to be tested:

        1. Cytotoxic activity of NK cells against K562 target cells.

        2. Blood leukocyte levels of NK cells, NKT cells, lymphocytes, monocytes and granulocytes
           as determined by FACS.

        3. Serum levels of cytokines (Th1, Th2 and inflammatory): IFN-gamma, IL-2, IL-12, IL-4,
           IL-10 IL-10 and IL-6.

        4. In vitro cytokine secretion by leukocytes stimulated by HPA and LPS. (IFN-gamma IL- 2,
           IL-12, IL-4, IL-10 IL-10 and IL-6.)

        5. Stress hormones and angiogenic factors: levels of cortisol and VEGF.

        6. Doses of anesthetics and analgesics used during and after surgery.

        7. Cancer recurrence during 5 years (including site of recurrence). In addition to the
           aforementioned groups, another 190 patients will be recruited onto each group without
           examining immunological parameters, and will be followed only for cancer recurrence.

      Eligibility criteria:

        -  Women that are scheduled to undergo surgery of a single, stage I-III, invasive ductal or
           lobular carcinoma tumor with curative intent

        -  No evidence of metastatic disease prior to surgery. Minimal workup would include chest
           XR, abdominal ultrasound and bone scan.

        -  Age between 20 and 70 year old.

        -  ASA score of 1-2

        -  The patient is able to understand the study objectives and procedures, able to comply
           with the protocol, and is capable to sign an informed consent.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with metastatic disease, known prior to surgery.

        -  Patients in whom surgical resection is planned without curative intent.

        -  Patients who have undergone neoadjuvant treatment.

        -  Patients with renal failure, measured by creatinine level >1.5

        -  Patients with significant heart failure (NYHA functional class 3 or higher)

        -  Patients with significant liver failure (known cirrhosis, Bilirubin level>2)

        -  Patients suffering from asthma

        -  Patients with known allergy to one or more of the study medications

        -  Patients with known allergy to any medication from the non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
           drug group.

        -  Patients with diabetes mellitus (type 1 or 2).

        -  Patients treated chronically with one or more of the study medications

        -  Patients treated chronically with any type of Beta adrenergic blocker.

        -  Patients treated chronically with any type of COX inhibitor.

        -  Patients with second or third degree AV block.

        -  Patients with sinus bradycardia (patients with heart rate of less than 50).

        -  Patients with sick sinus syndrome.

        -  Patients with current atrial fibrillation/flutter.

        -  Patients with Printzmetal's angina

        -  Patients with hypertension

        -  Patients with right sided heart failure owing to pulmonary hypertension.

        -  Patients with significant cardiomegaly

        -  Patients with (current) pheochromocytoma

        -  Patients with chronic Digoxin treatment

        -  Patients with active peptic disease

        -  Patients with peripheral vascular disease

        -  Patients with history or concomitant malignant disease of any type other than breast
           cancer.

        -  Patients who were treated with chemotherapy in the last 10 years for any reason besides
           neo-adjuvant therapy for breast cancer within the last six months.

        -  Pregnant woman.

        -  Patients currently participating in any other clinical trial

      Procedure:

      After obtaining Helsinki committee approval, eligible patients will receive explanations and
      be invited to participate in the study. Women who consent will sign the approved informed
      consent form.

      Anesthesia procedure will include:

      Standard monitoring including automated blood pressure, ECG, O2 saturation, levels of inhaled
      and exhaled gases Pre-medication: at anesthesiologists discretion Induction: at
      anesthesiologist's discretion Maintenance: at anesthesiologist's discretion (an effort will
      be made to minimize opiate use but without compromising on pain control).

      Post operative pain management:

      Patients will be given a choice of oral Paracetamol 1000 mg every 4 hours, oral Dipyrone 1000
      mg every 4 hours, oral Tramadol solution 50 mg every 6 hours and combinations of the above.
      If needed - 5 mg of oral percocet/oxycodone syrup every 6 hours may be added. For patients
      who are unable to sustain oral intake, intravenous Tramal will be offered at a dose of 50-100
      mg every 6 hours and if needed - morphine 0.1 mg/kg every 4 hours. This protocol is identical
      to the one currently used after this type of surgery.

      Blood samples :

      Blood samples will be obtained two days before surgery (prior to administration of study
      drugs or placebo), on the morning of and the morning following surgery. Blood samples will be
      drawn between 7:30 and 9:00 am, and will include 10 cc of peripheral blood, preferably from
      the ante-cubital vein.

      Blood will be collected in vacuum tubes containing 30 units of heparin without preservatives,
      and will be transferred immediately to the neuro-immunology lab at Tel Aviv University.
      Laboratory evaluation of the samples will begin within 3 hours of blood drawing. The samples
      will be kept at room temperature.

      The samples will be divided as follows:

      NK cell activity testing - 2 ml FACS analysis of cells - 1 ml In vitro testing of cytokine
      response to LPS - 2 ml Cytokine, cortisol and VEGF levels - 5 ml (to be performed in batches
      at a later time - after separation of cells plasma will be kept at -80C).

      Documentation and analysis of results:

      Documentation:

      Epidemiological data: identification (name, ID no), age, ethnic origin, background medical
      conditions and drugs, smoking, menstrual status and date of last menstrual period, physical
      activity, presence of infections or viral illnesses within last 2 weeks.

      Data related to anesthesia and surgery:

      Type and length of surgery, systemic administration of opioids during and after surgery (type
      and dose).

      Cancer related parameters: Tumor size, grade, histological type, lymph node status, adjuvant
      therapy.

      Immunological parameters: as previously detailed is three blood samples from operated
      patients and a single sample from the healthy controls.

      Recurrence data: location, time since surgery and survival.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Statistical analysis will be done by ANOVA (between and within subjects) regarding the
      variables. Determination of specific differences between groups will be based on the PLSD
      test for planned comparisons, and the Scheffe test for unplanned comparisons. Chi square
      tests will be used as well as Kaplan-Meier survival curves for non continuous or categorical
      variables. In addition, Cox regressions will be calculated to evaluate the predictive ability
      of treatments on cancer recurrence, taking other predicting factors into account. Blood
      samples and immunological data will be collected for 40 patients in groups 1 and 2 and 20
      healthy controls in group 3. In order to determine impact of treatment on recurrence rates a
      total of 230 patients will be recruited in each group. Sample size was calculated to provide
      an 805 power to detect a 30-50% decrease in cancer recurrence with an alpha of 0.05.
    
  