
    
      Left-sided surgical acute colonic diseases (perforated diverticulitis with generalized
      peritonitis, colon perforation, large bowel obstruction, colon cancer perforation or
      obstruction, ischemic colitis, abdominal trauma) are still a life-threatening condition
      requiring urgent surgical intervention.

      Despite several published randomized trials, showing that primary anastomosis with or without
      protective ileostomy is feasible and randomized trials for laparoscopic lavage with
      conflicting results, the Hartmann's procedure, described for the first time in 1921 as an
      alternative to abdominoperineal resection for the treatment of upper rectal tumours, is still
      performed in many hospitals worldwide. It remained the most common procedure for acute
      diverticulitis and colonic perforation in emergency setting for many years. Hartmann's
      procedure is safe for severely ill patients; however, restoring intestinal continuity for
      such patients is often associated with high morbidity leaving a great percentage of patients
      with (up to 50%) with a permanent stoma.

      Hartmann procedure' is a rapid and simple surgical technique intended to decrease
      perioperative morbidity and mortality. This technique is often performed by young surgeons
      Indeed, end- colostomy may be necessary in situations where restoration of continuity is
      risky, either because of unfavourable local conditions (Hinchey IV peritonitis) or because a
      more definitive resection must be aborted due to hemodynamic instability. Although
      anastomosis at the time of surgery is an alternative approach to Hartmann's procedure, there
      have been concerns about the safety of this approach.

      In the last decade the Hartmann's procedure has been revalued and the results of different
      studies [DIVA arm of the LADIES trial; DIVERTI study; Halim et Al] showed that more patients
      in the primary anastomosis group were stoma free compared with patients in the Hartmann's
      procedure group.

      Several studies have observed no differences in major postoperative complications or
      postoperative mortality between patients undergoing primary anastomosis versus Hartmann's
      procedure. Hartmann's procedure reversals were associated with a higher risk of serious
      postoperative complications than were stoma reversals after protected primary anastomosis.
      The management of colorectal cancer emergencies is challenging. WSES guidelines recommend in
      case of perforation resection with anastomosis, with or without ileostomy. Hartmann's
      procedure should be preferred to simple colostomy, since colostomy appears to be associated
      with longer overall hospital stay and need for multiple operations, without a reduction in
      perioperative morbidity in patients with colorectal cancer obstruction. Resection with
      primary anastomosis should be preferred for uncomplicated malignant left-sided large bowel
      obstruction in absence of other risk factors. Patients with high surgical risk are better
      managed with Hartmann's procedure Despite the growing evidence in favour of primary
      anastomosis and its inclusion as a valid treatment option for perforated diverticulitis or
      perforated sigmoid colon cancer in recent clinical practice guidelines, surgeons have been
      reluctant to perform anastomosis. Moreover, the postoperative course of the septic patient is
      unpredictable and it very hard to estimate it intraoperatively.

      In the setting of purulent or fecal contamination most surgeons choose Hartmann's procedure
      to eliminate also legal concerns about anastomotic leakage. It's important to note that most
      of these procedures are performed off normal working hours when maybe best colorectal
      expertise is lacking for decision making regarding anastomosis.

      Primary study objective:

        1. To evaluate the role of Hartmann's procedure in emergency setting for left-sided colonic
           acute surgical disease (perforated diverticulitis with purulent or fecal peritonitis;
           colon cancer perforation-occlusion; ischemic colitis; abdominal trauma) and the type of
           surgery commonly performed in different level of care hospitals.

        2. To investigate which factors contribute in the choice of Hartmann's procedure instead of
           colon resection with primary anastomosis (Hospital characteristics, surgeon experience,
           time of surgery, age of patients, comorbidities, etc ) Study design: International
           multicenter prospective cohort study. Study population: Adult patients with left-sided
           colonic acute surgical disease who need surgery in an emergency setting (perforated
           diverticulitis with purulent or fecal peritonitis; colon cancer perforation-occlusion;
           ischemic colitis; abdominal trauma).
    
  