
    
      Glucocorticoids have direct effects on bone remodeling by suppressing bone formation
      (inhibition of osteoblastic differentiation, inhibition of mature osteoblasts function and
      apoptosis of mature osteoblasts) and by increasing bone resorption (decrease in osteoclast
      apoptosis and stimulation of osteoclastogenesis). They also have indirect bone effects by
      decreasing the intestinal absorption of calcium and increasing its urinary excretion, and by
      inhibiting the somatotropic and gonadotropic axis. This pathophysiology results in excessive
      bone fragility. Bone loss and increased incidence of fractures occur within 6 months after
      the introduction of oral corticosteroid therapy, with a partially reversible phenomenon
      within months of discontinuation. The extent of bone loss depends on the dose and duration of
      glucocorticoid administration.

      The systemic transition of topical corticosteroids depends on several parameters such as
      excipients, anatomical location, cutaneous state, the dose used and the duration of exposure.

      Clobetasol propionate, used for long-term use in bullous pemphigoid, is a Class IV
      dermocorticoid (highly potent). Patients with bullous pemphigoid will benefit from bone
      densitometry at the initiation of treatment, at 3 months (theoretical end of the treatment of
      attack) and at 6 months (theoretical end of the treatment).

      Patients will also benefit a blood test of serum calcium, phosphoremia, albumin, 25 OH
      vitamin D and cortisol at 8 to highlight possible correlations between changes in bone
      mineral density and phosphocalcic parameters and 8 cortisolemia (braking of the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis).

      Patients will also benefit from standard radiographs of the thoracic and lumbar spine at the
      initiation of treatment and at 6 months. Follow-up is planned over 6 months, with 2 follow-up
      visits at 3 months and 6 months.
    
  