
    
      1. Research drugs. Three kinds of uric acid lowering drugs, allopurinol, febuxostat and
           benzbromarone, will be evaluated in this study.

        2. Study design and sample size calculation. This study was designed as a single-center
           prospective cohort study. Age-matched sperm donors from the human sperm bank of the
           Peking University Third Hospital were selected as the control group. After a careful
           search of the relevant literature, there are no reports of similar studies, so it is
           impossible to accurately estimate the sample size. Therefore, this study planned to
           enroll 20 patients with gout who were using allopurinol, febuxostat and benzbromarone to
           reduce uric acid, respectively. And 60 normal male donors were recruited as control. It
           is planned to recruit 5 gouty patients and 5 control males every month. Therefore, the
           whole study needs to last at least 12 months after initiation

        3. Research process. The process of this study does not affect the routine diagnosis and
           treatment procedures of patients with gout. Our research team is made up of doctors
           majoring in rheumatology and andrology. Therefore, we can make routine clinical
           diagnosis and treatment according to the specific conditions of patients with gout.

      1) Screening period. It will takes about 2 weeks, including the following forms:

        1. Patients with gout are in acute attack. According to the guidelines for the diagnosis
           and treatment of gout, we should first give them anti-inflammatory and analgesic
           treatment. Cyclooxygenase(COX) non-selective non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
           drugs(NSAIDs) or colchicine can be selected to control acute symptoms. Then we performed
           the semen analysis after the joint swelling and pain is completely improved. If the
           patient meets our admission criteria, urate-lowering therapy should be initiated
           according to the clinical practice. And we regard this time as week 0. NSAIDs or
           colchicine can be prophylacticly used for at least 2 weeks combined with urate-lowering
           treatment in case of gout flare.

        2. Patients with gout in remission. For this kind of patients, we directly conduct semen
           analysis. If the results meets our admission criteria, urate-lowering therapy should be
           initiated according to the clinical practice. We also regard this time as week 0. And
           the preventive use of NSAIDs or colchicine is the same as above.

           2) Follow-up stage. The follow-up cycle was calculated after the beginning of
           urate-lowering therapy. We will detect the blood routine, urine routine, liver and
           kidney function and serum uric acid at the time of screening and week 2, week 4, week 8
           and week 12 visits. The patients will receive the repeated sperm analysis at week 4 and
           week 12, respectively. At the same time, we will collect all the corresponding data on
           the case report form.

           4、Patient withdrawal. Patients can drop out of the trial at any time. Researchers can
           also persuade patients to withdraw for a variety of reasons, including baseline
           screening for sperm quality below World Health Organization (WHO) standards, adverse
           events, safety concerns, or patients' failure to comply with the trial regimen.

           5、Eliminated cases. For some reason, those who are not completed as planned and whose
           observation records are incomplete are eliminated cases. Those who are interrupted due
           to serious adverse reactions should be regarded as cases of adverse reactions and shall
           not be included in the statistics of comparative analysis of semen.

           6、Treatment regimen. Baseline screening: if the patient meets the selection criteria and
           is not in the gout attack period, we can consider the direct start of uric acid-lowering
           drug treatment. The choice of uric acid-lowering drugs should be based on the patient's
           drug use taboos for real-world choice. If the patient is in the attack stage of acute
           arthritis, we need to control the acute symptoms, and we can consider using COX
           non-selective NSAIDs, and then start the uric acid treatment after the joint symptoms
           are completely improved.

      Uric acid-lowering therapy: the beginning of uric acid-lowering therapy must be combined with
      COX non-selective NSAIDs or colchicine to prevent gout.

        -  Allopurinol, the initial dose of 125mg once a day. If serum uric acid is not less than
           360 µm/L after 2 weeks, the dose can be increased to 250mg once a day, and the highest
           dose does not exceed 500mg every day.

             -  Febuxostat, the initial dose of 20mg once a day. If serum uric acid is not less
                than 360 µm/L after 2 weeks, the dose can be increased to 40mg once a day, and the
                highest dose does not exceed 80mg every day.

                  -  Benzbromarone, the initial dose of 25mg once a day. If serum uric acid is not
                     less than 360 µm/L after 2 weeks, the dose can be increased to 50mg once a
                     day, and the highest dose does not exceed 100mg every day.

                     7、Assessment. We will use three methods to assess male fertility: basic semen
                     analysis, sperm DNA integrity analysis, and measurement of sperm damage via
                     oxidative stress.

                       1. Basic semen analysis and sperm DNA fragmentation were performed at
                          Reproductive Medicine Centre, Peking University Third Hospital using
                          standard laboratory procedures, per WHO guidelines (2010 5th edition).
                          This is a microscopic evaluation of fresh semen that assesses sperm
                          concentration, viability, motility, and morphology. Frozen semen
                          specimens were evaluated for oxidative stress damage by a clinical
                          central laboratory specialized in molecular medicine.

                       2. Sperm Testing for DNA Fragmentation and Oxidative Damage:

                          The sperm DNA fragmentation assay was utilized to assess sperm DNA
                          integrity based upon the literature report (Cytometry 1985; 6(3): 238-53)
                          in which sperm DNA is stained with acridine orange and analyzed by flow
                          cytometry.Two measurements are then produced: %DFI (DNA fragmentation
                          index) which indicates level of sperm DNA breaks and %HDS (high DNA
                          stainability) which is reported to correlate to levels of immature sperm
                          and somatic cells such as white blood cells. Sperm damage from oxidative
                          stress (OS) was measured using the Oxidative Stress AdductsTM test
                          (ReproSource, Inc. Woburn, MA) which measures by pectrophotometry the
                          levels of molecules (adducts) covalently formed by reaction of lipid
                          aldehydes present in sperm membranes under conditions of OS with cellular
                          structures such as DNA based on the method previously described by Gomez
                          et al (Gut 1987; 28(8): 1008-12).

                       3. Serum samples for the analysis of serum uric acid were collected at the
                          time of screening, week 2, week 4, week 8 and week 12, or early
                          termination.

                          8、Samples collection, preservation and destruction

                     a. Semen samples were collected by masturbation after an instructed period of
                     2 to 3 days without ejaculation in the semen collection room of Peking
                     University third Hospital after signing the informed consent according to the
                     trial scheme. After semen liquefaction (30 minutes to 1 hour), an aliquot was
                     used for semen analysis and a second aliquot of raw semen was frozen within 2
                     hours of collection at -80° C.

                     b. Semen samples are uniformly preserved until destroyed after the end of this
                     trial. The test time is expected to be 2-3 years.

                     c. At the end of the trial, the semen samples were uniformly destroyed. The
                     frozen semen was reheated at room temperature and completely soaked in 0.5%
                     sodium hypochlorite disinfectant. Finally, the disinfection solution
                     containing semen was treated as medical waste.

                     9、Quality control.

                     a. Carry out publicity and education to the subjects to reduce the rate of
                     loss of follow-up; b. Semen quality analysis system was used to detect semen
                     quality indexes such as sperm density, motility, forward motility ratio and so
                     on. Quality control of standard samples was carried out for every 10 samples
                     tested.

                     10、Statistical analysis. We will use SPSS 20.0 software for statistical
                     analysis. All statistical tests are bilateral test, P value less than or equal
                     to 0.05 will be considered to be statistically significant. When comparing the
                     difference of curative effect between the parameters before and after gout
                     treatment, paired t-test was used if the measurement data were in accordance
                     with normal distribution. Independent sample t-test was used for comparison
                     among different intervention groups. Nonparametric test is used if the
                     measurement data do not conform to the normal distribution. Chi-square test
                     was used to compare the counting data between groups.
    
  