
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To assess the safety and tolerability of glioblastoma multiform multi-antigen vaccine
           IMA950 plus sargramostim (GM-CSF) in combination with standard chemoradiotherapy
           comprising temozolomide and radiotherapy followed by adjuvant temozolomide in patients
           with newly diagnosed glioblastoma multiforme.

        -  To determine the immunogenicity of this regimen in these patients.

      Secondary

        -  To determine the anti-tumor effect of this regimen in these patients.

        -  To determine the effect of pre-treatment levels of regulatory T-cells on the
           immunogenicity of this regimen in these patients. (Exploratory)

        -  To evaluate the potential effect of steroid dose on the immunological response to
           glioblastoma multiform multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 plus GM-CSF.

      Tertiary

        -  To assess the level of O6-methyl-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) promoter methylation in
           tumor tissue and any potential association with any observed anti-tumor effect.

        -  To evaluate the kinetics of the observed immunogenicity of glioblastoma multiform
           multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 plus GM-CSF.

        -  To explore the possible biomarker signatures that may predict immunological response to
           glioblastoma multiform multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 plus GM-CSF. (Exploratory)

        -  To explore the possible effects of this regimen on any observed pseudo-progression and
           pseudo-regression in these patients. (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are recruited to cohort 1 or 2 with priority
      recruitment to cohort 1. All patients undergo standard chemoradiotherapy followed by adjuvant
      temozolomide as planned.

        -  Standard therapy (chemoradiotherapy and adjuvant temozolomide): Beginning after surgery,
           patients receive chemoradiotherapy comprising oral temozolomide daily for 6 weeks and
           radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Beginning 35 days after completion
           of radiotherapy, patients receive adjuvant oral temozolomide alone on days 1-5.
           Treatment with temozolomide repeats every 28 days for 6 courses.

        -  Vaccine therapy: Patients also receive vaccine therapy beginning at one of two time
           points. Patients are recruited into 1 of 2 cohorts that differ in the timing of the
           vaccination schedule in relation to a patient's standard therapy.

             -  Cohort 1: Vaccination begins 7-14 days prior to chemoradiotherapy.

                  -  Induction phase: Patients receive the first 6 doses of sargramostim
                     intradermally (ID) followed by glioblastoma multiform multi-antigen vaccine
                     IMA950 ID on days 1, 2, 3, 8, 15, and 22 in the absence of disease progression
                     or unacceptable toxicity.

                  -  Maintenance phase: Patients receive sargramostim followed by glioblastoma
                     multiform multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 ID on days 50 and 78 and then on day 21
                     of each adjuvant temozolomide course, beginning in course 1, for 3 courses in
                     the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Cohort 2: Vaccination begins at least 7 days after chemoradiotherapy and 28 days
                prior to adjuvant temozolomide.

                  -  Induction phase: Patients receive the first 6 doses of sargramostim followed
                     by glioblastoma multiform multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 ID as in cohort 1
                     induction phase, beginning at a different time point.

                  -  Maintenance phase: Patients receive sargramostim followed by glioblastoma
                     multiform multi-antigen vaccine IMA950 ID on day 21 of each adjuvant
                     temozolomide course, beginning in course 1, for 5 courses in the absence of
                     disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are collected periodically for pharmacodynamic, biomarker, and immunologic
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 41 weeks.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  