
    
      Viral infections, or their reactivation in the immunocompromised host, remain serious
      complications that adversely affect outcomes of transplantation. These infections may be
      refractory to pharmacologic treatment and result in increased morbidity and mortality after
      transplantation. Furthermore, the available pharmacologic therapies can result in severe
      toxicities.

      Once an infection occurs, adequate immune reconstitution is decisive for recovery from viral
      disease after kidney transplantation. The present trial will consist of the treatment of
      kidney transplant recipients diagnosed with severe CMV infection when standard antiviral
      therapy is ineffective (disease progression on therapy, decline in viral load less than
      10-fold in 2 weeks, known drug resistance), or toxic (end-organ damage), with virus-specific
      T cells using the CliniMACS® Prodigy System. As described in the background section, these
      are the patients with the greatest unmet need and greatest risk or morbidity and allograft
      loss due to CMV infection. CMV-specific T cells will be isolated from donor leukapheresis
      products using the CliniMACS® Prodigy. Prior studies on transfer of CMV-specific T cells have
      been shown to be safe and efficacious in the treatment of CMV infections.

      The primary objective of this Phase I trial is to evaluate the safety and tolerability of
      CMV-specific T-cell transfer in adult patients suffering from CMV infections following kidney
      transplantation using a dose escalation design. The incubation with viral antigens (MACS GMP
      PepTivator) allows the enrichment of CMV-specific CD4+(Cluster of Differentiation 4) and
      CD8+(Cluster of Differentiation 8) T cells. Increasing evidence of the safety and efficacy of
      CMV-specific T-cell is available. Furthermore, the safety and efficacy of the specific
      manufacturing approach using the fully automated protocol of the ClinMACS® Prodigy for the
      isolation of CMV-specific T cells against CMV has been described and demonstrated that these
      cells retain their biological properties.
    
  