
    
      This a multicenter, open-label, phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy of
      pembrolizumab in combination with eribulin in female patients older than 18 years old with
      hormone receptor-(HR)positive/HER2-negative metastatic breast cancer (MBC) previously treated
      with at least one, but not more than two, prior chemotherapeutic regimens for treatment of
      locally recurrent and/or metastatic disease. Prior therapy must have included an
      anthracycline and a taxane in any combination or order and either in the early or metastatic
      disease setting unless contraindicated for a given patient. Prior anti-hormonal therapy is
      mandatory.

      The number of patients to be included is 44 patients at 11 sites. The primary objective is to
      assess the efficacy -as determined by the clinical benefit rate (CBR) (total number of
      objective responses plus stable disease for at least 24 weeks) based on RECIST v.1.1- of
      MK3475 (pembrolizumab) in combination with eribulin.

      Primary endpoint is CBR based on RECIST v.1.1. All eligible patients will be treated with
      MK3475 (pembrolizumab) 200 mg on day 1 of each 21-day cycle and eribulin 1.23 mg/m2
      (equivalent to eribulin mesylate at 1.4 mg/m2) on days 1 and 8 of every 21-day cycle.
      Treatment with MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin will continue based on physician criteria.
      No maximum duration of treatment is specified. Study follow-up will be performed 12 months
      after last study dose.

      Available tumor tissue for PD-L1 biomarker analysis from a newly obtained core or excisional
      biopsy since last progression of a metastatic tumor lesion not previously irradiated is
      requested for this study.

      Translational research of this protocol involves the collection, processing, temporary
      storage, and shipment of samples from consenting patients enrolled in centers selected for
      participation in the study. The study plan includes collection and initial processing of
      tumor tissues and blood samples to the central laboratory of Institut Hospital del Mar
      d"Investigacions Mèdiques (IMIM), that will be used to identify dynamic biomarkers that may
      be predictive of response to MK3475 (pembrolizumab) and eribulin treatment.
    
  