
    
      This is an open-label pilot study of HLA-matched allogneic and matched unrelated donor (MUD)
      hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) transplant (also referred to as peripheral blood stem cell
      (PBSC) or bone marrow transplant (BMT)) for patients with X-linked severe combined immune
      deficiency (XSCID). XSCID is caused by mutations in the IL2RG gene encoding the interleukin
      receptor signaling gamma chain [gamma c]). The study population are older children (greater
      than or equal to 2 years of age) and adults (less than or equal to 40 years of age) who are
      experiencing deteriorating and/or dysfunctional immunity and any of a constellation of severe
      or chronic medical problems warranting transplantation. The study is designed to evaluate
      whether the use of uniquely designed transplant conditioning and graft-versus-host disease
      (GvHD) prevention regimens achieve sufficient engraftment of donor hematopoietic stem cells
      (HSCs) to facilitate robust restoration of cellular immunity (T cell/NK cell number and
      function) including thymic function, and humoral immunity (B cell number and function) while
      at the same time enhancing tolerance of the donor graft in a fashon that reduces the
      occurrence of GvHD but not at significantly enhancing the risk of post-transplant virus
      infection. One target population are XSCID patients who received matched sibling or
      haploidentical lymphocyte-depleted transplants as infants with little or no myeloid
      conditioning, resulting in variable restoration of T cell immunity, but little or no
      restoration of NK or B cell immunity. Another target population are XSCID patients with
      partial production or function of gamma c or XSCID patients with clonal somatic reversion of
      the mutation in the IL2RG gene, who have less severe immune deficiency in childhood. A subset
      of patients from all of these target XSCID populations may experience progressive
      deterioration of immune function leading to acute and chronic medical problems that warrant
      consideration of allogeneic or MUD transplant to restore immunity.

      The conditioning and GvHD prevention regimens for this HSC transplant protocol are designed
      to use mobilized peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) or bone marrow (BM) (if mobilization is
      not possible) from either an HLA-matched related sibling donor (alloPBSC) as first choice or
      from an HLA matched unrelated donor (MUD) for those without an appropriate HLA-matched
      related sibling donor. If there is no appropriately matched sibling donor nor MUD adult donor
      available, then an appropriately matched cord blood from the cord blood registries may be
      used for small children XSCID recipients. For the alloPBSC (or alloBM) transplantation
      (referred to as Group 1), we propose using a busulfan-based, nonmyeloablative conditioning
      regimen combined with horse Anti-human Thymocyte Globulin (h-ATG) immune suppression
      conditioning plus post-transplant sirolimus for tolerance inducing immunosuppressant to
      prevent GvHD. For the MUD or unrelated cord blood transplantation (referred to as Group 2),
      we will use a similar conditioning regimen, with a few modifications that include addition of
      total body irradiation with shielding and reduction in busulfan dosing, changes designed to
      address the increased risk of graft rejection with HLA-matched but unrelated donor HSC.
    
  