
    
      Methods A prospective open label pilot study was conducted with an aim to study the safety
      and effects of 20% lipid emulsion in OP compound poisoning. The objectives were to study the
      effects on hemodynamic parameters, the effect on morbidity, mortality and the occurrence of
      adverse events.

      All patients, ≥ 13 years, with history of consumption of OP compound and clinical features of
      mild, moderate or severe OP compound poisoning as per the Peradeniya score (Table 1),
      admitted to the emergency department during the study period from September 2015 - December
      2016 were included after written informed consent. Consent was obtained from the nearest kin
      if the presentation was with altered mental state. The recruitment began after approval from
      the institute's ethics committee.

      Patients with chronic liver or kidney disease, history of acute or chronic pancreatitis in
      the past, those with combined poisoning with non OP compounds and asymptomatic patients were
      not included.

      At presentation, detailed history was sought and subjects were examined for signs and
      symptoms of OP poisoning. Vital parameters (pulse rate, blood pressure, and respiratory rate)
      were noted. Blood samples were drawn for assessing baseline electrolytes, renal functions,
      haematological parameters and serum amylase. All patients received a single dose of 100mL of
      20% lipid emulsion as an intra-venous infusion over 1 hour along with routine treatment as
      per institution protocols. Atropine was administered to patients by doubling dose method,
      which comprised of administering atropine starting from 2mg and to double the dose and
      administer till complete atropinization. Following this an infusion of 10-20 percent of the
      atropinizing dose was given every hour. In view of the controversial role of pralidoxime, it
      was not included in the study. The cases were followed up until recovery/death.

      The patients were under observation for their vital signs, pupil size, fasciculation,
      respiratory crackles, amount of oral secretions and, if intubated, tracheal secretion. In
      addition they underwent monitoring of vital parameters every ten minutes during the course of
      lipid administration for the first thirty minutes followed by every fifteen minutes during
      the next 2 hours and every 2nd hourly thereafter.

      Hemodynamic parameters, haematological, biochemical parameters, adverse effects and outcomes
      were compared at various intervals of time following administration of lipid emulsion, up to
      72 hours, with those at the baseline; hemodynamic parameters were also compared with historic
      controls.

      The primary outcome was to study the change in hemodynamic parameters (pulse rate, systolic
      blood pressure, mean arterial pressure and respiratory rate) after delivery of lipid emulsion
      in OP poisoned individuals up to 72 hours and compare any changes in the hemodynamic
      parameters with that of historic controls.

      Secondary outcomes were to study the effects on case fatality (in-hospital until discharge or
      death), morbidity (duration of hospitalization, duration of mechanical ventilation, dose of
      atropine given) and the occurrence of complications including those related to lipid emulsion
      and hospital acquired infections.
    
  