
    
      The primary effects of CytoSorb therapy, are, among many others, an improvement in
      hemodynamics, metobolism, and capillary integrity, with effects of adsorption seeming to
      reach far beyond mere cytokine adsorption.

      Clinically, several publications have shown that certain patient populations benefit most
      from adjuvant CytoSorb treatment.

      In a case series from the investigators department, they examined the effects of CytoSorb as
      an adjunctive therapy on hemodynamics and on clinically relevant outcome parameters in 26
      patients with septic shock and the indication for renal replacement therapy. Treatment was
      associated with hemodynamic stabilization and reduction in blood lactate levels. The actual
      mortality was lower than predicted by APACHE II score. This effect was more pronounced in
      patients in whom therapy was initiated within 24 hours of sepsis diagnosis. Medical patients
      seemed to benefit more than post-surgical patients in terms of survival.

      Based on these results, the investigators performed another study in seven patients with
      septic shock and ECMO (extracorporeal membrane oxygenation)-dependent acute respiratory
      distress syndrome (ARDS) treated with a combination therapy of CytoSorb, continuous renal
      replacement therapy (CRRT) and veno-venous ECMO. The combined treatment was associated with a
      significant stabilization in hemodynamics and a marked reduction in hyperlactatemia. In
      addition, patients also showed a significant improvement in lung function and invasiveness of
      ventilation, and the disease severity and organ dysfunction decreased significantly over the
      course of the combined treatment, while the observed mortality was only half that predicted
      by the APACHE II score. The investigators conclude that CytoSorb may be a potentially
      promising treatment option for patients with refractory ARDS under ECMO therapy in the
      context of septic shock.

      Friesecke et al. prospectively investigated CytoSorb cytokine adsorption in combination with
      standard of care in 20 patients with refractory septic shock (defined as increasing
      vasopressor dosages to maintain a MAP of 65mmHg or increasing lactate levels despite
      protocol-based shock therapy over 6 hours). CytoSorb therapy was started on average after
      7.8±3.7 hours of shock therapy. After initiating CytoSorb, norepinephrine dosages could be
      significantly reduced both after 6 (p=0.03) and 12 (p=0.001) hours. Lactate clearance also
      improved significantly. Reversal of septic shock was achieved in 13 (65%) patients, with a
      28-day survival rate of 45% (with a SOFA predicted mortality of >80%). Treatment with
      CytoSorb resulted in shock reversal in 2/3 of these difficult-to-treat patients. Data from
      the CytoSorb registry also support these observations.

      In summary, these data show that certain subgroups of patients (in particular those with
      pneumonia as well as the most critically ill patients with an APACHE score >35) particularly
      benefit from CytoSorb treatment and that an early onset of therapy (at best <24 hours after
      diagnosis of septic shock) appears to be beneficial and associated with an increased survival
      rate.

      Given the available information, the investigators analyzed their existing data for dynamic
      scoring of the first 6 hours in septic shock, based on the study by Ferreira et al. This
      study showed, that a trend assessment of the SOFA score during the first few days after
      admission to the intensive care unit allowed for a very good prognosis of the patient's
      eventual outcome.

      The Investigators retrospectively screened data using threshold values for lactate,
      catecholamine demand, volume requirements, and the need for additional adjuvant therapy with
      a second catecholamine, and or the application of hydrocortisone.

      In this first data analysis, there was an advantage in terms of survival in those patients
      with pneumonia, in those where Cytosorb therapy was started at least within the first 24
      hours of refractory shock, and in patients with slightly higher scores. The investigators
      subsequently collected this retrospective score in all patients treated at their department
      who were diagnosed with septic shock according to sepsis-3 criteria in the years 2014-2018.
      Once again, the benefit - this time also compared to non-Cytosorb-treated patients - could be
      confirmed.

      In order to validate these internal data against neutral other patients, the investigators
      plan the retrospective data analysis described herein performed as a multi-center study with
      3 additional departments which also use CytoSorb therapy. The project involves colleagues
      from Switzerland (Dr. Hübner, Münsterlingen), Germany (Dr. Jarczak, UK Eppendorf Hamburg) and
      from Austria (Dr. Schwameis, Baden). Overall, data from approximately 500 patients will be
      retrospectively collected and analyzed (of which approximately 1/3 patients have been treated
      with CytoSorb).

      The aim is to create a new assessment system based on established, clinically well-available
      parameters such as lactate, volume and catecholamine therapy to identify patients with early
      refractory septic shock (Sepsis-3), who would benefit most from adjuvant therapy with
      Cytosorb hemoadsorption.

      For this purpose, physiological patient-related treatment data from patients with septic
      shock who received CytoSorb treatment will be retrospectively compared to a control group
      that did not receive this treatment.

      Patients who meet the above mentioned inclusion criteria, i.e. who are in a state of septic
      shock according to the Sepsis-3 definition (sepsis + catecholamine therapy and volume therapy
      + lactate >2 mmol/l) will be included. Data of included patients will be entered into a data
      matrix (see chapter 'Assessed parameters'). Each parameter is documented at the time of
      diagnosis of septic shock as well as 6 hours later to analyze the dynamic process in the
      early phase of septic shock. The threshold values are based on Sepsis-3 criteria of septic
      shock (lactate level >2 mmol/l), the administration of norepinephrine according to the SOFA
      score (norepinephrine > 0.2 μg/kg/min) and volume requirement according to the Surviving
      Sepsis Guidelines (initial bolus 30 ml/kg body weight).

      Each pathological value is rated with 2 points. Decreasing values or no change during the 6
      hours observation period receive no points, increasing values receive 1 point, increasing
      values >50% of the initial value receive 2 points (see data matrix). If <2 volume boluses are
      necessary, this is rated with 1 point, when ≥2 boluses are necessary within 6 hours, this is
      scored with 2 points.

      In this matrix, septic shock is typically represented by a score of 5 points. Six or more
      points indicate a situation that is no longer responsive to standard therapy. All data are
      stored in the respective HIS of the hospitals involved and can be accessed. Centralized data
      processing will take place at the Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine
      at Emden Hospital. The investigators will provide their data anonymously in a tabular format.

      Each parameter at the time of septic shock diagnosis (T0h) and 6 hours (T6h) later is
      documented to analyze the dynamic process in early septic shock.

      In addition, values for laboratory diagnostic parameters are also collected 3 days after the
      diagnosis of septic shock (T72h).

      The personal data and findings collected as part of this research project are subject to
      confidentiality and data protection regulations. They are recorded on paper and stored
      pseudonymized (encrypted) on data carriers in the participating institutions for a period of
      10 years. Name and other identifiers are replaced by a multi-digit code to exclude or
      substantially complicate the identification of study participants. Only the respective study
      physician in his or her own center has access to the code which allows a personal assignment
      of the data of the study participant. As soon as the research purpose allows, the code will
      be deleted and the data collected will be anonymized. Only the respective study physician can
      access the data of the patients in their own center. The data are transmitted in a tabular
      format without any possibility of identification (neither patient-related nor time-related)
      to the principal study center (Emden Hospital) and provided there with a consecutive number.
      Access to the data of the individual participating study centers is not possible.
    
  