
    
      Introduction Temporomandibular disorders (TMD) are a group of conditions involving the
      temporomandibular joint (TMJ), masticatory muscles and associated structures. This broad
      complex of functional disorders often affects the face and jaws causing chronic pain,
      earaches, headaches, migraines, neck pain, and dysfunction in many people 1,2,3,4,5,6.
      Conservative treatment for TMD is similar to that of other musculoskeletal conditions.
      Pharmacologic therapy includes the use of anti-inflammatory medications, muscle relaxants, or
      opioid analgesics7,8,9,10. Physical treatments comprise of dental splints, directed
      physiotherapy, moist heat therapy, soft diet, massage and
      acupuncture11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20,21,22,23,24,25. At the extreme end of the spectrum,
      surgical management includes arthrocentesis, arthroscopy and open joint
      procedures26,27,28,29,30,31,32,33,34,35,36,37,38,39,40,41,42,43,44. Some patients can find
      relief with a combination of these previously mentioned interventions; however, none of these
      have been proven to be consistently effective. Open joint procedures are not reversible while
      anti-inflammatory medications and narcotics can have undesirable side effects on the
      gastrointestinal and central nervous system, respectively. Furthermore, many patients
      suffering from severe chronic pain do not feel relief with even the strongest narcotic
      analgesics45,46.

      TMD has a complex etiology consisting of components from internal derangement of the joint,
      arthralgia and/or a component of myofascial pain and muscle hyperactivity1,2,3,4. A treatment
      that has high specificity and low side effects directed solely at the muscular aspect, which
      presents with signs and symptoms of trigger points, clenching, and bruxism, could produce
      another avenue of intervention with significant potential. Recently, the use of botulinum
      toxin has proven effective and has the potential to be such an agent for treatment with
      patients suffering from TMD and other orofacial pain conditions47,48,49,50,51,52,53,54,55.

      Botulinum toxins are exotoxins derived from Clostridium botulinum, a gram-positive,
      anaerobic, spore-forming organism. There are 8 different subtypes; type A (BTX-A) has been
      used in recent studies for the treatment of motor disorders such as cervical dystonia or the
      hyperactive muscular component of TMD53,54,55. The specific method of action of botulinum
      toxin is on peripheral synapses. In the synaptic cleft, the botulinum toxin is brought into
      the presynaptic cell by endocytosis. It acts by blocking the calcium induced release of
      acetylcholine by selective proteolysis of synaptomal-associated proteins
      (SNAP)47,48,4,50,51,52,53,54,55. Inhibition of acytelcholine thus causes an inhibition of
      muscular hyperactivity.

      Botulinum toxin has a number of indications approved by the Food and Drug Administration such
      as the therapeutic treatment for cervical dystonia, cosmetic use such as glabellar lines and
      wide spectrum of off-label uses such as extracervical spasticities, cerebral palsy, post
      stroke spasticity, neurologic, dermatologic, and gastrointestinal disorders56. Off-label use
      of a licensed drug or biologic product occurs with a wide range of products57,58,59.

      Objective of the Study We aim to treat TMD of muscular origin using Botulinum toxin
      injections in the trigger points.

      Method Our study will enroll selective patients attending the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery
      clinic at the Health Sciences Center and at the University of Manitoba College of Dentistry
      over a 2-year period. Subjects will be recruited from referrals coming to the Health Sciences
      Center and College of Dentistry. The design will be prospective study following subjective
      outcomes such as pain and orofacial function on a visual analog scale as well as objective
      outcomes such as maximal interincisal mouth opening, tenderness to palpation to the
      temporalis and masseter muscles, maximal bite force measured by electromyogram and the
      reduction in muscle bulk due to muscle disuse atrophy. These outcomes have an appreciable
      affect on the patient's quality of life and provide subjective and objective measurements for
      analysis and study.

      Inclusion criteria for patient's enrolled in this study include: participant's with trigger
      points in their masticatory muscles including, but not limited to: masseter and temporalis
      either bilateral or unilateral and secondly, have tried conservative management for at least
      3 months and have shown to be refractory to these interventions. Exclusion criteria include:
      participant's that do not satisfy the inclusion criteria, currently are breastfeeding or
      pregnant, participant's whose TMD is not muscular in origin, inability to speak or understand
      English, the inability to provide meaningful informed consent due to physical, cognitive or
      psychiatric disability, a previous known allergy to Botulinum toxin, multiple sclerosis,
      pre-existing neuromuscular disorders, Lambert-Eaton syndrome, or chronic centrally mediated
      neuralgic pain patients.

      Before enrollment, informed consent will be obtained from each patient. Informed consent will
      consist of a thorough initial evaluation and interview. If the patient is assessed to be
      appropriate for the study the patient will be informed of all risks and potential
      consequences of the study. Additional information will be given regarding benefits, cost and
      time required. During the informed consent, the principal investigator and at least one
      supervisor will be in attendance to answer any questions. Patients will be allowed time to
      think about their decision and discuss with family members and their family physician. A
      future appointment can be made to obtain consent and will be witnessed by the principal
      investigator, a supervisor and an OMFS assistant that has no connection with the study.

      On the initial assessment, multiple measurements will be taken (see clinical assessment form
      attached). Additionally, an appointment will be made for the patient to have their maximal
      bite force registered pre-injection with the use of EMG.

      BTX-A will be reconstituted as directed by the manufacturer. 2.5 mL of diluent (0.9% Saline)
      per 100 U vial will be used to reconstitute the solution while swirling. This creates a
      solution with a concentration of 4 U/0.1 mL. Patients will be seated and all usual
      precautions of sterility and skin preparation will be completed (i.e. alcohol wipes)
      Injections will be administered unilateral and/or bilaterally in accordance with the
      topography of the corresponding muscles (temporalis and masseter) into areas of maximal
      tenderness and pain. Plastic single use insulin syringes with 30 gauge needles will be used
      to inject 30 U intramuscularly into each masseter, divided evenly into 5 sites and 20 U will
      be injected into each temporalis, divided evenly over 5 sites. Injections will be completed
      by the principal investigator and supervisors who will be trained in botulinum toxin
      injections.

      Patients will have scheduled follow ups at 1 week, 1 month, 3 months and 6 months
      post-injection. An additional follow up call will be made the next day after injection. The
      clinical assessment form will be used by the principal investigator to take measurements at
      each follow up appointment, except EMG readings which will only be done at the initial
      assessment and 3 month follow up appointment. This will provide a total of 5 assessments
      (including the initial assessment). During this time period, patients will be asked to stop
      any treatment for their TMD other than analgesics as required.

      Subjective pain scores will be assessed on a visual analog scale (VAS) where 0 is no pain and
      10 is the worst facial or jaw pain they've ever experience. Subjective functional assessments
      will also be assessed with VAS where 0 means no limitation and 10 indicates severe limitation
      with scales for chewing, drinking, exercising, eating hard food, eating soft food, smiling or
      laughing, cleaning their teeth, yawning, swallowing and talking. Objectively, range of motion
      will be assessed with a Boley gauge between the same upper and lower incisor each time.
      Palpation tenderness will be objectively assessed in bilateral temporalis and masseter
      muscles. Pain to pressure will be ranked from 0 to 5, with 0 indicating no pain and 5
      representing extreme debilitating pain. Addition of each score will give a composite score of
      the overall facial tenderness out of a maximal score of 24 (2 areas X 6 scores X
      bilaterally). All assessments will be completed by the same examiner every time at the same
      time of day. Lastly, a measurement of the facial width will be taken. A point inferior to
      each ear lobule bilaterally will be marked as well as a point on the menton will be chosen
      and recorded. The distance unilaterally from one lobule to menton will be measured for left
      and right sides and a total distance will also be calculated to assess facial width. This
      will be used to determine the cosmetic change due to disuse atrophy 60.

      Side effects may include, but are not limited to: transient facial asymmetry during dynamic
      movements, dysphagia, ptosis, erythematous discoloration or edema at the injection site,
      rash, and difficulty chewing hard food 61. Every attempt will be made to insure injection of
      the botulinum in the appropriate site. Aspiration before each injection will help prevent any
      intravascular and systemic effects while proper patient positioning and proper site
      identification will help prevent unwanted side effects such as ptosis. If a rash develops,
      Benadryl will be the first line medication given immediately followed by a several day course
      of Benadryl at home. In the case of an emergent reaction, adequate management would be
      undertaken at the clinic and referral to an appropriate service if necessary. Due to passage
      across the placenta, the use during pregnancy is also contraindicated. All patient's who are
      currently breastfeeding or pregnant will be excluded from the study62.

      Funding for the study will be provided by application to research grants through The
      University of Manitoba and the Canadian Association of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgeons.

      Anticipated results We expect trigger points in these patients to disappear and the
      associated muscles to become partially paralyzed and relaxed. Consequently, we expect that
      the TMJ loading will be reduced and that the patient's overall functional ability will
      increase. We also expect that muscular hypertrophy volume from hyperactivity will decrease
      due to disuse atrophy and impact their cosmetic image positively. Overall, we hope these
      changes will result in a reduction in pain and headaches which will consequently improve the
      participant's diet, nutrition, psychological well being and quality of life.

      We expect this study will be published in the International Journal of Oral and Maxillofacial
      Surgery and that results will be presented at the International meeting of Oral and
      Maxillofacial Surgeons in 2018.
    
  