
    
      This investigation was designed to collect data regarding the usability and clinical
      performance of the Baha Attract System in subjects with hearing impairment that were
      candidates for Baha surgery.

      The investigation was performed in an open design since it was not possible to perform the
      investigation in a blinded fashion. The main evaluations of the investigation, i.e.
      free-field hearing tests, are standard audiological procedures that are routinely used in
      daily clinical practice at hospitals worldwide for evaluation of hearing performance in
      hearing impaired patients. The primary efficacy evaluation, audiometric thresholds, renders
      comparable results across different sites and countries as it is not a language-specific
      test. Language-specific audiological tests were performed as secondary efficacy evaluations;
      to enable comparison of data across sites, validated word lists were used at all sites and
      equivalent speaker configurations (speech from front, noise from behind) and test procedures
      (same noise and adaptive speech levels, etc) were used.

      For the primary evaluation in the investigation, the Baha Attract System was compared to the
      pre-operative unaided situation, as the intended use of the system is to improve hearing
      performance in patients with conductive or mixed hearing loss or single-sided sensorineural
      deafness. Audiological test results with the Baha Attract System were also compared against
      results obtained with the same Sound Processor on a Baha Softband. Use of the Sound Processor
      on a Softband is a standard procedure that is routinely used as a pre-operative test prior to
      bone conduction hearing implant surgery. The Softband test allows the patient to
      pre-operatively experience hearing through the Sound Processor to get an indication of the
      post-operative hearing outcome and to choose a suitable Sound Processor.

      The generic and hearing-specific quality of life questionnaires used in the investigation
      (HUI3, APHAB, SSQ) are validated scales that have been frequently used and reported in the
      literature.
    
  