
    
      RTG113413 is an open-label, multicentre extension study of RGB113905. This study will enroll
      adult subjects with partial-onset seizures (POS) who successfully completed 20 weeks of
      adjunctive treatment with retigabine IR (4-weeks Titration Phase and 16-weeks Flexible Dose
      Evaluation Phase) in the parent study, RGB113905 and who were thought to have benefitted from
      the treatment.

      The Screening Visit (Visit 1) will be performed on the same day as the final visit of the
      parent study (Visit 7/Week 20). Subjects entering the extension study will initially receive
      the same dose of retigabine IR and concurrent antiepileptic drug (AED) as they were receiving
      on the final visit of the parent study. After the first week of the extension study, the
      subject's retigabine dose can be adjusted based on efficacy and tolerability. The overall
      daily dose of retigabine IR must be maintained between 300 mg/day (minimum) and 1200 mg/day
      (maximum). In addition, the dose and the number of concurrent AEDs can be adjusted to meet
      the individual needs of the subject. Retigabine IR monotherapy is not permitted. If
      concurrent AED therapy is removed, the subject must be withdrawn from the study.

      Subjects in this study will be eligible to receive retigabine IR treatment until one of the
      following criteria have been met: 1) regulatory approval and commercial availability of
      retigabine IR or 2) retigabine IR is not approved by the regulatory authorities or 3) the
      study is terminated by the sponsor for reasons including, but not limited to, safety issues
      or 4) subject is withdrawn or withdraws consent or 5) subject has received retigabine IR
      treatment for a total of 3 years and options i-iv have not been met. After the Screening
      Visit, subjects will be required to attend 4 further clinic visits at Weeks 13, 26, 39, and
      52 in the first year of the study and a total of 3 clinic visits at approximately 4-monthly
      intervals during each of the second and third year of study. Upon completion or early
      withdrawal, subjects will begin a 3-week taper period and then return for a follow-up visit.
    
  