
    
      Background

      Within the last 20 years, evidence supporting harmlessness and benefits of hydrotherapy
      during pregnancy accumulated. Water gymnastics were observed to have pain-relieving effects,
      as was birth in water.

      WATSU is an acronym, based on the terms Water and Shiatsu. It is a relaxing form of
      hydrotherapy which is performed in 35° C (95° F). Practitioners claim WATSU to lower muscular
      tonus as well as stress and to relief pain. Clinically relevant regulation of muscular tonus
      in spastic hemiparetic patients due to WATSU was observed by Chon; significant reduction of
      pain in patients suffering fibromyalgia by Faull.

      In respect of pregnancy, WATSU is narrated - yet not scientifically evaluated - to reduce
      pregnancy-related low back pain, to relax hypertonic muscles including those of the uterus,
      to improve the overall sense of wellbeing and deepen the relationship of the mother to her
      unborn child. In addition, spontaneous cephalic versions of children in breech presentations
      within 1 to 4 days and nights following WATSU-treatments are being claimed.

      According to Pennick & Young, two of three pregnant women are suffering pregnancy-related low
      back pain. Since this population is recommended to refrain from analgesic medications,
      potentially helpful interventions ought to be identified.

      The described effects of WATSU on muscle tone might be of interest in case of breech
      presentations. Tension of the uterus has major influence on the success of attempts of
      external cephalic version. Although breech presentation occurs in 3-4% of pregnancies only,
      this complication is a threat to the mothers as well as the infants life. External cephalic
      version to correct the child's position is being suggested although associated with risks for
      mother and child. Breech presentations are the most frequent medical indication for cesarean
      sections.

      The impacts of stress on unborn children are being investigated, long-term effects are being
      speculated.

      Objective

      In contrast to active hydrotherapy, passive hydrotherapy was not yet subject of investigation
      concerning its effects during pregnancy. The goals of this pilot-study are:

        -  To evaluate the effects of passive hydrotherapy WATSU in the third trimester of
           pregnancy by the means of a scientific prospective approach and to ascertain, whether
           the reported effects can be observed under such conditions

        -  To evaluate the therapeutic potential of WATSU

        -  To evaluate the usefulness, feasibility and framework requirements of further RCT
           addressing this issue

        -  To evaluate, whether or not - which of, respectively - the chosen parameter are suitable
           for further investigations (RCT)

        -  To evaluate potential for improvement in study design and management.

      Methods

      Design: pilot-study, explorative comparison of two cohorts. Criterion for
      pseudorandomisation: immersion contraindicated (e.g. due to perforation of the eardrum).
      Recruitment from July to December 2012; expected participants: 45.

      Parameter: ultrasound examination of position of the fetus and amount of amniotic fluid;
      qualitative and quantitative questionnaires, birth outcome (vaginal, cesarean, complications,
      breech presentation).

      Statistics: SPSS; significance at p<.05, Intention to Treat.
    
  