
    
      Rationale & background information There is ongoing controversy over the optimal treatment
      and rehabilitation strategy of an acute Achilles tendon rupture. Percutaneous suturing seems
      to bridge the gap between open surgical and conservative treatment, but still raises
      scepticism due to concerns like strength of the repair, approximation of torn ends,
      re-rupture rate, sural nerve injuries, early functional rehabilitation and thus final
      outcome. The highest general complication rate (15.6%) is reported in patients treated with
      percutaneous repair and early mobilization. The purpose of the study is to analyze the
      results of two ways of postoperative regimen after treatment with the modified and
      biomechanically significantly stronger percutaneous repair under local anesthesia.

      Study goals and objectives The goals of the study are to compare the results of two ways of
      postoperative regimen after treatment with the modified and biomechanically significantly
      stronger percutaneous repair under local anesthesia . Objectives are to find whether the
      modified repair is strong enough to be used with functional treatment that enables more
      comfort and earlier rehabilitation to the patients with comparable end (functional) results
      and no more complications (particularly re-ruptures).

      Study design

      This will be a 4-year prospective observational study, with a 3-year follow up of all the
      consecutive patients who will meet the inclusion criteria:

      1) patients 18 years of age or older; 2) a rupture that occurred no more than 7 days before
      the operating procedure; 3) closed, complete ATR; 4) a rupture that occurred in the tendinous
      portion (2-8 cm proximal to the insertion); 5) no previous operative procedures or history of
      partial or complete rupture of the involved tendon; 6) no previous local, oral or parenteral
      therapy that might have weakened the tendon (for instance local infiltration of anesthetics
      or steroids in the AT region, oral or parenteral immunosuppressive therapy in patients with
      transplanted organs or immune diseases etc.). The diagnosis must be confirmed clinically with
      palpable gap in the tendon, positive Thompson's test and inability of the patients to raise
      on their toes or heel. The diagnosis will be routinely checked by ultrasonography and in any
      case of doubt with MRI.

      Methodology All the patients who agree to take part in a study will undersign
      informed/consent and will be operated on with the modified and biomechanically significantly
      stronger percutaneous repair under local anesthesia . After that they will be randomized
      after modified percutaneous suturing under local anesthesia in two groups - based on the day
      of Team A on service in the functional bracing group (FG) or based on the day of Team B in
      the group who will wear rigid immobilization (IG).

      The first schedule will be on the second day (dressing), when functional brace or rigid
      immobilization will be applied in 25° of plantar flexion (PF). After that regular follow up
      will be after 3 and 6 weeks. In FG immobilization remains the same for 6 weeks, in IG it will
      be changed after 3 weeks and the foot put into neutral position. Patients in both groups will
      use crutches for assistance, and careful weightbearing of 5 to 10 kg will be allowed within
      first 3 weeks. Patients will be allowed to perform ROM exercises as much as their
      immobilization allows. After 3 weeks, patients may start with weightbearing as much as
      tolerated (until pain is felt).

      After 6 weeks, all immobilization will be removed and patients in both groups will start with
      the rehabilitation according to the protocol (learned with physiotherapists). They are
      allowed to walk without crutches, with progressively increasing weightbearing (till tolerable
      pain) and ROM exercises with careful increasing of dorsiflexion (DF) (till 8 weeks in the
      sitting position and if possible, in water). Stretching exercises and squats with lifted heel
      will be allowed after 8 weeks (with a hand support between two chairs or tables and careful
      increasing of the load until pain is felt). Raising on toes or heels with the operated leg
      only will be allowed 12 weeks after the operation. Limited sports activities will be
      individually allowed after three months with recommended full loading 6 months after
      operation.

      Major and minor complication rate, diameter of the healed tendon, active and passive ankle
      range of motion (using neutral zero method), standing heel-rise test (after 3 and 6 months if
      no pain is felt) and clinical outcome using AOFAS score will be observed. Return to the
      previous activity level, presence of associated complaints and subjective assessment (scored
      as good, fair or poor) will be also assessed. The outcome will be checked again after 1 and
      finally after 3 years. All the data will be recorded in the medical record (in computer),
      additional (manual) list is recorded with the investigators. Statistical analysis (parametric
      and non-parametric tests) will be performed (null hypothesis is that there will be no
      significant differences between the groups in the number of complications, particularly
      re-ruptures and in final results (type I and type II errors will be considered, p value less
      than 0.05 will be considered as statistically significant). In any case of complications
      patients can be scheduled anytime to the clinics in order to solve the problems.

      Safety considerations Any patient can withdraw the study anytime - it has to be stated but in
      the medical record.

      All the safety protocols must be respected and no harm produced to patients.

      Follow-up Clinical follow-up will take part 3 years. Patients will be scheduled after 3 and 6
      weeks and then after 2, 3 and 6 months and then after 1 and 3 years after the procedure.

      Quality assurance The trial will follow the principles of good clinical practice - patients
      will be able to come to the clinics anytime if any complications occur and to withdraw the
      study at any time. All the data through will be recorded in the hospital data system and in
      the checking list of investigators and followed by the investigators and other clinicians at
      the department, who will be acquainted to the study. Results will be collected and checked at
      the end of the study.

      Expected outcomes of the study It's expected that patients in the FG will earn more comfort
      and regain earlier ROM and strength with no statistically significant differences in
      complication rate (particularly re-rupture rate) and possible benefits in the end functional
      outcome.

      Dissemination of results and publication policy Publication of the results could bring the
      support and more confidence in the use of modified percutaneous Achilles tendon repair under
      local anesthesia with early functional treatment. It could be thus assessed as an effective
      one (with no more complications and with low costs) and as the method that brings more
      comfort to the patients with earlier ROM, strength and ability to return to the previous
      activities in comparison to the concept of rigid postoperative immobilization.

      Duration of the project It's designed as a 4-year study.

      Problems anticipated Potentially low number of patients who fulfil the inclusion criteria and
      who will accept to participate in the study, possible problems with the fear in patients of
      weakness of the functional immobilization, that can be so simply removed, potential problems
      in respecting the rehabilitation protocol, potential loss of the patients to the final
      follow-up and potential rejection of the patients to wear rigid immobilization, once they
      will hear about the comfort and benefits of functional bracing in the patients in the FG
      (this is one of the reasons for a relatively short duration of the project).

      Project management The project will be lead by the main investigator and helped with the
      co-investigator - all the other employees at the department will be acquainted with the
      study.

      Ethics Presented research will be performed in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki.
      The protocol will be considered and approved by the national ethics committee (KME) and will
      follow ethical standards.

      All the patients will be given informed/consent protocol with a free will to take a
      participation or to decide to any other type of treatment (non-operative or open operative
      treatment) with a clear presentation of benefits and drawback of each method.

      Budget and other support for the project No extra funds will be requested or provided.

      Collaboration with other scientists or research institutions No other research institutions
      will be included.

      Links to other projects No link to other projects or groups of investigators.

      Other research activities of the investigators Investigators are a full time employees for a
      clinical work in a state-owned hospital as Orthopaedic-Trauma surgeons.
    
  