
    
      This study assesses serum potassium and cardiac rhythm trends in subjects with end stage
      renal disease (ESRD) who are on 3 times weekly maintenance hemodialysis for at least 60 days.
      Approximately 240 Subjects who meet the eligibility criteria and sign the informed consent
      form can be enrolled in the study, after which a subject number will be assigned. The number
      of subjects on 3K or higher dialysate will be limited to 60, with the remainder of the
      subjects on 1K or 2K dialysate. Baseline data will be collected including subject
      demographics, dialysis prescription, and symptom assessment. In addition, results of clinical
      laboratory tests and urea reduction ratio (URR), dialyzer clearance-time-volume of
      distribution of urea (Kt/V), and intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) obtained within the 4 weeks
      prior to the first dialysis treatment on Study Day 1 will be collected from regular monthly
      labs to establish baseline.

      Subjects will be assessed in the dialysis clinic/research center over a period of 12 days.
      Subjects will start the study on the first day of a given week's dialysis regimen (ie, Monday
      or Tuesday). Subjects who are on a Monday, Wednesday, and Friday dialysis schedule will skip
      the Saturday visit, and subjects who are on a Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday dialysis
      schedule will skip the Sunday visit during the 12-day study duration.

      Subjects will undergo blood collection at each visit, including 6 dialysis days and 5
      inter-dialysis days. On dialysis days, blood samples will be collected immediately before and
      at the end of dialysis treatment. During the dialysis treatments on Study Days 1 and 3 only,
      additional blood samples will be obtained at 30 minutes and 1 hour (± 15 minutes) after the
      start of dialysis for chemistry. On inter-dialysis days, the dialysis clinic/research center
      will make an effort to collect blood samples at the same approximate time that dialysis
      treatment would have started on days of dialysis. Otherwise, samples may be collected when
      the subject is able to visit the dialysis clinic/research center.

      Vital signs including heart rate and blood pressure, and body weight will be collected at
      each visit. On dialysis days, both pre- and post-dialysis weights will be collected, along
      with vital signs obtained during dialysis. A specifically designed symptom assessment will
      also be performed at specified times throughout the study.

      The subjects will also undergo cardiac rhythm monitoring using a non-invasive, Food and Drug
      Administration cleared, wearable device (BodyGuardian® remote monitoring system) throughout
      the 12 days of participation in the study. This will be used to assess for cardiac
      arrhythmias, as well as to correlate S-K levels with signal-averaged, processed ECG.
    
  