
    
      Initially, twenty vaginal fluid samples will be collected from ovarian cancer patients
      diagnosed with epithelial ovarian carcinoma at advanced diagnosis stage.

      The samples will be used to identify specific biomarkers as describe above. Biomarkers levels
      will be calibrated compared to their vaginal fluids obtained from healthy volunteers. In
      addition, five milliliters of venous blood will be collected from same patients in order to
      compare biomarkers vaginal fluids levels vs serum levels. All patients will sign a consent
      form which approve that their vaginal fluid samples will be utilized for research according
      to Helsinki approval.

      At the second phase of the research, additional twenty vaginal fluids samples will be
      collected from patients diagnosed at different stages (five samples from each of main stages
      1-4). Sample will be used to calibrate biomarkers levels in various diagnosis stages and will
      be compare to serum levels from venous blood samples which will be also collected from the
      same patients.

      All patients will sign a consent form following explanation on research goals. Patient will
      be notified that participation in this research will have no implication on medical treatment
      plan.

      Note that in all research phases there will be no returning of samples to the patients, all
      identification and characterization procedures will be performed in vitro for research
      properties only.

      Methodology

        -  Collecting vaginal fluids samples from ovarian cancer patients. Vaginal fluids (at least
           400µl, the investigators wish to have 1000 µl) will be collected during surgery or
           during routine physical examination using specific applicator/cotton swab/syringe.
           Samples will be shipped to GinaLife Diagnostics laboratory for analysis. In addition, on
           the day of vaginal fluids collection 5 ml of peripheral blood samples will be drawn from
           each volunteer.

        -  Analyzing specific biomarkers in samples. Vaginal fluids will be analyzed using
           commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) kits to determine the presence and
           the concentrations of various proteins. In addition, western blot analysis will be used
           in order to confirm ELISA assay results. Specific nucleic acid will be determine using
           common molecular methods such as Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction
           (RT-PCR) etc.

        -  Data analysis
    
  