
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Essential hypertension is a multifactorial disorder with a Gaussian distribution and with a
      genetic component that appears to be polygenic and heterogeneous. The studies require
      clinical knowledge of the pathophysiology and therapy of hypertension, availability of a
      large racially diverse patient population and a General Clinical Research Center for
      recruitment, characterization and classification of subjects, in combination with knowledge
      of molecular biology for DNA preparation and expertise in molecular genetics and molecular
      epidemiology for genetic analysis.

      The study is part of a Specialized Centers of Research initiative in the Molecular Genetics
      of Hypertension. The initiative originated in deliberations of the September 1992 National
      Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. In May 1993, a program evaluation committee convened
      by the NHLBI was charged with the task of assessing the overall goals of the Hypertension
      SCOR program and of recommending areas of future need. The committee's recommendations formed
      the basis of this proposed initiative which was released as a Request for Applications in
      December, 1993.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The study, a subproject within a Hypertension Specialized Center of Research (SCOR), had five
      substudies between 1996 and 2001. The first classified hypertensives into relatively
      homogeneous subgroups according to intermediate phenotypes based on heritable biological
      traits, including anthropometric and neurohumoral data obtained by submitting selected
      subjects to a 3-day inpatient protocol, from which data were extrapolated and applied to
      stratify larger subject populations in order to enhance efficacy of subsequent genetic
      analysis. The second substudy genotyped subjects for chromosomal loci using approximately 350
      highly polymorphic microsatellite markers spaced every 5-10 centimorgans (cM) along each
      chromosome. The strategy was to initially type markers in a select group of hypertensive
      kindreds that independently demonstrated linkage. The third substudy analyzed the genetic
      marker data for linkage using both parametric (lod score) and nonparametric
      (affected-pedigree-member) methods. Suggestive findings were pursued in the sib-pairs. The
      fourth substudy used the case-control method to confirm positive linkage from substudy 3 and
      to identify particular allele associations using methods of linkage disequilibrium and DNA
      pooling. The fifth substudy screened and assessed mutations in candidate genes linked to
      hypertension in patients and controls. A collaboration was established with the Framingham
      Heart Study, with linkage analyses conducted for hypertension in this cohort.

      The subproject was renewed in February 2001 through 2006 to continue the clinical studies and
      to expand the collection of hypertensive families, including subjects who have undergone
      extensive clinical evaluation and who can be subgrouped into intermediate phenotypes, as well
      as families from genetically isolated populations from Greece, Israel, and South Africa.
      Various subsets of this population will be submitted to different genetic analyses as
      appropriate, including linkage and association studies, genome-wide scan for genetic
      isolates, evaluation of single nucleotide polymorphisms in selected genes, testing of
      quantitative trait loci (QTL) by micro satellite markers and mapping of promising marrow
      regions by DNA sequencing.
    
  