
    
      Recent findings in humans suggest that motor sequences are represented in the premotor cortex
      once learned. Studies in animal models have also shown that the premotor cortical areas
      encode sequence-specific information. However, it is currently unknown if premotor cortical
      areas are involved in the acquisition or consolidation of sequences in humans. In this
      project, the investigators will evaluate the functional contributions of human premotor
      cortex to sequence learning. The primary overarching research objective is to determine the
      brain regions causally involved in motor skill acquisition and consolidation. The main
      hypothesis is that disrupting premotor cortex activity during motor sequence learning will
      reduce the acquisition and consolidation of the skill. Transcranial magnetic stimulation
      (TMS) will be used to temporarily disrupt activity of premotor cortex or primary motor
      cortex, and skill learning will be assessed in both groups. A sham stimulation group, where
      participants will feel the coil on their head and hear the click of the TMS pulses but not
      actually receive stimulation to the brain, will be used as a control. Participants will be
      randomly assigned to be in the premotor cortex, primary motor cortex, or sham stimulation
      group. Participants may be asked to undergo a Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scan at Wesley
      Woods prior to TMS testing, which will occur at the Emory Rehabilitation Hospital. The MRI
      scan would be used to help target TMS to the intended brain area. Participants will be
      recruited using flyers around the local community. Consent forms will be provided with ample
      time for the participant to read it over and ask any questions that may arise. Participants
      will be compensated for their time. The proposed work will be the first to evaluate the
      causal role of premotor cortex in motor sequence learning in humans. Findings from this
      project are expected to inform the design and application of therapeutic interventions that
      improve motor functioning and learning in clinical populations.
    
  