
    
      Severe recurrent pain is the most common cause of acute morbidity in sickle cell disease1.
      The underlying pathogenesis was initially thought to be ischemia from obstruction of
      capillary beds by stiffened red blood cells; however, there is evidence that other factors
      contribute to the pathogenesis of sickle cell pain crisis, such as inflammation and
      coagulation, ischemia-reperfusion injury, angiogenesis balance, and vasomotor tone processes
      that are regulated by endothelial nitric oxide.

      Recent clinical data suggest that subjects with sickle cell disease suffer from chronically
      impaired nitric oxide bioavailability. This has been attributed to increased consumption of
      nitric oxide by hemoglobin and reactive oxygen species, or decreased production of nitric
      oxide by endothelial cells; however the roles of nitric oxide bioavailability and endothelial
      dysfunction during acute pain crisis are controversial and incompletely understood. Although
      there have been several studies of endothelial function in steady state sickle cell disease,
      there has been no comprehensive study of endothelial function during pain crisis.

      In this study, our primary objective is to measure the reactive hyperemia index (a measure of
      the endothelial response to shear stress) in twenty sickle cell subjects during acute pain
      crisis and to compare it with the reactive hyperemia index measured after recovery from pain
      crisis. This will identify whether there are acute changes in endothelial cell function
      during sickle cell pain crisis. Our secondary objective is to compare the reactive hyperemia
      index of thirty-five sickle cell subjects in steady state versus the reactive hyperemia index
      of thirty-five healthy control subjects. This will identify whether there are chronic
      differences in endothelial function between sickle cell subjects and healthy control
      subjects.

      This study will determine if there are defects in endothelium-dependent vasodilation in
      response to shear stress during sickle cell pain crisis. Moreover, this study provides an
      opportunity to evaluate new physiologic biomarkers of sickle cell pain crisis based on
      measurements of blood flow, temperature, and oxygenation in the skin. These measurements may
      serve as clinical endpoints in future studies of disease pathogenesis or therapeutic
      interventions for sickle cell disease.
    
  