
    
      Specific Aims:

      Primary:

        1. To assess intra- and inter-observer agreement for the detection of abnormalities seen by
           white light colonoscopy followed by indigo carmine staining and white light colonoscopy
           followed by NBI imaging.

           Secondary:

        2. To estimate the sensitivity and specificity of these modalities for dysplasia among UC
           patients who undergo surveillance colonoscopy.

        3. To assess intra- and inter-observer agreement for abnormalities identified by confocal
           laser microscopy among patients with chronic ulcerative colitis.

        4. To determine the specificity and sensitivity of confocal microscopy in the detection of
           dysplasia among patients with ulcerative colitis.

      50 consecutive patients with clinically quiescent UC presenting for surveillance colonoscopy
      will be randomized to white light followed by NBI OR white light followed by indigo carmine
      staining. Identified abnormalities will then be targeted for confocal imaging in 40 patients.
      Immediately prior to confocal imaging, fluorescein 2.5 ml of 10% solution will be
      administered intravenously. For these patients, confocal images will also be obtained of the
      area around the lesion and of the colon segments as in the parent study and correlated with
      pathology. Gross activity will be determined by white light colonoscopy for each colon
      segment. At least 32 biopsies for surveillance will be obtained with additional biopsies of
      abnormalities present on white light, NBI or indigo carmine. Photographs will be obtained of
      all abnormalities prior to biopsy and of random mucosa without abnormalities. Intra- and
      inter-observer agreement will be based on the first 10 patients at each site through review
      of de-identified endoscopic photographs. If modifications are necessary because of poor
      agreement, re-assessment will be made after the next 10 patients. Otherwise each site will
      enroll 40 additional patients with agreement summarized and sensitivity and specificity of
      these techniques for detecting dysplasia

      Significance: If intra and inter-observer agreement for mucosal abnormalities detected by
      indigo carmine and NBI modalities is shown to be good, in ulcerative colitis, then larger
      studies will be planned on UC surveillance populations. If confocal techniques are feasible
      then these will be integrated into larger studies.
    
  