
    
      Objective

      Using a block design BOLD-fMRI, we want to investigate the connectivity in brain regions when
      two motor responses are performed in the same time. The designs will be replicated using EEG
      and MEG to understand the time course of the activated brain network better. It will allow us
      to map the brain processes involved in sensorimotor integration and attentional sharing.

      Study Population

      160 individuals subdivided in:

        -  110 adult healthy volunteers

        -  25 patients with Parkinson Disease

        -  25 patients with Focal Hand Dystonia

      Design

      Two experiments will be performed using MEG, EEG and fMRI techniques. Both experiments will
      use visuo-motor control tasks. Two motor responses (given by two fingers of the dominant
      hand) will be simultaneously performed. Experiment 1 will use single motor tasks; Experiment
      2 will use dual motor tasks. In both experiments, the attention demands will vary with the
      execution mode of the motor outputs (competitive or cooperative). In competitive tasks, the
      visual stimuli will be used to perform two independent motor outputs. In cooperative tasks,
      the visual stimuli will be used to perform two coupled motor outputs. The effect of the
      execution mode on brain connectivity will be isolated comparing competitive and cooperative
      tasks. The sensory information must be associated to the motor command to perform a given
      motor task: this process is called sensorimotor integration. With both experiments, we will
      be able to dissociate the network connectivity linked to:

        -  sensorimotor integration demands for focused attention in a single task,

        -  sensorimotor integration demands for divided attention in a dual motor task.

      After subjects have been properly trained to perform the tasks, they will undergo fMRI
      scanning MEG and EEG recording. Subjects will perform the tasks presented pseudo-randomly
      during six sets of 5-minute sessions. We will record their muscular activity via EMG surface
      electrodes.

      Outcome Measures

      The primary outcomes are the task-dependent functional connectivity (for fMRI) between areas
      and coherence (for MEG and EEG) of cerebral sources relative to performance of the tasks. The
      force control of two fingers in the same time would elicit blood oxygen level dependent
      (BOLD) signal and electrical brain activity variations in the network involved in manual
      dexterity. We are interested in studying the connectivity between the homologous motor areas
      of the two hemispheres, and between prefrontal cortex and parietal cortex, to understand
      sensorimotor integration processes during competitive and cooperative dual tasks. As a second
      measure, we are interested in analyzing coherence between MEG-EMG and EEG-EMG signals.
    
  