
    
      Approximately 10-15% of women experience depression following the birth of a child.
      Depression during pregnancy is also common. Women with a history of depression or bipolar
      disorder are at increased risk of depressive relapse or exacerbation of mood symptoms during
      the perinatal period. Perinatal depression is associated with a host of negative consequences
      that can affect the mothers, infants, and families. Women with perinatal depression may have
      trouble with parenting, marital quality, and employment. Children of mothers with perinatal
      depression may suffer intellectually or emotionally. These children are also more likely to
      develop a mood disorder or other psychiatric disorders throughout their lifetimes compared to
      children whose mothers have not been depressed. Prevention efforts during the preconception,
      pregnancy, and postpartum periods are of considerable public health benefit. However,
      perinatal women are often reluctant to start or continue psychotropic medications due to
      concerns about their influence on the developing fetus or nursing infant. Therefore,
      psychosocial treatments that modify key vulnerability factors, without medication side
      effects, are likely to be of strong interest to women who might otherwise remain untreated.

      This study will investigate the effectiveness of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy (MBCT)
      for mood stabilization in perinatal women (preconception, pregnant, and postpartum) with a
      history of mood disorders. MBCT is a short-term group psychotherapy that has shown
      effectiveness in preventing depressive relapse. MBCT teaches mindfulness practices and
      cognitive-behavioral techniques. Mindfulness is the practice of cultivating a non-judgmental
      awareness of internal experiences (thoughts, feelings, and body sensations) and external
      experiences. Cognitive-behavioral techniques focus on identifying maladaptive thoughts and
      behaviors before they spiral into a depressive episode. MBCT teaches observational skills and
      helpful techniques for responding to distorted or dysfunctional thoughts and behaviors,
      thereby preventing an impending depressive relapse.

      The investigators plan to (1) recruit 20 perinatal women at each of two sites with a history
      of major depressive disorder or bipolar disorder (currently in remission or partial
      remission), (2) ascertain their diagnoses and eligibility, (3) collect baseline data (e.g.,
      demographic information, mood and anxiety symptoms), and (4) conduct open-trial MBCT groups
      with 10-12 women in each group. The investigators examine the feasibility of identifying,
      enrolling, and retaining perinatal women at high risk for mood episodes in an 8-week MBCT
      group psychotherapy. Treatment effectiveness, acceptability, and satisfaction will be
      assessed at the end of treatment, at 1 month post-treatment, and 6 months post-treatment.

      This study will contribute to the field's understanding of non-pharmacological prevention
      options for perinatal and postnatal women at risk for mood episode relapse. MBCT could fill
      an urgently needed gap in services for preconception, pregnant, and postpartum women who are
      at increased risk for relapse, and who wish to learn efficacious prevention skills. Given the
      long-term adverse consequences of untreated perinatal mood episodes for women and their
      children; low rates of treatment seeking; and concerns associated with pharmacological
      treatments, the development of a viable psychosocial intervention may have significant
      benefits for women, children, and society at large.
    
  