
    
      Social determinants of health (SDoH)-the conditions in which people are born, grow, work,
      live, and age-are key drivers of health and health disparities. Children with medical
      complexity are particularly at-risk given their high healthcare need and utilization.
      Although the American Academy of Pediatrics and payers such as the Centers for Medicaid and
      Medicare Services are now recommending medical providers screen for SDoH at visits, studies
      have not yet demonstrated the impact of SDoH screening and referral interventions on
      improving child health and have fallen short of exploring potential mechanisms by which such
      interventions could improve health outcomes. Children with sickle cell anemia (SCA) are an
      ideal population in which to study the impact of SDoH interventions given the high prevalence
      of poverty and unmet material needs among this population and the disease's significant
      morbidity and mortality. This proposal addresses a timely clinically- and policy-relevant
      research gap by: (1) implementing a SDoH intervention in two outpatient pediatric hematology
      clinics and gathering preliminary data to assess its impact on child health; and (2)
      characterizing the potential mechanisms by which addressing SDoH may lead to improved health
      outcomes. The research team has developed, tested, and implemented a SDOH intervention (WE
      CARE) which relies on existing clinical processes to screen for unmet material needs and
      refer parents to community services; efficacy data demonstrates its positive impact on
      parental receipt of community resources. The investigators now propose conducting a pragmatic
      pilot cluster RCT to examine the implementation of WE CARE as standard of care in two of the
      four hematology clinics. To preliminarily examine outcomes,100 parents of children with SCA
      (25 per site) will be recruited and followed for one year in order to explore how addressing
      unmet social needs within the delivery of medical care may improve healthcare utilization and
      health outcomes. Given the limitations of applying existing theoretical frameworks to
      culturally diverse populations such as those with SCA, the investigators will also employ a
      mixed methods approach to characterizing how SDoH influences disease management processes.
      The specific aims are to: (1) Implement WE CARE in two pediatric hematology clinics in order
      to field test key study logistics and understand the facilitators and barriers to
      implementation and accelerate its adoption; (2) Obtain population-specific empirical
      estimates of study parameters to plan a large-scale multi-site cluster RCT of WE CARE that
      will definitely assess its impact on improving health outcomes for children with SCA; and (3)
      Qualitatively assess possible mechanisms linking SDoH interventions to improved health
      outcomes. It has significant implications for child health policy and is a critical step in
      potentially transforming the delivery of healthcare for medically complex children.
    
  