
    
      Despite the introduction of videolaryngoscopes, flexible bronchoscopic intubation (FBI), also
      known as fiberoptic intubation (FOI), remains a critical method for achieving tracheal
      intubation in patients with difficult airways. Unfortunately, however, FOI often requires
      two-operators for success. One operator is required to manipulate the flexible bronchoscope
      through the patient's upper airway and into their trachea, while the second operator applies
      one or more maneuvers (e.g., jaw thrust, anterior jaw lift, or lingual retraction) with or
      without the use of a commercially-available fiberoptic intubating airway.

      Previous studies have demonstrated the effectiveness of the currently available FIAs, but
      also illustrate the frequent need for an assistant for successful FOI. In this study, an
      assistant performed a jaw lift and a chin lift in all subjects as well.

      The air-Q and air-Q SP are commercially-available supraglottic airways (SGAs) that can be
      used for primary airway maintenance or as a conduit for FOI, as can be the Williams,
      Ovassapian, and Berman Intubating Airways. The air-Q products have the same overall
      geometrical design, but differ in their cuff inflating mechanisms, where the air-Q uses a
      traditional pilot balloon valve, while the air-Q SP utilizes a self-inflating cuff that
      dynamically adjusts according to the relative resistances to airflow between the patient's
      lungs and the device's cuff. In prior trials comparing the air-Q and air-Q SP with the two
      other commercially-available SGAs, the air-Q and air-Q SP bowl design provided a partial or
      full view of the vocal cords in 80-92% of subjects without requiring any additional airway
      maneuvers applied by an assistant (e.g., jaw thrust, anterior jaw lift, or lingual
      retraction) (Galgon, 2011; Galgon, 2015). Presumably, in these situations, successful
      tracheal intubation using the air-Q or air-Q SP could have been achieved by a single operator
      versus requiring one or more assistants. However, this potential performance advantage has
      not yet been tested. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to compare use of the air-Q SP
      against the WA for FBI performed by a single operator.

      The air-Q SP, rather than the air-Q, is chosen for this study because its lack of a pilot
      balloon valve allows its stem to be easily shortened to ease device removal over the
      coaxially placed tracheal tube. The WA is chosen for this study because it has performed best
      in past trials and is the airway routinely used by the study principal investigator (PI) for
      FBI. Both devices are commercially-available and being used in the study in accordance with
      their labeled intended use.
    
  