
    
      Periodontal disease is universally prevalent. It is a multifactorial disease caused by mainly
      bacterial, genetic, immunologically, and environmental factors. Chronic periodontitis, one of
      the widely prevalent forms of periodontal disease, is characterized by loss of attachment
      apparatus of the tooth; it can lead to tooth loss. Many non surgical and surgical approaches
      have been adapted time and again to prevent, intercept, and to treat the various forms of
      chronic periodontitis. But, these treatment modalities are not approachable by all
      individuals, because of the various factors such as: low socioeconomic status, illiteracy,
      high cost of the treatment, no availability of easy and uncomplicated treatment nearby etc.
      Considering these factors, we are still in need of preventive, practical, and affordable
      treatment options specially for the population of underdeveloped and developing countries.

      The use of medicinal plants in the prevention and treatment of the various diseases need not
      to be over emphasized, as their uses had been advocated in treatises: Sushruta Samhita and
      Charka Samhita, a long back. Now, it is a demand of time to reread and get the valuable
      informations for the use of Medical and Dental sciences. These information will be very
      valuable specially, in context of under developed and developing countries.

      One of the herbs -'Aloe Vera' is a very important medicinal plant. The name 'Aloe Vera' is
      derived from the Arabic Word "Alloeh" meaning "Shining bitter substance," while "Vera" in
      Latin means "true". Over the years, this plant has been known by a number of names such as
      'Wand of heaven', 'Heaven's blessing, and 'the Silent healer'. Plant Aloe Vera is known to us
      since the ancient time which has stiff grey green lance shaped leave. These leaves hold clear
      gel in a central mucilaginous pulp. This polysaccharide gel is responsible for beneficial
      properties of Aloe Vera.1 Aloe Vera gel polysaccharide acemannan has been found to be
      effective in activating macrophages and resulted in improved wound healing in a rat model. A
      novel anti-inflammatory compound c -glucosyl chromones has been extracted from the Aloe vera
      gel. Antibacterial property against gram positive and gram negative bacteria has also been
      documented.2 Some studies have also shown its antifungal, antiviral, bactericidal, and
      virucidal activities. A number of investigations have attempted to relate the chemical
      constituents in the gel to specific biological effects, such as wound healing effect,3 skin
      hydration effect,4 anti ageing effec,5 anti-inflammatory effect,6 anti bacterial property,2
      anti fungal property7, anti viral effect,8 immunomodulating effect,9 anti tumour effect,10
      and laxative effect.11 In Dentistry, clinical applications of Aloe Vera have been seen in the
      treatment of Apthous ulcers, Oral lichen Planus, Alveolar osteitis, and denture adhesive.12
      Moreover, several studies have shown the efficacy of Aloe Vera in treating Gingivitis.13 In
      another study the effect of tooth paste containing high concentration of Aloe Vera, has been
      observed on the reduction of plaque and gingivitis.14 In underdeveloped and developed
      countries the application of simple and cost effective approaches are required. Therefore,
      this study has been planned to evaluate the clinical efficacy of Aloe Vera in moderate to
      severe form of Generalized Chronic Periodontitis in Indian patients.

      Very few studies, which can be counted on fingers, have been conducted worldwide. Hence, this
      study is being taken to evaluate the Efficacy of Aloe Vera Gel in Gingival Massaging and as
      an Adjunct to Scaling and Root
    
  