
    
      -  Selection of the most appropriate means of treatment is usually difficult because of the
           availability of various therapeutic lines and also due to the variability in the immune
           status of the patients for treatment of warts.

        -  There are on two main therapeutic options: the first is the conventional destructive and
           aggressive method, which includes treatment with chemical cautery, cryo- therapy,
           electro cauterization, surgical excision, and laser ablation . This method depends on
           destruction of the area of epidermis infected with the virus. The recurrence rates after
           these therapy modalities maybe high. The second is the immunotherapy, which is based on
           the activation of the immune system to deal with the virus and suppress its activity.
           Such therapy may be applied either topically or through intra- lesional injection or
           through systemic administration .

        -  Intra-lesional immunotherapy utilizes the ability of the immune system to mount a
           delayed-type hypersensitivity response to various antigens and also the wart tissue.
           This therapy has been found to be associated with the production of Th1 cytokines that
           activate cytotoxic and natural killer cells to eradicate HPV infection. This clears not
           only the local warts but also distant warts, unlike traditional wart therapies .

        -  Many authors have used different immunotherapeutic agents for intralesional injection.
           These include Candida antigen, mumps antigen, trichophytin skin test antigen, BCG
           vaccine, measles, mumps, and rubella (MMR) vaccine, Mycobacterium w (Mw) vaccine, and
           IFN-α and IFN-γ injectio).

        -  Bleomycin, an antibiotic derived from Streptomyces verticillus, has an antitumor,
           antibacterial, and antiviral activity that may be related to its ability to bind with
           DNA, causing bleomycin strand scission and elimination of pyrimidine and purine bases.
           The bleomycin hydrolase enzyme, which is known to inactivate bleomycin, is normally
           found in all body tissues but is present in very small amounts in skin.

        -  Intra-lesional bleomycin injection (IBI) has been used for the treatment of warts.
           Numerous reports have been published on the use of intra-lesional bleomycin for the
           treatment of recalcitrant warts with cure rates ranging from 14 to 99%. It was found to
           be very effective in treating warts particularly in periungual and palmoplantar areas .

        -  No systemic side effects have been observed. However, local signs such as necrosis,
           pain, scaring, pigment change, Raynaud's phenomenon, and nail dystrophy may occur in
           some cases.

        -  Purified protein derivative (PPD) is an extract of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and is
           used for testing exposure to tuberculin protein, either from a previous vaccination or
           from the environment. It contains live, attenuated Mycobacterium bovis.

        -  Using this protein derivative for immunotherapy of warts is important for two major
           aspects. First, because the obligatory immunization program in many developing countries
           - with high prevalence of wart in many of them - includes BCG vaccination. PPD has a
           high prevalence of immunity in the general population. Second, although immunotherapy is
           generally an inexpensive method of treatment in wart patients, PPD, among conventionally
           used antigens, is the cheapest.

        -  IL purified protein derivative (PPD) injection is an acceptable and safe modality in the
           treatment of warts with complete response in 75% of patients.
    
  