
    
      Stroke is a major public health problem. Only 1 to 3 percent of people with stroke patients
      in community settings are receiving tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) therapy ten years
      after it was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Data from academic stroke
      teams, stroke patient arrival times, and thrombolytic therapy (clot-dissolving) in myocardial
      infarction suggest substantially higher treatment rates are possible. The development and
      implementation of educational interventions to motivate physicians, other healthcare
      providers, and healthcare organizations, to learn the principles of acute stroke care is a
      high-priority.

      Limited prior work found a combination of community and professional education increased
      thrombolytic therapy for stroke from a pre-intervention rate of 2.2 percent to a
      post-intervention rate of 11.3 percent, with the data suggesting the professional education
      was the critical element for increasing use.

      The Increasing Stroke Treatment through Interventional behavioral Change Tactics (INSTINCT)
      trial is designed to evaluate a standardized, system-based barrier assessment and interactive
      educational intervention (BA-IEI) for increasing appropriate t-PA use in people with stroke.
      This multi-center, randomized, controlled study will be conducted at 24 hospital sites
      nationwide.

      The intervention, BA-IEI, targets emergency departments and is based on adult education and
      behavior change theory. BA-IEI is designed for replication in community health initiatives.
      It incorporates local stroke champion development, hospital-specific barrier evaluation,
      mixed CME targeting identified barriers, performance feedback, protocol development, and
      academic detailing. The primary endpoint will be the increase in appropriate use of t-PA for
      stroke with evaluations of change in emergency physician knowledge on t-PA use.

      The primary aims of this study are to determine if a BA-IEI is effective in increasing
      appropriate t-PA use in stroke, and if BA-IEI improves emergency physician knowledge,
      beliefs, and attitudes regarding the use of t-PA for acute stroke.

      Results from this study may lead to an effective method for increasing the use of t-PA for
      stroke.
    
  