
    
      As patients with sickle cell disease (SCD) age, recurrent vaso-occlusive episodes lead to
      progressive end-organ damage. Pulmonary hypertension (PHT) represents an example of such
      end-organ damage. Pulmonary hypertension, a common complication in patients with sickle cell
      disease (SCD), results in a shortened survival. The high mortality reported in SCD patients
      with PHT appears to occur particularly in those patients with moderate and severe elevations
      in their pulmonary artery pressure. The overall objective of this proposal is to evaluate the
      effect of chronic red blood cell transfusion on PHT in SCD. We hypothesize that by increasing
      the hemoglobin concentration and decreasing the amount of HbS, these patients would
      experience improvements in their PHT.

      Thus, the specific aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate the effects of RBC transfusion
      on pulmonary hypertension in SCD, as well as the effect of chronic RBC transfusion on plasma
      markers of thrombin generation, platelet activation, and nitric oxide metabolites.

      Study subjects will be transfused monthly for 6 months to investigate the safety and efficacy
      of RBC transfusion in SCD patients with PHT. All packed red blood cells will have extended
      antigen matching for C, D, E and Kell to minimize the risk of alloimmunization. Subjects will
      receive other routine treatments for SCD. Specific outcome variables will be evaluated at 1
      month, 3 months, and 6 months. All study subjects will receive simple transfusion of packed
      red blood cell to achieve a post-transfusion hemoglobin (Hb) not greater than 10 g/dL. For
      those subjects who may have baseline hemoglobins in whom a post transfusion Hb would exceed
      10 g/dL, they will require a limited exchange transfusion, i.e. phlebotomy of 1 unit of
      blood, followed by transfusion of 2 units of packed RBC. All study subjects will return for
      assessment of safety and/or efficacy measures every two weeks for the first month, and
      subsequently every four weeks till the completion of the study. Study subjects who experience
      a documented worsening of their disease (decreased SaO2, worsening 6-minute walk) on at least
      two consecutive follow up visits will be taken off the study. At the end of the study,
      subjects will have the option of continuing on chronic RBC transfusion.
    
  