
    
      T cells play a critical role in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Many transplant
      protocols involving HLA matched sibling donors make use of T cell mediated
      graft-versus-leukemia or graft-versus-cancer effects to clear and/or prevent the recurrent
      growth of malignant cells. Donor T cells are also responsible for reconstituting cellular
      immune function following transplantation, but often cause graft-versus-host disease (GVHD).
      Over the past several years the major source of hematopoietic stem cells for transplantation
      has changed from marrow to granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF)-mobilized peripheral
      blood stem cells (PBSCs). Despite the fact that patients transplanted with allogeneic
      G-CSF-mobilized PBSCs receive approximately 10-fold more T-cells than those transplanted with
      marrow, the incidence and severity of acute GVHD is similar among the two groups, although
      chronic GVHD is higher in PBSC recipients. Using cellular function assays some investigators
      have shown that G-CSF affects T cell function. When healthy subjects are given G-CSF, a
      decrease is seen in the concentration of circulating type 1 helper T cells (Th1) with
      subsequent falls in the cytokine levels produced by these cells. In contrast, an increase
      occurs in the concentration of type 2 helper T cells (TH2) and the level of cytokines
      produced. The purpose of this study is to assess G-CSF-induced changes in T cells. cDNA
      microarrays will be used to compare genes expressed in CD4 and CD8 cells before and after
      G-CSF is given. Up to fifteen healthy subjects will be given a typical PBSC mobilization
      regimen for allogeneic transplants: 10 micrograms/kg/day of G-CSF for 5 days. Peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells will be collected by apheresis before the mobilization regimen is
      given and the day after the mobilization is complete. CD4, CD8, and CD34+ cells will be
      isolated from the peripheral blood mononuclear cells and gene expression will be assessed
      using cDNA microarrays containing over 8,000 genes.
    
  