
    
      The project has been advertised through direct contact with relevant organizations in
      anaesthesia and pain management. Any other center willing to participate is provided with all
      the documents to receive its local Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval, and a 'local
      responsible' (LR) is nominated to co-ordinate the project and to be responsible of data
      collection locally.

      Centers receiving IRB approval collect data about different types of procedure (adult major
      and minor surgery, pediatric surgery, obstetric anesthesia, pain management). Data are
      collected on a specifically designed form, and every center quarterly sent the promoter
      centre a report including general data and a specific report for every occurred complication.

      Eligibility criteria

      Investigators collect the total number of intervention and the number of regional
      anesthesia(RA) techniques performed . Patients recorded as "case" and "controls" had to sign
      a specifical informed consent. For pediatric patients and patients not able to sign for any
      reason, a specific form is included in the document, to be signed by parents or any
      legally-established tutor, as required for every clinical procedure or scientific trial in
      our country.

      General data

      Total number of interventions, the number of central neuraxial block (CNBs), peripheral nerve
      blocks (PNBs) and continuous PNBs (CPNBs) performed. CNBs are classified as epidurals,
      combined spinal-epidurals (CSEs), subarachnoid. PNBs and cPNBs are divided into
      ultrasound-guided, nerve stimulation-guided and blind techniques.

      Specific data - report for complications

      For each complication a specific report is sent for data analysis, including data concerning
      cases (patient with complication) and controls (the two following patients undergoing the
      same type of loco-regional technique).

      Reports are slightly different for CNBs and (c)PNBs. For every patient, the investigators
      register demographic data (age, ASA-American Society of Anesthesiologists- status, height and
      weight), data regarding surgical technique (type of surgery, open/video-laparoscopic/robotic
      approach, election/emergency surgery) and data regarding anti-thromboembolic therapy (drugs,
      timing of suspension before/after blockade).

      A second part of the report is strictly dedicated to the technique and to the type of
      complication occurred (and, hence, different in central and peripheral blocks).

      Statistical analysis

      Study population is estimated basing on previous studies of major complications after CNBs,
      which indicate an incidence of major adverse effects of 4.2 on 100.000 patients. Estimating
      an incidence of 1:25.000, a number of 25.000 procedures was calculated to be needed for the
      study, with a confidence interval of 95%. The primary endpoint was to assess cumulative
      incidence of adverse effects, while a following case-control analysis will be performed to
      identify possible risk factors.
    
  