
    
      In this 5-year study, the investigators would like to build upon the successful Sankofa trial
      by testing the intervention in a larger scale study delivered in "real-world" clinic
      conditions over time in Ghana.

      The purpose of this study is to conduct a pragmatic, stepped wedge cluster randomized trial
      in 12 HIV pediatric clinics in Ghana to determine effectiveness, health benefits, cost and
      implementation to inform scale-up and sustainability of pediatric disclosure. The study will
      recruit dyads of 720 children (ages 7-18) and their caregivers from twelve (12) clinics,
      which will be randomly assigned to each of the four roll-out schedules ("wedge steps"), with
      three clinics per step.

      The two groups in the study are usual care and disclosure intervention. During the control
      period, patients and caregivers recruited at the clinics will receive the current practice in
      the clinic, where the health care provider is expected to assess the caregiver and child
      readiness for disclosure during clinic appointments and give some information as they think
      indicated. No formal pediatric disclosure guidelines or educational materials exist in Ghana.

      During the intervention period, the manualized, with standard operation procedures, Sankofa
      intervention will be delivered. The intervention is guided by the disclosure model and
      contains key elements to target well-documented, modifiable barriers to promote disclosure.

      The primary outcome is disclosure after one year (48 weeks) of the intervention. Secondary
      outcomes are antiretroviral medication adherence, health (virologic, immunologic,
      psychosocial, behavioral), cost, and implementation.

      The trial will be conducted with a strong team of interdisciplinary investigators at two
      universities in Ghana, Yale and Johns Hopkins University in partnership with the Ghana
      Ministry of Health (MoH), Ghana Health Service (GHS) and a community advisory board.
    
  