
    
      Background: At present, with the changing of the society structure, the ratio of nuclear
      family and older people who live alone is arising. Therefore, making care system fit for
      aging population to create a appropriate healthcare is cricial. Thus, the investigators have
      established a smart home health care system, SilverLink to improve resident quality for older
      adults living alone.

      Aims: The purposes of this study are

        1. to create a smart living environment with home care system using GPS and cloud-based
           services for elderly people.

        2. to improve the home care system from user feedback and recommendations.

      Methods: Participants (n = 50) will be recruited from geriatric clinics in NTUH main hospital
      and its Beihu branch. Enrollment criteria include: aged 60 or older, living alone or with a
      companion (not children), taking at least one chronic medications, having the capability to
      understand the study and complete the study, willing to participate into the study with
      telephone follow ups.

      This study includes two sessions:

        1. set up the healthcare system, with home GPS and sensors. The investigators will stick
           small sensors on fridge door, pillbox, pendant…for automatic detection of the frequency
           of food intake, take medicine and get out of home….Also, the investigators will use
           accelerometer to track the body movement for older adults.

        2. use APP for blood pressure (BP) or other measurements data tracking. The investigators
           develop an APP system to help older adults to log in and track their dairy physiological
           measurements. (optional)

      Anticipated results:

      Provide feasibility data for system to allow future modifications of the system.

      Improve older adults' life quality and satisfaction. Under the integration of this healthcare
      technology and the central communication medical services may create a smart healthcare
      network, which is not only the effectiveness on reducing medical costs, but also will provide
      a convenient connection between living alone older adults and their family.
    
  