
    
      Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease represents the first cause of transplant-related mortality
      and reduced quality of life after transplant (HSCT). The epidemiology of Chronic
      Graft-versus-Host Disease is largely unknown; moreover, diagnosis of Chronic
      Graft-versus-Host Disease can be easily missed because its onset is often late in the
      post-transplant period, requires specific follow up, and general practitioners are usually
      not familiar with this entity. Successful treatment of Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease
      represents an unmet clinical need in the field of allogeneic transplantation. Steroids are
      standard treatment, but up to 60% of the patients will require second-line treatment but
      there is no standard second-line treatment for Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease steroid
      refractory. To help standardise the management Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease, the NIH
      Consortium proposed consensus definitions for diagnosis, scoring and response criteria in
      2006 revised in 2015 which offers a shared framework to study this rare disease. These
      criteria are not yet validated and thus not suitable for clinical trials.

      This study is prospective, observational, multicentre, spontaneous, non-interventional study
      that will evaluate all consecutive patients who develop chronic graft-versus-host disease,
      reported by the Italian GITMO centers according to a standardized Web platform for real-time,
      on-site data collection. The platform for data collection will be based on a software
      prototype developed by the Ancona Transplant Center for the management of patients with
      Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease. This software has been integrated with algorithms that
      automatically determine: severity of Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease and overall response
      by the 2015 NIH consensus criteria. Historical controls to compare Chronic Graft-versus-Host
      Disease incidence, toxicities, response rate and hard outcomes will be used.

      The aim of this project is to evaluate prospectively the long-term effectiveness of different
      therapies by the hard outcome "failure free survival" commonly considered the most reliable
      one. The failure free survival is the result of a number of factors that influence the
      treatment failure and has been shown a reliable predictor of long-term survival. Main cause
      of failure is the change in immunosuppressive treatment although recurrent disease, treatment
      toxicity and mortality from Chronic Graft-versus-Host Disease (or other infectious
      complications) also contribute to failure free survival. Second, we aim to evaluate the
      prognostic ability of the latest NIH response criteria to predict main hard survival outcomes
      and to assess their suitability as a tool for decision-making that ultimately leads to
      treatment changes. Finally, we aim to evaluate the feasibility of the use of an electronic
      tool for data collection in daily clinical practice.
    
  