
    
      1. Initial email or phone screen:

           Upon receiving an inquiry from a prospective participant, the study will be explained.
           If the prospective participant has an infant age 9 to 18 months, and the caregiver is
           interested in joining the study, a verbal consent will be obtained in order to screen
           for eligibility criteria. The initial screening questionnaire could be done via phone or
           online via Survey Monkey (see Initial Phone Screen/Survey Monkey Questionnaire for
           details). The information assessed during the initial screen is recorded in a secure
           database that requires a password. The database is used by select members of the
           Division of Behavioral Medicine and has been approved for use by previous IRB
           committees.

           Families will also be sent a list of links of questionnaires to be completed at home
           before the assessments. These questionnaires include the Demographic Questionnaire,
           Pregnancy History and Infant Feeding Practice Questionnaire, Food Security
           Questionnaire, Infant Behavior Questionnaires-Revised (IBQ-R), and Baby Eating Behavior
           Questionnaire (BEBQ).

        2. Session 1:

           If families meet the initial criteria gathered from the initial screen, families will be
           scheduled for a laboratory visit (40 min). For this visit, the caregiver will be advised
           to choose a time of the day when the infant is generally alert, active, and ready to
           play. The infant needs to be fed one hour prior to the lab visit. The caregiver will be
           reminded to bring diapers or change of clothes for the infant. The caregiver will also
           be reminded not to feed her infant the test food (infant's favorite food) 24 hours
           before the laboratory visit. At the first visit, there will be an overview of the study.
           If interested, the caregiver will be asked to review and sign consent forms. Two copies
           of the consent forms will be signed by all parties involved, person obtaining consent,
           and the participating parent. One copy will be obtained by the study personnel and one
           copy will be given to the participants for their records. The copy obtained by study
           personnel will be kept in a locked cabinet.

           After signing the consent form, the caregiver and infant will be escorted to a
           laboratory room where the food reinforcement game will take place. At this visit, infant
           will play the first part of the RRV game. Infants will be securely fastened on a high
           chair. The caregiver will be in the room with the infant at all-time during the game.
           The caregiver will be reminded that the entire reinforcement task procedure will be
           video recorded to obtain vocalization, body movement, and facial expression of the
           infant. The baseline state of the infant will be assessed. There are five states: 1 =
           drowsy, 2 = alert/calm, 3 = alert/active, 4 = fussy, 5 = crying. Before the start of the
           game, a study staff member will go through a training session with the infant to
           familiarize him/her with the computer based game and button/monitor interface. The
           caregiver will be asked to assist with the training by repeating phrases the researchers
           use during the game. After the training, the study staff member will start the actual
           game.

           After the session is finished, a 3-day dietary recall will be conducted via phone by a
           dietetic student intern

        3. Additional Laboratory Sessions:

      Participants are invited to attend 3 additional 40 minute laboratory sessions. For these
      visits, the infants will be playing the second part of the RRV game (please refer Session 1
      for details on the game), and then repeat RRV Games parts 1 and 2 on the subsequent
      laboratory visits. After Sessions 1, 2, and 3, the dietetic student intern will call the
      caregiver and conduct a 24-hour dietary recall. Before leaving the last visit, the height and
      weight of the caregiver and infant will be measured.
    
  