
    
      This career development award will establish Dr. Parra as a clinical translational
      investigator focused on mind-body interventions for Hispanic immigrant populations. This K23
      award will provide her the support needed to develop expertise in 3 areas: (1) Training to
      conduct well designed randomized clinical trials; (2) Dissemination and Implementation (D&I)
      science; and (3) Mindfulness research. To achieve these goals, Dr. Parra has assembled an
      expert multidisciplinary team in clinical research, D&I, and mindfulness. Her primary mentor,
      Dr. Eric Lenze, has extensive experience in conducting randomized clinical trials and
      mentoring junior faculty to become independent investigators. Her secondary mentor, Dr. Ross
      Brownson, is an internationally recognized and leading expert in D&I science. Her scientific
      collaborators and advisors include Dr. Douglas Ziedonis, a leading expert in mindfulness
      clinical research and Dr. Tod Braver, a mindfulness research expert. Dr. Parra will also
      benefit from the expertise of two renowned researchers in D&I science in the areas of
      intervention adaptation (Dr. Ana Baumann) and measuring implementation and feasibility
      outcomes (Dr. Rachel Tabak), as well as the experience from a senior MBSR expert (Dr. Jeannie
      Kloeckner), and an expert on mental health interventions for Hispanic populations (Dr.
      Patricia Cavazos-Rehg). Hispanics are the largest and fastest-growing ethnic group in the US,
      currently representing 14 percent of the population. Despite this, Hispanics are seldom
      represented in research studies and health promoting programs, in part due to a lack of
      cultural appropriateness by researchers and low levels of trust of the research community by
      many Hispanics. Using D&I frameworks and methods, Dr. Parra will adapt a Mindfulness Based
      Stress Reduction intervention (MBSR-A) among under-resourced Hispanic immigrants in St. Louis
      (Aim 1). Dr. Parra will also conduct a pilot feasibility RCT trial among 60 Hispanic
      immigrants (Aim 2) to test and measure implementation outcomes including acceptability,
      appropriateness and feasibility. This research plan leverages existing institutional
      resources at Washington University in St. Louis (WU), including the Healthy Mind Lab from Dr.
      Lenze, Dr. Brownson's D&I center, as well as Dr. Lenze's and Dr. Braver's NIH-funded
      mindfulness research groups. Finally, this training and research will form the basis for an
      R01 application to further study the adoption, implementation and effectiveness of a
      Mindfulness intervention in under-resourced Hispanic immigrant populations.
    
  