
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine whether hyperthermia in combination with mitomycin C versus bacillus
           Calmette-Guerin (BCG) or standard therapy as second-line therapy is effective in
           patients with recurrent non-muscle invasive bladder cancer following induction or
           maintenance therapy with BCG.

        -  To compare disease-free survival time in all patients.

        -  To compare complete response rate at 3 months in patients with carcinoma in situ.

      Secondary

        -  To compare progression-free survival, overall survival, safety and tolerability of
           treatments, quality of life, cost, and cost-effectiveness in these patients.

        -  To assess biomarkers of response to standard and investigational treatment.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to presence of
      carcinoma in situ (yes vs no), prior bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) therapy (induction vs
      maintenance), and participating center. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (experimental): Patients receive intravesical mitomycin C over two 30-minute
           instillations per session, and bladder hyperthermia (42 +/-2°C) is delivered in
           combination with each instillation. The suspension is maintained in the bladder for up
           to 2 hours. Treatment repeats once a week for 6 weeks followed by a 6-week rest period.
           Patients who are disease-free proceed to maintenance therapy consisting of one
           instillation of mitomycin C with bladder hyperthermia every 6 weeks for 1 year and then
           once every 8 weeks for 1 year. Patients who are disease-free at 24 months may continue
           treatment at the discretion of the clinician.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive 1 of the following treatment regimens depending on
           prior BCG treatment.

             -  Second course of BCG therapy (patients who failed previous induction BCG): Patients
                receive intravesical BCG (1 instillation) once a week for 6 weeks. The suspension
                is maintained in the bladder for up to 2 hours. Patients then receive maintenance
                therapy consisting of BCG once a week for 3 weeks in months 3, 6, 12, 18, and 24.
                Patients who are disease-free at 24 months may continue treatment at the discretion
                of the clinician.

             -  Standard therapy (patients who failed previous maintenance BCG): Patients receive
                standard therapy for BCG failure as defined by their treating centers. Standard
                therapy may include intravesical BCG alone, intravesical mitomycin C alone,
                intravesical epirubicin hydrochloride alone, or intravesical BCG in combination
                with interferon alpha.

      All patients undergo cystoscopic surveillance with or without a biopsy every 3 months for 2
      years. Urine, blood, and tissue samples are collected periodically for biomarker laboratory
      studies. Patients complete quality of life questionnaires (EORTC QLQ-BLS24, QLQ-C30, and
      EQ5D) at baseline, at 12 weeks, and at 6, 9, and 12 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK
    
  