
    
      Heart Failure

      Heart Failure (HF) is a complex syndrome consequence of any structural or functional
      abnormality that impairs the capacity of filling or ejected of the heart. (1, 2).

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive, systemic, and multi-organic
      disease with structural and functional changes, mostly in the lungs. It is characterized by a
      progressive limitation of airflow as a response to external factors such as airflow
      contamination, smoking, biomass, which are associated with chronic inflammation. (3).

      Epidemiology

      The cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death worldwide (4); The HF prevalence
      goes from 1-2% in developed countries and increases to 10% in older >70 years old.

      COPD is an important global load affecting more than 600 million people corresponding to the
      5 % off all cause of death worldwide (5).

      Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and Heart Failure

      COPD and HF are related between them, sharing the same risk factors and pathogenic
      mechanisms. They are growing in time and are epidemic diseases because of multiple factors.
      The cardiovascular disease takes an essential role in COPD, 30 to 50% of deaths are because
      of them; one of the most important is HF. COPD patients have three times the risk to
      developed HF (6), and between them, the risk of hospital readmission and death is higher than
      those without HF (7).

      Nutritional Supplementation

      β-Hydroxy-β-Methylbutyrate (HMB) HMB is a leucine metabolite, are a branch chain amino acid,
      and a regular potent in the muscular protein replacement and endogen sub-production that
      occurs in the muscles and liver. The first stage of change is through the transamination of
      the leucine to KIC, occurring in the mitochondrial and cytosol of the muscular cell. In the
      mitochondria, the KIC oxidates into isovaril-CoA, subsequently by other metabolism processes,
      it produces 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA). Approximately 90% of KIC oxidize
      into isovaril CoA in the hepatic mitochondrial, lastly, acetoacetate and Acetyl-CoA. While
      the last 10% oxides into HMB in the cellular cytosol (8-10).

      Supplementation with HMB

      HMB develops a nutritional role; the daily supplementation has an anti-catabolic effect in
      the protein synthesis, increasing the muscular mass and diminished the muscular damage in
      adulthood.

      Several studies evaluate the effects of supplementation with HMB, isolated, or combined in
      muscle functionality, strength, mortality, and indifferent pathologies(11). Recently, in a
      meth analysis and systemic review of randomized clinical trials made by Wu et al. to evaluate
      the effect of the administration with HMB over the corporal composition and muscular strength
      in adulthood in 65 years with pathologies. The study includes supplementation of HMB at 3mg
      doses at least eight weeks to increase the muscular strength and functionality (12).
      Supplementation with Ca-HMB with or without resistance exercise in older than 75 years' old
      was evaluated by Stout et al., in a pilot study, they made 2 phases: the first one (without
      exercise) supplementation with 3g of CaHMB vs. placebo and the second (with resistance
      exercise) with and without supplementation. They observed that the supplementation in the
      long term has better benefits, and increase lean mass, strength, quality, and functional
      muscle without exercise. In this study, they showed that there is no synergic effect with the
      exercise combined with supplementation (10).

      Citrulline-arginine The principal precursor of citrulline is glutamine, representing 60% of
      the total synthesis of arginine de novo (13). Citrulline is released into the portal
      circulation because the enterocytes do not have the succinate arginine synthase. The liver
      absorbs one quantity in a normal hepatic function and goes to the systemic circulation and
      finally is transformed by the kidney into arginine (14). The supplementation is a potent
      nutrient-drug that helps to restore the arginine metabolism in different populations (14,
      15).

      Citrulline is considered a safe supplementation (16)with a maximum consumption of 15g/day and
      13 g/day for arginine (17, 18). The blood levels in a healthy individual are 40 µmol/L (19).
      L citrulline increases the concentration of L arginine more efficiently than the
      supplementation of L-arginine; this is an amino acid, endogen precursor of the synthesis of
      oxide nitric (ON) (20).

      Different studies with supplementation show a reduction in adhesion cells and leucocyte
      activation, as well as an improvement in endothelial function (21). Besides, in heathier
      subjects, it has been associated with less muscular fatigue, better VO2, and exercise
      tolerance. (22) In a randomized clinical trial (RCT) with healthy subjects, where they
      receive oral supplementation with citrulline, they showed an increase of 57% of the nitrogen
      balance 12 hrs. after (17)

      Pulmonary rehabilitation

      Pulmonary rehabilitation and physic therapy are essential components of the non-pharmacologic
      treatment, for HF and COPD, the guidelines' treatment recommends the pulmonary rehabilitation
      or physic therapy, to improve the exercise tolerance, skeletal and respiratory muscular
      function, also the quality of life of the patients (23, 24). On the other side, it has been
      demonstrated that pulmonary rehabilitation and physic therapy have benefits in the number of
      hospitalization and mortality of patients.

      Ancanfora et al., in a randomized clinical trial evaluate the effect of cardiovascular
      training in patients with HF. The program consists of resistance activities and abdominal
      exercises, depending on the clinical characteristics of each patient, they were followed by
      four weeks, resulting in an improvement over-exercise tolerance, O2 maximum consumes and
      ventilatory threshold (25). Similarly, Keteyian et al., evaluated the physiological
      adaptation resulting by the physical training in patients with HF with Left ventricle
      ejection fraction. Also reduced the effects and security in clinical results, had a followed
      of 2-5 weeks, it consists by resistance exercises such as walking and the use of the static
      bicycle by 20-30 minutes (23). They conclude that the exercise was secure and improves the
      state of health, exercise capacity. O´connor et al., evaluated the effects of a regular
      aerobic exercise (bicycle, treadmill) in patients with HF plus the habitual care, followed by
      30 months, they observed that the mortality and hospitalization decreases (26).

      Additionally, Benefits have also been seen in patients with COPD; Petersen et al., after
      seven weeks, show that the resistance exercises twice a week improved exercise tolerance and
      diminished the fast degradation of proteins (27). Nevertheless, patients with HF and COPD
      have no guidelines that specified the type of exercise as well as the duration of it, or if
      there is a synergic effect with nutritional supplementation and which is the impact over the
      clinic stage.

      General objective:

      To assess the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation on the
      clinical status of patients with HF and COPD compared to those subjects who do not receive
      nutritional supplementation or pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Specific objectives

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over body composition
      in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology treatment
      based on guidelines treatment.

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over the exercise
      tolerance in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology
      treatment based on guidelines treatment.

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over pulmonary
      function in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology
      treatment based on guidelines treatment.

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over endothelial
      function in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology
      treatment based on guidelines treatment.

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over muscle function
      in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology treatment
      based on guidelines treatment.

      To evaluate the effect of pulmonary rehabilitation and supplementation over cognitive
      function in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology
      treatment based on guidelines treatment.

      Evaluated the effect of nutritional supplementation and pulmonary rehabilitation over
      prognosis in COPD and HF patients compared to those subjects who receive non-pharmacology
      treatment based on guidelines treatment.

      Hypothesis Subjects with HF and COPD who receive nutritional supplementation and pulmonary
      rehabilitation will have a better clinical status than those who do not receive nutritional
      supplementation or pulmonary rehabilitation.

      Methodology

      Design Study:

      Randomized clinical trial

      Study Population:

      Patients with Heart failure and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease diagnosisStatistical
      Analysis

      Descriptive analysis will be present as frequency and percentage if categorical variables and
      mean & standard deviation if the variable is continuous with normal distribution; if not, it
      will report as median and percentiles (25-75). The normality distribution will be evaluated
      through a Shapiro-Wilk test.

      At the beginning of the study, we will compare both groups to determine statistical
      significance differences. X2 will run in categorical variables and an independent t-study
      test in continuous variables with normal distribution, if not, U de Mann Whitney will be run.

      To identifying the differences between groups along with the study, repeated analysis of
      variance measures will be done if the variable has a normal distribution. Otherwise, Friedman
      tests will be made. McNemar will be made for categorical variables. Furthermore, changes
      between groups along the time at student will be made with a normal distribution; otherwise,
      Wilcoxon will be done.

      Alpha type error: it considered as a statistical significance a p<0.05

      Sample size A simple size space of 100 patients, 25 subjects per group will be included if
      prior consent is acquired, and they meet the inclusion criteria.

      Procedures Invitation to participate All the patients who complete the inclusion criteria
      will be invited to the protocol. They shall be informed about the study, the possible risks
      and benefits of the treatment, and the possibility of leaving the study at any moment if the
      patients want. Those who accept participated will be enrolled in a list and then randomized
      into different groups of treatment.

      Allocation to the treatment groups The allocation sequence will be generated in the site
      http://www.randomization.com; therefore, the patients will be assigned into one of the next
      groups: 1) control group 2)pulmonary rehabilitation 3) rehabilitation pulmonary group plus
      beta-hydroxy beta-methyl butyric (HMB) (4g) 4) pulmonary rehabilitation group plus Citrulline
      (4g). The cardiologist, nutritionist, the physic therapist, will be blinded to the
      assignation group treatments.

      Baseline evaluation During the first evaluation, the clinical stage will be assigned, and the
      next valuations will be made: pulmonary function, endothelial function, exercise tolerance,
      functional class, signs, and symptoms. anthropometric and body composition indicators by
      electric bio-impedance, biochemical test, dietetics, handgrip strength Following visits All
      the patients, no matter the group, will have a follow up for three months. In the beginning,
      6week later and finally at three months.

      Survival follow-up wil be after two years treatment initiation
    
  