
    
      The prospective cohort study will be conducted on the basis of Research Institute of
      Epidemiology, Microbiology and Infectious Disease, Ministry of Public Health of the Republic
      of Uzbekistan.

      Both informed and written consents will be obtained from the parents or from appropriate
      relative or guardian of the patients and healthy individuals of the control group.

      Study participants will be included about 30 children aged 5 to 12 years with pityriasis
      alba. The control group will be included about 20 healthy individuals. All the participants
      will be residents of Uzbekistan.

      Diagnosis of pityriasis alba Diagnosis of pityriasis alba will be based on the results of
      clinical examination. Inclusion criteria: revealing multiple round or oval-shaped
      hypopigmented macules or patches with indistinct margins. A weak erythema may be observed in
      some patches. The lesions number could varied from four to ten, 0.5 cm - 5 cm in size, and
      they are distributed predominantly on the face, neck, upper arms, and upper trunk.

      Exclusion criteria The exclusion criteria: chronic and acute infectious diseases, endocrine
      diseases, congenital diseases, allergic dermatitis, bronchial asthma, allergic rhinitis
      and/or conjunctivitis, other skin disorders, history of using vitamin D supplements within
      three months ago, or use of any medication influencing endocrine parameters.

      Measurement of anthropometric indices Demographic data will be obtained in the survey
      included age, gender, and body mass index (BMI) calculated as weight (kg)/height2 (m2).

      Sample Collection and Storage Five milliliters of peripheral venous blood sample will be
      taken (after 8-12 hours of fasting) from each participant and will be collected into HumaTube
      Serum Gel - C/A for ELISA. Serum will be appropriately obtained and stored at -20°C maximum
      of 30 days. All blood samples will be collected during summer period.

      Estimation of Vitamin D and Total Immunoglobulin E Plasma levels of 25(OH) vitamin D
      (DIAsource kit, Belgium) and Total serum immunoglobulin E (HUMAN kit, Germany) will be
      determined using ELISA technique.

      Classification of Vitamin D and Total Immunoglobulin E Serum vitamin D level will be
      classified as reported by Holick (Holick MF. 2007). Levels of vitamin D ≤20, 21-29, ≥30-150,
      and >150 ng/ml will be considered as vitamin D deficiency, vitamin D insufficiency, vitamin D
      sufficiency and vitamin D intoxication, respectively.

      Normal levels of total immunoglobulin E for children 1-6 years old - <30 Ul/ml, 7-9 years old
      - <60 Ul/ml and 10-12 years old - <100 Ul/ml, 13-16 years old - <150 Ul/ml.
    
  