
    
      This trial is a randomized phase 1 trial. We planned to perform it for 1 year. Subjects of
      study are patients diagnosed as recurrent or persistent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or
      primary peritoneal carcinoma. The number of subjects of study is 12 patients (If patients
      cannot be assessed, they can be replaced with new patients). All subjects who were randomly
      assigned, are treated with weekly paclitaxel or weekly cisplatin. In paclitaxel group,
      patients are treated with weekly paclitaxel 70mg/m2 (IV) on day 1, 8, and 15 at an intervals
      of 4 weeks. In cisplatin group, patients are treated with weekly cisplatin 40mg/m2 (IV) on
      day 1, 8, and 15 at an intervals of 4 weeks. Thermotherapy is performed by applying
      oncothermia (EHY 2000) probe on the part of body where tumor is located and delivering
      energy. It is performed on day 1, 4, 8, 11, 15, 18, 21, and 24 (8 times in total every
      cycle). Oncothermia can be performed a day earlier than scheduled day or a day later than
      scheduled day. It takes 60 minutes to treat a site for oncothermia. Energy is gradually
      increased from 60W to 140W. With tumors at multiple sites, oncothermia is performed several
      times changing sites that apply probe and type of probes. Oncothermia is performed for 60
      minutes per each application. Patients with recurrent or persistent epithelial ovarian,
      fallopian tube or primary peritoneal carcinoma are randomly assigned to either a paclitaxel
      or cisplatin group in ratio of 1 to 1. Paclitaxel group are treated with weekly paclitaxel
      and oncothermia. Cisplatin group are treated with weekly cisplatin and oncothermia. In each
      group, limiting toxicity is evaluated after treating 3 patients for 4-cycles. In group that
      limiting toxicity occur in the rate equal to or less than 1 patient, limiting toxicity is
      evaluated after treating 3 additional patients for 4-cycles. When limiting toxicity occur in
      the rate equal to or less than one of six assessable patients, it is considered that the
      specific therapy is safe enough to be used in phase 2 trial. Primary endpoint is occurrence
      of limiting toxicity. Secondary endpoints are response rate, progression-free survival,
      overall-survival, quality of life, toxicity, pain, fatigue and compliance rate. Patients
      visit twice a week until 4-cycles are completed or progression of disease is confirmed.
    
  