
    
      Anastomotic leak (AL) after colorectal surgery represents a major clinical problem observed
      in a range from 2 to 7% of patients, rising up to 14% in low colorectal resections, and even
      to 26% in some older reports.1-3 Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) programs are nowadays
      proven to reduce postoperative complications in up to 50% of cases, fasten recovery and
      shorten length of stay.4-5 These fast-track protocols demand very early patient discharge but
      this might be potentially associated with an increased risk of delayed diagnosis and
      treatment of AL occurring after patient discharge. Hence, there is a strong need of an
      additional tool to early diagnose anastomotic leak, prior patient discharge. Serum
      procalcitonin (PCT), is a 116 amino-acids protein produced by C-cells of the thyroid gland.
      PCT baseline levels are low (<0.1 ng/ml), but increase significantly in patients with severe
      bacterial infections. Therefore, PCT levels are used to monitor the course and prognosis of
      systemic bacterial infections and to tailor the therapeutic interventions more
      efficiently.6-7 Furthermore, PCT could serve as an early predictive marker for the clinical
      course of septic complications after abdominal surgery.8-9 The aim of our study is to
      demonstrate if PCT is a more sensible, specific and reliable biomarker of anastomotic leak
      (AL) than CRP and WBC and if PCT is < 5 ng/ml in 5th POD might be safely added as an
      additional criteria of early discharge in ERAS protocols.

      All patients undergoing colorectal surgery in our centre, either electively or in emergency
      setting, are recruited. In all cases white blood count (WBC), C-reactive protein (CRP) and
      PCT levels are measured in 1st, 3rd and 5th postoperative day (POD). Patients'
      characteristics (age, sex, renal function, comorbidities), tumor localization, type of
      operation, intra and postoperative complications and their management, reinterventions,
      length of hospital stay are recorded. Inclusion criteria are: patients undergoing all
      different kinds of colorectal surgery (from right colectomies to low anterior resection),
      either in elective or emergent setting, either for cancer or benign disease (ex diverticular
      disease) with an anastomosis being performed (ileo-colic, colo-colic, or colo-rectal).
      Exclusion criteria are: age < 18 years, pregnant women, patients undergoing abdomino-perineal
      resection or other kinds of colorectal-surgery without an anastomosis being performed. A
      written informed consent is obtained from all patients. The study is approved by our
      institution's Ethical Committee.
    
  