
    
      The main objective of the ETIOSARC study is to assess the role of lifestyle, environmental
      and occupational factors in the occurrence of sarcomas among adults from a multicenter
      population-based case-control study.

      Specific objectives are:

        -  To identify environmental risk factors for sarcomas as a whole and for the most frequent
           subtypes;

        -  To investigate the interactions between gene polymorphisms and environmental exposures
           in sarcoma susceptibility;

        -  To assess whether some specific genetic characteristics of sarcoma' tumors are
           associated with environmental exposures; We will also explore the feasibility of
           classifying sarcomas by genetics types (simple vs complex genomic profile) as part of
           the objective of identifying environmental risk factors.

      Study design

      The ETIOSARC study is a prospective multicenter population-based case-control study. This
      study is restricted to French geographical areas (further called districts) that meet at
      least one of these four criteria:

        -  Criteria 1: Districts covered by both a general cancer registry and a French Sarcoma
           Group (GSF-GETO) expert center from either the network of reference for soft-tissue
           sarcoma pathology (RRePS), the network of reference for bone sarcoma pathology (ResOs)
           or the clinical sarcoma network (NetSarc);

        -  Criteria 2: Districts including a coordinator center of any of the RRePS / NetSarc
           networks;

        -  Criteria 3: Districts covered by a general cancer registry that is expected to register
           more than 50 cases per year;

        -  Criteria 4: Districts adjacent to districts meeting criteria 1 and covered by a general
           cancer registry.

      In total, 15 districts meet one of the four criteria, which represent approximatively 24% of
      the French population (2015 estimations from the national institute of statistics and
      economic studies, Insee). Nine districts meet criteria 1 (Gironde, Hérault, Haute-Vienne,
      Loire Atlantique, Calvados, Nord, Bas-Rhin and Doubs, Poitou-Charentes), two districts meet
      criteria 2 (Rhône and Val-de-Marne); two districts meet criteria 3 (Isère and Haut-Rhin) et
      two districts meet criteria 4 (Manche, Vendée).

      Study population

      Cases recruitment modalities

      Patients will be recruited by specifically trained clinical research associate (CRA). In
      districts where a general cancer registry is active, the process of identifying incident
      sarcoma patients is well defined, which warrants the efficiency and exhaustiveness of the
      recruitment. However, poor survival for some cancer cases will not allow to rely on routine
      inclusion procedure and the registries will implement a rapid case ascertainment procedure to
      minimize the delay between diagnosis and enrollment and interview. Cases will be identified
      from pathology laboratories and multidisciplinary sarcoma tumor board (including sarcoma,
      gynecological, digestive, skin and bone tumor board). CRA will regularly contact laboratories
      and hospitals (within a three months window) to identify newly diagnosed sarcoma cases and to
      collect associated reports. The CRA will retrieve the clinical file in order to check
      inclusion and non inclusion criteria and to collect names and addresses of eligible patients
      and their physicians. Then, the CRA will contact the case's physicians in order to gather
      their clinical advice to include their patients in the study. In case of agreement, the CRA
      will contact the patients and ask them to participate. In case of oral agreement, he/she will
      arrange an interview to collect written consent and administer detailed questionnaire.

      In Rhône and Val de Marne where no general cancer registry exists, the process of identifying
      incident sarcoma patients will largely rely on the existence of a RRePS/ResOS/NetSarc
      coordination center to facilitate the identification of new cases.

      Regardless of the district, the diagnosis of all included cases will be systematically
      ascertained by an expert pathologist within the RRePS and ResOs networks following a standard
      procedure.

      On a regular basis (at least once a month), the list of incident cases included in the
      RRePS/ResOS/NetSarc networks will be extracted from the shared databases. The list of cases
      identified by registries will be merged with the list of cases included in the
      RRePS/ResOS/NetSarc networks by the pathology sample reference number in order to collect
      diagnosis confirmation and to identify new but missed incident cases.

      Controls selection

      The selection of controls and the recruitment of cases will take place simultaneously. Every
      time a case will be diagnosed and identified, two controls will be randomly selected at that
      time from the electoral rolls of the same district as the case district of residence. For
      each case, a list of 20 potential controls with the same age (within a 5-year age group) and
      sex as the cases will be constituted in order to account for potential refusal. Calls to
      contact potential controls will be centralized and will be made by an investigator
      specifically trained to better understand the objectives of the study. First, this
      investigator will try to retrieve the phone number of the first potential control on the list
      and will contact him/her in order to gather his/her agreement to participate in this study.
      After five calls made at different schedules (e.g. in the evening on weekdays), if the
      potential control couldn't be reached, the investigator will send an information letter
      containing a reply coupon indicating phone number and schedule at which the person could be
      reach. If the reply coupon is not returned, or after 10 calls made at the phone number and
      the schedule indicated on the reply coupon, the first potential control will be considered as
      unreachable and then, the same procedure will be applied for the second potential controls on
      the list and so on until two controls per case agreed to participate to the study.

      For each control agreeing to participate, an appointment will be made to collect written
      consent and to administer detailed questionnaire by a CRA.

      All participants will give their informed written consent to participation, in line with
      French ethical guidelines.

      Data collection

      Data will be collected from self-questionnaire supplemented by a specific questionnaire. The
      self-questionnaire will permit to gather the complete occupational history (for each job held
      for at least 6 months) and residential history (for each place occupied for at least 6
      months). During a face-to-face interview, the trained interviewer will check (complete if
      necessary) and supplement the self-administered questionnaire by a specific questionnaire
      with questions about demographic and socioeconomic characteristics, occupations of spouse and
      parents, leisure-time activities, reproduction, medical history, family history of cancer,
      diet, lifestyle factors such as tobacco smoking and alcohol consumption. The specific
      questionnaire will also collect additional occupational and residential information such as
      work tasks, work places, materials handled for each job held for at least 6 months and
      description of the environment of each residence places.

      At the end of the interview, subjects (both cases and controls) will be invited to provide a
      saliva sample in order to obtain germline DNA.

      In case of refusal to participate and if the subject agreed, data on demographic and
      socioeconomic characteristics will be collected in order to assess the potential selection
      bias that might occur due to the specific profile of non-respondent subjects.

      Biological sampling and storage

      Each participant will be asked to provide a salivary sample in order to obtain germline DNA.
      Salivary samples will be collected by the subjects themselves under instructions from the
      CRA, using DNA Genotek Oragene 575 collection kit. After collection, samples will be sent at
      the Biological Resources Center of the Bordeaux hospital university center "Bordeaux
      Biothèque Santé" for storage.

      Determination of the sample size

      Since our definition of environmental exposures is very broad, the sample size calculation
      has been based on various scenarios of exposure prevalence, from 5% (relevant for domestic,
      environmental but also some occupational exposures such as farmer in the general population)
      to 20% (relevant for some occupational exposures such as fibers). For a total sample size of
      2000 cases and a 1:2 individually-matched design, considering a statistical power of 80% at a
      significance level of 5%, the minimum detectable odds ratio will be 1.39 and 1.21 under a
      exposure prevalence of 5% and 20%, respectively. Considering sub-types analyses, the four
      main histological types are GIST, liposarcoma, leiomyosarcoma and unclassified sarcoma, which
      account for 18%, 15%, 11% and 16% of sarcomas, respectively. Considering a sample size of 300
      cases, the minimum detectable odds ratio will be 2.21 and 1.61 under an exposure prevalence
      of 5% and 20%, respectively. Typically in environmental epidemiology, the relative increases
      in disease risks due to environmental exposures are usually low around 1.5, thus, it is
      essential to recruit a minimum of 2000 cases in order to be able to perform sub-type
      analyses.

      Statistical analysis

      Relationship between case/control status and each exposure variable and 95% confidence
      intervals will be individually estimated using conditional logistic regression models. If
      necessary, a multilevel logistic model will be implemented in order to take into account the
      data variability due to the multicenter design and the various CRA that will administer the
      questionnaires.

      Stratified histological sub-types analyses are also planned. Moreover, since sarcomas may be
      classified into four groups on a molecular basis (i.e. sarcomas with recurrent translocation,
      sarcomas with specific activating or inactivating mutations, sarcomas with MDM2
      amplifications, and sarcomas with a complex genomic profile), the feasibility of classifying
      sarcomas by genetic types instead of by histological subtypes for the objective of
      identifying environmental risk factors will be explore. The underlying hypothesis is that the
      aetiology among these four molecular groups may be homogeneous.

      Methods for coordinating the project and for quality control

      This study is organized around three different centers or committees: a national coordination
      center, a steering committee, and local centers.

      The national coordination center will be in charge of running routine operations, assisting
      participating local centers, guaranteeing the quality of the data collection, centralizing
      data, supervising the data coding and exposure assessment.

      The steering committee's principal role will be to establish research priorities based on the
      availability of the data and the current scientific knowledge.

      Local centers will be in charge of determining identification sources of cases in their
      districts and of collecting data. They will also transmit the collected data to the national
      coordination center.

      Standardized procedures are written in a procedure manual to guarantee the quality of the
      collected data. Besides, a completion guide of the standardized questionnaire has been
      developed to assist CRA during interviews. A data manager will ensure that the study is
      conducted in compliance with the protocol. On a regular basis and as frequently as necessary,
      he/she will assess the quality of the collected data using several indicators: the average
      time spent by the CRA at the subject's home, the degree of completeness of the questionnaires
      by CRA, the ratio of included cases to expected cases, the average elapsed time between the
      identification of a case and the interview, the average elapsed time between case and control
      interviews, etc.

      All collected data will be centralized in a single location, the University of Bordeaux
      (CREDIM, centre de Recherche et de Développement en Informatique Médicale).
    
  