
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess whether prophylaxis with isavuconazole effectively prevents the occurrence of
      proven or probable invasive fungal infections (IFIs) in patients with newly diagnosed acute
      myeloid leukemia/myelodysplastic syndrome (AML/MDS) receiving successive cycles of intensive
      chemotherapy or other therapies for up to 100 days from prophylaxis initiation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the incidence of invasive aspergillosis (IA) within 100 days of beginning
      isavuconazole prophylaxis in newly diagnosed patients with AML/MDS receiving intensive
      chemotherapy or other therapies.

      II. To evaluate the incidence of other IFIs within 100 days of beginning isavuconazole
      prophylaxis in newly diagnosed patients with AML/MDS receiving intensive chemotherapy or
      other therapies.

      III. To evaluate the composite outcome of treatment success versus (vs.) failure in this
      patient population.

      IV. To measure the overall survival (OS) of study participants. V. To measure the IFI-free
      survival of study participants. VI. To document the time to death from any cause in the study
      population. VII. To document the time to death related to IFI in the study population. VIII.
      To document the time to diagnosis of proven or probable IFI in the study population.

      IX. To document the time to initiation of empiric anti-fungal therapy in the study
      population.

      X. To characterize the safety, tolerability and adverse event (AE) profile of isavuconazole
      in the prophylactic setting.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the potential role, if any, of therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) of
      isavuconazole levels in the prophylactic setting in patients with newly diagnosed AML/MDS
      receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy or other therapies.

      II. To determine the in vitro susceptibility of agents causing "breakthrough" IFIs to
      antifungal agents.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive isavuconazole orally (PO) every 8 hours for 6 doses and then once daily (QD)
      or intravenously (IV) over 1 hour every 8 hours for 6 doses and then QD for up to 4 days for
      12 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
    
  