
    
      Background of the study:

      The fraction of undiagnosed cases is a critical epidemiological characteristic that modulates
      the epidemic potential of SARS-CoV-2 emerging respiratory virus. These subjects most often
      present themselves in benign or totally asymptomatic form, although they are likely to spread
      the virus in the general population. The containment strategy was implemented in France to
      reverse the exponential epidemic growth of infection.

      A crucial issue is the specific study of the paediatric population because the prevalence of
      symptomatic infections is low and children are mostly mild and under-diagnosed. Children
      could frequently be asymptomatic carriers and act as a real reservoir for the spread of the
      virus. In these "sub-symptomatic" carriers, the viral load may be low, and it is possible
      that PCR nasal tests may be defective. The serological study is therefore essential because
      it will inform us about the speed and effectiveness of seroconversion and therefore about the
      immunoprotection of this subpopulation.

      The rationale for the study is that the proportion of children who have developed
      immunoprotection is decisive in defining measures to control the epidemic. It is essential to
      assess the prevalence and typology of antibody responses in this population and to follow
      kinetics over time.

      The many emerging atypical forms and in particular the post-infectious kawasaki-like forms
      have a very particular immunopathological profile that provides information on the natural
      history of the disease.

      Main objectives of the study to assess the prevalence of seroconversion (seroprevalence) in a
      pediatric population sample to study the immunopathological profile of clinical forms
      attributed to SARS-CoV-2 infection

      Design of the study Patients are included on a given day, after information, before blood
      sampling performed as part of the care. 500 µL of sera, normally discarded will be kept to
      perform SARS-Cov2 serology. According to data currently collected in France, 5% of children
      taken from symptoms are infected. Given that nasopharyngeal testing is lacking in this
      pediatric population, we anticipate an increase in the number of subjects who have been
      infected or have an ongoing infection at least 10%. A sample of 800 subjects will therefore
      include at least 80 children with infection.

      A questionnaire will extract relevant variables to this project:

        -  Any symptoms of the index case or his family since December 2019 consistent with
           COVID-19

        -  Comorbidities and treatment

        -  Reason for hospitalization

        -  History of contact case

        -  Clinical signs on the day of collection

        -  Result of RT-PCT SARS-CoV2 nasopharyngeal if made in the index case
    
  