
    
      An OB regimen is selected to be initiated at baseline by the physician and patient. The OB
      regimen is based on the patient's prior treatment history as well as the results from the
      first screening visit HIV-1 genotypic and phenotypic (GT and PT) resistance testing and prior
      GT/PT antiretroviral resistance testing (if available). Prior or current laboratory
      abnormalities, including triglycerides and cholesterol, should also be taken into account
      when selecting the OB regimen. Patients are stratified with respect to the following: 1)
      screening viral load (less than 40,000 or 40,000 or more copies/ml); and 2) number of allowed
      investigational antiretrovirals (0, 1, or 2). Patients then are randomized to receive 1 of
      the following treatments for 48 weeks: OB regimen or OB plus T-20 regimen. Patients are seen
      for evaluation of efficacy and safety at Weeks 1, 2, and 4, every 4 weeks through Week 24,
      and then every 8 weeks through Week 48. In addition, efficacy only is evaluated at Weeks 6,
      10, and 14. Patients also may be seen at additional visits during the study for plasma HIV-1
      RNA measurements to potentially confirm virological failure.

      Patients initially randomized to the OB arm who meet the criteria for virological failure and
      who switch to OB plus T-20 after Week 8 are followed under a new ("switch") schedule of
      assessments. Patients are encouraged to change their OB regimen at the time of switch.

      Patients initially randomized to the OB plus T-20 arm who meet the criteria for virological
      failure may continue to receive OB plus T-20 if the patient and the physician feel that there
      is sufficient benefit. Patients are encouraged to change their OB regimen after Week 8 if
      they choose to continue on OB plus T-20 despite meeting the criteria for virological failure.

      Patients on OB or OB plus T-20 arm who meet the criteria for virological failure but who do
      not wish to either switch to T-20 (for patients initially randomized to OB arm) or continue
      with T-20 (for patients initially randomized to OB plus T-20) are allowed to remain in the
      study for a maximum of 1 month.

      At the end of the 48 weeks of treatment, patients are allowed to participate in 1 of the
      following treatment extensions: a) roll-over and receive OB plus T-20 (for patients receiving
      OB alone); or b) continue taking OB plus T-20 (for patients already receiving OB plus T-20),
      for a maximum of an additional 48 weeks (plus 4 weeks safety follow-up period), or until 12
      weeks after commercial availability of T-20 in the country in which they are treated,
      whichever comes first. All patients are followed for a maximum of 100 weeks from their
      initial baseline visit date.
    
  