
    
      The HIP PRO Study is a randomized, controlled trial of the efficacy of a trochanteric padding
      system in the reduction of hip fractures in nursing home residents over the age of 65 in up
      to 45 nursing homes in three regions: Boston, MA, St. Louis, MO, and Baltimore, MD. Eligible
      residents of these facilities will be screened and then evaluated during a two week run-in
      period during which a hip protection compliance rate of at least 67% will be required for
      enrollment. Recruitment of all eligible residents entering each nursing home will continue
      throughout the 3.5 year follow-up period.

      Each subject will be given a set of 4-6 protective underwear containing a single pocket and
      protective pad so that each resident becomes his/her own control. The side to be protected
      will be based on the randomization of nursing home facilities to either right or left-sided
      hip protection. The hip protection underwear is designed so that it may be worn during the
      day and while in bed at night. Several types of underwear have been designed for residents
      with special needs (e.g. incontinence, dementia). Compliance and efficacy are monitored at
      least three times weekly across all three nursing shifts.

      A hip fracture adjudication committee, blinded to the side of the fracture, will review all
      information (including hospital records and radiologists' reports or hip radiographs) and
      issue a decision on whether a fracture has occurred. Primary analyses will be performed using
      an "intention to treat" approach. Secondary analyses will investigate resident and nursing
      home factors associated with hip protection compliance and effectiveness. An independent Data
      and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) has been convened and will review hip fracture rates and
      adverse event data at regular intervals.

      Institutions participating in HIP PRO are: a Data Coordinating Center at Maryland Medical
      Research Institute in Baltimore, MD; three Clinical Centers at Washington University School
      of Medicine in St. Louis, MO, the University of Maryland in Baltimore, MD with the University
      of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, NC, and the Hebrew Rehabilitation Center for Aged in
      Boston, MA. The Data Coordinating Center will direct the overall administrative management of
      the trial.
    
  