
    
      Cachexia is a multifactorial syndrome characterized by tissue wasting, loss of body weight,
      particularly of lean body (muscle) mass (LBM) and to a lesser extent adipose tissue,
      metabolic alterations, fatigue, reduced performance status, and very often accompanied by
      anorexia leading to a reduced food intake. Cachexia accompanies the end stage of many chronic
      diseases and especially cancer and therefore is also termed "cancer-related anorexia/cachexia
      syndrome" (CACS). Clinically, cachexia is defined as an unintentional 5% resp. 10% loss of
      body weight over a 6-month resp. 12-month period that is directly associated with an
      underlying disease. The progressive loss of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle despite
      adequate feeding results in weakness, reduced ambulation, diminished quality of life, poor
      response to therapy, and often death due to respiratory failure or infection. At the time of
      cancer diagnosis, 80% of patients with upper gastrointestinal cancers and 60% of patients
      with lung cancer have already had substantial weight loss. Currently, there are no approved
      effective treatments for the treatment of cachexia. Understanding the molecular mechanisms
      responsible for muscle wasting is necessary to develop targeted therapies that play a central
      role in signal transduction initiated by cytokines (e.g., interleukin and interferon
      signaling), growth factors, and hormones for these most vulnerable patients. Key features of
      CACS are increased resting energy expenditure (REE), increased levels of circulating factors
      produced by the host immune system in response to the tumor, such as proinflammatory
      cytokines, or by the tumor itself, such as proteolysis-inducing factor. Inflammation is a
      unifying mechanism for the entire cluster of sickness behaviours (asthenia, increased
      slow-wave sleep, mood alteration, lethargy, depression, anorexia, fever, anhedonia, cognitive
      impairment, hyperalgesia and decreased social interaction), including lipolysis and muscle
      proteolysis. Inflammation is generated in the brain, by the tumor, by tissues in the locale
      of the tumor and by a diversity of host cells including skeletal muscle, adipose tissue,
      cells of the immune system, and liver. The specific identity of the inflammation mediators
      participating in cancer cachexia is emerging. Both host and tumor-derived factors have been
      shown experimentally to contribute to muscle wasting. There is evidence that a chronic,
      low-grade, tumor-induced activation of the host immune system, which shares numerous
      characteristics with the "acute-phase response" found after major traumatic events, septic
      shock or chronic inflammatory diseases with an excessive production of proinflammatory
      cytokines, is involved in CACS. Proinflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor
      necrosis factor-alfa (TNF-a) play a central role in the pathophysiology of CACS, although the
      mechanisms by which they might induce muscle wasting are unknown. A goal of anorexia-cachexia
      therapy is to interfere with these responses to inflammation and so to restore positive
      energy balance and to promote the gain of skeletal muscle mass. Understanding the specific
      management of the initiating inflammatory pathways is crucial to that end. Recently a study
      reported that a "Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STAT)" protein (STAT3)
      activation is a common feature of muscle wasting, activated in muscle by IL-6 in vivo and in
      vitro, by different types of cancer, and by sterile sepsis. Moreover, STAT3 activation is
      necessary and sufficient for causing muscle wasting. Conversely, the same authors showed that
      inhibiting STAT3 pharmacologically with Janus kinase (JAK) or STAT3 inhibitors or genetically
      reduced muscle atrophy downstream of IL-6 or cancer. Epidemiological studies suggest that as
      many as 25% of all cancers may be due to chronic inflammation. The connection between
      inflammation and cancer consists of an extrinsic pathway, driven by inflammatory conditions
      that increase cancer risk, and an intrinsic pathway, driven by oncogenic alterations that
      result in creation of an inflammatory microenvironment that resolves in neoplasias. Immune
      cells play key roles in connecting inflammation and cancer by producing various growth or
      angiogenic factors, proteinases, chemokines, and cytokines that create a pro-inflammatory
      tumor microenvironment. This milieu stimulates cell migration, proliferation, survival,
      angiogenesis, and metastasis, and facilitates the subversion of adaptive immunity, thus
      favoring cancer progression.

      These theoretical considerations as well as pharmacological results and data from animal
      models indicated that the JAK/STAT pathway is a primary mediator of muscle wasting in cancer
      cachexia and other conditions of high IL-6 family signaling. Thus JAK/STAT pathway could
      represent a novel therapeutic target for the preservation of skeletal muscle in cachexia. On
      the basis of this rationale, we want to carry out an open label phase II study with the aim
      of testing the efficacy and safety of a treatment based on a pharmacologic inhibition of the
      JAK/STAT3 pathway with Ruxolitinib in patients with CACS. Ruxolitinib represents a novel
      orally bioavailable, potent, and selective inhibitor of JAK1 and JAK2 developed primarily for
      the treatment of Myeloproliferative Neoplasms (MPNs). A key feature of MPNs is the
      dysregulation of JAK/STAT signaling.
    
  