
    
      Purpose: This study is intended to determine characteristics of the "learning curve" for use
      of the Third Eye Retroscope during colonoscopy, both in terms of efficacy for detection of
      abnormalities in the colon and time-efficiency for endoscopists

      Device Description: The Third Eye Retroscope is an auxiliary imaging device that is designed
      to allow visualization of "hidden areas" during colonoscopy by providing an additional,
      retrograde view that complements the forward view of the colonoscope.

      After a standard colonoscope has been advanced to the cecum, the Third Eye Retroscope is
      inserted through the instrument channel of the colonoscope. As it emerges from the distal tip
      of the colonoscope, the Third Eye Retroscope automatically bends 180 degrees to form a "J"
      shape. Its sensor then provides a continuous retrograde view of the colon throughout the
      process of withdrawal of the colonoscope.

      The retrograde view assists the endoscopist in visualizing the proximal aspect of haustral
      folds and rectal valves, as well as the areas behind flexures and the ileocecal valve. With
      this additional point-of-view, the endoscopist may be able to detect lesions that can be
      missed by the forward-viewing colonoscope.

      Study Design: Patients who are scheduled for colonoscopy will be recruited to the study and
      examined with the Third Eye Retroscope in conjunction with a standard colonoscope. For each
      polyp that is found, the endoscopist will indicate whether it could be seen with the
      colonoscope, or if it could be found with the colonoscope only because it was first detected
      with the Third Eye.

      Each investigator will perform colonoscopies on 20 patients, who will be segmented into four
      quartiles according to the order of their procedures. Mean results for the quartiles will be
      compared in order to evaluate the learning curve for Third Eye colonoscopy.
    
  