
    
      Complications after laser eye surgery can often result in the front surface of the eye (the
      cornea) becoming irregular, which causes visual symptoms such as halos, glare, starbursts,
      double vision, and reduced contrast sensitivity. For the past 20 years, corneal
      irregularities have been treated using wavefront-guided ablation, topography-guided ablation
      or trans-epithelial phototherapeutic keratectomy (TE-PTK). Topography-guided ablation is the
      most effective treatment for certain types of irregularity and works by using a laser to
      remove tissue from the cornea in a pattern derived from a topography scan (a measurement of
      the shape and curvature of the front of the eye) designed to make the corneal surface more
      regular.

      However, topography-guided ablation is less effective for other types of irregularity. In
      these cases, the corneal epithelium (the layer of skin on the surface of the cornea) has
      changed in thickness to partially hide the irregularity on the body of the cornea under the
      epithelium (the stroma). The epithelium does this by becoming thinner over peaks and
      thickening over troughs in the stroma. Therefore, the topography measurement can only detect
      the proportion of the irregularity that has not been hidden by the epithelium, hence reducing
      its effectiveness. The preferred treatment option is TE-PTK; the laser treatment is applied
      onto and through the epithelium, breaking through to the stroma where the epithelium is
      thinnest, thus removing tissue from the peaks on the stroma resulting in a more regular
      surface.

      The main weakness of TE-PTK is that it may unpredictably change the refraction to become more
      short-sighted or more long-sighted or change the astigmatism. To improve this, we have
      developed the Epimaster software that simulates a TE-PTK treatment and predicts the change in
      refraction.

      The aim of the study is to validate the refractive prediction produced by the Epimaster
      software by comparing this to the achieved result in the patients treated. The treatment
      received by the patient will be the same as has been used routinely for the past 20 years.
    
  