
    
      The investigators will assess this dysfunction in different ways, appropriate for patients'
      stage of critical illness and anticipated recovery. During critical illness, the
      investigators will use nerve conduction studies (NCS) to assess nerve and muscle function,
      identifying presence of early neuromyopathy (primary outcome, Aim 1). Additional early
      assessments will include bedside ultrasound to determine muscle mass and echogenicity,
      indices of atrophy and loss of muscle architecture. Later in acute hospitalization as
      patients are able to participate in testing, the investigators will use hand grip dynamometry
      to assess muscle strength (primary outcome, Aim 2). Additional assessments at this time will
      be hand held dynamometry to determine proximal muscle strength, dual energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DEXA) and repeat ultrasound to evaluate muscle mass, and short physical
      performance battery (SPPB) to assess activity. After hospital discharge-at 6 months after
      ARDS-the investigators will assess activity in-person using the SPPB (primary outcome, Aim
      3). Additional post-hospital assessments include detailed evaluation of healthcare
      utilization, six minute walk testing (6MWT) to determine endurance, and repetition of
      previous assessments of muscle structure, function and strength to provide novel, detailed
      information of recovery process.

      Each aim tests a distinct hypothesis of the effect of randomization to NMB on ICU-acquired
      neuromuscular dysfunction, investigating different time points and aspects of physical
      function, so aims are not interdependent. For example, it is plausible that the direct
      toxicity of NMB on muscle will lead to early evidence of neuromyopathy, manifest as reduced
      muscle depolarization amplitudes with nerve stimulation. But if NMB attenuates lung injury,
      strength may be improved by hospital discharge, despite early injury to muscle.
    
  