
    
      Advanced breast cancer refers to metastatic or stage-IV breast cancer, and is associated with
      the highest cancer mortality and morbidity rates among women. Top symptom complaints reported
      by patients with advanced breast cancer include fatigue, low mood and worries, and pain.
      These symptoms frequently co-occur, with presence of stress hormones suggested to be a common
      mechanism. Greater symptoms of psychological distress (defined as anxiety and depression),
      pain, and fatigue is associated with decreased quality of life, and adds to the burden and
      suffering of patients coping with advanced breast cancer. Unfortunately these symptoms are
      sometimes overlooked and not adequately addressed. This is in turn is associated with
      increased utilization of healthcare services such as emergency department visits and frequent
      hospital admissions.

      There is a critical need for patients with advanced breast cancer to learn strategies to
      self-manage common symptoms. Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a widely
      used,evidence-based therapy that focuses on cognitions, emotions, and behavior change. The
      cognitive-behavioral framework has been successfully applied in treatment of many disorders,
      including anxiety disorders, depression, chronic pain, and insomnia. It is posited that CBT
      protocols can be designed to meet the needs of advanced breast cancer patients by targeting
      and modifying maladaptive thoughts about the disease and treatment (e.g., irrational beliefs,
      unrealistic expectations) and their behavior (e.g., maladaptive coping strategies, isolation,
      self-negligence). These protocols are designed to teach patients strategies to increase their
      sense of self-efficacy to manage multiple symptoms may be helpful in alleviating
      psychological and physical suffering. The efficacy of CBTs for early-stage cancer has been
      well-documented; however the role of CBTs for late-stage cancer is less clear, particularly
      in a multi-symptom context. Furthermore, although CBT protocols are more widely used in the
      US, their use as part of oncologic care in Asia has been limited.
    
  