
    
      • Patients:

      The inclusion criteria are:

        1. age>18 years;

        2. KT recipient.

      The exclusion criteria are:

        1. metallic joint prostheses, cardiac stent or pacemakers, decompensated cirrhosis,
           pregnancy and limb amputations (due to bioimpedance technique limitations);

        2. no prior diagnosis of pulmonary fibrosis, pneumectomy or massive pleural effusion (due
           to lung ultrasonography limitations);

        3. active systemic infections (due to difficulties in the interpretation of nespecific
           inflammation biomarkers in this type of patients);

        4. absence of congenital heart disease;

        5. eGFR below 30 ml/min/1.73m2;

        6. KT vintage of at least 6 months.

             -  Methods:

      All patients will have a complete clinical and paraclinical evaluation:

        -  Personal data (age, sex, height);

        -  Cardiovascular risk factors (smoking, weight, body mass index);

        -  Medication (including immunosupression);

        -  Kidney transplantation data (date of transplantation, type - living or cadaveric donor,
           missmatch number, type of induction therapy);

        -  Dialysis vintage (before KT)

        -  Comorbidities (diabetes, hypertension, stroke, coronary artery disease, etc);

        -  Physical examination (blood pressure, crackles, pedal edema etc);

        -  Renal function evaluation (serum urea and creatinine, serum electrolytes - K, Na, Cl)

        -  Nutrition status evaluation: serum protein, cholesterol, triglycerides;

        -  Inflammation evaluation: CRP;

        -  Serum glucose and uric acid;

        -  Hemoleucogram;

        -  Electrocardiogram.

      Bioimpedance spectroscopy analysis This analysis will be performed at baseline using the
      portable whole-body multifrequency bioimpedance analysis device (BCM®Body Composition Monitor
      - Fresenius Medical Care D GmbH). The technique involves attaching electrodes to the
      patient's forearm and ipsilateral ankle, with the patient in a supine position. The BCM®
      measures the body resistance and reactance to electrical currents of 50 discrete frequencies,
      ranging between 5 and 1000 kHz. Based on a fluid model using these resistances, the
      extracellular water (ECW), the intracellular water (ICW) and the total body water (TBW) are
      calculated. These volumes are then used to determine the amount of fluid overload. All
      calculations are automatically performed by the software of the BCM® device. Absolute fluid
      overload (AFO) is is defined as the difference between the expected patient's ECW under
      normal physiological conditions and the actual ECW, whereas the relative fluid overload (RFO)
      is defined as the absolute fluid overload AFO to ECW ratio. Normohydration is defined when
      AFO is between the 10th and the 90th percentile for healthy, age- and gender-matched
      individuals from the reference population, i.e. between -1.1 to +1.1 L, while volumes below
      and above this range defining underhydration and overhydration, respectively. In addition,
      this analysis will provide the LTI and FTI for the included patients.

      Echocardiography Echocardiographic evaluations will be made in each patient at baseline. All
      echocardiographic measurements will be carried out according to the recommendations of the
      American Society of Echocardiography by an observer unaware of the lung ultrasound and
      bioimpedance results. Echocardiographic evaluation will provide information about cardiac
      anatomy (e.g. volumes, geometry, mass) and function (e.g. left ventricular function and wall
      motion, valvular function, right ventricular function, pulmonary artery pressure,
      pericardium).

      Lung ultrasonography Examinations will be performed in the supine position. Scanning of the
      anterior and lateral chest will be performed on both sides of the chest, from the second to
      the fourth (on the right side to the fifth) intercostal spaces, at parasternal to
      mid-axillary lines. B-lines will be recorded in each intercostal space and were defined as a
      hyperechoic, coherent US bundle at narrow basis going from the transducer to the limit of the
      screen. B-lines starting from the pleural line can be either localized or scattered to the
      whole lung and be present as isolated or multiple artifacts. The sum of B-lines produces a
      score reflecting the extent of lung water accumulation (0 being no detectable B-line).

      Arterial stiffness Arterial stiffness assessment will be performed by applanation tonometry
      (SphygmoCorTM; PWV Inc., Westmead, Sydney, Australia) with the patient being recumbent, 10
      minutes before the measures were done. The carotid and femoral pulse will be acquired by
      applanation tonometry sequentially, allowing a single operator to acquire the measurement.
      The transit time from the R-wave of the simultaneously acquired electrocardiogram to the foot
      of the carotid and femoral pulse is measured. The difference acquired electrocardiogram to
      the foot of the carotid and femoral pulse is measured. The difference between these 2 transit
      times is divided by distances measured from the body surface to estimate the arterial path
      length in order to calculate carotid-femoral PWV. The SphygmoCor PWV has been established in
      the literature as a reference for comparison due to the wealth of population data and healthy
      population refence values. The investigators will determine two PWVs for every patient and
      use the media for the statistical analysis. If the difference between these two measurements
      will be higher than 0.5 m/s then another determination will be performed and the median will
      be used for analysis.
    
  