
    
      The investigators Research Question and Hypothesis is as follows:

      Comprehensive, evidence-based lifestyle and psychosocial interventions over a 12-week period
      (Lifestyles Change Program) can improve various objectives (6-minute walk distance, Left
      Ventricular Ejection Fraction (LVEF), New York Heart Association Class, grip strength, and
      cognitive function) as well as subjective (Quality of life, depression and functional
      screening) measures in patients with chronic heart failure. Secondary endpoints would include
      data such as hospital admission rates and all-cause mortality.

      Background/ Gaps in Knowledge Chronic heart failure continues to be one of the highest
      economic burdens in the United States, heavily influenced by frequent readmissions. As a
      measure of performance quality, the Center of Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) began
      publically reporting hospital risk-standardized 30-day all-cause readmission rates, among
      fee-for-service beneficiaries discharged after hospitalization for heart failure from all the
      US acute care hospitals (1). Previous reported averages for hospital readmission in patients
      with chronic heart failure averages 25% to 30%, with some studies showing a readmission rate
      of up to 45% at 6 months.

      There has been significant research examining various methods to reduce hospital admissions
      and improve functional capacity for patients with heart failure. Aside from published data on
      patient factors associated with readmission (age, sex, race, education, diabetes, renal
      disease, history of stroke, cognitive impairment, New York Heart Association (NYHA) class
      level, and serum markers [blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, C-reactive protein], etc), there
      have been many prospective studies evaluating readmission rates in CHF using interventions
      including: specialized multi-disciplinary teams (CHF nursing staff, pharmacists, physicians,
      etc), telephonic home monitoring, implantable device monitoring, various exercise programs
      (intermittent vs. continuous), meditation and spirituality, and early hospital follow-up.

      Attempts at creating valid statistical models to predict patients at the highest risk for
      readmission used heterogeneous approaches and found substantial inconsistencies regarding
      which patient characteristics were predictive. From a policy perspective, as of 2009, a
      validated risk-standardized model to accurately profile hospitals using readmission rates is
      unavailable in the published English-language literature to date (3). Essentially, the
      identification of patients at high risk for heart failure readmission remains difficult with
      no validated objective assessment. Therefore, the strategy to reduce readmissions of heart
      failure patients is evolving to become a more personalized, patient-centered approach based
      on specific needs of each patient. For example, studies evaluating patient vs physician and
      healthcare staff perceptions for the causes of heart failure readmissions (using standardized
      questionnaires), shows discrepancy in the physician's opinion vs the patient's opinion about
      what factors influenced the readmission.

      In essence, various aspects of the LCP have been evaluated in controlled clinical trials, but
      an overall, comprehensive study evaluating multiple components as included in the LCP has (to
      the investigators knowledge) not been done. Previous randomized controlled trials have shown
      benefit (6-minute walk, NYHA class, etc) using cardiac rehabilitation in patients with CHF
      (12). Yoga has been shown to improve exercise tolerance and positively affected levels of
      inflammatory markers in patients with CHF, with trends towards improvements in QoL (11).
      Education by a dietitian in patients with CHF has also been shown to result in a significant
      decrease in sodium intake compared with patients who simply receive written instructions (9).
      Studies have also evaluated spiritual well-being and depression in patients with heart
      failure, and have shown that greater spiritual well-being, particularly meaning/ peace was
      strongly associated with less depression (6). Interestingly, Tai Chi has been used in
      complimentary medicine for many years in patients with cardiovascular disease. Recently, a
      randomized study in 2011 showed that Tai Chi exercise improves quality of life, mood, and
      exercise self-efficacy in patients with CHF (5).

      The investigators goal with the currently described study is to use a comprehensive,
      evidence-based Lifestyle Change Program (LCP) that incorporates all of the above individual
      components in a single program, individualized to each patient's physical abilities.
      Moreover, the investigators hypothesis is that such an intervention with chronic heart
      failure patients will improve Quality of Life, objective cardiometabolic markers, and reduce
      hospital admissions..
    
  