
    
      SELECT 2 is a prospective, randomized, international, multicenter, assessor-blinded
      controlled trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of thrombectomy in patients with large
      core on either CT or advanced perfusion imaging treated within 0-24 hours from last known
      well. The secondary aim is to look at the correlation of imaging profiles with thrombectomy
      clinical outcomes and treatment effect.

      Patients with the final diagnosis of an acute ischemic stroke due to a large vessel occlusion
      in the distal ICA and MCA M1 who have large core on either CT (ASPECTS: 3-5) or advanced
      perfusion imaging ([rCBF<30%] on CTP or [ADC<620] on MRI: ≥50cc) or both within 0-24 hrs from
      last known well will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio into thrombectomy plus medical management
      vs medical management alone. Patient outcomes will be measured at baseline, 24 hours post,
      discharge, 30 days and 90 days.

      The primary endpoint is the Modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at 90 (+/- 15) days. The primary
      outcome is a shift on 90-day mRS. The 2nd primary outcome is favorable clinical outcomes: mRS
      score of 0-2. Secondary outcomes are safety outcomes such the incidence of symptomatic
      intracranial hemorrhage (sICH per SITS-MOST) and Imaging endpoints such as infarct volume on
      MRI diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) sequence (or CT if MRI not feasible) 24 to 72 hours
      after randomization. CT images will be read by iSchemaView automated ASPECTS as well as by a
      physician. In cases where there is disagreement, the physician reading will override the
      automated software reading. CT/MR perfusion images with mismatch determination will be read
      by iSchemaView automated RAPID software. All the images will be adjudicated by a blinded core
      lab at the University of Texas-Medical School at Houston.

      A maximum of 560 patients will be randomized across the study sites. Covariate adaptive
      randomization will be used to balance the distribution of important variables. Interim
      analyses will be conducted at 200 and 380 patients, at which time the study may stop for
      efficacy or futility.
    
  