
    
      Rosacea is a common chronic dermatological condition. The epidemiology of rosacea has not
      been determined extensively, due to part in problems with case definition. Rosacea is usually
      described as being most common in fair skinned women over the age of 40. However it occurs in
      most adult populations, including both men and women of all ages, and in people of many
      complexion types, including African Americans and Asians.

      Although rosacea is encountered frequently in primary care and dermatology practices, its
      precise incidence and prevalence are not known. The etiology and pathogenesis of rosacea are
      unknown. Both genetic and environmental factors are thought to be important. A wide range of
      medical and surgical interventions have been used in the management of rosacea, including
      dietary management, topical and systemic antibiotics, azelaic acid, low dose isotretinoin,
      and laser treatments for telangiectasia and rhinophyma. No single regimen has been found to
      be entirely satisfactory.

      Zinc has been found to be effective in managing several dermatological conditions, especially
      acne. It has also been found to be of benefit in dermatological conditions such as viral
      warts and cutaneous leishmaniasis.

      No studies have been published on the use of Zinc in the treatment of rosacea. This will be a
      prospective, double blind, randomized, controlled trial, comparing the effects of
      supplemental and placebo on the severity of rosacea. Enrolled subjects will be assigned to
      one of two study arms.

      Subjects and investigators will be blinded regarding treatment. After evaluation, meeting the
      study criteria,obtaining informed consent, and initiating study related procedures, the
      subject will take oral study drug or placebo, bid, for 90 days.

      Subjects are followed via phone call at one week and 6 weeks after enrollment into the study.
      At the conclusion of the 90 day study, subjects will be re-examined.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be the severity of rosacea at the end of the 90 day
      intervention period.

      The efficacy of Zinc vs. placebo will be assessed by a comparison of the change in the
      severity of rosacea.
    
  