
    
      While youth at all juvenile justice (JJ) processing points are at increased risk for suicidal
      behavior (SB) and associated behavioral health (BH) issues, those supervised in community
      settings (e.g., probation), may be at greatest risk: (a) protocols for identification and
      service referral are far more common in secure settings, (b) national policy increasingly
      favors community supervision/diversion over incarceration, (c) participants supervised in the
      community have far more access to means and opportunity than do those in secure settings, and
      (d) the multi- system coordination challenges to accessing BH care for community JJ
      participants are far greater than for those secure care. The investigators propose to adapt
      and test the utility of a multi-level service delivery model that increases identification of
      SB and related BH problems, guides targeted referral, trains staff and structures interagency
      collaboration to increase uptake of BH services by participants on probation; and document
      the organizational elements required to widely-implement this model in juvenile probation and
      community treatment settings. The model is based on our earlier, evidence-based linkage
      protocols from Project Connect, and capitalizes on technological advances unavailable at
      Connect's 2007 development, so as to address earlier implementation issues. Working in 9 NYS
      counties, project specific aims are (1) to develop technologically advanced cross-system
      identification/linkage service model that trains staff, formalizes interagency collaboration
      and referral decision-making and uses a mobile application to seamlessly combine (a)
      screening for SB and related BH problems, (b) classification of clinical need and (c)
      county-specific streamlined referral plans for BH services; (2) to examine the degree to
      which, compared to Baseline, e- Connect improves (a) intermediary PO practice outcomes
      (service need identification, cross-system referral) and increasing (b) participants BH
      service use (access, engagement); and (3) to elucidate multi-level factors (e.g., staff,
      organizational, participants/family, community,) that influence implementation (feasibility,
      acceptability, sustainability) of e-Connect across various probation department processing
      categories (e.g. status offenders, diversion cases) to inform comprehensive scale-up. The
      theoretically based mechanisms (e.g., changes in staff knowledge and self-efficacy; agency
      structural characteristics) by which PO practice change affects BH service use will also be
      examined. Guided by the GPM and CFIR framework, this 5-year study will comprise 4 project
      phases: (1) Development, (2) Baseline data collection, (3) Implementation, and (4)
      Sustainment. After development, counties are randomized to one of 4 Waves to begin
      implementation of e-Connect at 4-month intervals in a stepped-wedge design. Implementation
      activities continue for 18m and sites' use of e-Connect protocols after 18m will be an
      indication of sustainability. This initiative is one of the first to address SB and advance
      JJ participants enrollment in BH treatment. Because the investigators propose addressing risk
      and acute SB, this study has the likelihood of identifying and linking to services high-risk,
      high need participants that are often overlooked.
    
  