
    
      A collaborative prospective, double-blind, randomized trial will be performed at the
      University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences Hospital (Little Rock, AR), and Lucille Packard
      Children's Hospital (Palo Alto, CA). After obtaining IRB approval at both sites and parental
      consent, newborn infants less than 3 days of age who require heelsticks for clinical blood
      sampling will be randomized in a 2 × 2 factorial trial design to four groups: standard pain
      management with pacifier and water, Non-invasive Electrical Stimulation of Acupuncture Points
      (NESAP) with pacifier and water, 24% oral sucrose solution with pacifier, or NESAP plus oral
      sucrose solution and pacifier prior to their heelstick.

      We will study the pain response to the heelstick routinely used to obtain blood for term
      neonatal infants by enrolling up to 192 infants, 96 from University of Arkansas for Medical
      Sciences and 96 from Lucille Packard Children's Hospital. This number will allow for screen
      failures and withdrawals. A minimum of 164 infants collectively from both sites is required
      to complete the study. Infants will be divided into 4 experimental groups:

        1. Group A: Sham (fake electrical stimulation) plus sugar water with pacifier before
           heelstick.

        2. Group B: Electrical stimulation plus water with pacifier before heelstick.

        3. Group C: Electrical stimulation plus sugar water with pacifier before heelstick.

        4. Group D: Sham (fake electrical stimulation) plus water with pacifier before heelstick.

      Electrical stimulation will be applied at appropriate acupuncture points using a very low
      current for 10 minutes, routine for procedural pain. The response to pain will be assessed
      using a pain scale, heart rate, heart rate variability and oxygen saturation changes,
      duration of crying, and changes in salivary cortisol levels.
    
  