
    
      Intravenous access is sometimes difficult to achieve due to vasoconstriction or
      centralization of circulation. Feasible IO-access with power-driven device is a standard
      alternative method of vascular access for critically ill patients. It is still unclear
      whether results of IO samples agree with venous or arterial blood samples so that they could
      be used in clinical decision-making.

      After intraosseous access has been established for fluid resuscitation or medication, a
      common practice is to aspirate a small amount of blood to verify the proper location of the
      IO-needle.

      POC-testing can provide emergency physicians or paramedics with important information about
      the patients. Could bone marrow samples be used for POC-testing instead of arterial or venous
      blood for emergency treatment decision-making or patient allocation?

      Several animal and human studies have been published to investigate the correlation between
      IO versus venous or arterial blood values. Investigators of this study have performed a study
      in healthy volunteers and discovered that there is a good agreement for some laboratory
      parameters (pH, gluc, lact), but for K the agreement is poor. Our study group has as well
      performed a study in critically ill animals investigating the agreement during cardiac arrest
      and resuscitation. Te evidence about critically ill people is still week.

      Aim of this study is to analyze the reliability of analysis of IO samples compared to
      arterial blood samples within critically ill adult emergency patients.

      The hypotheses of this study are:

        1. Principally, it is possible to analyze IO blood samples with a POC device.

        2. The results are reliable enough to guide emergency treatment.

      If both hypotheses prove to be true, the method can be immediately used in emergency medical
      situations, e.g. in searching for reversible causes of cardiac arrest.

      Setting

      Prospective, observational study with 35 prehospital emergency patients. The IO-samples are
      collected from the small amount of blood, which is aspirated from intraosseous space to
      confirm the correct needle placement. The IO needles are inserted to the patients for
      emergency treatment, not because of the study. Critically ill patients, to whom emergency
      doctors are inserting an intraosseous needle for emergency fluid or drug treatment, are
      included in the study.

      Samples will be analyzed by using an i-STAT point of care analyzer (i-STAT® handheld, Abbot
      Point of Care Inc. U.S.A) using CG8+ cartridges to analyse Hb, Na, K, pH, pCO2, pO2, TCO2,
      HCO3, BE, and SpO2. The reliability of the results comparing the IO and arterial samples will
      be tested with Bland-Altman method by calculating the bias with 95% confidence intervals.

      Ethical issues

      The ethical committee of Medical Faculty of University of Helsinki has approved the research.
      Informed consent is waived.

      Time plan

      The samples will be collected during years 2017 - 2019. The analysis will be performed in the
      end of the year 2019.
    
  