
    
      Babywearing is defined as using a supporting device that helps to keep an infant close to a
      caregiver's trunk.

      The practice of babywearing has many benefits to both children and caregivers as it is an
      extension of "skin-to-skin care (SSC)" or "kangaroo care" which has well-known therapeutic
      benefits. Such benefits for the infant include: improve physical and cognitive state, good
      sleep, less likely to continuously cry, better breastfeeding, temperature stability.

      For mothers, many benefits were found as well for example lower stress and anxiety levels,
      decrease in heart rate HR and blood pressure BP, higher breastfeeding rates, increase
      maternal satisfaction, increased bonding of mother with their neonate .

      Despite the great advantage of infant carrying, there are many adverse effects on the
      musculoskeletal system and ergonomics of the mother. Women who carry their babies throughout
      the day will probably have similar consequences as carrying an extra load so pain and
      injuries will occur.

      It has been reported that infant carrying in-arms caused acute muscle soreness in the
      ipsilateral upper limb that was used to support the infant over the left shoulder. While
      during the front infant carrying methods (ICMs), the pressure of the infant carrier shoulder
      straps caused shoulder discomfort and pain.

      The front infant carrying position has the next highest fatigue score as it results in lower
      Metabolic equivalent (METS) and VO2max value which means that it places significant demand on
      the metabolic system.

      It have been reported that the increased cost of carrying an infant in one's arms is the
      cause for the development of infant carrying tools rapidly.

      Infant carrying is a form of exterogestation, just like in pregnancy, there is an alteration
      that swings the center of gravity of the body, shifts the postural balance, and increases the
      risk of falls .

      Contrariwise, the usage of the carrier resulted in more similar postural control variables to
      the unloaded condition. Mannen and colleagues advised the use of babywearing as it provides a
      mechanical advantage to the caregiver.

      Surprisingly, no study so far has quantified the actual balance changes with different
      carrying methods (including carrying in arms and carrying in a baby carrier) during typical
      movements of daily life, such as walking or standing upright.

      Previous research has indicated that carrying externals loads elicits an increase in the
      center of pressure (COP) measures of postural sway during quiet standing .

      Mathew W. Hill & Price reported that holding external loads during standing is an important
      issue for many daily and occupational activities and these external loads can affect postural
      stability, which is important for the mother's and fetus's safety. Also, holding a load in
      the hand may have restricted and/or delayed postural reactions.

      From this perspective, both carrying methods are considered extra load and the question is
      that there any carrying methods that have an advantage over others concerning balance?
    
  