
    
      1. BACKGROUND & RATIONALE FOR STUDY

           'Treatment decision-making capacity' ('capacity'), is defined as the ability to
           understand, appreciate, and retain information relating to a proposed treatment, weigh
           that information and communicate a choice. Capacity is now a pivotal concept in
           healthcare and law, and clinicians are legally obliged to respect patient autonomy where
           capacity exists.

           Capacity has been referred to as the 'gatekeeper of autonomy'. When it is lost there is
           a legal and ethical imperative for clinicians to work to support its return and
           retention. However in their scrutiny of capacity-law implementation, the United Kingdom
           (UK) House of Lords concluded: "Our evidence suggests that (supported decision-making)
           is rare in practice" and The United Nations Committee on the Convention on the Rights of
           Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD) advised that greater provision of supported
           decision-making is essential if the UK is to be compliant with Article 12 of the
           Convention on Human Rights.

           Despite the importance and legal obligation to support capacity there is a lack of
           evidence on how to do this effectively. A recent systematic review and meta-analysis
           synthesised evidence from 23 studies on capacity in psychosis and found there were no
           randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of supported decision-making interventions.
           Psychiatrists view the evidence in this area as weak, and the National Institute for
           Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) have called for RCTs to enhance evidence in this
           area. Anticipating this, over the last 5 years the research team, comprising clinicians,
           legal experts and researchers, have produced 5 systematic reviews and meta-analyses
           addressing various aspects of decision-making capacity in psychosis, and 5 clinical
           studies. These indicate that a lack of capacity is likely to stem from interactions
           between cognitive, emotional and social factors, the effects of which are moderated by a
           person's awareness of them. This model specifically predicts that 'self-stigma', low
           self-esteem, and the 'jumping to conclusions' (JTC) bias are likely to have large,
           additive adverse effects on their capacity.

           Psychological interventions that selectively reduce each of these hypothesised 'causal
           mechanisms' have already been developed. The next stage of this research is therefore to
           conduct 'interventionist-causal RCTs' (IC-RCTs) to examine whether these interventions
           can also cause improvements in capacity. Recommended to accelerate the development of
           treatments for psychotic symptoms such as delusions, these sophisticated trials are
           capable of producing invaluable information on what causes and improves impaired
           capacity. If the trials are run consecutively, people with psychosis could wait 10-15
           years for definitive findings and would involve setting up several costly trial
           infrastructures to support each trial.

           One simple solution is to conduct these IC-RCTs concurrently, within one trial
           infrastructure. This approach, also known as an 'Umbrella trial', could produce results
           in half the time, for half the cost, meaning an effective capacity-supporting
           intervention could be produced in 5-6 years, rather than 10-15. The aim of this study is
           therefore to conduct the first Umbrella trial in mental healthcare, using this to
           accelerate the development of an intervention to support capacity in psychosis. However,
           prior to conducting a definitive trial, a variety of feasibility issues need to be
           examined in a randomised pilot study. The planned study addresses these.

        2. AIMS & OBJECTIVES

           2.1. Aims & Linked Research Questions (RQs)

           Aim 1: Test data quality for a definitive trial (primary aim) (RQs 1,2,5); Aim 2: Test
           recruitment and retention rates for a definitive trial (RQs 2,3); Aim 3: Test trial
           procedures for a definitive trial (RQs 3,4); Aim 4: Assess acceptability of
           interventions for this group (RQs 3,4); Aim 5: Refine treatment protocols to ensure
           feasibility in clinical settings (RQs 3,4); Aim 6: Consolidate research infrastructure
           to support main trial (RQs 3,4).

           2.2. Research questions (RQs)

           RQ 1: What data quality and completion rates can be obtained for the main outcome
           measures? RQ 2: What proportion of eligible patients consent, engage, & complete the
           trial? RQ 3: What do participants, clinicians & collaborators think will improve study
           processes, including interventions? RQ 4: Are trial procedures acceptable to them, and
           feasible to implement? RQ 5: What sample size is required in a full study?

        3. DESIGN & PROCEDURE

           3.1. Overview

           This study has been designed to find out whether participants can be recruited and
           retained in a larger trial characterised by the same design parameters (e.g., allocation
           ratio, blind assessment, types of treatment and control offered, multiple sites). The
           planned randomised pilot study is therefore a 20-month feasibility/pilot of a multi-site
           single (rater) blind Umbrella trial of psychological interventions to support treatment
           decision-making capacity in people diagnosed with non-affective psychosis
           (schizophrenia-spectrum disorders). It has been designed primarily to examine
           post-treatment (8 week) data retention rates for the planned primary outcome [MacArthur
           Competence Assessment Tool for Treatment (MacCAT-T) capacity ratings] in a future
           definitive trial. In this and the future study, participants will be randomly allocated
           to receive treatment as usual (TAU) plus a psychological intervention to improve either
           (i) self-stigma, (ii) self-esteem, or (iii) the jumping to conclusions reasoning bias,
           or TAU plus an attention control condition. RQs 3 & 4 will be addressed through
           qualitative interviews with participants and referrers/clinicians, using Framework
           analysis.

           Qualitative analysis of change in participant appreciation, as measured by the MacCAT-T,
           will be performed using qualitative case study methodology. MaCAT-T appreciation ratings
           will also be compared to ratings on the Expanded Schedule for the Assessment of Insight
           (SAI-E). Concordance between overall MacCAT-T judgements and pre and post clinical
           judgements of referring clinicians, assessed using a version of the Clinical Global
           Impression Scale (modified to assess global capacity ratings), will also be assessed.

           To minimise piloting costs 75% of the 60 patient participants will be recruited in the
           lead site (NHS Lothian). Each intervention group will be compared to its own control
           group (each receive the same standardised procedure) to ensure participants in each
           trial are equivalent with respect to their presenting mechanism.

           3.2. Participants & setting

           Adults (aged 18-65) diagnosed with schizophrenia-spectrum disorder with impaired
           treatment decision-making capacity, and presence of either low self-esteem, high
           self-stigma or the JTC bias will be recruited from inpatient and outpatient NHS mental
           health services across three UK sites; 75% from NHS Lothian; 12.5% from Pennine Care;
           12.5% from Lancashire Care. Of these patient participants, 6 will be invited to attend a
           qualitative interview to understand their experiences of participating in the trial, as
           part of the Framework analysis. Up to a further 10 will be invited to attend a
           qualitative interview to understand and verify any change in their 'appreciation' of
           their illness and its treatment. Six clinical or social care staff who have either
           referred a participant to the study or have provided substantial care and treatment to a
           participant during the study, will also be invited to attend a qualitative interview to
           understand their experiences of the trial, again as part of the Framework analysis.

           3.3. Allocation, randomisation and assessment

           Allocation & randomisation: Participants will be assigned to one of the two-arm IC-RCTs
           based on whether they have predominantly low self-esteem (defined as scoring 14 or less
           on the Rosenberg Self-Esteem Inventory), high self-stigma (defined as scoring 60 or more
           on the Internalised Stigma of Mental Illness Scale), or the JTC bias (defined as
           selecting 2 or fewer beads on The Beads Task). Participants with multiple mechanisms
           will be randomly assigned. All participants will then be randomised (1:1) at the start
           of treatment session 1 to treatment or control, using randomised-permuted blocks of
           random size (block sizes of two or four), administered via a study-specific web-based
           portal according to a concealed randomisation sequence.

           Assessments: All participants will receive a full research assessment, by a Research
           Assistant (RA) masked to treatment group allocation, at week 0 (baseline) and week 8
           (end of treatment). In addition to measures of change (see outcomes), the Clinical
           Interview for Psychotic Disorders and the Brief Neurocognitive Assessment will be
           administered to confirm diagnosis and assess cognitive functioning, respectively, at
           week 0. Participants randomised in the first 8 (Scotland) or 5 (England) months will be
           invited to complete a follow-up assessment at week 24. All qualitative interviews will
           be conducted with participants and their referrers/clinicians following the patient
           participants' 24-week assessment.

           3.4. Study interventions

           Active interventions (each 6 sessions over 8 weeks): Each intervention is structurally
           equivalent and will be delivered by the same therapist. The self-esteem intervention is
           informed by a previous protocol tested with people with persecutory delusions. The JTC
           intervention, developed and trialled by the researchers and colleagues previously, has
           been lengthened to 6 sessions by addressing positive beliefs about JTC decision-making
           and providing greater practice of non-JTC decision-making. The self-stigma intervention
           developed by a team including the current PI, has been reduced from 12 to 6 sessions by
           removing self-esteem focused elements.

           Inactive attention control (6 sessions over 8 weeks): The therapeutically inactive
           assessment component of a protocol developed and piloted previously by the researchers
           will be used. To maximise clinical benefit of participation, the potentially active
           component of this protocol (psychological formulation) will be provided, but only after
           the participant exits the trial.

           3.5. Data Analysis

           Quantitative: An independent statistician will conduct blind analysis of outcome data.
           Proportions, means, standard deviations, effect sizes and 95% confidence intervals for
           all time points will be reported descriptively, on both a strict intention-to-treat and
           per-protocol basis (≥50% attendance in treatment or control). Concordance between (a)
           MacCAT-T ratings and clinician ratings of capacity and (b) MacCAT-T appreciation ratings
           and SAI-E scores will be analysed.

           Qualitative: A trained RA will prepare topic guides, conduct, record and transcribe the
           interviews. Under supervision, the RA will also analyse the qualitative data following
           established guidelines for Framework analysis and qualitative case study methodology.
           For the Framework analysis, interviews with participants and referrers/clinicians will
           address feasibility and acceptability of the trial procedures, problems indicated in the
           quantitative data, and potential solutions. This ensures that the issue is not explored
           through one lens, but rather various lenses facilitating understanding about multiple
           facets of the phenomenon. For the qualitative case study analysis, interviews with
           participants will address their views on their diagnosis and treatment, any subjective
           change, and the participant's views on the reason for this change.

           3.6. Progression criteria for a full trial

           Funding for a larger trial, using the same trial design, will be sought if the target
           recruitment is met and post-intervention (8 week) MacCAT-T data from ≥75% of those
           randomised is retained. If this target is not met, findings from the Framework Analysis
           will be used to modify the design before further piloting and/or progression.

           3.7. Research Team & Expert Advisory Group

           This project will receive strong support from: (i) An Expert Advisory group, comprising
           of experts by experience, experts in law and policy, and experts in psychosis research;
           (ii) Professor Richard Emsley (Co-Investigator) is Professor of Trial Methodology and
           former Director of the Manchester Clinical Trials Unit. He sits on the Expert Advisory
           Group for the world-leading STAMPEDE Umbrella trial of interventions for prostate
           cancer; and (iii) An experienced multi-disciplinary research team selected to ensure
           experience and expertise in relation to the interventions, population, outcomes,
           methodology and ability to manage the various sites, and to strengthen their trial
           infrastructure for the later trial, building on their existing robust collaborations.

        4. STUDY POPULATION

           4.1. Number of Participants and Sample Size Calculation

           The National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) guidance was used to calculate that 60
           participants (average of 3-4 per month over 12-months) will allow for an estimated
           drop-out rate (i.e., data non-retention) of 15%, at week 8, to within a 95% confidence
           interval of +/- 9%. The proportion of people with schizophrenia-spectrum disorders and
           impaired capacity who have at least one of the proposed causal mechanisms is estimated
           to range from 80-100%. Pilot trials suggest ≥80% of those who have one of these
           mechanisms will consent and be randomised, ≥85% of whom will complete the trial. Six of
           the 60 participants and six of their referrers or clinicians will be invited to
           participate in a qualitative interview for the Framework analysis. Up to a further 10 of
           the 60 participants will be invited to participate in the qualitative interview for the
           qualitative case study of change in appreciation.

           4.2. Identification and Recruitment of Participants

           One pathway in which participants will be identified is through self-referral. To
           facilitate this, a poster will be placed in NHS mental health services to advertise the
           study. A study website will be available, including participant information sheets.
           Contact details will be provided for those interested in self-referral. Individuals who
           self-refer, will only be included in the study if they agree that a mental health
           professional involved in their care, can be contacted to obtain information for risk
           assessment purposes and to ensure participation is not contraindicated in some way.
           Another pathway in which participants will be identified is through clinician-referral.
           As per previous trials, local site Principal Investigators will support RAs to visit
           clinical services to present the trial, determine initial interest, and distribute
           information sheets. The information sheet will detail what participants are asked to do,
           how their information will be used and the possible risks and benefits of taking part in
           the study.

           For potential participants entering the study through self-referral, the RA will obtain
           their explicit verbal consent to contact their key worker/ care-coordinator to determine
           whether they meet inclusion criteria for the study and to conduct an initial risk
           assessment. The RA will also ask the clinical care team if they have any concerns about
           the potential participant's capacity to consent to take part in research. Should
           participants meet inclusion criteria for the study and continue to express an interest
           in taking part, the RA will contact them to arrange an appointment. All potential
           participants will have as long as they wish to consider the information sheet prior to
           being contacted by the RA, with a minimum period of 48 hours.

           For potential participants entering the study through the clinician-referral pathway,
           their clinicians will discuss the study with them and seek their verbal consent to pass
           their details on to the research team. A trained and supervised RA will then obtain
           contact details of potential participants from their clinicians and contact the
           potential participants directly to discuss the study further. Consenting participants
           will be given a participant information sheet and any initial questions will be
           answered. As in the self-referral case, consenting participants will be recontacted
           after a minimum period of 48 hours, with a longer period if required. They will also be
           risk assessed, and the eligible ones will participate in the trial.

           For those lacking research capacity, the same initial process will be followed. However
           in England, the opinion of the potential participant's Consultee will be sought, and in
           Scotland, consent from the appropriate person (see consent section) will be sought. In
           both countries, the study will not proceed if there is any indication that the potential
           participant objects to taking part.

           4.3. Consenting Participants

           During the first meeting with the potential participant, the RA will ensure they have
           received an information sheet. They will be given the option to review this again and
           answer any further questions. All potential participants will be reminded that
           participation is entirely voluntary and that deciding not to take part in the study will
           have no impact upon the clinical care they receive. They will also be informed of their
           right to withdraw from the study at any time, without giving a reason, and reassured
           that exercising their right to withdraw will have no impact upon the ongoing care they
           receive. Potential participants who still wish to take part will be asked to provide
           written informed consent at this stage. Once this has been completed, the study will
           commence. This process will be followed for referrers or clinicians who take part in the
           qualitative study but adapted to consider the fact that they are not receiving care or
           treatment. They will be assured that non-participation or withdrawal will have no effect
           on their employment.

           Capacity is decision-specific. This means capacity to consent to medication or a
           hospital admission is distinct from capacity to consent to research or psychological
           therapy. Nonetheless, a number of potential participants will lack the capacity to
           consent to both. As with a prior case-series, those with research capacity will be
           included, but specialist ethical approval to include those who lack it has also been
           secured.

           In Scotland, the legislative requirements of the Adults with Incapacity (Scotland) Act
           2000, which makes provisions for research with this group will be followed. This means
           that in Scotland, Guardians, Welfare Attorneys or nearest relatives will be asked to
           provide consent on participants' behalf to taking part. They will be provided with
           Research Ethics Committee (REC) approved information sheets and consent forms. In
           England, the legislative requirements of the Mental Capacity (England and Wales) Act
           2005, which also makes provisions for research with this group will be followed. This
           means that in England, Consultees will be asked to provide advice (which is binding on
           the researcher) as to whether a participant would wish to take part. They will be
           provided with a REC-approved information sheet and consultee declaration form.

           If a participant lacks capacity initially but regains it, their consent to continued
           participation in the study will be sought. Participants will be provided with a
           REC-approved continued participation information sheet and consent form designed for
           those who regain capacity. If a participant has capacity initially but loses it during
           the study, procedures for participants who lack capacity at the outset will be adhered
           to. This means that in Scotland, Guardians, Welfare Attorneys or nearest relatives will
           be asked to provide consent on participants' behalf so that they can continue
           participating in the study. Participants will be provided with a REC-approved continued
           participation information sheet and consent form. In England, Consultees will be asked
           to provide advice (which is binding on the researcher) as to whether a participant would
           wish to continue to take part. They will be provided with a REC-approved continued
           participation information sheet and consultee declaration form.

           A trained RA will, in conjunction with the Principal Investigator, determine whether
           participants have the capacity to give consent. The latter will ensure RAs and the Trial
           Manager attend NHS Scotland and NHS England training on informed consent and working
           with people who lack research capacity.

           4.4. Participant withdrawal

           Participants can withdraw from the study at any point, without giving any reason and
           without their legal rights or usual care being affected. Participants may also be
           withdrawn if their continuation is deemed to be harmful. The data monitoring and ethics
           committee (DMEC) will review all instances of adverse events, whether or not they are
           judged to be attributable to the trial or interventions, and, based on this information,
           determine whether the participant should be withdrawn. All events will be reported to
           the REC.

           Advance consent from all participants with capacity will be sought to retain existing
           data. This is in the event that they subsequently withdraw due to loss of contact, or
           loss of capacity to consent to research, where they have not otherwise informed the
           investigator that they wish their data to be removed. No data will be retained for
           individuals who lose capacity if the legal representative (Scotland) or Consultee
           (England) objects to this.

        5. STUDY SUSPENSION OR DISCONTINUATION

           The research would be stopped in the event of a number of therapy-attributable adverse
           events. As earlier noted, any serious adverse events will be passed on to the
           independent DMEC for review and advice on whether to suspend or discontinue the study.
           This advice would be acted upon by the researchers, in consultation with the Sponsor and
           REC.

        6. ADVERSE EVENTS

      The interventions being tested have each been used previously with people with psychosis,
      including in randomised controlled trials and no severe adverse events have been reported.
      However, to improve the recording and reporting of adverse effects of psychological
      interventions, a robust protocol for assessing and managing any such risk will be completed
      at end of treatment and at follow-up by RAs masked to treatment condition.

      This protocol, excluding the Adverse Events Questionnaire (which is designed to be completed
      after treatment), will also be completed by clinicians during the intervention (i.e., every
      session) to complete an assessment of severe adverse events. They will be instructed to
      report all adverse events to the trial manager, using a standardised form.
    
  