
    
      Aim:The DISKO-tool was developed to enable efficient, continuous training in the home setting
      with health professional follow ups of training and training results after stroke via video
      link. The tool has in a preliminary study proved feasible and safe in different phases after
      stroke. The functional effect of using the DISKO-tool added to conventional rehabilitation in
      the home setting is yet to be explored. Thus, the aim of this study is to explore the added
      value of using the DISKO-tool during rehabilitation in the home setting.

      Hypothesis to be tested: Participants who perform 6 weeks of intensive training supported by
      the DISKO-tool in addition to the regular stroke rehabilitation interventions, gain a higher
      level of functioning compared to the control group with regular rehabilitation interventions.

      Study design: A randomized controlled intervention study.

      Participants and methods: 100 participants will be included in the study 3-6 months after
      stroke and after informed consent. The participants are recruited from primary care i.e.
      neuroteam and out-patient rehabilitation in Stockholm, Sweden. The included patients will be
      randomized to either 1) the intervention group (n=50) or 2) the control group (n=50). Based
      on previously published results on the BESTtest [14], a significance level of 5% and a power
      of 80%, 41 patients/treatment arm need to be included. With an expected minimal loss of
      participants per treatment arm, the study will require 50 patients/treatment arm.

      After the baseline assessment, the patients will receive a first introduction to the
      DISKO-tool. Thereafter the DISKO-tool system is set up at the patients' home by the
      physiotherapist. For safety reasons, space requirements and convenience of the patients, the
      physiotherapist in dialogue with the patients will select the placement of the screen. During
      the home visit, the patients will receive a manual and are instructed and guided in how to
      use the DISKO-tool including turning on the screen, controlling the user interface and
      performing test exercises. Dates and times for follow-ups by video communication with the
      physiotherapist are scheduled. After the installation, the physiotherapist will design an
      individualized training program for each of the patients. The training program will be based
      on the initial assessments of functioning and disability and the patients' performance of the
      test exercises. Type and number of exercises per session, level of difficulty and number of
      repetitions (including proportion of repetitions to the right and left side of the body) will
      be set. The set training program is thereafter introduced and evaluated during the first
      follow-up by video communication with the patients. In both groups, patients are instructed
      to train self-sufficiently 5 days a week and will be supervised by the treating
      physiotherapist. The intervention will last for 6 weeks. The baseline and final testing will
      both be performed at the rehabilitation clinics.

      The follow-ups, by video communication, will be registered by the physiotherapists in
      standardised logbooks. Data on conventional interventions will be retrieved from medical
      records. From the DISKO-tool, data regarding number of performed self-training sessions will
      be retrieved.

      After the intervention, the physiotherapist's (also after informed consent) and patient's
      experience and perception of using the DISKO-tool will be assessed in a study specific
      questionnaire based on the results of the semi-structured interviews performed in the
      feasibility study that preceded this study.
    
  