
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) is characterized by chronic intestinal inflammation and commonly
      involves the ileocecal region. Due to disease complications, many patients with CD require an
      ileocecal resection (ICR). However, disease often recurs postoperatively at the surgical
      anastomosis, with endoscopic recurrence rates as high as 85%. While the immunosuppressant
      infliximab has been shown to reduce endoscopic disease recurrence, it was not shown to
      prevent clinical relapse. The timing of infliximab treatment might be critical, as starting
      infliximab immediately after surgery rather than at the time of post-surgical recurrence
      resulted in 1-year remission rates of 92% and 57%, respectively. Currently, no ideal
      postoperative care exists for patients with CD. Thus, new approaches are required.

      The gut microbiome has long been thought to play a causative role in the high rates of CD
      recurrence following surgical resection. Immediately following ICR, a state of inflammation
      and oxidative stress promotes aerotolerant microbes at the expense of beneficial short-chain
      fatty acid (SCFA)-producing anaerobes. The mucosal microbial composition in CD patients at
      the time of surgery is predictive of future disease relapse. Specifically, patients with a
      dominance of SCFA-producing anaerobic bacteria in the ileal mucosa at the time of surgical
      resection are more likely to remain in remission compared with patients which have a
      dominance of aerotolerant bacteria. Nutritional adjuncts based on probiotics or prebiotics
      could be applied to shift gut microbial imbalances towards SCFA-producers.

      Though research is limited, probiotics containing bifidobacteria but not lactobacilli have
      been shown to lessen mucosal inflammation and recurrence rates when provided immediately post
      ICR. In a previous clinical trial, it was found that patients with CD that started the
      probiotic VSL#3 (4 Lactobacillus; 3 Bifidobacterium; 1 Streptococcus strains) immediately
      post surgery had reduced mucosal inflammatory cytokines and lower recurrence rates when
      compared to patients that started VSL#3 at 3-months post surgery. A smaller trial using VSL#3
      in combination with antibiotic treatment also showed lower rates of endoscopic recurrence at
      3- and 12-months following surgery. These results suggest that probiotic composition and
      treatment timing are critical for efficacy. While synergy between probiotics and prebiotics
      might improve clinical effects, the efficacy of synergistic synbiotics remains unknown. The
      aims of this study are the following:

      AIM 1. Perform a parallel two-arm, randomized controlled exploratory trial in CD patients
      undergoing ICR to determine the safety and tolerability of a synbiotic treatment.

      This is a pilot study in patients with CD undergoing ileocecal resection to evaluate the
      feasibility of supplementation with a synbiotic preparation that contains a mixture of
      resistant starch type 2 (HiMaize 260; Ingredion), arabinoxylan (Naxus; Bioactive), and
      galactooligosaccharide (Vivinal; FrieslandCampina) (24g/d) fibers plus probiotic bacteria
      (Bifidobacterium longum spp. longum R0175, Bifidobacterium animalis spp. Lafti B94,
      Bifidobacterium bifidum R0071; Lallemand Health Solutions) (3x10^9 CFU/d). Participants will
      be given the probiotics 2 days prior to surgery and then the synbiotic will both be given 7
      days after surgery and will be consumed daily for 6 months. Digestible maltodextrin will be
      used as a placebo control (Maltodextrin GLOBE Plus 15; Ingredion). A total of 36 volunteers
      will be enrolled, stratified by sex, and randomized to one of 2 groups via computer-generated
      numbers, as well as blinded to their group allocation to reduce bias. Safety and tolerability
      of synbiotic (primary outcome) will be determined by the percentage of participants who
      experience treatment emergent adverse events and serious adverse events. Symptom and quality
      of life questionnaires will also be used to evaluate tolerance.

      AIM 2. Determine if synbiotic therapy attenuates mucosal and systemic inflammation and
      reduces rates of disease relapse.

      Each month, clinical recurrence will be evaluated by Harvey Bradshaw Index and C-reactive
      protein, serum cytokines (TNF-α, IL-6, IL-8, and IL-10), intestinal barrier markers (LPS,
      LPS-binding protein, and zonulin), and fecal calprotectin levels will be measured. At
      6-months, endoscopic recurrence will be determined by Rutgeerts Index and biopsies will be
      taken for the assessment of mucosal inflammation.

      AIM 3. Evaluate the impact on compositional and functional features of the fecal microbiota
      and to characterize associations between clinical and microbial outcomes.

      Fecal samples will be collected each month for the characterization of the microbiota by 16S
      rRNA gene sequencing. Fecal concentrations of SCFAs and bile acids will also be determined as
      functional measures of the gut microbiota. Associations between clinical outcomes and
      microbiota features will be assessed to identify signatures that predict the synbiotic
      impact.
    
  