
    
      The following steps are to be performed during the NiTi LapCAC surgical procedure.

        1. Prophylactic antibiotic - as per specific department regimen.

        2. Bowel preparation will be performed one-day prior to surgery. The preparation will
           included Sofodex solution combined with oral neomycin.

        3. Aanticoagulation tratment prior surgery- as per specific department regimen.

        4. Routine general anesthesia according to standard operation room procedure.

        5. Prepare the surgery area according to routine procedure with soap and alcohol. Insert
           the trocars.

        6. Align the two ends of bowel side-by-side in the same direction or in the opposite
           direction. Seal the ends with staples leaving blind loop of no less than 2.5 cm. (1
           inch) and make two small enterotomies.

        7. The Clip mounted on the Applier should be cooled by immersing it in ice-cold sterile
           saline bath for at least 20 seconds.

        8. Place the open clip into the prepared enterotomies, each clip coil in one enterotomy.

        9. Approximating body temperature, the coils will recover its programmed shape applying
           pressure on the tissue.

       10. Closure (staple line and enterotomies): closure of the enterotomies with or without
           suture inversion of staple lines will be done by using Vicryl suture 3-0 or other
           absorbable suture. Postoperative care will be as for conventional treatment.

       11. Post operative treatment will be according to the department regimen and in relation to
           the patient condition.

      The following baseline variables will be recorded for all patients:

        1. Demographics, including: gender, age, race, weight and height (BMI), ASA status.

        2. Background of disease - presentation, and TNM stage, etc.

        3. Region of excised colon.

        4. Metastasis yes/no where.

        5. Co-morbidities:

           Cardiac- (Ischemic heart disease (IHD), Congestive heart failure (CHF), NYHA
           Classification I,II,III,IV).

           Respiratory- Asthma, Obstructive pulmonary disease (OPD). Diabetes- Type
           1(insulin-dependent diabetes), Type 2 (non-insulin-dependent diabetes).

           hepatic- Cirrhosis. Alcohol Smoking.

        6. Medications.

      Follow-up evaluation will be performed every day during hospitalization and one-month, three
      months and six months post procedure.
    
  