
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities (DLT) of
      adjuvant ipilimumab following concurrent weekly cisplatin and extended field radiation in
      women with newly diagnosed locally advanced cervical cancer stage IB2/ IIA with-positive
      para-aortic lymph nodes only and stage IIB/IIIB/IVA with positive lymph nodes.

      II. To determine the feasibility of the treatment regimen over the four cycles of adjuvant
      ipilimumab once the MTD is estimated.

      III. To assess the toxicities of the treatment regimen per the National Cancer Institute
      (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.0.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine progression free survival for 1 year after study completion. II. To determine
      site of recurrence, loco-regional versus distant, for one year after completion of therapy.

      III. To estimate the frequency of chronic toxicities experienced within one year after
      completion of therapy.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To enumerate the human papillomavirus (HPV)-subtype-specific T-cells and characterize the
      kinetics of HPV-subtype-specific T-cell expansion associated with chemoradiation and
      ipilimumab treatment.

      II. To characterize the association between differential expression of immune markers on
      leukocytes from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A*0201 patients and response to chemoradiation
      and ipilimumab treatment.

      III. To assess qualitative changes in maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) from
      positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) after treatment with
      chemoradiation and ipilimumab.

      IV. To bank residual plasma (obtained from leukocyte processing) for future research.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of ipilimumab.

      Patients receive cisplatin intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, and 36,
      undergo external beam radiation therapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks, and then undergo
      intracavitary brachytherapy for approximately 2 weeks. Within 2 weeks, patients receive
      ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes once every 3 weeks for 12 weeks.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 1 year and
      then every 6 months for 1 year.
    
  