
    
      HCV infected patients are often in need for an antidepressant. Inadequate treatment of
      depression during HCV treatment has a negative effect on adherence to HCV treatment, with
      suboptimal response as a potential result.

      The introduction of Direct Acting Antivirals such as telaprevir has greatly improved
      treatment outcome of HCV infected patients. Telaprevir, however, causes some significant
      drug-drug interactions and hence co-administration of other medications should preferably
      only be done based on clinical evidence that such a combination is safe.

      Telaprevir has been studied with one antidepressant, escitalopram: plasma concentrations of
      the antidepressant were reduced by 35% and without dose adjustment this may lead to
      inadequate treatment of depressive symptoms. Dose titration of escitalopram may be needed but
      it may take several weeks before a patient has reached a therapeutic dose.

      There is a need for more data on telaprevir drug interactions with other antidepressants.
      First, the data above show that a negative interaction occurs with escitalopram and
      dose-titration of the antidepressant may take too long to prevent the (re-)occurrence of
      depressive symptoms. Second, not all patients benefit from escitalopram and those with
      (prior) treatment failure on escitalopram may require an alternative agent. Third, although
      escitalopram is generally well-tolerated, side effects may occur and necessitate treatment
      discontinuation. Finally, especially in the previous intravenous drug users on methadone,
      escitalopram might not be the antidepressant of choice, since escitalopram as well as
      methadone are drugs that can lead to QTc interval prolongation and have a risk of Torsades de
      Pointes.

      For a number of reasons, paroxetine may be a good candidate for use together with
      telaprevir-containing HCV treatment. First, paroxetine has been shown to prevent depressive
      symptoms in patients initiating HCV treatment with elevated depressive symptoms at baseline.
      Second, paroxetine is an inhibitor of and is metabolized by CYP2D6 while telaprevir is an
      inhibitor of and is metabolized by CYP3A, and therefore no drug-drug interaction is expected.
      Third, paroxetine is one of the most widely prescribed antidepressants with a
      well-established efficacy and safety profile.
    
  