
    
      The Zilver® PTX™ Drug Eluting Vascular Stent is indicated for the treatment of symptomatic
      vascular disease of the above-the-knee femoropopliteal artery (ranging from 4 mm to 9 mm in
      reference vessel diameter) for lesions up to 7 cm long. The above-the-knee femoropopliteal
      artery is defined as the superficial femoral artery (SFA) and the region of the popliteal
      artery above the plane of the femoral epicondyles. The clinical trial is stratified by lesion
      length. The trial will be conducted in 2 phases, with Phase 1 enrolling patients with lesions
      less than 7 cm long. Phase 2 of the trial will include longer lesions (up to 14 cm long) and
      will be initiated upon approval by the FDA.

      This study will include 480 patients who will receive the Zilver PTX stent or Percutaneous
      transluminal angioplasty (PTA) at up to 100 investigational sites. Clinical data will be
      captured on paper and electronic case report forms. Analyses will include evaluation of the
      composite event-free survival rate and the patency rate at 6- and 12-month follow-up.
      Event-free survival is defined as freedom from the major adverse events of death, target
      lesion revascularization, target limb ischemia requiring surgical intervention (bypass or
      amputation of toe, foot or leg), surgical repair of the target vessel (e.g., dissection
      requiring surgery), and from worsening of the Rutherford classification by 2 classes or to
      class 5 or 6. Patency will be assessed by duplex ultrasound in all patients. Patients may be
      randomized to one or more of the following sub-studies: IVUS and angiography at 6 months
      (stent patients only), angiography at 12 months, pharmacokinetic substudy (Zilver PTX
      patients only), or ultrasound (PTA patients only). The trial also includes provisions for
      patients experiencing PTA failure. These patients may be randomized to receive a Zilver PTX
      stent or a bare Zilver stent.
    
  