
    
      3 interdependent aims are proposed to discover and initiate development of novel, in vitro
      diagnostic tests (IVD) for severe sepsis (SS) and community acquired pneumonia (CAP).

      Specific Aim 1: Discovery and initial development of an IVD for early diagnosis of severe
      sepsis.

      In patients with suspected sepsis, early, accurate identification of patients who will
      develop organ dysfunction (SS) is critical for effective management and positive outcome.
      While the American College of Chest Physicians/Society of Critical Care Medicine Consensus
      Conference definitions provide a clinical guide to identifying patients who have SS, we
      propose to develop a rapid, point-of-care (POC) IVD for early diagnosis of SS. The basis of
      the proposed IVD will be the measurement of several, host response, plasma proteins. When
      performed in patients at the earliest stage of sepsis, this test will have prognostic value,
      rapidly identifying patients who will have poor outcomes or complicated courses.

      Availability of this IVD will enable patient selection for appropriate disposition, such as
      the intensive care unit (ICU), and use of medical therapies, such as early goal-directed
      therapy (EGDT), thereby reducing mortality and increasing effectiveness of resource
      allocation. A considerable literature exists of host plasma protein changes during sepsis.
      Furthermore, in preliminary studies measuring more than 100 host proteins in blood of over
      300 patients with SS, we have identified a number of candidate biomarkers of SS. We propose
      to inventory, replicate and validate the utility of these biomarkers of SS, and to identify
      novel plasma biomarkers of SS, through literature review and a prospective clinical study
      employing 2 proteomic technologies (mass spectrometry and multiplexed immunoassays), mass
      spectrometry-based plasma metabolomics and sequencing of mRNA derived from peripheral blood
      lymphocytes. We intend to enroll 1200 patients with sepsis (evidence of infection and 2 or
      more criteria of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome, SIRS) at 3 US tertiary care
      hospitals and emergency departments (ED), and to monitor their course both by established
      clinical severity indices (Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation [APACHE II] and
      Pneumonia Patient Outcomes Research Team [PORT]scores, and metabolic endpoints such as
      lactate, base deficit and pH) and ascertainment of complicating events (such as SS, septic
      shock, acute renal failure (ARF), acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS),disseminated
      intravascular coagulopathy (DIC) and death). It is anticipated that approximately 60% of the
      patients will develop SS.

      Data will be stored in an anonymized, encrypted, web-based patient registry. Bivariable
      analyses will be performed to identify and validate biomarker differences between groups.
      Furthermore, we intend to perform predictive modeling using multivariable analyses of the
      validated biomarkers and derive a biomarker panel and algorithm for early diagnosis of SS.
      The predictive value of the biomarker panel for early diagnosis of SS will be compared with
      established prognostic indices, such as metabolic endpoints and APACHE II score. Novel
      biomarkers of severe CAP will be identified by mass spectrometry of patient EDTA plasma
      samples. Subject to availability of multiplexed immunoassays, some of these biomarkers will
      be replicated by immunoassay in the same samples.

      During the period of award, a plan for IVD development of the biomarker panel for early
      diagnosis of SS will be developed. This is anticipated to involve assay optimization and
      transfer to an existing, validated IVD platform, FDA-regulated IVD development processes, and
      incorporation of the IVD into an intensive treatment algorithm. The proposed IVD will be an
      oligoplex assay performed on a single blood sample using immunoassays on an established
      diagnostic platform with time-to-first result of less than 30 minutes and capable of use in a
      POC setting, such as an ED or ICU.

      Specific Aim 2: Biomarker development for early differentiation of poor outcome in CAP
      Complications of CAP, including respiratory failure, other organ system failure and severe
      sepsis, are major determinants of morbidity and mortality. At time of presentation with CAP,
      accurate identification of patients who will have a complicated course or poor outcome is
      critical for effective management and positive outcome. In parallel with Specific Aim 1, we
      propose to identify biomarkers for early diagnosis/prognosis of poor outcome in patients with
      CAP ("severe CAP"). The biomarkers will be several, host response, plasma proteins that
      differentiate mild and severe CAP. Early diagnosis of severe CAP will enable patient
      selection for hospitalization, thereby reducing mortality and increasing effectiveness of
      resource allocation.

      It is anticipated that approximately 33% of the patients enrolled in the Specific Aim 1
      clinical study (evidence of infection and two or more SIRS criteria) will have CAP as the
      underlying infection causing sepsis. Furthermore, it is anticipated that approximately 25% of
      these CAP patients will develop severe CAP. Specific aim 2 proposes a secondary, separate
      analysis of all patients enrolled in the Specific Aim 1 clinical study who have CAP in order
      to identify biomarkers for early diagnosis of severe CAP. We propose to inventory existing
      candidate biomarkers of severe CAP through literature review. Furthermore, we propose to
      validate the utility of some of these biomarkers, and to identify a number of novel
      biomarkers of severe CAP through analysis of the subset of patients in the prospective
      clinical study who have CAP and employing 2 proteomic technologies (mass spectrometry and
      multiplexed immunoassays), mass spectrometry-based plasma metabolomics and sequencing of mRNA
      derived from peripheral blood lymphocytes. Bivariable analyses will be performed to identify
      plasma biomarker differences between mild and severe CAP. Multivariable analyses will be
      performed in order to derive a plasma biomarker panel and algorithm for early diagnosis of
      severe CAP. The biomarker panel for early diagnosis of severe CAP will be compared with
      established prognostic indices, such as PORT score. Novel biomarkers of severe CAP will be
      identified by mass spectrometry of patient EDTA plasma samples.

      Subject to availability of multiplexed immunoassays, some of these biomarkers will be
      replicated by immunoassay in the same samples.

      During the period of award, a plan for panel validation and IVD development for early
      diagnosis of severe CAP will be developed. The latter is anticipated to involve assay
      optimization and transfer to an existing, validated IVD platform, FDA regulated IVD
      development processes, and incorporation of the IVD into an intensive treatment algorithm.
      The proposed IVD will be an oligoplex assay performed on a single blood sample using
      immunoassays on an established diagnostic platform with time-to-first result of less than 30
      minutes and capable of use in a POC setting, such as an ED or ICU. This is anticipated to be
      a product line extension of the SS IVD.

      Specific Aim 3: Biomarker development for early differentiation of sepsis and CAP pathogens
      Currently, initial antimicrobial treatment of sepsis and CAP is empiric. Common etiologic
      agents in sepsis are gram-positive bacteria (Staphylococcus spp. and Streptococcus spp.),
      gram-negative bacteria (e.g., Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp., and Enterobacter spp.), and
      fungi (Candida spp.). Common etiologic agents in CAP are Streptococcus pneumoniae, Legionella
      pneumophila, Mycoplasma spp., and viruses. The ability to distinguish these pathogens at time
      of presentation of sepsis or CAP would potentially allow more targeted rather than
      broad-spectrum initial therapy. Earlier administration of appropriate antimicrobials would
      lower patient management cost associated with ineffective therapy and lessen likelihood of
      antibiotic resistance. We propose to identify host biomarkers for early differentiation of up
      to 4 common etiologic agents in sepsis and CAP. Our preliminary studies have established
      proof-of-concept for differentiation between classes of pathogens in sepsis based on specific
      differences in soluble host proteins in a blood sample. Based on our preliminary studies, it
      is anticipated that approximately 25% of patients in the Specific Aim 1 clinical study will
      have a positive blood culture. At least 33 of these patients are anticipated to have S.
      aureus bacteremia and 20 gram negative bacteremia. Specific Aim 3 proposes to compare plasma
      samples from patients with S. aureus and gram negative bacteremia in order to identify host
      biomarkers for early differentiation of specific class agent in sepsis. As in specific aims 1
      and 2, bivariable and multivariable analyses of biomarkers is proposed to develop a biomarker
      panel for early differentiation of staphylococcal and gram-negative sepsis. Similar analysis
      is proposed to differentiate CAP pathogens. However, given the absence of a high-sensitivity,
      gold-standard method for determination of causal pathogen in CAP, Specific Aim 3 proposes the
      more conservative goal of differentiating pneumococcal CAP from atypical CAP based on
      quantitative differences in host blood biomarkers. The pneumococcal CAP group will be
      selected from the clinical studydataset based on rigorous criteria: S. pneumoniae from blood
      or sputum culture or detection of pneumococcal antigen in urine, clinical evidence of CAP and
      typical (lobar consolidation) chest radiograph. The nonpneumococcal CAP group will be
      determined by negative pneumococcal cultures and urine antigen, clinical evidence of CAP, and
      an atypical chest radiograph. It is anticipated that at least 20 patients (15% of the 133
      with CAP) will have confirmed pneumococcal CAP and 40 patients (30%) atypical,
      non-pneumococcal CAP. Biomarkers for differentiation of i. S. aureus bacteremia from
      gram-negative bacteremia, and ii. pneumococcal CAP from atypical CAP, will be identified by
      mass spectrometry of patient EDTA plasma samples. Subject to availability of multiplexed
      immunoassays, some of these biomarkers will be replicated by immunoassay in the same samples.
      It should be noted that given budget-imposed reduction in patient enrollment of one third
      from that originally proposed, we are uncertain that sufficient patients will be enrolled for
      all Specific Aim 3 analyses to be meaningful. We propose to evaluate the group sizes of
      enrolled patients by specific class agent in order to select two specific comparisons between
      sepsis and CAP pathogens that are of sufficient size to permit meaningful analysis.

      Validation and development of these biomarkers into biomarker panels and rapid, POC, IVD for
      early differentiation of pathogen in sepsis and CAP is intended, but is beyond the scope of
      the present proposal. A product line extension of the SS IVD is envisaged. Like the test for
      early diagnosis of SS, the IVD(s) for early differentiation of CAP and sepsis pathogens will
      be oligoplex assay(s) performed on single blood sample(s) using immunoassays or other analyte
      assays.
    
  