
    
      The study was a single blind, follow-up, randomized, controlled trial. Researchers recruited
      subjects from three Central South University-affiliated general tertiary hospitals in
      Changsha, Hunan province, China. And the whole trail was on the basis of the CONSORT
      statements. These three hospitals provided similar conventional care for patients with an
      ostomy. Study procedures were approved by the institutional review boards of all
      participating centers before data collection began. All patients were screened by researchers
      for eligibility and then enrolled in the study if eligible and if the provided consent.

      Potential eligible participants were identified by researchers according to medical records
      at the colorectal surgery unit in each hospital. They were recruited with informed consent,
      and researchers explained the study purposes, procedures, benefits, and risks involved
      orally. The participants were then randomly allocated to the intervention or the control
      group according to a computer-generated block randomization list. A sequentially numbered and
      opaque , sealed envelope system was used by a non-investigator.

      The generated random numbers were put into consecutively numbered and opaque sealed
      envelopes. When enrolling and randomising a new participant, the enrolling investigators
      opened the sealed envelope after participant's name was written on next available envelopes;
      the enrolling investigators were blinded to the trial design and study hypotheses.

      Patients in the intervention group had access to conventional care, in addition to receiving
      the follow-up TTM-based intervention sessions. The intervention was provided by trained
      nurses, including one researcher and one enterostomal therapy (ET) nurse. The researcher was
      regarded as primary leader of the intervention sessions. The leader informed patients of the
      schedule for each session using the educational manual'All can do the same: a pro-change
      program for self-management of an ostomy' (developed by psychologists, nursing managers,
      experienced ET nurses, and researchers).

      Sessions were held in the meeting room in the unit four times: at baseline (T0), 2 days
      before discharge (T1), and at 1-month (T2) and 3-months (T3) after discharge, according to
      the assessment of their current stage of change delivered by filling the Stages of Change
      Subscale.

      No interventions were performed for the control group participants during the study. However,
      these patients received conventional care in the colorectal surgery units according to the
      three hospitals' similar nursing guidelines. Preoperative visits for brief psychological
      counseling and general postoperative health education for ostomy cleaning, stoma appliance
      use, and self-care skills were provided by ward nurses. Additionally, post-discharge
      telephone follow-up focused on an unstructured interview and general health inquiries. To
      minimize contamination bias, the health education was implemented to avoid simultaneous
      scheduling for the two groups.

      Data were collected by a research assistant who was blind to the study design and allocation
      of participants. At baseline, before randomization, socio-demographic and clinical
      characteristics were collected from medical records and personal interviews. The two groups
      of participants completed surveys after each follow-up via face to face interviews at
      baseline (T0), 2 days before discharge (T1), and at 1-month (T2) and 3-months (T3) after
      discharge. The last evaluation of scales was performed at 6-months (T4) of follow-up via
      telephone contact.
    
  