
    
      BACKGROUND

        -  Pancreatic cancer is a rare cancer of the digestive system, but it is known to have a
           poor prognosis with a very poor survival rate. Five-year survival rate of all patients
           with pancreatic cancer is less than 6%, and only 10-20% of patients are eligible for
           surgery at the time of diagnosis.

        -  Postoperative complications of pancreatic cancer are reported in 30-50% of cases, and
           only 50% of patients undergoing postoperative chemotherapy at the appropriate time after
           surgery are reported. As a result of these concerns, the study of neoadjuvant
           chemotherapy (NACT) was begun. Recently, several clinical studies of chemotherapy have
           been performed. Cancer (BRPC), locally advanced pancreatic cancer (LAPC) patients who
           have had difficult surgical resection, are turning to treatment by combining surgical
           treatment after NACT.

        -  Although standard treatments for advanced chemotherapy have yet to be established
           through many clinical studies, the most commonly used regimens are FOLFIRINOX
           (fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin), gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel.
           The response rate after prior chemotherapy is known as 30-50%, and the response of
           patients undergoing surgery after prior chemotherapy was compared with the serum markers
           before and after chemotherapy through CA19-9, PET-CT, and CT. The response could be
           estimated by the reduction, the size change in the imaging test, or the decrease in
           SUVmax. However, there are only a few studies on genetic and molecular studies of which
           patients will respond. Under these circumstances, this study on the discovery of
           biomarkers for the response of advanced chemotherapy in patients with pancreatic cancer
           may provide guidelines for the application of advanced chemotherapy and the selection of
           appropriate drugs, as well as clues for future research.

      Primary endpoint:

      -Discovery of genetic mutation in response to NACT

      METHODOLOGY Recruitment and sample collection of patients undergoing NACT Identifying
      pancreatic cancer specific candidate genes in response to NACT

      EXPECTED RESEARCH RESULTS

        -  Predictable genes and biomarkers of responsiveness for NACT can be identified.

        -  It is possible to understand the progress of pancreatic cancer widely

        -  The development of biomarkers that can predict the response of NACT

        -  In patients with BRPC or LAPC who need NACT, appropriate screening will be possible.
    
  