
    
      Patients diagnosed with any type of AF referred to anticoagulation initiation at a nurse-run
      ambulatory will beasked to participate. The ambulatory consists of four daily nurse-led
      tracks at Department ofCardiology, Herlev-Gentofte University Hospital. In a formal
      collaboration, Department ofPulmonology, Herlev-Gentofte University Hospital provides work-up
      with cardio-respiratory monitoring investigation and clinical evaluation of initiating
      treatment of sleep apnea in patients referred from the study. ParticipantsParticipants with
      AF, without known sleep apnea, and indication for anticoagulation will be recruited from the
      Thrombosis unit (Tromboseklinikken) at Herlev-GentofteHospital. Participants will be
      contacted and asked of participation in the research project by a local investigator or a
      project nurse as part of their standard check at the anticoagulation outpatient clinic at
      Herlev and Gentofte Hospital. The conversation will include verbal participant information
      about the research project and about the right of time to consider recruitment. The written
      participant information will be handed to the participants prior to the verbal information,
      and it will be handed to the participants by a researcher with thorough knowledge to the
      project or a project nurse. The information needed for finding qualified participants, before
      a written informed consent is obtained, will be passed on to the investigators. The written
      informed consent allows the researchers to obtain necessary information for the project in
      the participant's medical health records

      Study Design:

      The is a cross sectional study. In total two visits will be planned, with a third visit for
      the first 20 participants and participants with apnea-hypopnea index (AHI)>15 included in the
      study.

        1. Initial visit with time for clinical evaluation, questionnaire of OSA symptoms,
           theparticipant borrows a NightOwl and receive device instructions.

        2. Four night of recording with NightOwl™ in home environment.

        3. Follow-up visit for the home-monitoring results and soft node questionnaire.

        4. For the 20 first patients and for all patients where the home test is showing (AHI>15) a
           fourth visit at the sleep apnea clinic will be arranged.

      The time plan for the study inclusion until last patient enrolled are estimated to be
      approximately 6months
    
  