
    
      Rationale: In dermatology, many minor surgical and laser procedures are carried out under
      local anesthesia of the skin. Anesthesia using topical formulations is time consuming, as the
      anesthetic has to be applied at least one hour before treatment, and is often only partially
      effective. On the other hand infiltration anesthesia is often associated with discomfort and
      is not tolerated by patients who are for example needle phobic. In the past years, Haedersdal
      and colleagues have shown that the penetration of various topically applied substances,
      including photosensitizers, into the skin can be enhanced and accelerated by pretreatment of
      the skin with a fractional laser, creating a pattern of microscopic ablation craters.1 This
      improvement in drug penetration is regardless of ablation crater depth.2 There is limited
      evidence that transepidermal lidocaine absorption can be increased by fractional laser
      pretreatment.3, 4 These findings might suggest that local anesthesia of the skin may be
      achieved by applying an anesthetic topically on a skin surface pretreated with a fractional
      laser. The investigators of the present study hypothesize that fractional laser assisted
      delivery of topical anesthetics might give a faster and better anesthetic effect, than
      treatment with the standard treatment of topical anesthesia.

      Objective: The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy of skin anesthesia using
      fractional laser assisted delivery of articaine hydrochloride 40 mg/ml and epinephrine 10
      µg/ml solution (AHES) compared to standard anesthesia with topical eutectic mixture of
      lidocaine 25 mg/g and prilocaine 25 mg/g cream (EMLA cream).

      Study design: Prospective, open label, randomized controlled, within subject, study.

      Study population: patients >18 years, who give written informed consent, visiting the
      institute for fractional carbon dioxide laser treatment for acne scars or traumatic scars.

      Intervention (if applicable): In each patient, the lesional area will be divided into two
      comparable regions during the visit prior to the (next) fractional laser treatment. These
      regions will then be randomly allocated to either standard anesthesia with EMLA cream
      (control region; region I) or ablative fractional laser (AFXL) assisted delivery of AHES
      (intervention region; region II). Patients will be asked to apply EMLA cream at region I
      under occlusion two hours prior to the laser treatment. Fifteen minutes before the
      therapeutic laser treatment of the scars, the skin of region II will be pretreated with the
      fractional carbon dioxide laser (15% density, 2.5 mJ/microbeam). Directly following
      fractional laser pretreatment, AHES will be topically applied under occlusion at region II
      for 15 minutes. Subsequently treatment of both regions will be performed with the same
      fractional carbon dioxide laser at the settings used in routine clinical practice. Directly
      after this therapeutic laser treatment, patients will be asked to indicate pain per test
      region on a visual analogue scale (VAS) from 0-10 (0: no pain; 10: worst imaginable pain).
    
  