
    
      Every day the cells of the outer layer of skin die off, shed, and regenerate. When young,
      skin cells turn over quickly, but that turnover rate begins to slow with age, beginning as
      early as twenties. As a result, skin loses its luster and begins to look dull. Aging caused
      by the genes is inherited and is called intrinsic (internal) aging. The other type of aging
      is known as extrinsic (external) aging and is caused by environmental factors, such as
      exposure to the sun's rays.

      Skin ageing is mainly characterized by -

        1. Decrease in thickness, firmness & elasticity of skin which results in wrinkles.

        2. Reduction in antioxidant capacities.

        3. Formation of spider veins and dark circles under the eyes.

      The epidermis, dermis and subcutaneous tissues are the top, middle and bottom layers of the
      skin respectively. The top layer shows the wrinkles, age spots, deep lines, and depressions.
      The skin dermis contains macromolecules, polysaccharides, glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), fibrous
      protein (collagens, elastin), salts and water which together are known as the extra cellular
      matrix, responsible for tissue cohesion.

      The subcutaneous tissues contain fatty deposits. Another part of the skin is the sebaceous
      glands that produce sebum which lubricates the skin and keeps it soft and smooth. All three
      skin layers contribute to the aging process. As a person gets older, less sebum is produced,
      and this makes the epidermis drier. Dry skin is more prone to wrinkling.

      Signs of ageing include facial wrinkles, pigmentation, fine lines, crow's feet and Nasolabial
      folds. Ageing also impacts texture and elasticity of the skin.

      Skin lightening or skin brightening, refer to the application of topical products in an
      attempt to lighten skin tone and provide an even skin complexion by reduction in melanin. The
      glow is not dependent on the skin colour of the person, i.e. a darker skin tone person can
      have very good Skin Glow. However, pigmentation errors like uneven skin tone, blemishes,
      blotchiness and spots also results in varied reflectance of light from the skin surface and
      results in dullness of the skin. It is also known that skin hydration, skin texture and
      pigmentation concerns can impact the skin glow. This study is based on evaluating Skin glow
      based on the relationship of these attributes.

      This study is proposed to evaluate skin antiaging efficacy along with the brightening
      attributes on face by visual assessment by Dermatologist, image analysis using VISIA CR, skin
      elasticity by Cutometer (MPA580) Hydration by Corneometer and skin texture by Antera 3 D and
      skin lightening/fairness by spectrophotometer, water barrier function by TEWL and to skin pH
      level by pH meter.
    
  