
    
      To develop and evaluate, in a randomized, controlled trial, a comprehensive obesity
      prevention program for third, fourth and fifth grade students.

      Late childhood and early adolescence appears to be an important period in the development of
      obesity. Physiologic changes associated with puberty may increase the risk of acquiring
      clinically significant obesity. Onset of obesity in early adolescence appears to be
      associated with increased risks of "tracking" of obesity into adulthood, obesity-associated
      morbidity and mortality in adulthood, and obesity-associated psychosocial morbidity. However,
      (1) we have a limited ability to accurately identify those children who will become obese
      adults and those who will suffer obesity-related morbidities, (2) most existing treatments
      for overweight children and adolescents have yielded modest, unsustained effects, and (3)
      single-component preventive interventions have been relatively ineffective. Acknowledging
      these observations, the consensus at the recent NHLBI Strategy Development Workshop for
      Public Education on Weight and Obesity was that population-based primary and secondary
      prevention efforts, targeting pre-adolescents, may hold the greatest promise for addressing
      the problem of obesity. Therefore, we propose an integrated, multiple-component, school and
      family-based, primary and secondary prevention program targeting third, fourth and fifth
      graders.

      Our proposed intervention model is derived directly from principles of Bandura's social
      cognitive theory. The intervention includes activities in THE SCHOOL, THE HOME, and a
      clinically oriented component for HIGH-RISK CHILDREN. In addition, the intervention will be
      delivered over a 3 year period, with age and grade-appropriate components for 3rd, 4th and
      5th graders and their families.

      We will evaluate the efficacy of our comprehensive intervention in a cohort of third graders,
      in ethnically diverse elementary schools. Schools will be randomly assigned to the
      comprehensive intervention or an attention-placebo curriculum, to minimize the potential for
      compensatory rivalry or resentful demoralization. Assessments of children's height, weight,
      triceps skinfold thickness, waist and hip circumferences, food preferences,
      cardio-respiratory fitness, and self-reported behavior, attitudes, and knowledge will occur
      every 6 months, and 6-months following the end of the intervention. The primary outcome is
      body mass index.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: To significantly reduce body mass index, compared to controls, at the end
      of the three year intervention.
    
  