
    
      The overarching goal of the research plan is to test ways to leverage mobile technologies and
      social media to increase the impact, scalability, cost-effectiveness, and dissemination
      potential of lifestyle interventions that reduce cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk. Mobile
      technology and social media have the potential to reduce the intensity of traditional
      prevention interventions and enhance outcome by delivering behavioral strategies
      in-the-moment and by connecting patients other patients to generate better communication and
      a social support system for lifestyle changes.

      This study includes a behavioral weight loss program delivered entirely via on online social
      network. The weight loss intervention is based on the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP), an
      evidence-based weight loss program focused on lifestyle changes. The goals for the
      intervention are 175 minutes of moderate physical activity per week and an overall weight
      loss of 7%. Each participant will get an individualized calorie goal that would facilitate a
      1-2 lbs. weight loss weekly. Participants will be connected to one another via Facebook and
      receive behavioral counseling via posts from coaches who are present on the network daily.
      Participants will track their diet and exercise via a free commercial mobile app.
      Participants will be assigned to either a Facebook group allowing the invite of friends (wave
      1), a Facebook group with open enrollment through week 8 (wave 2) or a Facebook group
      including only study participants. If they are assigned to the group including their friends,
      they have the opportunity to invite their friends to participate in the weight loss group if
      they are interested in losing weight as well. They will not have a limit as to how many
      friends they can invite. The friends that are invited will not undergo the same procedures as
      the FB+friends study participants, but we will provide them with a factsheet and collect
      minimal information from them. If they are assigned to the group with open enrollment through
      week 8, additional people will be recruited into that group. Those participants being
      enrolled between week 1-8 will undergo the same procedures as others besides randomization.
      The goal of both of these studies is to explore how to build the size of online weight loss
      groups in such a way that increases participant engagement. Feasibility outcomes include
      engagement (frequency of posts, likes, and comments and number of completed days of tracking
      posted) retention, acceptability, and weight loss. Post intervention focus groups will gather
      feedback on the program.
    
  