
    
      Eighty percent of PWD have behavioral or psychological disturbances, including 40% that are
      aggressive behaviors. The prevalence of pain in PWD is about 60%, and it is a strong
      predictor of aggression. The biopsychosocial model of pain posits that pain is
      bidirectionally related to psychological factors (ie, depression) and social support factors
      (ie, quality of caregiver/PWD relationship) in addition to biological factors. Thus,
      depression and quality of the caregiver/PWD relationship can be seen as pain-related
      features. Caregivers are ideally suited to help address pain, depression, and the
      caregiver/PWD relationship, thus preventing the development of aggression; but they need
      tools to assist them in identifying and managing these symptoms.

      Prior studies of aggression treatment have not examined using a preventive strategy to
      decrease incidence of aggression in persons with dementia (PWD). Almost all studies have
      examined use of pharmacologic interventions following development of aggression.This 5-year
      randomized controlled trial based on the Unmet Needs Model will focus on preventing
      aggression in PWD with pain and pain-related features by providing the caregiver with
      targeted education and skill training. PWD and their caregivers will be randomized to APT or
      to an enhanced usual primary care condition (EU-PC). APT will use active learning tools,
      including didactics, role-playing, and multimedia [eg, books and digital versatile discs
      (DVDs)] to educate and provide skill training for the caregiver. The 6-8 modules in the
      intervention will include 4 core modules that address 4 main aggression risk factors: a)
      recognizing pain, b) treating pain, c) increasing pleasant activities, and d) improving
      patient-caregiver communication. Caregivers can select 2 to 3 additional elective sessions;
      elective selection is guided by the needs of the dyad to further enhance skills related to
      these core topics. EU-PC provides the patient and caregiver educational materials on pain,
      notifies the primary care provider of the PWD's level of pain and depression, and provides 8
      weekly supportive telephone calls to caregivers. PWD and caregiver outcomes will be collected
      at baseline, 3, 6 and 12 months.

      Data analysis will include both univariate descriptive statistics and inferential statistics,
      including regression models, repeated measure modeling and Cox proportional hazards models.
    
  