
    
      This is a multi-site, randomized controlled, pilot intervention study. Patients seen in
      outpatient clinics in the Department of Gynaecologic Oncology at KKH Women and Children's
      Hospital (KKH) and the breast team within the Division of Medical Oncology at National Cancer
      Centre (NCC) will be recruited to participate. Patients who meet pre-screen criteria will be
      invited to complete a self-report screener of marital and sexual well-being. Those who are
      eligible for the study and indicate interest will be contacted to participate in the RISE
      program. Study participants will sign an informed consent before being given a pre-treatment
      assessment and being randomized using an opaque, sealed envelope system to receive either (i)
      the RISE program or (ii) Standard Care. Those in the Standard Care group will have the option
      of participating in the RISE program after their second pre-treatment assessment to ensure
      all participants are given the opportunity to receive the program. Randomization is
      stratified by cancer (i.e., gynaecologic vs breast) and occur in permuted blocks. At the end
      of participation in the RISE program, all participants will be given a post-treatment
      assessment. Spouse of the participants will be invited to participate in the study. Those who
      agree will complete a pre-treatment survey similar to the patient participant and attend the
      3 sessions with the patient, and complete a post-treatment assessment similar to the
      patient's.

      The RISE Intervention consists of 3 sessions which will last 2 hours each and be conducted
      with a clinical psychologist or medical social worker with experience with couples
      counseling. The intervention content include psycho-education, communication training between
      the couple, and exercises to foster intimacy. A therapy manual will be developed to ensure
      program delivery fidelity. A folder with session summaries will be provided to the
      participants.
    
  