
    
      The design for this study will be a cross-sectional study. This study will be conducted in
      the pulmonary function laboratory at Rush University Medical Center. A sample of subjects who
      meet the inclusion criteria will be selected from the adult population scheduled for CPFT lab
      appointments. The details of the study will be discussed by the respiratory therapist prior
      to the end of CPFT study. Information normally gathered in routine CPFTs includes oxygen
      saturation, height, and weight. Additional measures for subjects who accept the invitation to
      participate in this study will include measurements of BMI, waist circumference, and hip
      circumference. Inclusion criteria includes individuals of both genders, age of 18 years or
      older and individuals with abdominal obesity as defined by WHO as WHR greater than 0.85 in
      women, and 0.90 in men. Exclusion criteria include patients who cannot understand or comply
      with the spirometry test, known lung disease, obstructive ventilatory defect on CPFT, chest
      wall abnormalities/disorders, known neuromuscular disease, pregnant patients or prisoners.

      The BMI (kg/m2) will be calculated as weight (in kilograms) divided by square of the height
      (in meters). Waist-hip ratio (WHR) will be measured in the standing position using a
      stretch-resistant tape. Waist circumference will be measured at a midpoint between the lowest
      rib and the middle of the iliac crest. The hip is defined as the maximal circumference around
      the gluteal muscles below the iliac crests.8,9 These measurements will be obtained by
      respiratory therapists who have been trained in obtaining WHR measurements using a
      standardized patient to assure measurement fidelity.

      Spirometry measurements of FEV1 and FVC will be made in two testing positions for this study;
      the patients seated 90o upright (sitting position), and the patient fully supine position (0ยบ
      horizontal decubitus position). FVC (forced vital capacity) is the volume of air in liters
      that can be forcibly and maximally exhaled after taking in the deepest breath. FEV1 is the
      volume of air that can be forcibly exhaled from the lungs in the first second of a forced
      expiratory maneuver and is reported in liters. Lung volumes will also be measured in the
      sitting position using either body plethysmography or nitrogen washout method as part of the
      routine CPFT testing. Maximal inspiratory pressure (MIP) and maximal expiratory pressure
      (MEP), will also be measured in the sitting position and reported in centimeters of water (cm
      H2O). These reflect the maximum pressures generated by the patient on inhalation and
      exhalation, respectively and test respiratory muscle strength. All tests will be conducted in
      accordance with 2005 American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory Society guidelines13
      using the Sensormedics Vmax pulmonary function system. The Vmax system is calibrated daily
      and reports all measurements at body temperature, pressure and water vapor. All tests will be
      performed by a team of respiratory therapists who have demonstrated annual competence
      following the recommendations of the American Thoracic Society/European Respiratory
      Society.14

      Individuals who meet the study criteria and are able to successfully complete a CPFT will be
      recruited to participate in the study. After completing a consent form, the waist and hip
      measurements will be made. MIP and MEP measures will be made in the sitting position. Testing
      of spirometry will be repeated in the supine position. Sitting FEV1, FEV1 % predicted, FVC,
      FVC % predicted, FEV1/SVC, lower limit of normal for FEV1/FVC, supine FEV1, FEV1 % predicted,
      FVC, FVC % predicted, MIP, MEP, ERV, RV, FRC and TLC will be extracted from the pulmonary
      function test results and entered in REDCap for data tracking. Age, race, gender, and
      diagnosis code will be taken from the information routinely gathered for a pulmonary function
      test. The question related to smoking history will be asked directly of the subject. All data
      will be entered into REDCap.

      Procedures done for research purposes and procedures done for routine clinical management:

      A routine complete pulmonary function test (CPFT) as ordered by their referring provider
      includes measurements of slow vital capacity by spirometry, forced vital capacity by
      spirometry, lung diffusion by DLCO, and measurement of lung volume by body plethysmography.
      All of these measurements will be performed while the patient in sitting position. The
      additional testing for this study includes spirometry while the patient is in the supine
      position; and MIPs, and MEPs in the sitting position.
    
  