
    
      Sedentary young adults (18-39 years) will be recruited from the community and surrounding
      areas of Plymouth, NH. In order to be included in the study sample, participants must meet
      the following criteria: a BMI > 26.9, body fat % >19.9% for men, body fat greater than 31.9
      for women, and who do not participate in regular physical activity. Participants will be free
      of any known signs and symptoms of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, chronic kidney disease,
      and cancer.

      Questionnaires The investigators will utilize two questionnaires for the study. Investigators
      will use a Health History Questionnaire to assess baseline health information. Investigators
      will also use the International Physical Activity Questionnaire to assess current physical
      activity status.

      Waist Circumference, Height, Body Composition, and Weight Investigators will measure waist
      circumference using a Gulick measuring tape. Investigators will collect height using
      Stadiometer scale. Weight and body composition will be collected using a Tanita Scale, which
      assesses weight and body composition

      Blood Pressure Blood pressure will be measured utilizing manometry (blood pressure cuff),
      which is traditionally used by clinicians to measure blood pressure.

      Garmin VivoFit Activity Monitor A Garmin VivoFit activity monitor will be used to collect
      daily exercise, track steps per day, and heart rate. The monitor is worn on the wrist and
      allows for the accurate measurement of daily physical activity, steps per day, and daily
      heart rate. These variables and other measurement variables from daily activity, heart rate,
      and daily steps will be tracked with the watch.

      IV Catheter Placement An intravenous (IV) catheter will be placed into a superficial vein
      either at the elbow (normally where blood is drawn) or vein near the wrist (secondary option
      for venous blood sampling). Catheter placement will be performed by Dr. Michael Brian, who
      has been previously trained in phlebotomy and proper IV catheter insertion at the University
      of Delaware. The IV catheter is vital for completing successive blood draws during the
      testing visit. Professor Sandra Gamble, of the Nursing Department, will assist during data
      collections to ensure safe blood collections.

      75g Glucose Drink A standardized 75g glucose drink will be utilized to as part of the oral
      glucose tolerance tests, which is a test to assess the body's response to glucose.

      Blood Sample Processing A OneTouch portable blood glucose monitor will be used to assess
      blood glucose from whole blood samples during the study visit. The remaining whole blood will
      be centrifuged and the extracted serum will be stored for future insulin analysis. All serum
      samples will be stored in a -80 freezer until analysis.

      24-hour Blood Pressure Monitoring The investigators will utilize a 24-hour blood pressure
      monitor (Oscar 2-SunTech Blood Pressure Monitor, Morrisville, NC, USA) to measure blood
      pressure over a 24-hour period. The cuff will be fitted to the participant's arm and will
      take blood pressure every 20 minutes during the daytime and every 30 minutes during the night
      time. Throughout the 24-hour period, participants will be asked to maintain their normal
      daily routines.

      Questionnaires (Appendix B) We will utilize two questionnaires for the study. We will use a
      Health History Questionnaire to assess baseline health information. We will also use the
      International Physical Activity Questionnaire to assess current physical activity status.

      Waist Circumference, Height, Body Composition, and Weight We will measure waist circumference
      using a Gulick measuring tape. We will collect height using Stadiometer scale. Weight and
      body composition will be collected using a Tanita Scale, which assesses weight and body
      composition.

      24-hour Blood Pressure Monitoring We will utilize a 24-hour blood pressure monitor (Oscar
      2-SunTech Blood Pressure Monitor, Morrisville, NC, USA) to measure blood pressure over a
      24-hour period. The cuff will be fitted to the participant's arm and will take blood pressure
      every 20 minutes during the daytime and every 30 minutes during the night time. Throughout
      the 24-hour period, participants will be asked to maintain their normal daily routines.

      Garmin VivoFit Activity Monitor A Garmin VivoFit activity monitor will be used to collect
      daily exercise, track steps per day, and heart rate. The monitor is worn on the wrist and
      allows for the accurate measurement of daily physical activity, steps per day, and daily
      heart rate. These variables and other measurement variables from daily activity, heart rate,
      and daily steps will be tracked with the watch.

      IV Catheter Placement An intravenous (IV) catheter will be placed into a superficial vein
      either at the elbow (normally where blood is drawn) or vein near the wrist (secondary option
      for venous blood sampling). Catheter placement will be performed by Dr. Michael Brian, who
      has been previously trained in phlebotomy and proper IV catheter insertion at the University
      of Delaware. The IV catheter is vital for completing successive blood draws during the
      testing visit.

      75g Glucose Drink A standardized 75g glucose drink will be utilized to as part of the oral
      glucose tolerance tests, which is a test to assess the body's response to glucose.

      Blood Sample Processing Whole blood will be spun down to separate serum and red blood cells.
      The serum will be extracted and stored for future insulin analysis. All serum samples will be
      stored in a -80 freezer until analysis.

      Insulin Analysis In collaboration with Dr. Heather Doherty, insulin analysis will be
      performed on stored serum blood samples using a Human Insulin ELISA kit. Dr. Doherty has
      offered to assist and guide Dr. Brian in the proper analysis insulin levels measured from our
      study population. The analysis will be completed following the completion of the study.

      24-hour Continuous Glucose Monitor (CGM) A subcutaneous (just below the skin) Dexcom G5
      Sensor (Dexcom; San Diego, California) will be placed on the abdomen by Dr. Michael Brian.
      The sensor measures glucose levels in the body every 5 minutes over a 24-hour period for 7
      days. Participants will be trained how use the equipment, which requires a participant to
      calibrate the sensor two times daily by measuring their blood glucose through a finger prick.

      Protocol All participants will complete an informed consent, and then screened prior to being
      enrolled into the study. As part of the initial screening visit, participants will complete a
      health history questionnaire, International Physical Activity Questionnaire (to assess
      current sedentary status), waist circumference measurement, height & weight measures, body
      composition, and resting blood pressure. Participants will then be randomized into two study
      groups (Post-Meal Walking Group, Traditional Exercise Group).

      Continuous Glucose Monitoring Visit

      Prior to the "Baseline Study Visit," participants will come to the Exercise and Sports
      Physiology Research Laboratory (Draper & Maynard Building, room 417) for CGM training and
      subcutaneous sensor insertion. Participants will receive training on proper care of the CGM
      unit, calibration techniques, and proper lancet disposal in a Sharps container. Following CGM
      sensor insertion and training, participants will be allowed to leave for 1.5 hours while the
      sensor warm-ups and then return to the laboratory for sensor calibration. After sensor
      calibration, participants will wear the CGM unit for the next 6 days. The total visit will
      take approximately 2.5 hours (including the warm-up period).

      Baseline Study Visit

      Six days after the CGM insertion, participants will arrive 8 hours fasted to the Exercise and
      Sports Physiology Research Laboratory (D&M 417) on the morning of the study visit.
      Participants will be asked to complete a three-day diet record. Baseline measurements of
      height, weight, waist circumference, blood pressure, heart rate, and body composition will be
      made. Following the baseline measurements, Michael Brian (PhD) will insert a catheter into
      the arm of the participant, leaving a small flexible tubing in the arm to collect blood
      samples throughout the protocol. A baseline blood collection will be performed to assess
      fasting insulin levels in the body.

      Participants will then complete an oral glucose tolerance test. Participants will consume a
      75g glucose drink to measure the participant's glycemic response. The glucose drink simulates
      an individual consuming a high sugar load, like a soda. Blood samples will be collected at
      30, 60, and 120-minute time points following glucose consumption. Following the completion of
      the oral glucose tolerance test, the catheter and CGM will be removed and vitals checked
      (blood pressure & heart rate). Participants will then be provided with a 24-hour blood
      pressure monitor to wear. The participants will return the blood pressure monitor the
      following day.

      4-Week Exercise Intervention

      Following the "Initial Study Visit," participants will be provided with detailed instructions
      for their intervention. Participants will be randomly divided into two groups: Post-Meal
      Walking Group and Traditional Exercise Control Group.

      Throughout the 4-weeks, participants will be asked to continue their regular diet and daily
      levels of physical activity. They will be instructed that changing their diet or physical
      activity levels outside of the study can significantly impact the study results.

      Post-Meal Walking Group

      Following a 30-minute digestion period, the Post-Meal Walking Group will be instructed to
      walk following breakfast, lunch, and dinner at least 4 times per week (180 minutes of
      moderate intensity exercise/week). Participants will walk at a brisk pace for 15 minutes, as
      demonstrated in a previous study (5). A Garmin VivoFit activity monitor will measure their
      physical activity across the four-week intervention. The Garmin VivoFit activity monitor must
      be returned during the "Follow-up Study Visit".

      Traditional Exercise Group

      The Traditional Exercise Group will perform aerobic and light resistance training exercise
      over the 4-week intervention. A group of trained Exercise and Sports Physiology students will
      conduct the aerobic exercise and light resistance training program three times per week (180
      minutes of moderate to high intensity exercise/week). Garmin VivoFit activity monitors will
      measure their physical activity across the four-week intervention. The Garmin VivoFit
      activity monitor must be returned during the "Follow-up Study Visit".

      A general exercise prescription will be used to standardized all Traditional Exercise
      sessions.

      Follow-up Study Visit

      Participants will complete all of the measurements performed during the "Initial Study Visit"
      and all activity monitors will be collected.

      Case Control Study

      A case control study will be used to measure ambulatory 24-hour blood pressure monitoring in
      healthy sedentary controls. This will help in our attempt to determine whether 24-hour blood
      pressure control is disrupted in sedentary obese individuals.

      After an initial screening visit, participants will wear an ambulatory blood pressure monitor
      for 24 hours, and return it the next day. The participants will be instructed to maintain
      their current diet and levels of physical activity for four weeks. Any change in diet and
      physical activity level might affect the study results. A Garmin VivoFit activity monitor
      will be provided to measure their physical activity over four weeks. At the end of the 4-week
      period, participants will have their 24-hour blood pressure measured again. The Garmin
      VivoFit activity monitor and 24-hour blood pressure cuff must be returned the day after the
      24-hour blood pressure monitoring period.
    
  