
    
      The participants will be randomly selected into one of the three arms of this report's
      diagram (1:1:1 ratio) drawing of a sealed, opaque envelope by one of the surgical residents
      in charge or by the attending surgeon. The participants in each group will receive an
      envelope containing pills of identical appearance, each of Domperidone 10 mg, Itopride 50 mg
      or placebo. Both the attending physicians and the participants are blinded to the kind of
      study medication contained in the envelope.

      From the regular protocol for colonoscopy preparation, no solid foods are allowed except low
      residue diet during three days before the procedure. On the next day, only liquid diet
      consumption is allowed. On the day prior to colonoscopy, the patients can have only clear
      liquid and ad libitum throughout the day until midnight. Additionally, the patients are
      instructed to take one pill at 8.00 AM, 12.00 AM, 4.30 PM respectively. They are also
      informed to begin consuming the 3 liters of PEG-EL at 5.00 PM and complete it within 3 hours.
      Lastly, they are instructed to take the fourth pill at 6.00 AM on the day of colonoscopy. At
      the colonoscopy unit, the patients will be interviewed regarding the severity of abdominal
      discomfort during the preparation period after consuming the 3 liters of PEG-EL using a
      4-point scale (1=absent, 2=mild, 3=moderate, 4=severe). After finish the procedure, patients
      are informed to continue the study medication for three days consecutively.

      The interviewer will make a phone call to the individuals at the first and third day after
      the procedure to confirm compliance of the study medication and inquiry about the severity of
      abdominal discomfort after procedure by using the same 4-point scale. If the patient can't be
      reached by a phone call or fail to continue the medication, this patient is classified as a
      drop out.

      All data is collected by the main investigator from the patient chart and data recording
      form. Statistical analysis is performed using SPSS version 18. Patient characteristic and
      numerical data are reported by descriptive statistic such as mean, standard deviation.
      Parametric data is compared between groups using Chi-square, logistic regression
      analysis.Statistical significance is set at a level of p<0.05.
    
  