
    
      Soft tissue sarcomas (STS) are derived from mesenchymal cells, and can arise at any site.
      Retroperitoneal sarcomas (RPS) account for ~15% of STS, and patients have much worse survival
      outcomes than for extremity STS. Local (abdominal) recurrence of RPS is very common, due to
      the challenges of obtaining complete resection of these large masses that abut critical
      central compartment structures, such as the inferior vena cava and aorta. There is currently
      intense interest in using preoperative therapy to downsize/cytoreduce RPS and hopefully
      improve oncologic outcomes. Studies have shown that preoperative radiation does not
      cytoreduce these tumours. In this study, the potential of systemic therapy for cytoreduction
      will be examined.

      The standard systemic therapy regimen for treatment of patients with STS remains
      Adriamycin/Ifosphamide, although side effects can be tolerated only by relatively young and
      fit patients. The use of this regimen preoperatively for extremity STS results in average
      response rates of about 30-40%, as judged by histologic assessment of the resected specimen.
      The international experience with preoperative chemotherapy for RPS is very limited, and
      there are no published reports.

      Functional imaging may provide a more meaningful assessment of tumour response to systemic
      therapy. PET-MR is a newer modality that may hold promise in assessing solid tumour response
      and its potential utility is currently of rapidly growing interest. Conventional MRI can
      offer a more detailed assessment of tumour relationships to adjacent structures than can CT,
      particularly in STS. Integration of PET with MR has the potential to provide information
      about metabolic tumour volume (MTV) and to help guide surgical planning.There are no data
      available on the utility of PET-MR in evaluating tumour response to chemotherapy in STS.

      At present, the role of chemotherapy as a preoperative treatment for retroperitoneal sarcoma
      (RPS) is undefined and controversial. The sarcoma group at Princess Margaret Cancer Centre
      (PMCC) has had some experience with this treatment paradigm, but like most sarcoma groups in
      Ontario, and Canada, has reserved preoperative chemotherapy for frankly unresectable and
      borderline resectable tumours for which downsizing would potentially render resection more
      feasible. At present, CT-scan imaging is performed after 2 cycles of chemotherapy, and if
      there is no frank progression of the cancer, chemotherapy is continued for another 3-4
      cycles. By that point the tumour is smaller on CT scan in about 30% of patients. There are 2
      main problems with this approach: 1)70% of the patients may have undergone 5-6 cycles of
      chemotherapy with no apparent benefit; and 2) there may be a metabolic response and
      associated benefit without a change in tumour size. The ability to reliably assess tumour
      response earlier on (i.e. after 1 cycle) would significantly influence the care of these
      patients as ineffective chemotherapy could be terminated after 1 cycle and the regimen could
      be modified, or surgery could happen right away before the window of resectability is lost.
    
  