
    
      From now on, participants who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria in our hospital will
      be recruited in the intervention group, if they and their relatives are willing to join in
      the study. For the historical control group, in which patients were treated by aneurysm
      clipping in Department of Neurosurgery of the First Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong
      University during the previous nine months, normal saline (0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection)
      was applied as intraoperative perfusion solution for their operation. For the intervention
      group, MACSF will be used. (The composition and concentration of MACSF is as follows: Na+:
      146.2 mEq/l, K+: 2.7 mEq/l, Mg2+: 4.2 mEq/l, Cl-: 123 mEq/l, HCO3-: 23.2 mEq/l, Glucose: 0.75
      g/l. MACSF is prepared by the staff of Pharmacy Intravenous Admixture Services of First
      Affiliated Hospital of Xi'an Jiaotong University, according to a specific formula in the
      specific working area. The whole procedure follow the aseptic principles strictly. Fresh-made
      MACSF will be placed in a specific container and send to the operating room through specific
      channels.) Then, for the patients who have signed the informed consent, blood (6ml) and CSF
      (3ml) samples will be collected during and every other day after the surgery for 14 days. The
      blood samples should be drawn into a non-anticoagulant tube and a heparin anticoagulant tube
      respectively. All the samples will be transferred to BioBank of the First Affiliated Hospital
      of Xi'an Jiaotong University in a liquid nitrogen tank. After re-melted in a water bath of
      37℃, the CSF and blood samples will be centrifuged at 4℃ for 10min at 2000r/min, and then the
      supernatant will be collected and stored at -80℃. At the end of this study, the contents of
      NPY，MMP-9，MIF，TNF-α，Mg2+ and Ca2+in the samples will be detected by ELISA or mass
      spectrometry. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) will be observed within 14 days after the operation
      (daily for the first three days and every other day for the following days). CVS will be
      diagnosed by TCD, the diagnostic criteria will be described later. CT scan of the brain
      should be done at least once a week and rechecked anytime when necessary. If there is new
      low-density lesions, delayed cerebral infarction (DCI) will be diagnosed. The prognosis will
      be assessed at 1, 3 and 6 months after aSAH onset according to modified Rankin Scale (mRS) .
      Meanwhile, some indicators will be used to evaluate the safety of MACSF application, which
      incluiding secondary infection, fluctuation of intracranial pressure and hypermagnesemia. The
      diagnostic criteria and the solutions will be described in the next part.
    
  