
    
      Recruitment and signed informed consent:Participating GPs (n=6) were asked to enrol each
      consecutive eligible patient and include 10 patients with MUS each. The GPs presented written
      information and an informed consent form to these patients. Patients had the opportunity to
      read the information to consider participation before signing the consent form.

      Randomisation: Participating patients (n=60) are equally randomised over two groups, the
      intervention group (usual care and psychosomatic therapy delivered by a psychosomatic
      therapist) and the control group (usual care of the GP). For the randomisation we used a
      random number table, whereas a central and blinded allocation procedure was applied.For the
      randomisation we used a random number table, whereas a central and blinded allocation
      procedure was applied.

      Patients in the intervention group were asked to complete a questionnaire at baseline, at the
      end of the intervention (+/- 3 months)and at 6 and 12 months. Patients in the control group
      completed a questionnaire at baseline, at 3 (equals end of intervention), 6 and 12 months.

      Statistical analysis The number of patients identified and recruited by the GP as well as the
      number of eligible patients who declined to enter the trial were analysed using descriptive
      statistics. Furthermore, at each stage of the study, we recorded the number of trial
      participants who completed the study.

      The effects of the intervention on the primary outcome measures (VAS and 4DSQ) and the
      secondary outcome measures (NHL, SF-36 and MAF) were estimated using analysis of covariance
      with baseline value as a covariate. Data analysis was be performed according to the
      intention-to-treat principle. Medical consumption was measured using the Cost Diary for
      medical consumption. Patients recorded their absenteeism and healthcare consumption, such as
      consulting a GP, hospital, paramedic facilities and alternative medicine. Medication intake
      was recorded at the start and the end of the study. We used standardised Dutch prices (guide
      cost research 2009), whereas medication costs were calculated according to the Dutch Pharmaco
      Therapeutic Compass. Costs by absenteeism were calculated according to the Friction Cost
      method.

      Difference in cost of medical consumption between the control and intervention group were
      estimated using analysis of covariance with baseline value as a covariate.

      Difference in baseline characteristics were analysed with the student's t-test for continue
      variables and the chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test for categorical variables. P-values
      of < 0.05 were considered statistical significant.
    
  