
    
      This study is a prospective cohort study using a pre-/post-design.

      The target population consists of children and adolescents 10-18 years old making an ED visit
      or admitted to the hospital at Connecticut Children's Medical Center for an asthma
      exacerbation.

      All patients will receive two Hailie devices (for controller and rescue inhalers), an App for
      their smartphone, and a free Hailie subscription, which provides access support and services,
      and hardware and software updates. Only the children and adolescents involved with the study
      will have the app on their phone. The parents will not put the Hailie app on their phone.
      Families will be asked to share the study information with their primary care provider and
      will be provided with an introductory letter to bring to the provider, if they so choose.

      Data collection will begin at enrollment and will continue through the three-month follow-up
      period. Adherium provides the option of continuous monitoring and data collection beyond
      study cessation.

      Data uploads to the portal occur automatically for patients and caregivers who have installed
      the Hailie App on their smartphone. Additionally, patients' primary-care providers will
      receive a password allowing them to track and access participants' dashboard. Patients will
      bring a letter to their primary-care provider explaining that they are part of a study of
      Adherium's Hailie device, and receive instructions on how to view the dashboard and adherence
      data.

      At enrollment, participants and parents will complete the Test of Adherence to Inhalers
      (TAI), Asthma Control Test (ACT) and PedsQL, along with providing baseline medical
      history/asthma history data and sociodemographic. The TAI, ACT and PedsQL surveys will again
      be completed one and three months post enrollment information. Additionally, participants
      will answer an adapted AMDAT survey that will be used to provide acceptability data about the
      Hailie device.
    
  