
    
      In recent years, local and non-invasive intervention methods have been attempted to eliminate
      or at least reduce the growth of pancreatic lesions. Over the past two years there has been
      considerable but not successful experience in ablation (burning) of lesions by direct alcohol
      injection and / or other drugs into the cyst through the EUS. To date, treatment has been
      performed in three groups of patients in a clinical trial and has shown clinical success from
      33% to 70%. However, it should be noted that there is a large incidence of treatment failure
      and also complications such as pancreatitis.

      An interesting alternative to surgical intervention is the local destruction of the cyst by
      radio waves ENDOSCOPIC RADIOFREQUENCY (RF). This is a familiar local method that works by
      releasing heat that causes necrosis and disappearance of the lesion.High efficacy and high
      safety profile were reported for this method; 90% of the cases showed disappearance of of
      metaplasia by the follow-up of 5 years and 80% disappearance of dysplasia (both early and
      advanced) followed by two and a half years.

      In addition, in recent years EMCISION has developed a catheter called ENDO HBP HABIB. It is a
      thin RF probe that can be inserted through work channels of all types of endoscopes and
      cholangioscopes. The depth of the penetration of heat and energy intensity is in accordance
      with the resistance of the tissue being treated, and the device operates under the
      computerized control of an ultrasound device with high resolution. This method showed success
      in short-term follow-up in preliminary research.The technical difficulty of this therapeutic
      method is related to the limitation of the ability to position itself precisely by inserting
      the catheter through the EUS needle.In order to overcome the difficulty of operating HABIB
      PROBE, MEDICAL TAEWOONG, recognized worldwide and Israel as an advanced endoscopic equipment
      company, developed in cooperation with STARMED an RF needle called EUSRA, which works in
      conjunction with a VIVO COMBO generator. The function of the generator is to provide up to
      200 watts of energy to activate the electrode. The needle can be directly inserted into the
      pancreas lesion while controlling EUS. At the tip of the needle is a probe that releases the
      energy at 50W for 10 seconds or 40W until the white bubbles appear in a sonographic image.In
      recent years, two cases of successful treatment have been reported. In both cases, treatment
      of neuroendocrine cancer showed good initial results. The first study was performed on a
      76-year-old patient with a neuroendocrine tumor.CT performed about one month after the
      procedure showed complete disappearance of the lesion without any complications. The second
      study was performed in six patients with an average age of 62. The average diameter of lesion
      was 3.8 cm. The procedure was successful when two patients felt abdominal pain followed.
      There were no bleeding events and pancreatitis.This year, a multicenter study was conducted
      in France in patients with neuroendocrine tumors and cystic lesions in the pancreas, testing
      the safety and initial efficacy of the method and monitoring for up to 12 months. The study
      was conducted in a group of 30 patients.In 6 patients with endocrine tumors there was
      complete disappearance of the lesions, in 3 patients there was a decrease in the diameter of
      the lesions by more than 50% and in one patient the treatment failed. In 7 of 8 patients with
      cystic tumors, walled nadies disappeared and in 5 out of 10 patients cystic tumors
      disappeared. Prophylactic treatment of antibiotics and NSAIDs (anti-inflammatory drugs) and
      empty the cyst fluid before the procedure led to a dramatic reduction in complications
      (3.5%). Three patients experienced mild abdominal pain without signs of inflammation
      successfully treated with paracetamol. (study not yet published).
    
  