
    
      Despite clinical advances and decades of research, the ability to reliably predict the course
      of respiratory viral diseases such as influenza and coronavirus infections remains poor. The
      aim of this project is to develop a platform for identifying and developing predictive tests
      by combining physiological data and correlates of severity in influenza-like infections so
      that progression to severe pulmonary involvement can be anticipated during respiratory viral
      infection. This would then permit safe discharge of patients with self-limiting disease or
      more rapid intensification of treatment as appropriate.

      Respiratory infections are among the most important causes of severe disease worldwide, with
      the major respiratory viruses responsible for overwhelming pressure on health services each
      winter due to annual surges in incidence. The two most common viral causes of severe lung
      disease, influenza and respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), are responsible for ~50% of
      hospital admissions in children and 22% in adults, with mortality greatest in older people.
      As the population ages, this burden of disease is steadily increasing. Furthermore, the
      continual risk of newly emergent pandemic influenza strains that arise unpredictably is
      universally considered one of the most critical threats to global health and socioeconomic
      stability. This has been demonstrated by the recent COVID-19 pandemic.

      Risk factors for severe influenza have been investigated extensively in clinical cohorts,
      with older age, co-morbidities, obesity and pregnancy all increasing the likelihood of severe
      disease. However, accurate prognostic markers remain elusive and the dynamics of the response
      to respiratory viral infection has not been explored in naturally-infected patients.
      Furthermore, biomarker discovery has been limited by heterogeneity in virus strain and dose;
      delays in timing of presentation; and patient-level confounders. To address these issues, the
      investigators have conducted controlled human infections with influenza and RSV since 2010,
      to investigate mechanisms of immunopathogenesis with a particular focus on disease in the
      human respiratory tract. Recent preliminary data from a cohort of volunteers infected with
      the influenza A(H1N1)2009 strain showed that rapid changes in the transcriptome of whole
      blood occurred within 2 days of virus exposure. During the 2009 influenza pandemic, similar
      studies were also performed with hospitalised patients. There, transcriptomic analysis of
      blood showed similar antiviral signatures in less severely unwell individuals but divergent
      signatures associated with poor clinical outcomes.

      The aim of this project is to identify and test predictors of disease progression and
      clinical deterioration in patients with influenza-like illness, in order to develop novel
      methods to more accurately determine the need for hospital admission and treatment
      intensification during respiratory viral infection. To further develop and test these
      biomarkers in an independent cohort of naturally-infected patients, hospitalised adults with
      influenza-like illness will be recruited within 24 hours of admission and samples obtained
      from blood and nose at 3 subsequent time-points.

      Using these data, predictive transcriptomic signatures will be identified. Longitudinal
      samples and clinical data will then be used to test, validate and refine them in affected
      local populations. These findings will then be translated into novel diagnostic tools and a
      biobank established for further investigation of the virology and immunopathogenesis of
      severe respiratory viral infections.
    
  