
    
      Maroteaux-Lamy disease (MPS VI) is a lysosomal storage disease inherited in an autosomal
      recessive pattern. The responsible mutations lie in ARSB (5q11-q13), the gene that encodes
      the enzyme arylsulfatase B. The phenotype results from defective dermatan sulfate break-down
      with lysosomal accumulation. This accumulation of glycosaminoglycans is responsible for the
      widespread signs and symptoms found in this disease. Bone destruction in shoulders, hips and
      skull is often seen by the second decade of life and may become evident later in the knees
      and spine. Early growth may be normal but eventually slows resulting in short stature.
      Dysplasia of bones comprising these joints leads to stiffness and restricted movement. The
      face is dysmorphic with coarse features. Bone dysplasia and facial dysmorphism may be seen at
      birth.

      Myelopathy and even tetraplegia can result from vertebral compression. Intelligence is often
      normal although more severely affected individuals may have some cognitive defects due to
      impaired vision and hearing. Hepatosplenomegaly is common and compromised respiratory
      function can result in reduced physical stamina. The tongue is usually enlarged. Accumulation
      of dermatan sulfate in heart valves may produce insufficiency or restriction of outflow. A
      diagnosis of Maroteaux-Lamy disease can be confirmed by screening for the common genetic
      mutations or measuring the level of the arylsulfatase B enzyme activity in a blood sample --
      a test that has 100 percent accuracy. Once Maroteaux-Lamy disease is diagnosed, testing of
      all family members and consultation with a professional geneticist is recommended. Carriers
      are most reliably identified via genetic mutation analysis.

      New methods, like mass-spectrometry give a good chance to characterize in the blood (plasma)
      of affected patents specific metabolic alterations that allow to diagnose in the future the
      disease earlier, with a higher sensitivity and specificity. Therefore it is the goal of the
      study to develop new biochemical markers from the plasma of the affected patients helping to
      benefit the patient by an early diagnose and thereby with an earlier treatment.
    
  