
    
      It is not unknown whether overlapping drug-eluting stents provide increased vessel toxicity.
      Given the association of delayed healing and incomplete endothelialization observed in animal
      and human autopsy studies at overlapping sites it is unclear why most patients do well with
      multiple DES implanted. OCT detects smaller degrees of in-stent neointima more accurately
      than IVUS and might be a useful method for identify strut coverage and/or malapposition.

      Patients if eligible on the basis of clinical and angiographic criteria, are assigned to
      receive multiple Resolute Sprint™. Stent implantation are done accordingly to the normal
      interventional practice. QCA and IVUS are performed at the end of optimal stents placement
      per visual judgement (residual stenosis < 10%, TIMI 3 flow). Stent, lumen size and volume as
      well as complete stent strut apposal will be determined by IVUS analysis. Clinical follow-up
      will take place at 1 month (±1 week), 6 months (±2 weeks) and 1 year (±2 weeks). At 6-months
      follow-up all patients will undergo a quantitative coronary angiography (QCA), IVUS and
      Optical Coherence Tomography (LightLab OCT Imaging M2, automated pull back and flushing
      combination)assessments.

      OCT images will be acquired at 15-30 frames per second. Blind corelab quantitative strut by
      strut analysis will be performed using a novel dedicated software at each 0.5 mm section. The
      following OCT variables will be evaluated:number of visualized strut per section, mean-max
      neointimal thickness per section, % struts well apposed with neointima at overlapping vs non
      overlapping sites, % struts without neointima, % struts malapposed, rate of > 30% uncovered
      struts/total number of struts per section.

      Obtained data will be compared with the data from a historical comparator (ODESSA trial that
      presented results from TAXUS Libertè™ vs Cypher Select™ vs Endeavor™ stents implanted in
      overlap to treat long lesions.
    
  