
    
      The occurrence of ascites in cirrhotic patients is a frequent event (about half of these
      patients developed ascites after 10 years of evolution) and marks an evolutionary turning
      point in the natural history of cirrhosis (30% survival at 5).

      The spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (ISLA) is the leading infectious complication cirrhotic
      patient (prevalence of 10-30%). Half of these ISLA are already present on admission of the
      patient and over 20% of these infections are totally asymptomatic. The delay processing of
      ISLA causes heavy mortality. Even when antibiotic treatment is started immediately after the
      diagnosis of ISLA, in-hospital mortality remains high (about 20%) and mainly related to the
      development of severe sepsis, septic shock and hepatorenal syndrome; the medium-term
      prognosis remains severe as also survival after an episode of ISLA is 30-50% at 1 year.
      Therefore, the surviving patients with a first episode of ISLA are candidates for liver
      transplantation. Given the major prognostic implications and the asymptomatic nature of these
      infections, examination of ascites with neutrophil count (ANC) and bacteriological cultures
      still recommended during any puncture, which increases support. This is why clinicians are
      sensitive to processes that simplify the diagnosis of ISLA or make it faster.

      The measurement of calprotectin in ascites could be of major interest for the rapid diagnosis
      of ISLA. It is a glycoprotein of 36 KDa fixing calcium and zinc, synthesized by neutrophils
      (where it represents 60% of the soluble proteins from the cytosol) as well as monocytes and
      macrophages in the lower concentration. It has anti-bacterial and anti-fungal,
      immunomodulatory and pro-apoptotic. Its synthesis is increased in case of inflammation and
      its rate reflects, in inflammatory bowel disease, the severity of the inflammation of the
      bowel wall. Fecal calprotectin allows to discriminate inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)
      functional impairment of the gastrointestinal tract (irritable bowel syndrome) in symptomatic
      patients and also seems more powerful than other non-specific markers of inflammation (CRP,
      sedimentation rate, leukocytosis) to make this distinction; again, this biological marker
      allows therapeutic monitoring for patients with IBD.

      The reference technique proposed by the laboratory for assaying BÜHLMANN calprotectin is a
      quantitative ELISA in a stool sample or ascites but the Quantum Blue® Reader offers a faster
      quantitative measure (in 12 minutes). It consists of a sandwich immunoassay including the
      speed could be advantageously used for the diagnosis of ISLA. However, few studies have
      evaluated the assay of plasma calprotectin or in ascites in cirrhotic patients. A high plasma
      concentration of calprotectin could have a prognostic value in alcoholic cirrhosis, as a high
      concentration of calprotectin in ascites in decompensated cirrhosis.
    
  