
    
      Design: pilot, randomized, parallel, placebo controlled and triple blind clinical trial.

      Sample: Patients with generalized severe chronic periodontitis (stages III and IV) and
      positive to Porphyromonas gingivalis who potentially need periodontal surgery were recruited
      from those who attended the postgraduate program in periodontics at the Complutense
      University in Madrid.

      Patients were randomly assigned to the test group (periodontal surgery + metronidazole) or
      control group (periodontal surgery + placebo).

      Study visits:

        -  Examiner calibration

        -  Recruitment of patients. Screening. Data collection (clinical and microbiological
           variables)

        -  Phase I

             -  Non surgical periodontal therapy (2 visits) performed by second year students.

             -  Reevaluation at 6 weeks. Data collection (clinical and microbiological variables).

      Identification of study participants (patients with probing pocket depth > 5mm in ≥ 2 teeth
      per sextant or those presenting multiple sites with probing pocket depth ≥ 5mm and bleeding
      on probing in ≥ one mouth quadrant and positive to Porphyromonas gingivalis.

      The need of the surgical procedure was supervised in every case by more than one experienced
      periodontist (clinical teachers). Finally patients were randomly assigned to their study
      groups.

        -  Phase II. Surgical Periodontal Therapy

             -  Periodontal surgery sessions performed by second year students. In the last surgery
                the patient received a recipient containing the pills (metronidazole or placebo
                according to randomization) and the instructions for use.

             -  Suture removal 1 week after the surgery. Data collection 1 week after antibiotic
                consumption after the last surgery (patient-centered variables on the side effects
                of antibiotics). Pills recipients were collected in order to evaluate patient
                compliance. An individual not involved in the study protocol was in charge of doing
                the data and recipient collection.

        -  Phase III. Periodontal Maintenance.

             -  Maintenance 1(3 months postsurgery). Data collection (clinical and microbiological
                variables)

             -  Maintenance 2 (6 months postsurgery). Data collection (clinical and microbiological
                variables)

             -  Maintenance 3 (9 months postsurgery).

             -  Maintenance 4 (12 months postsurgery). Data collection (clinical and
                microbiological variables)

      Security protocol:

      Any patient exhibiting worsening in periodontal clinical parameters during the maintenance
      phase were excluded from the study and inestable sites were re-treated. Inestable sites were
      considered those exhibiting clinical attachment loss > 2mm between two consecutive visits
      (Haffajee et al. 1983) after the treatment.
    
  