
    
      Objective

      The primary objective of this trial is to compare INTELLiVENT-ASV with non-automated
      ventilation in critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) patients with respect to ventilation
      duration and quality of breathing.

      Study design

      International, multicenter, superiority randomized clinical trial in critically ill,
      intubated and ventilated adult ICU patients with an anticipated duration of ventilation of at
      least 24 hours.

      Study population

      Adult patients admitted to ICUs in the Netherlands and Italy.

      Sample size calculation

      The sample size is based on the hypothesis that INTELLiVENT-ASV will shorten ventilation
      duration by 1.5 days with no changes in mortality rate. Based on previously performed studies
      a sample of 1,200 patients (600 in each treatment group) is needed to have beta of 80% power
      and a two-tailed alpha of 0.05, to detect a mean between-group difference of 1.5 VFD-28,
      allowing a dropout rate of 5%. By including 1,200 patients, this study will be sufficiently
      powered to detect differences in the co-primary endpoint, which is quality of breathing.

      Methods:

      Within one hour of start of ventilation in the ICU, patients are randomly assigned in a 1:1
      ratio to INTELLiVENT-ASV or non-automated ventilation. Randomization will be stratified by
      center. As soon as possible after randomization, but within a maximum of 72 hours, deferred
      consent is obtained from the legal representative of the patient.

      INTELLiVENT-ASV In patients who are randomized to INTELLiVENT-ASV, the ventilator is switched
      to this fully automated mode as soon possible. The sensors for end-tidal carbon dioxide
      (ETCO2) and pulse oximetry (SpO2) are connected and activated in the ventilator. Patient's
      gender and height are set on the ventilator and patient condition is chosen if applicable. If
      needed, the targets zones for ETCO2 and SpO2 are adjusted. The default alarm limits are
      accepted.

      It is advised to enable QuickWean in all patients. The use of the automated Spontaneous
      Breathing Trial (SBT) function is left to the discretion of the clinician. Each SBT result
      will be used to check for extubation readiness.

      CONVENTIONAL VENTILATION Patients who are randomized to conventional ventilation will be
      ventilated with a mode that is not fully automated, thus standard volume controlled (VCV) or
      pressure controlled ventilation (PCV), and pressure support ventilation (PSV), depending on
      patient's activity. None of the following semi or fully automated modes of ventilation is
      allowed at any time: Neurally Adjusted Ventilatory Assist (NAVA), SmartCare/PS or
      Proportional Assist Ventilation (PAV).

      In all patients who receive assist ventilation (i.e., VCV or PCV), three times a day it
      should be checked whether the patient can accept supported ventilation (i.e., PSV); this
      should also be tried when the patient shows respiratory muscle activity during assist
      ventilation, or in case of patient-ventilator asynchrony.

      Patients can be subjected to SBTs using either a T-piece or ventilation with minimal support
      (pressure support level < 10 cm H2O). An SBT is deemed successful when the following criteria
      are met for at least 30 minutes, i.e., respiratory rate < 35/min, peripheral oxygen
      saturation > 90%, increase < 20% of heart rate and blood pressure, and no signs of anxiety
      and diaphoresis. Each SBT result will be used to check for extubation readiness.

      In both groups patients are extubated if standard extubation criteria are fulfilled, i.e.,
      normal body temperature, patient awake and responsive/cooperative, adequate cough reflex,
      adequate oxygenation and hemodynamically stable.
    
  