
    
      For 6 months, eligible subjects will engage in twice-weekly karate classes, specifically
      designed for individuals with early to middle stage PD, focused on incorporating upper and
      lower limb movements in multiple directions, increasing awareness throughout the body,
      shifting body weight and rotation, relaxation of the muscles, improving reaction time, using
      complex repetitive actions to improve coordination, footwork training and centered weight
      shifts to help with fall prevention, and striking shields for self-defense and stress relief.

      Due to both the capacity of the karate classes and the scientific approach to detecting
      changes in PD, subjects will be randomly assigned into either Arm 1: immediate participation
      in the karate class or Arm 2: participation in usual exercise for six months followed by
      karate classes for six months. For participants in Arm 1, following the first six months of
      classes, subjects may choose to continue their participation in karate and in the study,
      though this will require paying membership fees at the karate studio. For participants in Arm
      2, following the first six months of usual exercise, participants will then begin 6 months of
      twice-weekly classes.

      Before beginning the karate classes, each subject will attend a pre-intervention study visit
      during which subjects will complete assessments focused on overall mobility, gait, balance,
      mood, and quality of life. Subjects will receive a one-time, in-person training in best
      practices for exercise in PD. Also subjects will be prompted to share their expectations and
      goals for the karate classes.

      All participants in both arms will receive a personalized email every two months directing
      them to indicate how frequently they attended karate classes or engaged in exercise, and they
      will complete assessments of mood and quality of life.

      Following six months of classes for Arm 1, and six months of usual exercise for Arm 2,
      subjects will meet with the study team to complete assessments of mobility, gait, balance,
      mood, and quality of life. Arm 1 will participate in a focus group to review initial
      expectations and goals for the class.

      The 12-month study visit will occur once Arm 1 and Arm 2 have completed the intervention. The
      assessments from the pre-intervention and 6-month study visit will be repeated. Subjects will
      participate in a focus group to share their thoughts on whether they would recommend the
      classes and how to improve the overall experience.
    
  