
    
      The problem:

      Snakebite is a neglected disease of the poor in India. Nearly 50,000 individuals die of snake
      bite every year in the country, making it the region with most number of snakebite related
      deaths in the world.

      Snakebite though is one of the leading cause of mortality and morbidity globally, it is in
      fact a "local" problem which warrants a regionalized approach. The venom characteristics of
      snakes and their response to treatment vary across geographical regions, even within the same
      species.

      Therefore the venom sourcing for antivenom production, to clinical characterization of
      snakebites needs to be regionalized.

      Clinical profiling of snakebite has been done in many observational studies across the region
      but a comprehensive prospective regional profiling of laboratory parameters including the
      global assays have not been done to date.

      The health care in India is mostly out of one's own pocket, and the victims are of the lower
      socio economic strata the health care costs are seldom affordable. Research in the field is
      also sparse due to lack of funding for the same. The investigators through this research aim
      to study the clinical and laboratory profile of snakebite victims presenting to a tertiary
      care snakebite treatment centre in central Kerala and the role of global coagulation assays
      in the management of the same.

      How does the research question addresses the problem?

      Once answered, the research question, would provide a better understanding of the hematotoxic
      snakebite in the region.

      It could aid in better patient care strategies, including possible determination of a better
      test for coagulopathy, judicious antivenom and blood product usage.

      Its relevance in local, national and international context:.

      Local relevance:

      Snakebite being region specific warrants a region specific approach to the problem. Venomous
      species like Humpnosed pit viper (Hypnale hypnale) envenomation which is the second most
      common snakebite (first being Daboia russelli ) in the region is a serious problem that needs
      better understanding.

      National relevance:

      This would be a model which can be replicated in selected tertiary care snakebite centers
      across the country. Answering these research questions across the country would lead to
      better understanding of coagulopathy in snakebite, its response to antivenom and blood
      products in India.

      It may also lead to quantifying the need for region specific antivenom in the country.

      No Indian study has systematically examined the changes in early laboratory tests results in
      envenomed and non envenomed snakebite victims to date.

      With the exception of a few case reports there has been no studies that has looked at the
      performance of global coagulation assays in the country.

      International context:

      The country that becomes the largest contributor of global burden of snake bite in terms of
      mortality is India.

      This model if applicable in India, should be replicable elsewhere too. Ten years back, the
      investigators would not have been able to envision this study, since the understanding of the
      process of snake bite related coagulopathy was limited, and it was national projects like the
      Australian snake bite project implemented elsewhere that form the basis for the current
      understanding of the problem of snakebite.

      In the international context many other low and middle income countries that are burdened by
      snake bites would benefit from any result in terms of a better bedside coagulation test (like
      CWA or MLW) or a cheaper blood indices (DNI) to prognosticate snake envenomation.

      The understanding of coagulopathy in snakebite is now changing. Conventionally, although this
      coagulopathy is likened to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), in the recent years,
      it has been described as venom-induced consumptive coagulopathy (VICC).

      VICC defers from DIC in its rapidity of both onset and resolution. It used to be compared to
      Disseminated Intravascular Coagulation, but now the understanding of the same is changing and
      more recently the term VICC- Venom induced consumptive coagulopathy has been introduced. The
      snake venom in India are known to contain Factor V activators (D russelli), Factor X
      activators (D russelli), prothrombin activators (PTA) (Echis sp.), thrombin like enzymes
      (TLE) and fibrinogenases (Trimeresurus sp,. Hypnale hypnale). The above mentioned findings
      are mostly from studies in Srilanka, with assays done in samples frozen and sent to
      Australia, by the same team of investigators.

      There are not many properly conducted study from any region of India that helps understand
      the pathophysiology better.
    
  