
    
      Rationale & background information

      Transcutaneous Electric Nervous Stimulation (TENS) is extensively used for pain relief.
      Notably, Ultra Low Frequency TENS (ULF-TENS) has been used both in research and in dentistry
      as a reliable tool for the diagnosis and treatment of temporomandibular disorders (TMD).

      The mechanism of action of TENS has been widely investigated and involves local and systemic
      effects. In particular, experiments using animal models have shown systemic action trough
      involvement of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Endogenous opioid and descending pain
      modulatory systems are thought to be involved in central activation during TENS stimulation.
      In particular, pain modulation occurs via endogenous opioids and affects the periaqueductal
      gray (PAG) and rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) brain regions. The PAG provides a
      neuroanatomical and neuro-functional substrate to couple cortical outflow with the adequate
      autonomic response.

      To study ANS activity and responses during conditions of rest and stress, heart rate
      variability (HRV) and breathing rate (BR) are traditionally used in experiments due to their
      repeatability and reliability. To study TENS effects on the autonomic nervous system, HRV has
      been used; however, pupillometry, skin conductance, blood flow and skin temperature, are also
      reliable indicators that have been used to study ANS.

      Data supports the hypothesis that TENS could act on peripheral autonomic effectors via
      sympathovagal balance and PAG-opioid activity. Moreover, it has been suggested that PAG
      participates in the medial viscero-motor network that represents the link between emotional
      and cognitive functions managed by autonomic support. In particular, these neuro-connections
      is successfully investigated by the use of HRV.

      The goal of the present study is to investigate the effects of TENS stimulation on peripheral
      autonomic behavior during ULF-TENS stimulation. It is hypothesized that TENS reduces the
      peripheral autonomic indexes.

      Study goals and objectives

      The goal of the present proposal is to investigate ANS effects of ULF-TENS stimulation in
      patients with and without TMD conducting an observational RTC. The enrolled subject (with and
      without TMD) will be randomly assigned to case and control groups. The case group will
      receive a total of 40 minutes of TENS stimulation, whereas control group will not. ANS of
      both groups will be investigated by ANS polygraph and by the use of serum/saliva biomarkers
      such as:

        -  Total antioxidant capacity (TAC)

        -  Total pro-oxidant activity (TPA)

        -  Noradrenaline

        -  Alpha-amylase.

      Methodology • Autonomic data collection

      Autonomic data collection will be performed between 9 a.m. and 12 p.m. and with the subjects
      will stay in a horizontal supine position on a medical bed. Room temperature (21°C), lighting
      (3200 K; 500 lx according to Uni En 12464), and relative humidity (50%) will be controlled.
      External and internal noise sources will be excluded. Before recording sessions, patients
      will be encouraged to urinate and then will be requested to lie on the medical bed for
      clinical examination with their eyes open for at least 10 minutes to adapt to the room
      temperature and humidity and also to reduce their anxiety. During this time, the autonomic
      sensors will be applied and connected to the polygraph. After connection, subjects will be
      asked to close their eyes and to maintain their position until the end of the recording
      session. During the entire recording session, data collection will be obtained from each
      subject using an 8-channel digital polygraph (Procomp Infinity,Thought Technology Ltd,
      Montreal, Canada).

      • HRV collection and analysis

      A three electrode (left shoulder, right shoulder and abdomen) electrocardiogram (ECG) will be
      recorded at a sampling rate of 2048 Hz. Artifacts and heartbeats that will not be generated
      by sinus node depolarization will be manually edited by an ECG expert who is blinded about
      the study aims, protocol, and experimental paradigm. Inter beat intervals (IBI) will be
      automatically calculated from recurrence rate (RR) intervals. Spectral analysis will be
      carried out using a fast Fourier transform to generate the heart period power spectrum. The
      heart rate (HR) parameters used were automatically elaborated and included the following:
      Heart rate (HR); High frequency band (0.15-0.4 Hz, HF n.u.); Low frequency band (0.04-0.15
      Hz, LF n.u.); LF/HF ratio, Root Mean Square Standard Deviation (RMSSD); Percentage of the
      normal sinus-initiates IBI (pNN50); Determinism (DET); and RR.

      • Respiratory rate measurement

      Respiratory rate measurement will be obtained by a strain gauge worn by the subjects at the
      tenth rib and will be connected to the polygraph. The rate sampling is 24 Hz. The two
      highest, subsequent strain values will be used to define the breath frequency rate.

      • Surface Electromyography

      Surface Electromyography (sEMG) will be recorded through one channel that is sampled at 2048
      Hz using a bipolar electrode (Myotronics-Noromed, Inc., Tukwila, WA, USA). The bipolar
      electrode will be positioned on the skin over the suprahyoid muscle to precisely detect the
      start and end of TENS and to detect the numbering tasks, thus allowing the correct selection
      of study epochs.

      • TENS procedure

      The method for sensory TENS was described previously. Briefly, a J5 Myomonitor TENS Unit
      device (Myotronics-Noromed, Inc., Tukwila, WA, USA) with disposable electrodes (Myotrode SG
      Electrodes, Myotronics-Noromed, Inc., Tukwila, WA, USA) will be used. This low-frequency
      neurostimulator generates a repetitive synchronous and bilateral stimulus delivered at 1.5 s
      intervals. The stimulus has adjustable amplitude of approximately 0-24 mA, duration of 500
      μs, and frequency of 0.66 Hz. Two TENS electrodes will be placed bilaterally over the
      cutaneous projection of the notch of the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which is located
      between the coronoid and condylar processes and will be retrieved by manual palpation of the
      zone anterior to the tragus. Additionally, a third grounding electrode will be placed in the
      center of the back of the neck. The amplitude of TENS stimulation started at 0 mA, with the
      stimulator turned on and the rheostat, which controls the amplitude, positioned at 0. The
      amplitude of stimulation will be progressively increased at a rate of 0.6 mA/s until the
      patients reported a pricking sensation. The duration of each stimulation will be 40 minutes.
      Particular attention will be paid to avoid reaching the threshold of motor stimulation; if
      any movement of the investigated muscles will be observed, the amplitude of stimulation will
      be immediately reduced.

      The same operator (RC) will apply the polygraph and will deliver the TENS, and both will be
      performed according to the manufacturer's guidelines.

      • Recording procedure

      Test and control subjects will naive to the trial protocol and will gone identical polygraph
      and TENS connection procedures. The control group will be connected to the TENS stimulation
      device in a manner identical to the test subject group; however, in the control group, the
      TENS stimulation device will remain off.

      Study experimental protocol. The study subject will entry the experiment room, and TENS, EEG
      and EMG electrodes will be placed and will be tested before starting the session. TENS and
      ANS polygraphs will be tested and setup for the experiment. Then, the patient will be placed
      on the medical bed with their eyes open to allow for room acclimation. After 10' of room
      acclimation, the ANS recording session will start. The first 3' will be dedicated to
      adaptation and software setup; then, ANS data will be recorded for 5' (basal). At this point,
      the test group (represented by red rectangles) will receive sensorial TENS, whereas the
      control group (represented by blue rectangles) will not. TENS stimulation will be
      administered for 40' in total, allowing 1' for adaptation and 39' of useful recording time
      (T1). The end of TENS stimulation will be followed by 1' of recovery. Finally, the effects of
      ULF-TENS will be recorded for 5' (recovery). At each phase (Basal, T1, Recovery) serum and
      saliva will be sampled using a glycemic stick technique and sterile tubes.

        -  Serum and saliva analysis

      All collected samples from saliva and serum will be analyzed simultaneously by the use of
      specific ELISA kits.

      Safety Considerations

      All the used electrical devices that will be employed with patients are conformity to ISO
      13485 and European guideline in medical safety 93/42/CEE.

      All samples will be stored in a refrigerator key locked under the jurisdiction of Prof
      Annalisa Monaco under the MeSVA unit.

      The study database will be designed and created throughout the project year 1. Due to data
      safety reasons and to comply with the data privacy protection, the personal data of every
      patient will be pseudonymized. This ensures the strictly split between the personal data and
      patient-related dataset (trial data).The Remote Data Entry (RDE) system generates
      automatically a pseudonym for every new patient. The pseudonym will be a combination of six
      alphanumeric characters. All trial data of the patient will be linked with this pseudonym.
      Personal data of the patient will not be saved in the trial database at any time. Data
      required for the analysis will be acquired and transferred electronically to a central
      database at Dental Unit MeSVA department. This system allows the documentation of study data
      on electronic case report form (eCRF). Study data will be entered online direct by the sites.
      The access to the eCRF requires the authentication by the study participants. All access
      rights (read or enter data) will be defined depending on their function in the study
      (Principle, clinical investigator, CRA, etc.). At the end of the study the data will be
      exported from the database.The study data will be prepared for the statistical analysis. This
      data management process contains the plausibility, consistency, identification of missing
      data and range checks of the data. Information of missing data will be given to the
      respective study centre for possible completion or explanation of missing data.

      Statistical analysis of outcome measures

      Statistical analysis of outcome measures, in dependence of scale level and distribution,
      according the post-hoc power-calculation will be performed. The statistical power of
      comparisons between cases and controls are evaluated. Difference in mean will be detected
      with level of significance 5%. In addition an alpha-adjustment for the entirety of all tests
      is planned. Also 95% confidence intervals will be calculated. Descriptives for all primary
      and secondary clinical, demographic and safety parameters will include absolute and relative
      frequencies for categorial variables and mean, standard deviation, median, and range for
      quantitative measurements, according the statistical analysis plan (SAP).

      Additional subgroup analyses are planned. Controlling for potential confounders will
      performed by using multiple statistical models adjusting for these variables. The
      power-calculations and statistical analysis will be performed by Pietropaoli Davide using R
      and STATA.

      Identification of influencing factors and confounders

      95% confidence intervals will be calculated. Descriptives for all primary and secondary
      clinical, demographic and safety parameters will include absolute and relative frequencies
      for categorial variables and mean, standard deviation, median, and range for quantitative
      measurements, according the statistical analysis plan (SAP). Additional subgroup analyses are
      planned. Controlling for potential confounders will performed by using multiple statistical
      models adjusting for these variables.
    
  