
    
      Despite advances in neuroendovascular techniques, several complications can occur by brain
      urgery. Therefore, for neurosurgeons and anesthesiologists, it is a major concern to describe
      and monitor surgical lesion for maintaining structural and functional integrity as well as
      achieving maximal cytoreduction in lesion, and modifying the management of patients on the
      process of surgery. For example, microvascular Doppler sonography, indocyanine green
      aniography, intraoperative digital subtraction angiography, and intraoperative
      neurophysiologic monitoring (IONM) are used for this purpose.

      The incidence of unpredictable and unacceptable movement is relative low. However, the
      results are so horrendous that they can cause injuries in site of rigid pin fixation of the
      head, cervical spine injuries, excessive surgical field movement, and deterioration of
      surgical outcome. However, risk factors associated with unpredictable and unacceptable
      movement remain unclear. Therefore, the aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate risk
      factors associated with unpredictable and unacceptable movement in the patients who underwent
      brain surgery with MEP monitoring under general anesthesia while using neuromuscular blocking
      agent.

      The investigators recorded demographic data including age in years, sex, height in meters,
      weight in kilograms, body mass index (BMI in kg/m^2), ASA physical status class, diagnosed
      disease, performed surgical procedure, duration of anesthesia in minutes, duration of surgery
      in minutes, underlying disease (e.g. hypertension, diabetes, neurologic disease, respiratory
      disease), medications. Laboratory data was also collected including arterial blood gas
      analysis, hematocrit, hemoglobin, sodium, potassium, ionized calcium, ionized magnesium, and
      lactate. Unpredictable and unacceptable movement was defined as either the dangerous gross
      movement requiring the increase the continuous infusion rate of rocuronium in view of the
      surgeon, anesthesiologist, and neurophysiologic specialist or the shake of the surgical field
      requiring the increase the continuous infusion rate of rocuronium.
    
  