
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the objective intracranial response rate of the combination of bevacizumab
      and atezolizumab in patients with active melanoma brain metastases (MBM) as measured by a
      modified immunotherapy Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology (iRANO) criteria measured by
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain.

      II. To assess the safety, tolerability, and preliminary efficacy of the triplet combination
      of atezolizumab (Tencentriq), bevacizumab (Avastin), and cobimetinib (Cotellic). (TACo)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Safety and tolerability of bevacizumab + atezolizumab. II. Safety and tolerability of the
      combination of atezolizumab + bevacizumab + cobimetinib in patients with BRAFV600 wild-type
      metastatic melanoma to the brain who've experienced prior progression on anti-PD1.

      III. Overall response rates (intracranial + extracranial) using a modified version of iRANO
      and compared to modified Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1
      and Response Assessment in Neuro-oncology - Brain Metastases (RANO-BM).

      IV. Duration of response intracranially and extracranially. V. Progression-free survival. VI.
      Overall survival. VII. Immune modulation. VIII. Changes in circulating cell free
      deoxyribonucleic acid (cfDNA) as determinants of response and markers of early progression.

      IX. Changes in relative apparent diffusion coefficient as measured by MRI as early predictor
      of response.

      X. Changes in neurocognitive function and health-related quality of life. XI. Molecular and
      immunological changes demonstrated in extracranial lesions.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive atezolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30-60 minutes and bevacizumab IV
      over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 14 days in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive atezolizumab IV over 30-60 minutes and bevacizumab IV over 30-90
      minutes on day 1. Cycles with atezolizumab and bevacizumab repeat every 14 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive cobimetinib
      orally (PO) thrice daily (TID) on days 1-21. Cycles with cobimetinib repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 90 days and then every 3
      months thereafter.
    
  