
    
      Patients and caregivers undergoing hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT) are at
      particular risk for reduced psychological and social well-being due to the rigorous and
      unique nature of the transplant experience, such as prolonged immunosuppression and multiple
      post HCT complications resulting in frequent hospitalizations. However, few studies have
      evaluated interventions to alleviate psychosocial distress for both patients and caregivers,
      and those have yielded inconclusive results. A narrative-based (storytelling) approach may be
      an effective intervention tool for HCT patients and caregivers coping with psychosocial
      distress. The preliminary data show that stories shared by individuals in which a range of
      emotional expression or resolutions are described, may have beneficial effects on emotional
      well-being. In a recent pilot study of a 3-day digital storytelling workshop, investigators
      produced a series of digital videos with narratives from a panel of post-HCT patients. The
      purpose of this study is to use these digital stories (DS), to be viewed and discussed by HCT
      patient/caregiver dyads, as a therapeutic intervention and to examine influences on both
      patients' and caregivers' psychosocial status. This cost-effective, non-invasive, and
      easy-to-deliver psychosocial support vehicle has never been formally tested as an
      intervention for HCT patients or patient-caregiver dyads.

      To build upon investigators' preliminary studies and to pilot test the efficacy of this
      series of DS, 110 adult patients undergoing HCT at the Mayo Clinic Arizona and patient
      respective adult caregivers (N=220 total participants) will be randomized to either (a) an
      intervention using DS (dyadic exposure to four 5-minute modules) or (b) an information
      control (IC) video group (dyadic exposure to four videos containing only information about
      post-HCT care) followed by encouragement to discuss as a dyad. Exposure will occur once per
      week over 4 weeks via a secure web-based data collection platform (REDcap) with a weekly
      email notification and reminder phone call. Using investigator's model of Narrative Effects
      on Socio-Emotional Well-Being, we will also examine expected mediating factors to determine
      how stories may "work" to reduce psychosocial distress by fostering emotional processing,
      acceptance, and dyadic disclosure of emotions.
    
  