
    
      Gastric cancer is one of the most frequent cancer types in Taiwan. Advanced gastric cancer is
      incurable. Although chemotherapy can improve survival and maintain quality of life for
      patients with advanced gastric cancer, optimal chemotherapy for this disease has not been
      defined.

      Cytotoxic agents commonly used in this disease include platinum compounds, fluoropyrimidines
      and taxanes. A phase III (V325) study showed that adding docetaxel to cisplatin and 5-FU
      (TCF) improved response rates, progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS).
      Although the TCF regimen improved clinical outcomes, it was associated with substantial
      toxicity particularly that related to myelosuppression, with a 29% incidence of febrile
      neutropenia or neutropenic infection1. Several modifications to the TCF regimen have been
      made to maintain efficacy and reduce toxicity.

      Cunningham et al. evaluated the impact of substituting oxaliplatin for cisplatin and
      capecitabine for 5-FU in the epirubicin, cisplatin, and 5-FU (ECF) regimen. Oxaliplatin as
      compared with cisplatin demonstrated comparable efficacy, with a lower incidence of
      myelosuppression, thromboembolic complications, and nephrotoxicity. The combination of
      docetaxel and oxaliplatin has been evaluated in gastric cancer with moderate activities in
      four phase II trials.

      A different way of including all active agents in the first line treatment of advanced
      gastric cancer is to use them sequentially. Sequential schedules may maximize the
      dose-intensity of each single agent and avoid the overlapping toxicity caused by the
      concomitant administration of active drugs. Two studies using sequential strategy to treat
      advanced gastric cancer were reported.7-8 One used docetaxel after PELF regimen, the other
      used cisplatin plus 5-Fluorouracil / leucovorin (5-FU/LV) followed by irinotecan plus
      5-FU/LV, followed by docetaxel plus 5-FU/LV. Both studies shown that sequential approach
      produced a good treatment efficacy with manageable toxicities in the management of advanced
      gastric cancer.

      In our hospital, we had completed two phase II studies in advanced gastric cancer, including
      XELOX (capecitabine plus oxaliplatin) and a modified TCF regimen (docetaxel plus cisplatin
      and oral tegafur/uracil plus leucovorin). After analyzing these results, the median time to
      response, time to progression and overall survival were around 3, 6, and 10 months,
      respectively. Overall response rate was around 50% for each.

      Based on the above considerations and our previous experiences, we hence initiate this phase
      II study to evaluate the feasibility and the anti-tumor activity of a new strategy consists
      of two sequential regimens involving XELOX and TX in unresectable gastric cancer.
    
  