
    
      Cystic fibrosis (CF), a common, genetically inherited disease, is caused by mutations in the
      cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene. This gene encodes the CFTR
      protein, which is expressed on the apical surface of epithelial cells, and which has many
      functions, the most important of which is thought to be ion transport. Abnormal ion transport
      leads to thick secretions in the airways, infection, inflammation and eventually irreversible
      lung damage. There is currently no treatment that halts the natural progression of the
      disease; all available successful therapies merely slow the rate of decline in clinical
      condition.

      To date, no viral gene transfer agents retain efficacy upon repeated administration. Our
      study will assess the safety and efficacy of a lipid-mediated vector harbouring a normal CFTR
      gene in repeated nebulised administrations. We have completed a single dose safety study
      which evaluated the safety and gene expression of a single dose of pGM169/GL67A administered
      to the nose and lung of individuals with cystic fibrosis.

      This trial is will randomise 130-patients to receive either a gene product
      (pGM169/GL67A)encoding for CFTR or placebo in a double-blinded fashion. All subjects will
      receive 12 doses of nebulised gene therapy at intervals of 4 weeks over a 48 week period.
      After dose 12 there will be 2 formal follow up visits, at 14 and 28 days post-dose. In
      addition, patients will be followed up long-term.

      Subgroups of patients will be enrolled for gene expression measurement in both nose (at least
      n=20) and lower airway via bronchoscopy (at least n=20).

      The primary outcome of the trial is to evaluate the relative change in predicted Forced
      Expiratory Volume in 1-second (FEV1) after 12-doses. Secondary outcome measures will assess
      the efficacy of the gene product (by assessment of patients' physiological function,
      serological indices, radiological appearances of the lungs and self-reported assessment of
      quality of life), on the degree of gene expression and on the product safely.
    
  