
    
      Wrist fractures are one of the most common fractures encountered in the Emergency Department
      (ED). These injuries most frequently happen in people who have fallen onto an outstretched
      hand and can result in deformity ('displacement') of the broken bone. These 'displaced'
      (Colles' types of distal radial) fractures can result in long term deformity and problems
      using the wrist. To prevent this, patients with displaced fractures often undergo
      manipulation of their fractures, to straighten the wrist, using local anaesthetic or sedation
      techniques in ED before a plaster cast is applied.

      Unfortunately, if ED fracture manipulation is inadequate or the position later 'slips', which
      can occur in the first 1-2 weeks even in cast, then the patient will need to be admitted to
      hospital for surgical fixation. Local audit data suggests this affects up to a third of these
      patients and is a significant additional social and economic burden for patients and
      healthcare services.

      Reducing these fractures as precisely as possible might reduce the subsequent need for
      surgery. However, ED fracture manipulations are typically done 'blind' with check x-rays
      after casting, making re-manipulation time consuming with prolonged local anaesthetic times
      or need for re-sedation. Portable, bedside ultrasound is available in most departments and
      has been used to guide fracture reduction but it is not known how effective this is nor is it
      in routine use. Providing this evidence would require a large, multi-centre randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) trial.

      This project aims to determine whether such a trial comparing current practice with
      ultrasound guided reductions is justified and feasible. This will be done by running a
      feasibility RCT across two United Kingdom (UK) hospital sites to assess recruitment rates and
      trial procedures. The investigators hope to recruit about 60 patients in 6 months. This trial
      will include adults' aged 18 years and older, with Colles' type of distal radial fractures
      requiring manipulation in ED.
    
  