
    
      SALOME is two-stage single centre (Vancouver) phase III, randomized, double blind controlled
      trial involving a total of 202 individuals with chronic opioid-dependence who are not
      benefiting currently from conventional therapies.

      Objectives:

      The general objectives of this study are to determine whether 1) the closely supervised
      provision of injectable, hydromorphone is as effective as injectable diacetylmorphine in
      recruiting, retaining, and benefiting chronic, multi-morbid opioid-dependent individuals who
      have not benefited sufficient from conventional treatments, and 2) if the switch to the oral
      equivalent of hydromorphone and diacetylmorphine after six-months is as effective as the
      injection form.

      Secondary outcomes will be evaluated looking at the benefits for the drug users and society
      of each form of treatment including health status, treatment retention, use of additional
      methadone, cocaine use and criminal involvement.

      Randomization and Treatment Arms:

      Stage I: Half of the 202 participants will be randomized to receive injectable
      diacetylmorphine, and the other half will receive injectable hydromorphone. Stage I will
      involve 6-months of treatment and the primary outcome will be change in illicit heroin use in
      the prior 30 days at 6 months.

      Stage II: All volunteers retained in injection treatment at the end of Stage I will be
      eligible to enter Stage II Half the participants will then be randomized to continue
      injection treatment exactly as in Stage I on a blinded basis while the other half will switch
      to the oral equivalent of the same medication (diacetylmorphine or hydromorphone). Stage II
      will involve 6-months of treatment and the primary outcome will be illicit heroin use in the
      prior 30 days at 6 months after randomization into Stage II.

      Individuals completing Stage I will be eligible for Stage II provided they are still
      receiving injection medication at the treatment clinic. Participants will be excluded from
      Stage II if they meet any of the exclusion criteria above which may have changed since entry
      into Stage I. Patients who switch completely to other treatments or abstinence during Stage I
      will not be randomized to Stage II.

      Given that at the present time DAM is not a licensed drug in Canada and HDM for substitution
      treatment can only be provided as a drug under investigation, at the end of the second study
      phase patients cannot longer receive these medications. Thus, study treatments will be
      provided for 12 months followed by a period of up to 1-month during which participants still
      being treated with DAM or HDM will be tapered and transitioned to conventional therapies such
      as methadone. From the end of phase two and transitioning period (12 to 13 months) to the
      next follow-up evaluation (18 month) participants might be receiving Methadone Maintenance
      Therapy (MMT), engaged in other addiction treatment, abstinent or untreated, using illicit
      opioids. The 6 and 12-month study visit at which the primary outcome measures will be
      assessed will be conducted before any tapering or transition began.

      Outcomes and follow-up:

      Patients will have research assessments performed during the pre-randomization period, at
      baseline, and at 3, 6, 9, 12, 18 and 24 months following initial randomization The primary
      outcome measure (POM) for both Stages I and II will be change in illicit heroin use defined
      as the number of days of illicit ("street") heroin in the prior 30 days of each endpoint (6
      months-Stage I, 12 months-Stage II) by means of self report.

      Secondary outcome measures will include health status, safety of the study treatments,
      treatment retention, use of additional methadone, cocaine use, urinalysis, criminal
      involvement, gender, ethnicity and victimization, health economics and quality of life and an
      evaluation of the study blinding.

      All self-reported outcomes data collection with the study participants will occur in a
      face-to-face, fully confidential interview setting at the research centre. The interviews
      will be conducted by trained field research interviewers, who are not part of the clinical
      treatment team, using standardized instruments. These include: Baseline and follow-up
      European version of the Addiction Severity Index (EuropASI); EQ-5D (EuroQoL) Opioid Treatment
      Index (OTI); SCLR-90; WHO Disability Assessment Schedule II (WHO-DAS II); Maudsley Addiction
      Profile (MAP); Fagerstrom; Health Utilities Index (HUI) as well as Baseline and Follow-up
      Socio-Demographic questionnaires. The study blinding will be evaluated by a blinding
      evaluation instrument which follows best practices and current recommendations for evaluating
      blinding in randomized controlled trials.
    
  