
    
      Since basiliximab works on the same receptor system as tacrolimus and has not been shown to
      cause significant adverse effects, such as nephrotoxicity or the cytokine release syndrome,
      the investigators are proposing induction therapy with basiliximab in liver transplant
      patients with concomitant preoperative renal dysfunction. This will combat acute rejection
      and allow the delay of tacrolimus therapy until post-operative day #7. The delay in
      tacrolimus therapy should allow renal function to improve and reduce the chance of continued
      renal dysfunction. Also, the addition of basiliximab to the immunosuppressive regimen should
      allow for a reduction in tacrolimus dose (normal tacrolimus concentrations at UCLA are
      7-10ng/mL. Our goal will be 3-5ng/mL) in the immediate post-transplant period thereby
      reducing the chance of acute and long-term efficacy-limiting adverse effects associated with
      the tacrolimus while maintaining adequate immunosuppression to reduce acute rejection
      episodes. This would be the most convincing prospective randomized study utilizing
      basiliximab as a renal sparing agent in liver transplantation.

      Objectives Primary objectives

      • To evaluate renal recovery/ function following OLT in patients undergoing orthotopic liver
      transplant at 6 and 12 months post-transplant.

      Secondary objectives (comparing the two treatment arms)

        -  To determine the tolerability and adverse event profile during the first year
           post-transplant.

        -  To determine incidence and severity acute rejection episodes

        -  To determine the incidence of death and/or graft failure within the first year
           post-transplant

      Study design The study is a single center prospective randomized trial wherein the
      investigators will have two groups. Patients will be screened and eligible patients will be
      enrolled pre-transplant. Patients will then be randomized at time of transplant to either the
      control or treatment arm. Post transplant laboratory data (chemistry, tacrolimus level and
      liver function tests) will be collected on a daily basis. For the duration of the patients'
      hospital stay (average 2-3 weeks). This will provide the early data set for early post
      operative results. Patients will subsequently be followed on a weekly outpatient basis upon
      discharge as per protocol. During these visits, laboratory data (chemistry, tacrolimus level
      and liver function tests) are also collected and will provide the continued flow of data for
      our follow up analysis. Any evidence of rejection will prompt treatment with rescue therapy
      and if necessary disenrollment from the study.

      Study Population

      In a 1:1 fashion, 60 patients (inpatients and outpatients) meeting preset criteria awaiting
      liver transplantation will be randomized at UCLA Medical Center as part of this exploratory
      study. Each patient will be followed for 1 year post-transplant.

      Patients may be consented up to 30 days prior to transplantation. Patients can be screened
      for the study from 7 days prior to transplantation to 7 days prior randomization. Patients
      will be evaluated based on inclusion exclusion criteria depicted in the study protocol and
      will be assigned a patient number if eligible for study entry. Patient must meet all the
      inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria on the day of study entry.

      Clinical Assessments

        -  Weight, height and blood pressure (in sitting position after 5 minutes)

        -  Concomitant medications

        -  Pre-existing clinical conditions

        -  Laboratory evaluations (Appendix 2):

        -  Complete blood count (CBC)

        -  Chemistry Panel: glucose, Na, K, Cl, carbon dioxide (CO2), Ca, P, Mg, blood urea
           nitrogen (BUN), albumin and total protein, and serum creatinine

        -  Hepatic Profile: aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT),
           bilirubin (total direct), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH)

        -  Urinary protein and creatinine concentration

        -  Calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) by Modification of Diet in Renal Disease
           (MDRD) (Appendix 1)

        -  Pregnancy test (serum beta- human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG) sensitivity must be equal
           to 50 milli-International unit (mIU)/ millilitre (mL)), will be documented within 7 days
           prior to randomization

        -  Lipid Panel

      Inclusion criteria

      Patients eligible for inclusion in this study have to fulfill all of the following criteria:

        -  > 18 years old

        -  Undergoing first or second OLT

        -  Meld score >25

        -  Serum creatinine >1.5 or ongoing hemodialysis for less than 4 weeks at the time of
           transplant

        -  Able and agreeable to conform to requirements of the study

        -  Patients or proxy must give written informed consent before any assessment is performed.

      Exclusion criteria

        -  <18 years old

        -  Serum creatinine <1.5

        -  MELD Score < 25

        -  Ongoing hemodialysis for 4 or more weeks (those patients become eligible for renal
           transplants at that point per UCLA practice).

        -  Receiving Muromonab-cluster of differentiation 3 (OKT3), antithymocyte globulin (ATG),
           or intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) therapy around time of transplant

        -  Participating in another clinical research study involving the evaluation of another
           investigational drug or device

        -  Prior documented allergy to any of the study medications

        -  Active Fungal infection

      Treatment Investigational and control drugs

      Investigational drug, Basiliximab will be the investigational drug supplied by Novartis in 20
      mg vials

      Control drugs, Mycophenolate/ Mycophenolic acid delayed release (will be provided by Novartis
      in 360 mg tablets) / Tacrolimus/ corticosteroids will be used in both arms as control drugs.
      For subjects unable to tolerate po medications, mycophenolate mofetil oral suspension will be
      supplied from regular commercial supply to be administered via nasogastric tube.

      Treatment arms Patients will be assigned to one of the following 2 treatment arms in a ratio
      of 1:1

      Adverse events Subjects will be carefully monitored for adverse events. This monitoring
      includes clinical Laboratory tests. Adverse events will be assessed on a daily basis
      according to clinical practice. Adverse event will be assessed in terms in terms of
      seriousness, severity, and relationship to the study drugs. All unexpected or severe adverse
      events will be reviewed by the Principle Investigator. The PI will also continuously monitor
      the number of patients at each respective follow-up period and perform the required toxicity
      evaluation intervals to assure the conduct of the trial complies with protocol design. Study
      conduct and timeliness and accuracy of data will be monitored regularly for the first 12
      patients of the trial. The PI will submit appropriate safety reports as needed throughout the
      study period.

      Data review and database management Data collection Data will be collected per study protocol
      and prospectively recorded in the case report form (CRF) by the study coordinator. The
      principle investigator will oversee this process.

      Database management and quality control The study coordinator will be responsible for all
      data management/accuracy under the supervision of the principle investigator.

      Data analysis (Any or all sections may be included based on type of study) Populations for
      analysis All patients consented and enrolled will be analyzed.

      Patient demographics/other baseline characteristics No specific patient demographics aside
      from inclusion/exclusion criteria

      Treatments (study drug, rescue medication, other concomitant therapies, compliance) Study
      coordinator will conduct pill counts on return visits to clinic to ascertain compliance after
      discharge.

      Analysis of the primary objective(s)

      Variable The primary efficacy endpoint is renal function measured by epidermal growth factor
      receptor (eGFR) as calculated using abbreviated MDRD-4 formula at 6 and 12 months
      post-transplantation.

      Statistical analysis:

      Baseline comparisons - The investigators will confirm that the randomization was successful
      by comparing potential predictors such as baseline age, hepatitis C (HCV) status (yes/no),
      baseline MELD score, pre transplant dialysis duration, and bypass (yes/no) status between the
      two arms. The investigators will also compare gender and ethnicity. If any important
      potential confounder is clinically different or beyond chance different (statistically
      significant) between the two groups, it will be considered for use in adjustment as described
      below.

      Primary outcomes - Renal function

      The investigators will use a repeated measure analysis of variance model on the original or
      transformed (possibly log) scale or the non parametric analog (Friedman procedure) to compare
      mean/median profiles of the continuous kidney function outcomes (GRR, serum Cr, Cr clearance,
      time on dialysis) between the two groups over time. The investigators will report the
      mean/median absolute values as well as the absolute and percent change from baseline over
      time in both groups.

      While they anticipate the randomization to be successful, if needed the investigators will
      extend this repeated measure model to a general regression model with random patient effects
      (mixed model) using the confounders as covariates. Alternately, if a convenient regression
      model cannot be identified, they will create adjustment strata based on the confounders and
      compute stratum adjusted means/medians. The investigators will report both the unadjusted and
      covariate adjusted values as necessary.

      Secondary outcomes - Time to event

      The investigators will use Kaplan-Meier methods and the corresponding log rank test to
      compare time to event curves for time to first acute graft rejection (ie percent rejection
      free) as well as patient and graft survival. The investigators will use the Cox proportional
      hazard model, if needed, to adjust for covariates that are different between the two arms.
      The investigators will carry out a similar analysis for cluster of differentiation 25 (CD25)
      levels on the appropriate scale.

      Adverse events - The investigators will report the proportion and severity of patients with
      adverse events over time and score them as none, mild, moderate or severe (0-3). The
      investigators will use the non parametric Freedman methods to compare the score distributions
      between groups across time.

      Dropouts - The investigators do not anticipate more than 5% dropouts at most. However, they
      will compare baseline variables such as age and MELD score to determine if the dropping out
      is at random and is comparable between the two groups. If not, they will comment on the
      direction of any possible bias. The maximum likelihood repeated measure model above gives
      unbiased estimates with the correct standard errors if the dropouts are at random.

      Potential benefits of participants in Group 1 include improved renal function and reduced
      chance of continued renal dysfunction from the delay in tacrolimus therapy. Participants will
      possibly maintain adequate immunosuppression to reduce acute rejection episodes.

      Group 2 will receive standard of care but will have increased post-transplant monitoring by
      the study team.
    
  