
    
      Celiac disease (CD) is an autoimmune enteropathy triggered by ingestion of gluten in
      genetically susceptible subjects and is one of the most frequently occurring, treatable,
      lifelong disorders. In this disease we recognize the trigger (gluten), the genetic factor
      (HLA DQ2/8), the auto-antigen (the tissue-transglutaminase enzyme) and the auto-antibodies
      (IgA-IgG anti-transglutaminase) which are produced by the intestinal mucosa B lymphocytes
      (Gastroenterology 2000;119:234, J Immunol 2001;166:4170). Undetected or untreated, CD may
      cause more severe complications later in life, such as autoimmune disorders. Clear evidence
      exists of gluten-related autoimmunity in genetically predisposed patients (presence of the
      HLA DQ2/8). It has been shown that autoimmune disorders involving organs other than intestine
      (such as pancreas, cerebellum, liver, skin) could develop in unrecognized and/or untreated
      celiac subjects because of a persistent exposure to gluten. Presently, the additional risk
      for autoimmune diseases is estimated at 1.1% for each year without diagnosis
      (Gastroenterology 1999;117:297). Furthermore, when on a diet containing gluten, some CD
      patients produced organ-specific auto-antibodies (GAD, ICA, TPO, anti-Purkinje cells, cardiac
      auto-antibodies) which were not CD related and which disappeared after 6 to 12 months of
      gluten-free diet (J Pediatr 2000;137:263; Lancet 1996;347:369; Circulation 2002;105:2611).
      Bearing these data in mind, an early diagnosis of CD might have prevented some CD patients
      from developing an autoimmune disease such as type 1 diabetes or thyroiditis. In view of
      these observations, it is recommended for subjects with autoimmune diseases or at risk for CD
      to be screened for CD and to repeat serological screening about every three years to detect
      cases of clinically silent, late-onset CD. In other words, there are gluten-genetically
      predisposed subjects (tested positive for HLA DQ2/8) - testing negative for serum anti-tTG -
      that become antibody-positive later in life. The tTG-targeted antibodies bound locally to
      tissue transglutaminase may be present in diseased organs before they become detectable in
      the circulation, thus accessible for serological testing. The intestinal mucosa in the early
      phases is characterized by normal villi including a normal number of intraepithelial
      lymphocytes. The process of mucosal deterioration may take years or even decades (Am J
      Gastroenterol 2000;95:463) and a long follow-up without treatment may sometimes be harmful.
      Symptoms are not related solely to villous atrophy, and many proven early celiac disease
      cases had suffered from gluten-dependent gastrointestinal symptoms even before the villous
      atrophy developed (Gut 2006;55:133, Scand J Gastroenterol 2005;40:564, Gut 2004;53:641, Scand
      J Gastroenterol 1998;33:944, Acta Paediatr 1995;84:1252, Gastroenterology 1993;104:1263).

      By using the phage display libraries technique it is possible to investigate in vivo
      (intestinal biopsy) early antibody responses in autoimmune disease. In particularly, this
      technique demonstrated that the humoral response against tissue transglutaminase occurs at
      the intestinal mucosal level, and that the human VH5 gene is the commonly used variable
      region by the immune system of CD-patients to build the anti-tTG. This means that phage
      display libraries technique is able to measure the specificity of the autoimmune response
      against the tissue transglutaminase enzyme and perhaps against others auto-antigens (GAD,
      ICA, TPO, cardiac-antigens) in the CD patients. Phage display libraries allow us to measure
      the specific auto-antibodies at the production site, also in patients testing negative for
      anti-tTG in the serum and allow us to identify early CD patients before their seroconversion
      and the deterioration of their jejunal mucosa. Therefore, the intestinal mucosa production of
      IgA anti-tTG could be important in the diagnostic work-up of early-stage CD, when mucosal
      histology is not yet diagnostic.

      The investigators propose to first degree relatives of CD patients with or without symptoms
      and to subjects with autoimmune disease tested negative for serum anti-tTG but positive for
      CD related HLA DQ2 or DQ8 a prospective study to uncover early-stage of gluten intolerance by
      measuring the mucosal VH5 restricted gene family anti-tTG clones in two biopsies: before and
      after one year of gluten free-diet (GFD). Symptomatic subjects genetically predisposed to
      gluten intolerance, tested negative for CD related autoantibodies and with apparently normal
      intestinal mucosa, were also enrolled for detecting the deposits of IgA transglutaminase at
      intestinal level and, after one year of gluten free diet, and to evaluate the clinical
      modifications.

      Aims of this clinical trial are:

        1. to measure by means of phage display libraries the gluten dependent humoral immune
           response (anti-tTG) of the intestinal mucosa in subjects with high risk of untreated CD,
           without CD-related intestinal lesions.

        2. to demonstrate the mucosal gluten-dependent immune response before and after 12 months
           of gluten-free diet.

        3. to demonstrate that dietary intervention might modify the clinical condition (e.g
           improvements of the gastrointestinal complaints or extra-gastrointestinal symptoms) of
           the enrolled patients and the improvement of the intestinal inflammation with the
           disappearance of the mucosal anti-tTG.

        4. to evaluate the specificity of the double staining technique for detecting IgA
           antitransglutaminase mucosal deposit with the phage display antibodies assay
    
  