
    
      Sleep disordered breathing (SDB) is common in patients with heart failure (HF) and is an
      independent predictor of morbidity and mortality. Adaptive servo-ventilation (ASV) is
      reported as the most effective treatment for SDB in HF and has been shown to improve cardiac
      function in patients with HF coexistent with SDB. ASV may also be an effective therapeutic
      option for patients with HF regardless of presence or severity of SDB.

      The aim of the study is to investigate the potential role for ASV in improving the management
      of ADHF in the acute hospital phase and reducing complications in the vulnerable post
      discharge period. This is an observational study of forty patients admitted to hospital with
      ADHF.

      In this clinical investigation, the ApneaLinkTM Plus device will measure patient respiratory
      nasal airflow, snoring, blood oxygen saturation, pulse and respiratory effort during sleep.
      The research participant will be connected to the device during their inpatient
      hospitalisation as soon as they are stabilised off oxygen. These recordings will aid the
      diagnosis of SDB for further clinical investigation.

      The S9 Autoset CS-A system will be evaluated to determine whether ASV has beneficial effects
      on the cardiac function of patients with ADHF. During an in-patient run-in phase, the
      patients tolerability to ASV therapy will be assessed and if tolerated well, the patient will
      continue with this therapy following discharge for 45 days.

      The SleepMinder sensor device will monitor the sleep and breathing patterns of the
      participants as they sleep, and in doing so, sleep apnoeas will be detected. Each patient
      will monitor their weight daily using a Precision Personal Health Scales for 90 days.
      Finally, a questionnaire will be completed by the patient which allows them to self-report
      their HF symptoms.
    
  