
    
      【Background and Purpose】Management of chronic diabetic and ulcers require multidisciplinary
      approaches including diabetic control, wound care, antibiotic, shoe wear off loading, and
      surgery in selected cases. The results are inconsistent and irregular, and most studies
      reported unsatisfactory results. Many adjunctive therapies are implemented in the care of
      chronic skin ulcers including hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO), ultrasound, recombinant human
      platelet-derived growth factor-BB (rPDGF-BB), vacuum assisted wound closure (VAWC) and
      acellular matrix. HBO is the most commonly utilized at our institution. Mixed results of HBO
      in chronic skin ulcers are reported. Several studies reported the beneficial effects in
      chronic skin ulcers, but none showed universal success. Therefore, the development of a new
      effective method of treatment for chronic skin ulcers is extremely valuable. Wang et al
      demonstrated that extracorporeal shockwave acts as mechanotransduction that produces the
      therapeutic benefits through complex biological pathways including neovascularization and
      tissue regeneration. Gerdesmeyer et al showed bacteriostatic effects of shockwave in
      experiments. Schaden et al reported the effectiveness of extracorporeal shockwave in acute
      and chronic soft tissue wounds. Saggini et all reported effectiveness of ESWT in chronic skin
      ulcers with 50% completely healed within 6 sessions of treatment. However, no working
      mechanism of ESWT was discussed. With this background, it appears that extracorporeal
      shockwave may be effective in the treatment of chronic diabetic ulcers. We have conducted a
      pilot study using orthowave 180 (TRT, Woodstock, GA) in the treatment of chronic ulcers. The
      preliminary results of a pilot study in 26 patients with 31 ulcers showed healed or >50%
      improved ulcers in 90%, 10% unchanged and none worse. The results of the pilot study was
      published by the Journal of Surgical Research 2009; 152: 96-103. The poster exhibit of this
      study won the 1st place award in the category of tumor and metabolism of the 75th AAOS annual
      meeting in San Francisco, CA in March 2008. This study continues the research using
      derma-PACE (derma-pulse acoustic cellular expression). Derma-PACE (Sanuwave, Alpharetta, GA)
      is a new shockwave device designed for the treatment of diabetic ulcers. The purpose of this
      study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Derma-PACE shockwave device in the treatment
      of chronic diabetic ulcers, and to compare the results with that of hyperbaric oxygen
      therapy, and to investigate the blood flow perfusion, histopathological examination and
      immunohistochemical analysis.

      【Patient selection】This study is approved by The Institutional Review Board on Human Studies.
      The procedures are performed in accordance with the standards of the Ethical Committee and
      the Declaration of Helsinki in 1975. All patients are required to sign an informed consent
      prior to participation in the study. The inclusion criteria include patients with recurrent
      chronic diabetic ulcers of the extremities for longer than 3 months duration. The exclusion
      criteria include patients with cardiac arrhythmia or pacemaker, pregnancy, skeletal
      immaturity patients with malignancy, patients with joint sepsis, ulcers around the skull,
      spine and chest wall, and patients with poor compliance. A power analysis revealed that a
      sample size of 32 in each group would be required to establish the statistical significance
      with α = 0.05 and power = 0.8. We anticipate a drop-out rate of 10 to 15% for various reasons
      during the course of treatment. Therefore, we plan to recruit 100 patients in the study.
      Patients are randomly divided into two groups with 50 patients in the shockwave group, and 50
      patients in the HBO group who are treated with HBOT. All patients receive the same protocol
      of diabetic control, wound care, antibiotics and corrective shoe wear etc. Pre-treatment
      evaluations include complete history and physical examination, chemistry and coagulation
      profiles, detailed past surgical and medical treatments. The ankle-brachial index (AKI) and
      HBA1C are assessed individually.

      【Technical descriptions】 【Shockwave application】The derma-PACE device is set at E2 @ 4 Hz
      with the energy level at 0.11 mJ/mm² energy flux density. The dosage of shockwave is wound
      size dependent. The treatment area includes the actual wound area extended 1.0 cm periphery
      in every direction. The number of pulses = treatment area (cm²) x 8, but in any case at least
      500 shocks. The treatment is performed twice/week for a total of 6 treatments.

      【Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy】Patients receive hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) in a sealed
      multi-place chamber at a pressure of 2.5 atmospheres absolute (ATA). The treatment starts
      with the compression of air pressure from 1 ATA to 2.5 ATA in 15 minutes. Patients breathe
      with 100% medical grade O2 with mask for 25 minutes and take off the mask for O2 break for 5
      minutes, and then, repeat breathing 100% O2 with mask for another 25 minutes and off mask for
      O2 break for 5 minutes. At the end of treatment, the chamber air pressure is decompressed
      from 2.5 ATA with O2 mask to 1 ATA in 15 minutes. Each patient receives HBO daily, five days
      a week for a total of 40 treatments.

      【Evaluation parameters:】The evaluation parameters include clinical assessment, local blood
      flow perfusion, bacteriological examination, histopathological evaluation and
      immunohistochemical analysis from the biopsy specimens. The ulcers are quantitatively
      assessed using the S(AD)SAD classification for the size, shape and configuration with
      photo-documentation before and after treatment. The neuropathic sensory change of the foot is
      examined with pin-prick test. The circulatory status of the affected limb is evaluated with
      digital palpation of the dorsalis pulsation and ultrasound Doppler perfusion scan. Local
      blood flow perfusion scan, bacterial culture and sensitivity, and biopsy from the periphary
      of the ulcer including normal skin is performed before and after treatment, and the specimens
      are subjected to histomorphological examination and immunohistochemicial stain. The data
      before and after treatment within the same group and the data between the two groups will be
      analyzed statistically.

      【Anticipated work schedules and results:】We estimate to enroll 2 to 3 patients per week, and
      it will take approximately one year to recruit sufficient number of patients. It will require
      12 additional months for follow-up. Therefore, we estimate a total of three years to complete
      this study. We anticipate favorable results of ESWT in chronic diabetic ulcers. We also
      anticipate superior results with ESWT over HBO therapy. Furthermore, we anticipate the
      improvement in local blood flow perfusion, antibacterial effect as well as angiogenesis and
      tissue regeneration effects after ESWT. This novel method of treatment may bring in a new
      insight in the management of chronic diabetic ulcers. Shockwave has the potential to cure
      chronic skin ulcers without surgery and directly benefits thousands of patients who suffer
      from this disastrous disease.
    
  