
    
      Purpose and Justification:

      In less than one year, the novel coronavirus has infected more than 80 000 000 people
      worldwide. Infection causes Corona Virus Disease 2019 (covid-19) and in some cases severe
      acute respiratory syndrome. Overall risk of mortality from covid-19 is low, however, risk
      radically increases with age and cardiovascular comorbidity. The long-term consequences of
      covid-19 are not known. Already a phenotype of survivors with prolonged symptom burden has
      presented; this phenotype is characterized by persistent respiratory (cough, sputum, dyspnea,
      wheeze) and musculoskeletal (pain, fatigue) symptoms. Preliminary data from clinical exercise
      testing conducted at the UofA pulmonary function laboratory suggests covid-19 survivors with
      prolonged symptoms have significantly reduced exercise tolerance and increased exertional
      dyspnea.

      Impaired exercise tolerance measured as peak oxygen uptake (VO2peak) is the strongest
      independent predictor of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality. The investigators
      preliminary data in seven persistently symptomatic covid-19 survivors (PS-CoV) 3-months post
      molecular confirmation of infection shows a mean 30% impairment in VO2peak relative to age-,
      sex- and body mass index matched controls. Several facets of covid-19, including treatment
      and recovery, may contribute to the range and severity of debilitation and impairment in
      VO2peak in PS-CoV. The purpose of this study is to investigate impairments in VO2peak, and
      pulmonary, cardiac and peripheral factors contributing to impaired VO2peak, exercise
      intolerance, and persistent dyspnea in PS-CoV.

      Coronavirus gains cellular entry through binding angiotensin converting enzyme in the lungs,
      making the lungs and pulmonary vasculature a logical starting point for investigation of
      persistent symptomology. During active infection, pulmonary vascular dysfunction,
      microthromboemboli, micro-angiopathy and pulmonary inflammation and/or fibrosis are reported.
      Accompanying this is a reduction in diffusion capacity at rest, increased tortuosity of
      pulmonary vasculature, and elevated pulmonary vascular resistance. One mechanistic
      explanation is that regions downstream of micro-thromboemboli become fibrotic secondary to
      reduced blood flow resulting in reduced diffusion capacity. Physiological adaptation through
      intussusceptive angiogenesis results in increased tortuosity of pulmonary vasculature, with a
      secondary consequence of increased pulmonary vascular resistance. However, evidence of
      isolated decreases in diffusion capacity in the absence of pulmonary fibrosis are at odds
      with this theory. An alternative explanation is that pulmonary vascular dysfunction precedes
      lesions viewed by computed tomography (CT) and changes in lung volumes. Regardless of
      incipient damage, for ~1/3 of hospitalized covid-19 patients, the end result is pulmonary
      fibrosis, impaired diffusion capacity (measured as the diffusion limitation of carbon
      monoxide, DLCO), reduced forced vital capacity (FVC) and proportionately reduced forced
      expiratory volume in one second (FEV1).

      In PS-CoV, lung impairment at 3-month follow-up is characterized by reduced resting DLCO, FVC
      and FEV1, and incomplete normalization of pulmonary CT consolidation and opacities.13 The
      investigators preliminary data in PS-CoV show increased respiratory rate and VE/VCO2
      (indicative of increased deadspace or excessive ventilatory drive) at peak exercise-
      characteristic of parenchymal or restrictive lung disease and consistent with pathology of
      covid-19 including parenchymal cell death and pulmonary fibrosis. Despite these findings,
      initial data suggest that PS-CoV patients' operating lung volumes during exercise and peak
      breathing reserve are relatively preserved. Previous work in COPD has shown that an elevated
      VE/VCO2 during exercise is explained by higher deadspace, and this increased VE/VCO2
      contributes to increased dyspnea secondary to increased drive to breathe. The investigators
      work in COPD has shown that the increase VE/VCO2 is due to hypoperfusion of the pulmonary
      capillaries as demonstrated by a reduced DLCO and reduced pulmonary capillary blood volume
      during exercise, and that when pulmonary perfusion is improved by using inspired NO, VE/VCO2
      and dyspnea are decreased resulting in an increase in VO2peak.

      No data are currently available examining symptoms of dyspnea, pulmonary mechanics, VE/VCO2,
      and impaired VO2peak in PS-CoV. Moreover, no data are available examining diffusion capacity
      or pulmonary capillary blood volume responses during exercise, which may contribute to
      increased VE/VCO2, pulmonary inefficiency, perceived dyspnea, and secondary cardiac
      consequences.

      Cardiac complications of covid-19 have been demonstrated and may contribute to impaired
      VO2peak through a reduction in peak cardiac output (Qpeak). Limited data are available, but,
      cardiac effects appear to be (mal)adaptation secondary to pulmonary vascular dysfunction,
      angiopathy and increased pulmonary vascular resistance. Importantly, pulmonary vascular
      dysfunction may impose a cardiac limitation to exercise in the absence of or preceding
      structural cardiac changes as in early pulmonary hypertension (exercise induced pulmonary
      hypertension). Complications mimic those observed in pulmonary hypertension whereby the thin
      walled right ventricle insidiously adapts to and eventually fails against chronically
      increased pulmonary artery pressure. This includes right ventricular hypertrophy, dilation
      and hypokinesis, and in failure, uncoupling of tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion
      (TAPSE) and pulmonary artery systolic pressure (PASP). In a study of 100 consecutive covid-19
      patients at rest, 39% of patients had right ventricular dilation and dysfunction and 16% of
      patients had left ventricular diastolic dysfunction. No reports of cardiac function during
      exercise or cardiac mechanics in response to stress are available following covid-19, and it
      is unknown whether cardiac consequences of covid-19 limit VO2peak or contribute to symptom
      persistence in PS-CoV.

      Detrimental changes in body composition occur in hospitalized covid-19 patients. During
      active infection, frailty (in part characterized by muscle loss) is associated with increased
      covid-19 severity and mortality. Reduced lean tissue mass and increased adiposity,
      particularly in the thigh, are reported following bedrest and are known to impair VO2peak.
      Reductions in VO2peak are twofold: absolute VO2peak is reduced due to loss of muscle mass,
      and relative VO2peak (ml/kg/min) is reduced due to a combination of reduced absolute VO2peak
      and a decrease in the ratio of muscle mass to total body mass. Moreover, bedrest is
      associated with reduced mitochondrial density and oxidative enzymatic activity. No data are
      available linking increased adiposity, reduced thigh muscle, or impaired muscle quality to
      VO2peak or symptom persistence in PS-CoV.

      The investigators preliminary data indicate VO2peak is impaired in PS-CoV survivors. The
      magnitude of VO2peak, pulmonary, cardiac and peripheral impairment is not known in PS-CoV or
      symptom free covid-19 survivors. Through this proposed study, the investigators aim to
      comprehensively test VO2peak impairment in PS-CoV survivors and link physiology to symptom
      persistence in covid-19.

      Objectives:

      There are 3 objectives of this study: 1) to evaluate VO2peak in PS-CoV and recovered covid-19
      survivors (no longer symptomatic) compared to covid-19 na誰ve controls matched for age, sex
      and body mass index; 2) to evaluate DLCO and pulmonary capillary blood volume at rest and
      during exercise in these three groups; and 3) evaluate cardiac structure and function at rest
      and during exercise in the three groups.

      Hypotheses:

      The investigators hypothesize that:

        1. VO2peak will be impaired in PS-CoV relative to recovered (symptom free) covid-19
           survivors and covid na誰ve controls, and that recovered covid-19 survivors will have
           impaired VO2peak relative to covid na誰ve controls;

        2. Relative to covid-19 na誰ve controls, PS-CoV will have reduced rest and exercise
           pulmonary capillary blood volume and diffusion capacity, which will be correlated with
           exercise VE/VCO2.

        3. PS-CoV will have reduced peak cardiac output, increased PASP, and uncoupling of
           PASP:TAPSE.
    
  