
    
      Each patient will be assigned one of the following groups: 1) complete response, 2) partial
      response, 3) stable disease, 4) progressive disease, 5) early death from malignant disease,
      6) early death from toxicity, 7) early death because of other cause, or 8) unknown (not
      assessable, insufficient data). Patients with a good response to 8 doses of paclitaxel
      (complete response or partial response that are operable) will receive an additional 8
      courses of paclitaxel chemotherapy before surgery and radiotherapy. The overall response for
      these patients will be assessed by ultrasonography after a total of 16 weeks of Taxol
      therapy. Patients with poor response (defined as stable disease or progressive disease or
      partial response inoperable) as best response after eight weekly courses of paclitaxel will
      receive 8 cycles of weekly PC. The overall response for these patients will also be assessed
      by ultrasonography after 8 courses of PC therapy. Patients with poor response to 8 courses of
      paclitaxel followed by 8 courses of PC based on ultrasound assessment will be regarded as
      failing to respond to treatment. These patients will receive 4 cycles of 3-weekly FEC and
      will be followed up. Patients in response groups 4-8 above will be considered as failing to
      respond to treatment.

      All conclusions will be based on all eligible patients. The schema for the study is presented
      in Figures 4-1, 4-2 and 4-3. Patients with a global deterioration of health status requiring
      discontinuation of treatment without objective evidence of disease progression at that time
      will be classified as having "symptomatic deterioration". Every effort will be made to
      document the objective progression even after discontinuation of treatment. All Premenopausal
      patients will receive LHRH agonist for two years for contraception and fertility
      preservation. Hormone-receptor positive patients will receive hormonal therapy with tamoxifen
      or letrozole after surgery, radiotherapy and LHRH agonist according to the expression of
      hormone receptors ER and PgR (see glossary and section 10.3) and according to the state of
      primary menopause (see glossary) at the onset of the study. Patients with HER2-positive
      disease (see glossary and section 10.3) will receive 5 threeweekly courses of trastuzumab
      (Herceptin SC) with pertuzumab (Perjeta). After that pts will continue receiving trastuzumab
      to complete total of 18 doses within 1 year of treatment.

      The study is designed to estimate the RR of breast cancer patients to weekly paclitaxel
      chemotherapy and to determine the RR to weekly PC combination chemotherapy in patients
      resistant to or with poor response (including early progression) while on weekly single agent
      paclitaxel.
    
  