
    
      There is a pressing need to understand appropriate retreatment options for HCV-infected
      patients who fail direct acting antiviral (DAA)-based regimens. To date, over 100,000
      prescriptions have been written for SOF. Recent data indicate that SOF-based treatment
      defined as SOF/RBV, SOF/pegylated-interferon (PEG-IFN)/RBV or SOF/simeprevir (SIM) +/- RBV
      have led to treatment response of 70-92% in HCV genotype (GT) 1 patients, depending on the
      regimen used and presence of liver cirrhosis. Thus, there is a growing number of individuals
      who have failed SOF-based regimens and are in need of a retreatment strategy, the majority of
      which are anticipated to be HCV GT1, given the US distribution of genotypes. There are no
      data to inform retreatment strategies for HIV-infected individuals with SOF failure, who have
      traditionally represented a harder to treat group and are impacted by DAA-antiretroviral
      (ARV) interactions.

      This was a phase II retreatment study of HCV GT1 and HIV coinfected participants who had
      previous HCV virologic failure on a SOF-based regimen. Participants were randomized to one of
      two treatment arms: 12 weeks of LDV/SOF with weight-based RBV (Arm A) or 24 weeks of LDV/SOF
      alone (Arm B). The targeted sample size was 40, 20 participants in each arm.

      Post-entry, the study visits were scheduled at weeks 1, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 20 and 24 after
      study entry (with week 16, 20, 24 visits limited to those on the 24-week regimen), and at 4,
      12 and 24 weeks after treatment discontinuation. The total study duration was 36 weeks in Arm
      A and 48 weeks in Arm B. At each visit, a physical examination and blood collection were
      conducted. HCV RNA was tested at each visit. For female participants of reproductive
      potential, pregnancy tests were done. At on-treatment visits, participants also completed an
      HCV treatment adherence questionnaire. Urinalysis was conducted at all on-treatment visits
      and at 4 weeks post treatment. At select visits, plasma, whole blood, urine and dried blood
      spots were collected.

      The study was randomized because there was clinical equipoise on the benefits and drawbacks
      in the two study arms. The study was not designed to be powered for comparisons between the
      randomized study arms, and no formal statistical comparisons were conducted. The primary
      analysis was conducted as a single-arm analysis for each regimen.

      The study experienced enrollment difficulties due to the small number of HCV treatment
      failures from select SOF-based regimens who would be eligible for this study, and closed to
      accrual prematurely. The participants enrolled remained on study until completion of
      follow-up.
    
  