
    
      Aim & hypothesis:

      The aim is to investigate the effect of the same protocol in colorectal surgery and to
      further delineate the effect on perioperative inflammation, immunosuppression and clinical
      outcome. This is an original approach, as this protocol was never used in bowel surgery.

      The hypothesis predicts a reduced inflammation and resulting immunomodulation due to the
      anti-inflammatory effect of hyper-insulinmic euglycimic infusion, and improved postoperative
      morbidity and oncological outcome.

      Study Design and Participants:

      With the approval of the ethics board at King Saud University Medical city (KSUMC) a triple
      blinded randomized controlled study of operable resectable CRC patients of consented to be
      randomized to receive hyperinsulinimic normoglycemic protocol (experimental) or standardized
      insulin sliding scale (control).

      Sample Size estimation:

      72 patients per group( total of 144) was calculated to be sufficient to detect a reduction in
      disease recurrence from 35 to 20 percent, with α=0•05 and power of 0.8.

      Randomization:

      Computer generated randomization

      Blinding:

      Triple blinded study. Patient to be kept blinded to which group he/she will be assigned to.
      An independent anesthesia team will manage the infusion and will not be involved in the
      patient care or the study analysis. Research assistant will collect all the data and samples
      and will be blinded to the therapy. Patients' follow up by primary surgeons will also be
      blinded to the intervention. Analysis to be done in blinded groups A & B.

      Intervention:

      Intraoperative Intravenous insulin and glucose. The anasthesia will be asked to prepare an
      insulin bag containing 1000 units in 1 liter normal saline , another bag of dextrose 20 %
      with 30 mmol KPO4/ liter will be supplied from the pharmacy.

      In the Experimental therapy group, after obtaining a baseline preoperative blood glucose
      value, 2 U/kg bolus of insulin to be administered IV followed by an infusion of 2 mU/ kg/min.
      Ten minutes after starting the insulin infusion, and when the blood glucose is <6.1 mmol /L
      (110 mg /dL), dextrose 20% supplemented with phosphate (30 mmol/L ) is administered. In the
      operating room, blood glucose levels were measured every 15 minutes, and the dextrose
      infusion rate will be adjusted to maintain arterial glycemia between 3.5 and 6.1 mmol/L
      (63-110 mg/dL), according to this protocol. If Blood Glucose mg/dl Action <63 Stop insulin
      infusion.Give Dextrose 20% 10 ml recheck level in 10 minutes 63.0 - 110 Maintain current
      infusion rate 111 - 143 144 - 180 Increase infusion by 2 unit/hour >180 Increase infusion by
      3 unit/hour

      The blood glucose will be measured hourly for 24 hours in the ICU, and the dextrose infusion
      rate was modified by the attending nurse according to this protocol (attached).

      Regarding the safety of the patient on the hyperinsulinemia arms glucocheck every 5-10
      minutes using an arterial line. Ongoing dextrose 20% + KPO4 supplementation when glucocheck
      drops less than 110 and will be titrated aimed to maintain a glucocheck 63-110. If at any
      point of time patient reached sever hypoglycemia defined as 32.3 (1.8) or below the insulin
      drip will be stopped and the patient will be considered a dropout of the study. Resuscitation
      with dextrose and KPO4 will continue to achieve eu-glycemia again. An international expert in
      the insulin clamp will be conducting the first patients to assure the local team experience
      for extra assurance.

      Glucose Level mg/dl 20% Dextrose infusion + 30 meq Kcl <63 + 15 ml/h & 20ml bolus & Call MD
      63-74 +10 ml/h & 10 ml bolus 75-81 + 5ml/h 82-98 Maintain the rate 99-110 - 5ml/h 111-116
      -10ml/h >126 - 50% of the current rate & Call MD

      In the standard therapy group, blood glucose measurements will be performed before the
      induction of anesthesia,every 30 minutes during surgery, and hourly in the ICU for 24 hours.
      If the blood glucose was >6.1 mmol /L (110 mg /dL), an insulin infusion of 1 U/ h was
      started. This was then titrated according to the sliding scale (Attached), aiming at a blood
      glucose between 3.5 and 6.1 mmol / L (63-110 mg/dL) during surgery and 3.5 and 7.9 mmol /L
      (63-143 mg /dL) after surgery A common preoperative and postoperative pathway with
      standardized management and pain control to be implemented in both groups. In diabetic
      patients, the administration of oral hypoglycemic drugs will be discontinued 24 hours before
      surgery. If patients received insulin, the daily dose will be held the evening before
      surgery, and subcutaneous insulin will be administered using a sliding scale. Arterial blood
      glucose concentrations measured using the glucocheck. Human insulin to be administered using
      the concentration 100 U of insulin in 100 mL normal saline.

      Assessments:

      Baseline preoperative investigations, 2 hours into surgery and a day 1 post operative, day 3,
      day 5, and 1 month postoperative assessment consisting of : Routine lab work

        -  CBC differential,

        -  Urea & electrolytes.

        -  Liver function test. Inflammatory assessment

        -  TNF-alpha,

        -  IL-8,

        -  IL-6

        -  IL-10

        -  IL-1β

        -  IL-18

        -  IFNγ

        -  MIP1α

        -  MMP-8

        -  TGF beta

        -  C-reactive protein The cytokines analysis will be done using suspension bead array
           immunoassay with a Luminex 200 X-map instrument (Luminex Corp, Austin, TX, USA).
           Analysis of the cytokines was carried out using a Milliplex human cytokine kit following
           manufacturer's specifications (MPXHCYTO-60k, Millipore Corp, Bilerica, MA, USA). All
           samples were analyzed in duplicate and the kit had a sensitivity of 0.4 pg/mL.
           Concentrations were calculated from the standard curve generated by the MasterPlex QT
           4.0 analysis software (MiraiBio Inc, Alameda, CA, USA). Immunomodulation Quantity and
           activity of CD4, CD8, T-Cells T-cell profile

        -  Activation

        -  Proliferation

        -  Functionality (Intracellular cytokines profile). NK-Cells Profile

        -  Proliferation

        -  Activation *The degree of perioperative inflammation is a dynamic process that differs
           according to the time. The number of lab test is intended to build a curve describing
           the patient inflammatory response and the effect of insulin on it. The cytokines
           analysis will be done at the research lab, and only very few test will be sent to the
           hospital lab. The amount of blood taken will be limited to the tests, in the OR the
           bloods are taken from a dedicated line to prevent any discard.

      The degree of perioperative inflammation is a dynamic process that differs according to the
      time . The number of lab test are intended to build a curve describing the patient
      inflammatory response and the effect of insulin on it.

      Postoperative morbidity Postoperative events is defined and graded as per attached tables .
      non-infectious morbidity:

      Morbidity Description Hyperglycemia >10 mmol/L Hypoglycemia <2 mmol/L PONV ( post operative
      nausea and vomiting) Persistent beyond day 2 postoperative Bleeding Requiring surgical
      intervention Or Hemoglobin drop >4 mg/dL Cardiac event Symptomatic arrhythmia Blood troponin
      >0.5, with ECG changes Pleural effusion Tapping required for patient relief Abdominal
      Ascites: dyspnea or leaking through abdominal wall Acute renal failure Serum creatinine >2 x
      upper limit of normal Anastomotic Leak Radiological luminal contrast extravasation Clinical
      finding of localized or generalized peritonitis Feculent drainage from drains Need for urgent
      intervention

      Infectious morbidity:

      Morbidity Description Pneumonia Pneumonic or atelactic changes on chest radiographs with
      positive sputum culture Wound infection Erythema and indurations associated with positive
      bacterial culture Intra-abdominal Collection of pus in the abdomen with or without necrotic
      material Abscess associated with a positive bacterial culture Urinary tract infection Urinary
      symptoms with urine culture positive for bacterial growth >105 colony forming units/ml
      Central line sepsis Positive culture of the catheter tip >15 colony forming units in the
      presence of febrile episode.

      Leakage Grading according to International study group of rectal cancer (ISREC)

      Grade Type of leak A Anastomotic leakage requiring no active therapeutic intervention. B
      Anastomotic leakage requiring active therapeutic intervention but manageable without
      laparotomy.

      C Anastomotic leakage requiring Laparotomy.

      Overall Morbidity grading Full Scale Grades Definition Grade I: Any deviation from the normal
      postoperative course without the need for pharmacological treatment or surgical, endoscopic
      and radiological interventions.

      Allowed therapeutic regimens are: drugs as antiemetics, antipyretics, analgetics, diuretics
      and electrolytes and physiotherapy. This grade also includes wound infections opened at the
      bedside.

      Grade II: Requiring pharmacological treatment with drugs other than such allowed for grade I
      complications.

      Blood transfusions and total parenteral nutrition are also included. Grade III: Requiring
      surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention Grade III-a: intervention not under general
      anesthesia Grade III-b: intervention under general anesthesia Grade IV: Life-threatening
      complication (including CNS complications)‡ requiring IC/ICU-management Grade IV-a: single
      organ dysfunction (including dialysis) Grade IV-b: multi organ dysfunction Grade V: Death of
      a patient Suffix 'd': If the patients suffers from a complication at the time of discharge,
      the suffix "d" (for 'disability') is added to the respective grade of complication. This
      label indicates the need for a follow-up to fully evaluate the complication.

      Survival outcomes:

      As per the guidelines all our patients will undergo a routine colonoscopy at 1 year and then
      after depending on the results, also a CT scan at 1 year, and 3 years and 5 years.

      Data privacy and management:

      In cardiac surgery it was mainly directed towards postoperative complication only and graft
      survival. In liver resection the main outcome was postoperative liver dysfunction and the
      micro mechanism were related to glycogen storage that might have been the cause for earlier
      and faster hepatic recovery. In our study, it's the first time to correlate it with
      anastomotic leak mainly and oncological outcomes. The use of this therapy has not made it to
      the clinical side because more studies are needed to confirm its efficacy.
    
  