
    
      Study hypothesis:

      Oral propranolol when used with oxytocin during the process of labor may reduce labor
      interval and decrease the rate of cesarean delivery.

      Study population:

      The patients will be recruited from the women attending obstetrics reception room, in Ain
      Shams University Maternity Hospital.

      Intervention:

      After taking informed consent, all patients recruited in the study will undergo complete
      clinical examination and detailed medical history will be obtained along with necessary
      laboratory investigations and ultrasound. Each patient will have a case record form in which
      the following data will be recorded:

        1. History: personal (age, duration of marriage), present illness (any current medical or
           surgical diseases and any current medication), obstetric history (including parity,
           gestational age, obstetric complications) and past medical history(especially cardiac
           problems).

        2. Clinical examination:

             1. General examination: assessment of vital data, cardiac and chest auscultation to
                exclude contraindications for drug administration.

             2. Abdominal examination: assessment of fundal level and contractions if present.

             3. Pelvic examination: assessment of Bishop score, membrane status and fetal
                presentation.

        3. Investigations:

             1. Routine investigations will be done e.g., Full blood count, CRP titre.

             2. Pelvi-abdominal U/S (confirm fetal life, placental location, fetus parameters,
                amniotic fluid index, expected fetal weight).

      Steps:

        1. Informed consent will be obtained from parents or guardians of patients who are invited
           to participate in the research after explanation of benefits and risks of this trial.

        2. A capsule containing 20 mg propranolol to the first group (propranolol plus oxytocin)
           and a similar capsule as a placebo to the second group (oxytocin plus placebo) are
           administrated orally before beginning induction. Oral capsules are repeated after 8 h,
           if three forceful contractions are not obtained during 10 min.

        3. Induction will be initiated with a dose of 2 mIu/min and increased by 2 mIu/min every 15
           min until three forceful contractions be obtained for 10 min, or to a maximum dose of 30
           mIu/min. Then, continue at this rate for 8 h. If patients entered the active phase of
           labor (cervical dilatation = 3-4 cm), induction continue until delivery.

        4. Amniotomy is performed when cervical dilation reached 5 cm, if the membrane has not been
           ruptured spontaneously.

        5. The partogram will be used to monitor the fetal heart rate, membrane status, cervical
           dilation and effacement, station of the fetus, uterine contractions, maternal pulse,
           maternal blood pressure, maternal temperature.

        6. If there is no response to induction on the second day, a cesarean section will be
           performed.

        7. The participants are followed up until delivery.

      Safety Considerations:

      If the parturient has hyperstimulation of contractions (in a situation with more than 5
      contractions/10 min, duration of contraction > 90 sec, interval of contraction less than 2
      min, or fetal distress), the induction will be stopped, and the parturient is kept in left
      lateral position and given oxygen, and intravenous dextrose.
    
  