
    
      Bipolar affective disorder is a common, severe, chronic and often life-threatening illness.
      The depressive phase contributes to the majority of morbidity and mortality in this illness.
      Impairments in physical and social functioning resulting from depression are often as severe
      as other chronic medical illnesses. Few of the treatments in use have resulted from an
      understanding of the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder. Undoubtedly, a greater
      understanding of the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder will lead to improved treatments.

      Current theories of depression suggest that mood disorders are associated with impairments of
      cellular resilience and structural plasticity possibly a result of abnormal cellular energy
      metabolism. Studies with Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS) in bipolar subjects show
      reduced brain intracellular pH and reduced ATP. Cellular energy generated by mitochondrial
      oxidative phosphorylation from glucose via the electron transport chain is stored as ATP,
      which provide neurons and glia with energy required to maintain their function. Mitochondrial
      dysfunction and its inability to compensate for increase in ATP demand might lead to impaired
      cellular resilience believed to be involved in the pathophysiology of bipolar disorder.
      Abnormal regulation of nuclear genes coding for mitochondrial proteins in the hippocampus of
      bipolar subjects provides further evidence of mitochondrial dysfunction in bipolar disorder.

      Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is an essential cofactor in the mitochondrial electron transport chain
      necessary for cellular energy generation. Exogenous administration of CoQ10 attenuates ATP
      depletion and has anti-oxidant properties. In light of the above evidence, we hypothesize
      that bipolar disorder is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction as evidenced by impaired
      brain energy metabolism and that administration of CoQ10, a mitochondrial enhancer, will
      restore mitochondrial function. To accomplish these objectives, we will compare mitochondrial
      functions in bipolar depressed subjects to 26 healthy controls matched for age, gender and
      BMI. Measures of mitochondrial function will include brain lactate levels (a product of
      anaerobic glycolysis) with H+ MRS, 2) assays of mitochondrial function in cultured
      fibroblasts and platelets, and 3) gene expression of mitochondrial and nuclear genes using a
      cDNA Microarray. Further, subjects with bipolar depression, ages 18 to 65 will be randomized
      to either CoQ10 (300-1200 mg/day) or placebo in a double-blind placebo controlled trial for a
      period of 8 weeks. Measures of mitochondrial function will be compared between subjects
      randomized to placebo or CoQ10 at baseline and at the end of the 8-week trial.
    
  