
    
      Psoriasis vulgaris is a common inflammatory condition of the skin that results in scaly red
      itchy plaques. In addition to affecting the skin, psoriasis can also cause disease in the
      finger and toe nails. Nail psoriasis is a chronic disease and can present with the following
      clinical findings: splinter hemorrhage, leukonychia, red spots in the lunula, nail pitting,
      nail plate crumbling, hyperkeratosis, and/or nail plate separation from the nail bed. The
      most characteristic nail findings associated with nail psoriasis are nail pitting,
      onycholysis with a rim of erythema, and oil spots. Special interest will be paid to
      identifying these particular nail findings in patients, however all potential nail psoriasis
      symptoms will be assessed in patients in this study. Due to the highly visible nature of
      disease in the fingernails, nail psoriasis often results in a substantial deleterious effect
      on a patient's quality of life. Patients also can have significant pain and disability due to
      nail psoriasis.

      Psoriasis patients who have nail involvement are known to have more severe psoriasis disease
      and diminished quality of life when compared to psoriasis patients without nail disease.
      Patients with nail psoriasis often also have psoriatic arthritis, and untreated psoriatic
      arthritis is known to lead to joint destruction with potentially severe morbidity. Nail
      psoriasis has a reported incidence of 80 to 90% (Jiaravuthiasan, et al). Because nail
      psoriasis causes a substantial disease burden for patients, it is critical that safe and
      effective treatments are found for this specific type of psoriasis. Unfortunately, nail
      psoriasis is often difficult to treat.

      Apremilast is an orally available small molecule inhibitor of phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) that
      is FDA approved for the treatment of psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis. PDE4 is one of the
      main phosphodiesterases expressed in immune cells, and its inhibition by apremilast is
      thought to increase cyclic adenosine monophosphate and thereby decrease the inflammatory
      response. Specifically, apremilast is believed to down regulate pro-inflammatory cytokines
      including TNF-α, (Tumor necrosis Factor) IL-23 (Interleukin), IL-17, and others.

      Apremilast has shown promising results for treating psoriatic arthritis and nail disease;
      however more data is needed regarding its effect on nail psoriasis (Kavanaugh, et al). We
      hypothesize that apremilast will prove to be highly effective in treating nail psoriasis. We
      propose to conduct an open label clinical trial to investigate the efficacy and tolerability
      of apremilast in treating nail psoriasis, where we will follow the package insert guidelines
      for treating patients with apremilast.
    
  