
    
      Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in adolescents is a significant stressor for both the teen and
      his or her family. Existing interventions are rare and access to treatment can be restricted
      by distance and finances. Based on previous findings and participant feedback, we propose to
      expand the previously developed TOPS intervention by conducting a multi-site study comparing
      the efficacy of TOPS to that of TOPS-Teen Only (TOPS-TO) in improving child behavior and
      functioning, parental depression and distress and family functioning. The efficacy of both
      active treatments would be examined in relation to an internet resource comparison group
      (IRC). During years 1-3, we will recruit 165 children between the ages of 11 and 18 with
      moderate to severe TBI and randomly assign them to receive TOPS, TOPS-TO, or IRC. We
      anticipate that TOPS will result in improvements in child, caregiver, and family functioning
      relative to IRC; but that TOPS-TO will only result in improvements in child behavior and
      adjustment. Based on prior research, we anticipate that the family-level treatment model of
      TOPS may be more effective than TOPS-TO in improving child behavior for children/adolescents
      with fewer social resources. Given these expectations, we will test the following hypotheses:
      1) Children with TBI receiving either TOPS or TOPS-TO will have fewer behavior problems,
      greater social competence, and better functioning than those receiving IRC at both
      post-treatment and at a 6-month follow-up assessment. 2) Caregivers of children receiving
      TOPS will report less depression and psychological distress, less parent-child conflict, and
      better family functioning than those receiving TOPS-TO or IRC at both post-treatment and at a
      6-month follow-up assessment. 3) Social resources will moderate treatment efficacy, such that
      children with limited social and economic resources will show greater improvements in the
      more comprehensive TOPS intervention. We hypothesize better teen problem solving and
      communication skills, fewer teen emotional/behavioral problems, less parental burden and
      distress, and less parent-teen conflict at follow-up among the TOPS group compared to the IRC
      group. TOPS makes use of emerging technology to address the multifaceted needs of teens
      following TBI with the goal of improving the teen's social and emotional functioning, thereby
      enabling him or her to better negotiate the complex transition to adulthood and independent
      functioning.
    
  