
    
      This is a multiple site, prospective, non-randomized single arm observational study. It has
      been designed to document the treatment of serial rib fractures with MatrixRIB implants in a
      registry. A flail chest is an injury in which three or more consecutive ribs are broken. This
      injury causes a segment of the chest wall to become unstable und prevents effective
      respiration. Non-operative management requires long-term mechanical ventilation and is
      associated with a mortality rate of 17-47%. Surgical stabilization of the rib fractures has
      shown to decrease this mortality by 38% - 72%. Surgical stabilization is typically performed
      with generic plates that require extensive bending during surgery to conform the plate to the
      rib in a difficult and time-consuming procedure.

      The MatrixRIB system is the first implant system that has been specifically designed for
      fixation of flail chest injuries. It has been developed at Legacy Health System, has been
      extensively tested in biomechanical studies, and has been approved by the FDA. It provides
      anatomically contoured rib plates that can reduce the time and complexity of intra-operative
      plate contouring. These plates will be used in the present study in place of generic plates.
      It furthermore provides intramedullary rib splints that enable less invasive fixation of
      posterior rib fractures that are difficult to access for plate fixation.

      The primary objective of this study is to document stabilization of flail chest injuries with
      MatrixRIB implants in a registry. Twenty consecutive patients with flail chest injury that
      receive surgical stabilization of rib fractures with MatrixRIB implants will be documented in
      the registry. Data collected will include baseline patient demographics, and information
      related to injury severity, surgical procedures, and post-operative recovery. The patients'
      functional outcome will be assessed up to the standard follow-up visit 3 months after
      surgery.
    
  