
    
      Nanoparticulate Metals as Antimicrobial Agents Many of the major medical breakthroughs in
      history, have been largely dependent on the antimicrobial effects of different metals.
      Mercury has been used medicinally in the treatment of syphilis, and skin diseases as far back
      as the 10th century in Europe, and 2nd Century BC in China. And till this day organomercurial
      compounds remain in use for their antiseptic, and disinfectant properties. Metals such as
      copper and zinc are now incorporated in micron size, in products such as toothpastes, to
      control dental plaque formation. More recently, the addition of nanoparticulate metals such
      as TiO2, SiO2, ZnO, Ag, CuO to dental materials to impart an antimicrobial effect, has been
      investigated in many studies. Among these metals, titanium dioxide nanoparticles have
      received the most attention due to its white color, low toxicity at concentrations usually
      used, high stability, availability, and its high photocatalytic activity.

      Many studies suggested that incorporating titanium dioxide nanoparticles to PMMA,
      significantly decreases porosities in the denture resin, rendering titanium dioxide
      nanoparticles a suitable additive to denture base materials.

      Titanium Dioxide as a Photocatalyst In 1977 Frank and Bard were the first to study the
      possibilities of using TiO2 to degrade cyanide in water, since then, there has been growing
      interest in its various applications.

      Titanium dioxide is a light-sensitive semiconductor, that absorbs electromagnetic radiation
      in the near UV region. Absorbing light energy causes an electron to be promoted from the
      valence band to the conduction band.

      Water molecules which are commonly adsorbed onto the titanium dioxide surface, are oxidized
      in the process, generating OH• radicals. These free radicals are characterized by a high
      level of energy enabling them to react with different organic compounds such as the
      polyunsaturated phospholipid component of the microbial lipid membrane that eventually leads
      to their complete oxidation to carbon dioxide and water, inhibiting the microorganisms'
      respiratory activity, and eliciting cell death.

      Recent studies have proved the antimicrobial effects of titanium dioxide against Candida
      albicans, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Lactobacillus
      acidophilus, and MRSA.

      However, there are recent concerns titanium dioxide could be cited as a health hazard, as it
      could produce tissue inflammation as generated by cytokine release. Moreover, adding TiO2
      nanoparticles can alter the physical properties of the substrate. It has been found that
      adding as much as 5%wt of TiO2 nanoparticles to PMMA does not produce deleterious effects on
      the mechanical properties of the material, while concentrations required to produce an
      inhibitory or a killing effect on microorganisms has been found to be 0.25-2.5 mg/mL
    
  