
    
      Study method as follows:

        -  All subjects will be provided the information on this research study and informed
           consent will be sought for every subjects.

        -  All subjects (30 PD patients and 30 others tremor patients) will be interviewed by a
           movement disorders specialist or a trained interviewer for their demographic and
           clinical data.

        -  All PD patients will be examined for the severity of Parkinson's disease by a movement
           disorders specialist according the Unified Parkinson's disease Rating Scale (UPDRS),
           Hoehn and Yahr score, and tremor rating scale, during the 'on period' in order to
           determine the additional effect of EMS for suppression of tremor. Physical examinations
           of each patient will be recorded by the video recording for later reviewed.

        -  All essential tremor and dystonic tremor patients will be examined by a movement
           disorders specialist for the tremor severity according to the Fahn, Tolosa, Marin Tremor
           Rating Scale. Physical examinations of each patient will be recorded by the video
           recording for later reviewed.

      All patient will be determined for feasibility to use EMS and safety of EMS. Pain will
      determined by visual analog scale.

        -  All patients will be monitored their hand tremor at resting position and postural
           position. The tremor analysis with accelerometer and gyroscope system (Parkinson Monitor
           V0.006 Beta) and the surface EMG (Nicolet EDX Viking) will be conducted. The surface EMG
           electrode will place over thenar muscle of the hand, which is the most predominant sided
           of tremor, for quantitative measurement and determination of tremor physiology.

        -  All participants data from surface EMG will be applied to The Matlab™ program (MathWorks
           Inc.) in order to modify the qualitative signals into quantitative parameters and
           performing the high-dimensional feature vectors, and later to determine the different
           efficacy in pulse amplitude of electrical muscle stimulation on feature vectors.

        -  The electrical muscle stimulation (Intensity™ Twin Stim® III) will be conducted by
           placement the 2 self-adhesive electrode (size 1.5 inches * 1.5 inches) over thenar
           muscle and 1st&2nd interrosseous muscle of the hand, which is the most predominant sided
           of tremor. The EMS will be stimulated PD patients on the rest position, whereas the
           other tremors patients in both rest position and postural position. The pulse amplitude
           will be slowly titration until provided the tetanic muscle contraction (motor threshold)
           without pain (all applied frequency is 50 Hz).

        -  All of examination will be taken for 30 minutes for each one subject.

      Data Collection

        -  Demographic and clinical data: age, gender, clinical diagnosis, disease's duration and
           severity score for each subject according to establishing standard rating scale.

        -  Tremor parameters form Parkinson Monitor V0.006 Beta will be collected in both before
           and during EMS as 5 parameters: Peak magnitude, RMS, Angle, Frequency, Q

        -  The pulse amplitude from EMS will be recorded in every titration in order to determine
           the efficacy of EMS in difference pulse amplitude.

        -  The surface EMG and acceleration signal in difference pulse amplitude will be extracted
           and clustered data in order to analyze by using Matlab™, and performed the
           high-dimensional feature vectors for quantitative interpretation.

      Data Analysis The statistical analysis in this study is based from SPSS program version 17.
      Categorical data will be analyzed for frequency and percentage. Continuous data will be
      analyzed by mean and standard deviation (SD). Non-parametric study would be preferred if the
      small sample size or in case of distribution of data do not present as normal distribution
      (determined by Kolmogorov-Smirnov test). The repeated ANOVA will be used for determined the
      efficacy of difference pulse amplitude on tremor suppression and the efficacy of EMS in the
      difference times in follow up periods.
    
  