
    
      Higher level athletic performance induces greater demands on nutrient and oxygen utilization
      and hydration. Consistent performance-induced chronic resource depletion from demands of this
      level can induce an increasing anaerobic, hypoxic/acidic environment, promoting anaerobic
      metabolic events (i.e. anaerobic glycolysis). Disorders arising from this depletion include
      chronic inflammation, cramps, and pain, and induce a defensive expenditure of alkalinizing
      buffers in hemoglobin (i.e. histidine), to prevent a dangerous lowering of blood pH. The
      physical demands of higher levels of athletic performance deplete biological resources
      predisposing a greater incidence of chronic problems such as cramps, inflammation, muscle
      injury and pain. A Phase 1 Pilot Validation Study was conducted in three healthy young
      trained male athletes (Age: 32-39 years) over a period of 90 consecutive days, with a 2-week
      intermediate evaluation1. Subjects consumed 30 mL (1-ounce) of "Prodovite®" VMP35, a World
      Anti-Doping Association (WADA) compliant iron-free liquid "Prodovite®" VMP35 vitamin, mineral
      and phytonutrient complex (MNC) on an empty stomach before engaging in a rigorous exercise
      regimen in the morning. They consumed another ounce of the "Prodovite®" VMP35 again
      mid-afternoon of the same day. Total blood chemistry including free and bound testosterone
      levels, as well as changes in their exercise performance activities were closely monitored
      and recorded prior to consuming the "Prodovite®" VMP35, during the intermediate 2-week
      evaluation, and then again at the end of the study period. In the 2-week Phase 1 evaluation,
      1 ounce of "Prodovite®" VMP35 taken within 30 minutes before engaging in a rigorous exercise
      regimen, induced dramatic improvements in athletic exercise performance. Following
      "Prodovite®" VMP35 supplementation, physiological health including physical strength,
      stamina, respiratory parameters, energy level, and sleep quality increased, and blood
      chemistry parameters were improved. Before "Prodovite®" VMP35 intake, one subject was
      struggling with 270 lbs. for 4 reps on the banded reverse Hack Squat, while after
      supplementation, subject achieved 270 lb.s for 10 reps; rested, then the very next set
      increased to 320 lbs. for 10 reps. The set after that (the 3rd and final set of that
      exercise), weight increased again to 360 lbs. for 8 reps. In another subject on the same
      equipment, pre-"Prodovite®" VMP35 supplementation, the squat result was 405 lbs. for 10 reps,
      while post-"Prodovite®" VMP35 supplementation, the squat increased significantly to 455 lbs.
      for 6 reps. Pre-"Prodovite®" VMP35 intake, one exercise in particular, the subject was able
      to perform the banded reverse hack squat with 160 lbs for one set of 8 reps. After
      "Prodovite®" VMP35 intake, the subject increased squat performance to 180 lbs. for 2 sets of
      10 reps. On the Hammer Strength banded incline chest press, pre-"Prodovite®" VMP35, subject's
      working weight sets were 160 lbs. Post-"Prodovite®" VMP35 sets increased to 180 lbs. Another
      increase in strength was experienced in banded Hammer Strength incline press. Pre-VMP35,
      Subject was doing 180 lbs. for 10 reps, which was increased to 230 lbs. for 10 reps post
      "Prodovite®" VMP35. On side lateral dumbbell raises subject's working weight increased from
      20 lbs. Pre-"Prodovite®" VMP35 to 25 lbs. Post- Prodovite® VMP35 supplementation, subjects
      were able to push a little harder and achieve extra reps with shorter rest periods. Overall,
      a significant increase in strength was noticed in all subjects and all subjects experienced
      shorter recovery time between sets and post-workout. Based on these encouraging data,
      investigators propose to conduct the following full-blown investigation. This pilot
      investigation inspired our team to conduct a randomized placebo-controlled, double-blind
      investigation in 150 volunteers (age: 18-74 years) over a period of 90 consecutive days. A
      statistician will be involved in this project. Body weight, body mass index (BMI), waist
      circumference, blood chemistry, blood pressure and heart rate, body and hand grip strength,
      speed and endurance studies including open circuit spirometry-based assessment of pulmonary
      function will be assessed. Other parameters to be evaluated include oxygen consumption, CO2
      production and metabolic parameters, VO2 max, respiratory exchange ratio (RER), anaerobic
      threshold, ventilatory equivalents for oxygen (VE/V02) and exhaled carbon dioxide (VE/VC02).
      Subjects will participate in completed maximal graded exercise tests (GXT) on a treadmill or
      in set distance open-field sprints using open-circuit spirometry. Lower and Upper Body
      Strength will be evaluated. E-Diary will be provided to all participants. Survey Monkey
      program will be provided to all subjects and regularly updated by all study participants
      daily and endorsed by the Principal Investigator and Sub-Investigators.
    
  