
    
      Infant lead poisoning is the clinical expression of lead poisoning. This environmental
      disease, still present in France, is the only notifiable non-infectious disease.

      Its complications include, in the foreground, disorders of psychomotor development
      (behavioral disorders, attention, memory ...) but also include in adults the attack of other
      systems (kidney disorders, fertility disorders and complications). obstetric).

      The fight against lead poisoning mainly involves the removal of lead sources. Several methods
      of eviction exist: a modification of the practices, a palliative rehabilitation, a definitive
      rehabilitation and a relocation. The effectiveness of each method is not documented. This
      study therefore aims to compare the effectiveness of these various measures to eliminate the
      risk of exposure to lead on blood lead.

      Material and methods: This study uses the methodology of a multicenter historical cohort. It
      will begin in the second quarter of 2017. The research centers will be child-environment
      consultations and mother-child PASS in Avignon, Manosque, Marseille, Nice and Toulon.

      The study will be offered to all children monitored in these centers since 2011. The
      inclusion criteria will include: age <18 years, at least one blood lead ≥ 50μg.L-1, residence
      declared in PACA and absence opposition. The retrospective data will be incorporated into the
      prospective monitoring. The necessary number is at least 165 cases of infantile lead
      poisoning (of which 33 per type of intervention). The primary endpoint will be the kinetics
      of quarterly venous blood lead. The smallest clinically significant difference in blood lead
      levels will be 50μg.L-1 between the different groups.

      Statistical analysis will use intra- and inter-individual variability analysis by
      compartmental modeling of the pharmacokinetics of blood lead. An interim analysis will be
      conducted in 2017 on the retrospective data to confirm the necessary staffing.
    
  