
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Determine the ability of myeloablative chemotherapy followed by peripheral
      blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation to restore effective marrow hematopoieses in patients
      with advanced idiopathic myelofibrosis or myelofibrosis secondary to other myeloproliferative
      disorders. II. Determine the ability of this regimen to palliate symptoms and prolong
      survival in these patients. III. Determine if there is evidence of clonal hematopoieses
      before PBSC mobilization, in the PBSC product, and after transplantation in these patients.
      IV. Correlate the properties of the peripheral blood before mobilization and the PBSC product
      with engraftment in these patients. V. Correlate the markers of angiogenesis with clinical
      parameters in these patients.

      OUTLINE: Patients with evidence of leukemic progression receive cytoreduction therapy
      consisting of idarubicin IV on days 1-3 and cytarabine IV continuously over days 1-7 followed
      by filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) daily until blood counts recover and leukapheresis
      is completed. Patients undergo leukapheresis beginning when blood counts recover and
      continuing until the target number of cells are collected. Patients with no evidence of
      leukemic progression receive filgrastim SC daily until leukapheresis is completed. Patients
      undergo leukapheresis beginning on day 4 and continuing until the target number of cells are
      collected. Patients receive myeloablative therapy consisting of oral busulfan every six hours
      on days -5 to -2. Patients with leukemic progression begin myeloablative therapy at least 28
      days after completion of chemotherapy. Patients receive autologous peripheral blood stem
      cells IV on day 0. Patients are followed at 1 month, 3 months, 1 year, and then annually
      thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 10-44 patients will be accrued for this study within 2 years.
    
  