
    
      This study's objectives include: 1) develop a better understanding of the composition and
      structures of breast milk over the early stages of lactation with specific emphasis on the
      glycans and lipids; 2) how glycan diversity relates to maternal and infant gut microbiota
      with an emphasis on bifidobacteria species; 3)how milk composition and structure relate to
      maternal health and diet.

      These samples will be analyzed using comprehensive gas and liquid chromatographic methods,
      nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy and mass spectrometry (MS); and next generation
      sequencing, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and quantitative polymerase
      chain reaction.

      There are several cohorts to the main study.

      Gestational Diabetes Mellitus Cohort. The aim of this study is to investigate the differences
      between milk composition, infant and maternal gut microbiota from women with and without
      gestational diabetes mellitus or type 2 diabetes vs. controls.

      Fresh Milk Study. The aim of this study is to elucidate the relationship between the
      expression of glycan metabolizing genes of mammary epithelial cells and levels of milk
      glycans.

      RNA Study. The aim of this study is to compare the RNA of milk fat globule membrane crescents
      in human milk against epithelial expression profiles in non-human primate milk.

      Skin Study. The aim of this study is to provide skin samples from healthy term infants to act
      as the control group for a different study with preterm infants.

      Breast Milk, Gut Microbiome, and Immunity (BMMI) Project. The aim of this study is to provide
      healthy control samples for the BMMI project. The BMMI project is a multi-investigative
      project designed to elucidate how maternal nutrient status, and milk composition and
      structure influence infant gut microbiome from participants in developing countries.
    
  