
    
      Introduction: Aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) is a devastating form of stroke, which
      often causes acute hydrocephalus requiring the insertion of an external ventricular drain
      (EVD). A major complication of aneurysmal SAH is delayed cerebral ischemia (DCI), which
      corresponds to the occurrence of an ischemic stroke up to 21 days after the aneurysm rupture.
      There are currently only few ways to prevent it. As DCI is linked to the presence of blood
      within the subarachnoid space, it has been hypothesized that removing this blood may decrease
      the risk of DCI. It could be obtained by injecting a fibrinolytic agent through the EVD, a
      therapeutic strategy named intraventricular fibrinolysis (IVF). There are several evidences,
      both in preclinical and in clinical studies that IVF controls the phenomenon that are leading
      to DCI. It has notably been shown in Phase I and Phase II trial that IVF in aneurysmal SAH is
      safe and may decrease the risk of DCI, with a trend to improve the rate of good functional
      outcome by about 10%. Here, the investigators propose to conduct a phase III trial to provide
      a clear evaluation of the impact of IVF after aneurysmal SAH.

      Materials and methods: this study will include patients with aneurysmal SAH requiring
      external ventricular drainage. The investigators will perform a pragmatic randomized
      controlled trial: compare the standard of care, i.e. the EVD alone, to the experimental
      treatment, i.e. IVF, with an open design. After exclusion of the aneurysm, patients will be
      randomly allocated to receive either EVD alone or EVD+IVF (72 hours, 9 doses). The primary
      outcome will be the proportion of patients without severe disability 6 months after the
      aneurysm rupture, as evaluated by the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). The investigators plan to
      include 440 patients, to show an increase of the rate of good functional outcome of 10% in
      the EVD+IVF group compared to the EVD alone group (α=0.05 and β=0.8). To obtain such sample,
      a multicenter trial is mandatory, and to date 16 centers accepted to participate. Each center
      will include one patient per month, and the inclusion period is to last 48 months.
    
  