
    
      Obesity is currently one of the most serious public health problems. Its prevalence is
      increasing sharply in recent decades, even in developing countries, leading to global
      epidemiology condition. Metabolic syndrome (MS) consists of an association of metabolic and
      cardiovascular disorders including central obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidemia and
      hypertension in the same patient. Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common clinical
      condition in more than 60% patients with MS. It is still controversial in the world
      scientific literature whether treatment of OSA with Noninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation
      (NPPV) in severely obese patients with and without MS is effective. The NPPV effectively
      reverses hypoxemia in patients with OSA, therefore justified the hypothesis that NPPV will
      reduce insulin resistance, ghrelin and resistin and raise adiponectin levels in a group of
      severely obese individuals with and without MS undergoing bariatric surgery. Objectives: To
      investigate the effects of Noninvasive Positive Pressure Ventilation on inflammatory markers,
      sleep, pulmonary function, BMI reduction and health related quality of life in severe obese
      patients with and without metabolic syndrome undergone to bariatric surgery. Methods/Design:
      Will participate severe obese patients with and without MS, screened from the Bariatric
      Surgery Service of Santa Casa de Sao Paulo. The inclusion criteria are patients with morbid
      obesity grade III, with an indication of bariatric surgery and who have agreed to the study,
      signing an informed consent. Subjects with BMI above 55 kg / m², clinically significant or
      mental health concerns unstable, an unrealistic target postsurgical weight and/or unrealistic
      expectations of the surgical treatment will be excluded. Patients will use the NPPV pre and
      post bariatric surgery. The evaluation protocol will consist of clinical history, vital
      signs, anthropometric data, clinical analysis of blood and adipose inflammatory markers, lung
      function tests, polysomnography, sleep scales, cardiovascular risk and quality of life
      questionnaires. Patients will be evaluated before and after bariatric surgery, 90, 180 and
      360 days.
    
  