
    
      Approximately 795,000 people in the United States have a stroke each year, and stroke is
      considered a leading cause of long-term disability. Impairments in arm and hand function are
      common after stroke and limit engagement in daily life activities, which impacts the overall
      quality of life of stroke survivors. It has been found that incomplete upper limb recovery
      predicted health related quality of life in stroke survivors at one year post-stroke in four
      (self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, & anxiety/depression) out of five domains
      measured on the EuroQol-5D questionnaire. Thus, evidence-based interventions that improve arm
      and hand function after stroke are needed. In fact, a recent study identified "treatments for
      upper extremity recovery" to be one of the top ten research priorities relating to life after
      stroke according to stroke survivors, caregivers, and health professionals. Evidence suggests
      task-oriented training interventions such as Repetitive Task Practice (RTP) are effective at
      improving upper extremity (UE) function and activity, and therapy participation in stroke
      survivors.

      Recently, it has been suggested that augmenting RTP with the use of cognitive strategies,
      such as Mirror Box Therapy (BT), can enhance the benefits of task practice and may provide
      stroke survivors an opportunity to engage in self-directed practice outside of normally
      scheduled therapy sessions. During BT, a person engages in motor activities with the
      unimpaired limb while watching its mirror reflection superimposed over the (unseen) impaired
      limb; this process creates a visual illusion whereby activities performed by the unimpaired
      limb are attributed to the impaired limb. While generating this visual illusion is a common
      ingredient in published BT effectiveness trials, the actual treatment protocols differ
      considerably. One important protocol difference seen across published trials relates to the
      dosage of BT. For instance, the minutes of BT provided range from 10 minutes to 60 minutes
      per session; session frequencies range from 1 to 7 sessions per week, and the length of the
      intervention ranges from 3 to 6 weeks. Thus, the dosage of BT to be used in clinical practice
      is unclear. In order for practitioners to begin integrating BT into clinical practice more
      information is needed on the effective dosage, as this may vary according to multiple factors
      (e.g., stage of recovery, the survivor's current functional limitations, or environment in
      which services are rendered).
    
  