
    
      This study is intended to observe the effects of possible repeat exposure to topical
      THROMBIN-JMI® on aPTT. Adult men and women who are scheduled to undergo qualified surgeries
      (defined as surgeries likely to require the use of an active topical hemostatic agent, but
      not likely to require transfusion of plasma), and who complete the informed consent process,
      and who meet all of the inclusion criteria and none of the exclusion criteria will be
      eligible for the study. As an observational study any decisions regarding the necessity for
      treatment to achieve hemostasis with this hemostatic product as an aid for perioperative
      hemostasis will be determined by the surgeon based upon the individual subject's condition.

      Consequently, several assumptions and estimations are made in the design of the study. It is
      assumed that 20% of enrolled subjects will have pre-surgery bovine thrombin antibodies, and
      that 60% will receive THROMBIN JMI® during the study surgery, resulting in approximately 75
      subjects in the primary study cohort and 195 subjects in the primary reference cohort. The
      primary endpoint of aPTT is chosen as prolongation beyond the normal reference range
      indicates either a factor deficiency or presence of an inhibitor. The latter is identified by
      either no correction or partial correction during mixing studies. At 48 hours post potential
      secondary exposure the secondary immune response should be sufficiently mounted as to see any
      impact of neutralizing antibodies on the aPTT.

      After completion of the study surgeries, subjects will be categorized into cohorts based on
      whether their pre-surgery plasmas had or did not have anti-topical bovine thrombin antibodies
      and whether the subject received or did not receive THROMBIN JMI® intraoperatively. The
      primary study cohort will be subjects with anti-topical bovine thrombin antibodies
      pre-surgery, who received THROMBIN JMI® during the study surgery. The primary reference
      cohort will be those subjects with no anti-topical bovine thrombin antibodies pre-surgery and
      who did not receive THROMBIN JMI® during the study surgery. Antibody assessments will be not
      be performed until the end of the study for all subjects.
    
  