
    
      A virally mediated pandemic of 2020 is linked to a novel Beta Coronavirus (COVID-19) sharing
      subgenus classification with the SARS virus. The predominant modes of transmission are
      respiratory aerosolization and contaminated surface contact.1,2 COVID-19 infection is
      characterized by a wide range of severity and disease manifestations from asymptomatic to
      respiratory and multi organ failure. Definitive treatment is lacking, but there is an
      increasing awareness of its associated systemic cascade of inflammatory molecules that offers
      avenues to explore therapeutically.

      Therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE) offers an immediate and scientifically grounded
      intervention for the removal of a host of pathogenic antibodies and toxic molecules by
      centrifugal separation of plasma or plasma membrane filtration. TPE in conjunction with
      Tocilizumab and steroids has been used successfully in the management of severe CRS following
      CAR-T treatment.

      Precedence for consideration of TPE in a variety of inflammatory dominant disease states is
      also well known. Interest in adjuvant treatment for management of sepsis and multi organ
      dysfunction has been studied. TPE has also been used in three pediatric patients with pH1N1
      influenza A acute respiratory failure and hemodynamic shock despite failure of best
      supportive care. All three survived with "good functional recovery."

      Ruxolitinib is a JAK/STAT pathway inhibitor which is FDA approved for polycythemia rubra
      vera, myelofibrosis and graft versus host disease. A murine model of CRS following CAR-T
      cellular therapy has been developed showing marked elevation of IL-6, interferon-gamma, TNF
      alpha mimicking human CAR-T therapy induced CRS. Ruxolitinib treated mice demonstrated
      clinical amelioration and decrement in inflammatory cytokines. Incyte Corporation has
      announced plans to launch a Phase III trial of single agent ruxolitinib for COVID-19
      associated cytokine storm.
    
  