
    
      This is a Phase III, multi-center study of patients having open hysterectomies for
      endometrial cancer. Patients will be randomly assigned to 1) epidural anesthesia/analgesia
      with propofol sedation; or 2) general anesthesia combined with postoperative
      patient-controlled morphine analgesia. There will be a total (maximum) of 1700 patients
      enrolled over a 5 year enrollment.

      All patients will be premedicated with 1-3 mg IV midazolam and 1-2 µg/kg fentanyl. Patients
      will be randomly assigned to epidural anesthesia & analgesia with propofol sedation or to
      sevoflurane general anesthesia and postoperative opioid analgesia after they have met the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and consent to the study.

      In patients assigned to general anesthesia and opioid analgesia (General Anesthesia Group),
      general anesthesia will be induced with 1-3 µg/kg fentanyl and 2-4 mg/kg propofol. Tracheal
      intubation will be facilitated by succinylcholine or a non-depolarizing muscle relaxant;
      alternatively, a supraglottic airway (such as a laryngeal mask) will be used. Additional
      non-depolarizing muscle relaxant will be administered as deemed necessary by the attending
      anesthesiologist.

      Anesthesia will be maintained with sevoflurane in 80% oxygen, balance nitrogen, and fentanyl.
      Sevoflurane and fentanyl administration will be adjusted to maintain blood pressure and heart
      rate within 20% of pre-operative values. The lungs will be mechanically ventilated to
      maintain end-tidal PCO2 near 35 mm Hg. When surgery is complete, muscle relaxant will be
      antagonized, if necessary, and the trachea extubated. Post-operative analgesia will be
      morphine, provided as needed IV or via patient-controlled pump. The initial pump setting will
      be for 1 mg boluses with a 6-minute lockout period and no background infusion. Additional
      morphine will be provided as necessary to maintain good pain control, either as needed or by
      changing the pump settings. Morphine will be the first-line drug; but hydromorphone will be
      substituted at one-fifth the morphine dose in patients who do not tolerate morphine. When
      pain is adequately controlled without much morphine (usually on the second postoperative
      day), patients will be transitioned to acetaminophen and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory
      analgesics; oral opioids will also be permitted if necessary.

      In the Epidural Anesthesia and Analgesia group, a T8-10 epidural catheter will be inserted
      using a standard technique. After negative aspiration for blood, patients will be given a
      test dose of 3 ml of 1.5% lidocaine and 1:200,000 epinephrine. The catheter will be
      re-inserted or repositioned as necessary until both aspiration and test dose are negative.
      Each patient will be given an additional 12-18 ml bolus of 0.5% bupivacaine or 0.5%
      ropivacaine to provide intraoperative analgesia. The catheter will be repositioned or
      reinserted as necessary if a sensory block to temperature cannot be confirmed in the surgical
      dermatomes. Additional 5-10 ml boluses of the same solution will be given hourly during
      surgery to maintain anesthesia; additional boluses will be permitted at the discretion of the
      attending anesthesiologist.

      Postoperative epidural analgesia will be supplemented with acetaminophen and/or NSAIDs if
      needed, or per individual sites' routine protocol. Supplemental morphine will be provided
      only if pain relief is inadequate, either "as needed" or by patient-controlled infusion. As
      soon as practical, usually on the second postoperative day, patients will be transitioned to
      acetaminophen and/or non-steroidal analgesics and, if necessary, oral opioids.
    
  