
    
      Connected devices, such as electronic scales and brachial cuffs used during the preoperative
      period, can help patients to self-control their weight and blood pressure and to better
      control certain risk factors for surgery. In addition, in order to reduce the number of
      deaths in the wards after surgery, connected devices have been designed to continuously
      monitor the vital parameters of patients. Subbe et al. recently showed that the use of
      wireless sensors to continuously monitor heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure and
      Oxygen Saturation by Pulse Oximetry (SpO2) reduced the number of cardiac arrests and
      mortality during hospitalization. Likewise, connected devices could potentially be used to
      monitor the patient directly at home and thus allow a faster discharge from the hospital
      without increasing the risks for the patient. At the current stage, there are no studies that
      have demonstrated the benefit of using the tools connected in postoperative follow-up in
      bariatric surgery.

      Recently, thanks to the growth of experience and the application of the ERAS method, the
      postoperative stay at LSG has significantly decreased. Despite this, there are still very few
      centers that perform this operation in outpatient surgery or with a 24-hour hospital stay.
      This is probably due not only to a strict selection criteria, but also to the surgeon's
      concern to discharge the patient too early without medical supervision. In this context, the
      use of connected devices making it possible to monitor the patient directly at home and
      therefore theoretically continue a kind of medical surveillance could make it possible to
      increase the number of LSG performed in outpatient surgery. In addition, another advantage of
      this postoperative monitoring system is that it gives the patient a central role in the
      healing process after surgery. Thanks to devices and the Internet platform, the patient
      actively participates in his monitoring and remains in permanent contact with the surgical
      department. In this way, the feeling of fragility and loneliness that often feels the patient
      when he quickly returns home is reduced. Thus, compared to a small expense related to the
      purchase of devices, this would result in a significant reduction in hospital costs for the
      health system. The more important limitation of this procedure remains the degree of
      familiarity of the patient with the connected tools, and therefore will not necessarily be
      applicable to the entire population of obese patients without the risks of having a
      significant lack of follow-up during the first postoperative days.
    
  