
    
      Methodology

      For the current study the following techniques will be used. Impulse Oscillometry (IOS)
      methodology constitutes a method of studying the respiratory system mechanics, during which
      the investigators manage to determine the flow resistance, the capacity resistance and the
      resonant frequency through the application of multifrequent signals. It also offers the
      possibility of studying the mechanics of central and peripheral respiratory system.

      The nitrogen washout technique is a method of indirect measurement of the functional residual
      capacity, during which exhaled nitrogen is measured after the subject has breathed oxygen of
      a 100% density. A single breath nitrogen washout contributes to the measurement of closing
      volume and closing capacity.

      Emitted particles, detected in a smoking environment, will be measured with the SIDEPAK
      AM510, which is a measurement device of particles based on their diameter.

      The research will be conducted according to the following procedure. Healthy non-smoking
      volunteers (18-40 years old) will be subject, after giving their brief medical history, to
      IOS and to the nitrogen washout test. The IOS will be conducted in four positions (standing,
      sitting, right and left lateral decubitus), whereas the nitrogen washout test in two (sitting
      and decubitus).

      Then the subject will be exposed to a smoking environment for 20 minutes, under a continuous
      measurement of emitted particles using the SIDEPAK AM510 in Pm level 2,5=250, in a closed
      space of 20 m3. The passive smoking environment will be achieved via a smoking machine.
      Afterwards, the subject will again undergo IOS in four positions (standing, sitting, right
      and left lateral decubitus) and nitrogen washout test in two positions (sitting and
      decubitus). Thanks to the above mentioned techniques, changes in measured parameters will be
      evaluated.
    
  