
    
      Material and Methods

        1. Population Subjects will be selected according these inclusion criteria: aged above 35
           years, history of type 2 diabetes and mild hypertension (blood pressure < 160 X 100
           mmHg) no longer than 15 years, body mass index < 35 Kg/m2, and glycated hemoglobin
           (HbA1c) between 7,0 e 10,5%. Exclusion criteria are: smoking within the last six months,
           pregnancy or breastfeeding; creatinine clearance < 45 ml/min/m2 (MDRD); use of NPH
           (neutral protamine Hagedorn) or/and regular insulin, pioglitazone, GLP-1 receptor
           agonist, DPP-4 inhibitor or acarbose; a serum alanine aminotransferase or aspartate
           aminotransferase level of more than 3 times the upper limit of the normal range;
           subjects with ischemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, other atherosclerotic
           disease, cancer, or heart failure in functional classes II, III and IV; stress test with
           typical chest pain or with ST segment depression ≥ 1 mm, with horizontal or descendent
           and duration of 0.08 seconds after the J point; use of 3 or more anti hypertensive
           drugs, which characterizes a resistance hypertension; intolerance to metformin, and
           inability to give informed consent.

           1.2 Sample size To calculate the number of patients we used the site:
           www.lei.dante.br-pesquisa. The sample will be composed of 25 patients in each arm. The
           number of patients per group necessary to detect a difference in reactive hyperemia
           index (RHI) of 0.3 with a power of 80% is 25 patients. And with a two-tailed t test at
           the 5% level it was calculated to be 21, with SD of 0.35 for the difference in RHI. The
           RHI improvement by 0.3 was based on previous study and a drop out rate of 20% was
           considered.

           Fifty diabetic and hypertensive patients will be randomized at first visit, submitted to
           endothelial function testing by the Endo-PAT 2000 device, and divided into 2 groups:
           group 1 will receive vildagliptin (100 mg/day, divided in 2 times) added-on to metformin
           (500 to 2550 mg/day, according to glycemic control) and group 2 will receive
           glibenclamide (5 to 20 mg/day, according to glycemic control) added-on to metformin.
           Blood samples will be collected after 12-hour overnight fast at screening visit and 12
           weeks after treatment with vildagliptin (group 1) and glibenclamide (group 2).

           At screening, renin angiotensin system blockers will be added for all subjects, and
           other antihypertensive drugs will be maintained. All patients will give informed consent
           after the study be approved by the local Institutional Review Board.

           1.3 Blood Pressure The blood pressure (BP) measurement technique will be made according
           VI Brazilian Guidelines to Hypertension Treatment: 1) measurements were taken with a
           recently calibrated aneroid sphygmomanometer known to be accurate; 2) the cuff was
           placed so that the lower edge was 3 cm above the elbow crease and the bladder was
           centered over the brachial artery; 3) a standard bladder was used (12-13 cm long and 35
           cm wide), but a larger and a smaller bladder were available for thicker and thinner
           arms, respectively; 4) the arm was bare and supported with the blood pressure cuff
           positioned at heart level; 5) the mean of three BP measurements taken in the sitting
           position after 5 to 10 minutes of rest was used; 6) phase I and V (disappearance)
           Korotkoff sounds were used to identify systolic and diastolic BP, respectively; 7) the
           pressure was increased rapidly to 30 mmHg above the level at which the radial pulse was
           extinguished; 8) a cuff deflation rate of 2 mmHg per beat was used; 9) a minimum of
           1-minute intervals were recommended between readings to avoid venous congestion; 10) BP
           was measured in both arms to detect possible differences due to peripheral vascular
           disease; in this case, the higher value was taken as the reference one. Hypertension is
           defined as systolic BP ≥ 140 mmHg and/or diastolic BP ≥ 90 mmHg or current use of
           anti-hypertensive drugs.

           1.3 Anthropometric Measure Weight and height will be measured by anthropometric scale
           and body mass index (BMI) will obtained by the formula: BMI = weight (Kg) / (height in
           meters)2.

           1.4 Randomisation A computer-generated randomisation list will be delivered by the
           Research Center of the glibenclamide/vildagliptin group.

        2. Laboratory Blood sample will be drawn after 12 hours fast to measure triglycerides,
           total cholesterol and HDL-cholesterol, glycemia, serum creatinine, ultrasensitive
           reactive C protein (RCP), Alanine aminotransferase and HbA1c. Microalbuminuria also will
           be evaluated. Diabetic subjects will be identified by history of diabetes with dietetic
           treatment for diabetes or in use of hypoglycemic drugs. Subjects will be considered
           diabetic after 2 fasting glucose more than 125 mg/dl, according with National Diabetes
           Data Group. Serum cholesterol will be evaluated according Brazilian Guideline of
           Dyslipidemia. Low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDLc) will be calculated by the
           Friedewald formula for triglycerides (TG) levels below 400 mg/dL ( LDLc = TC - HDLc -
           TG/5 (para TG < 400 mg/dL).

           Total Cholesterol (TC); high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDLc).

        3. Treadmill test At screening visit all selected subjects will be submitted for coronary
           disease evaluation by stress test. Subjects with stress test with typical chest pain or
           with ST segment depression ≥ 1 mm, with horizontal or descendent and duration of 0.08
           seconds after the J point will be excluded.

        4. Endothelium function Pulse amplitude tonometry (Endo-PAT 2000; Itamar Medical, Caesarea,
           Israel) is a peripheral endothelium function test, a non-invasive determination of
           digital endothelium function. This test will be performed following a light breakfast in
           the morning after 20 min rest and with the patient in a supine position. The PAT device
           is placed on the tip of each index finger and comprises a pneumatic pletysmography that
           applies a uniform pressure to the surface of the distal finger, allowing measurement of
           pulse volume changes. The inflation pressure of the digital device is electronically set
           to 10 mmHg below diastolic blood pressure or 70 mmHg. The PAT signal is recorded at
           baseline and following 5 min arterial occlusion using a inflatable cuff, while the
           contralateral arm serves as a control. The blood pressure cuff is inflated to 60 mmHg
           higher than systolic pressure or at least 200 mmHg for 5 min. Lack of residual
           pulsatility is monitored throughout the occlusion period. The post-occlusive hyperemia
           stimulates endothelium-dependent vasodilatation, causing an increase in digital pulse
           amplitude. Pulse amplitude is recorded electronically in both fingers and analysed by a
           computerised, automated algorithm (Itamar Medical). The change from the baseline
           measurement is expressed as the reactive hyperemia index (RHI), which in part reflects
           vasodilator function of the digital microcirculation.

           Subjects will be instructed to fast starting the night before testing and to refrain
           from ingesting alcohol or caffeine. Room temperature will be maintained at all time
           during the study between 21º C and 24° C; restrictive clothing that could interfere with
           blood flow to the arms, watches or rings or other jewellery on the hands will be
           removed. The patient will be comfortably seated or allowed to lie down in the study room
           for at least 15 min to reach a relaxed cardiovascular steady-state.

           The subjects for the study will be submitted to the endothelium function test at first
           visit and 12 weeks after treatment. Endothelial dysfunction is defined as 2.34±0.33 less
           than 2 standard deviations (SD) of 20 healthy asymptomatic control individuals without
           history of cardiovascular disease and without major risk factors, corresponding to RHI ≤
           1,6837.

        5. Central Arterial Pressure The applanation tonometry from the radial artery is a
           non-invasive method assessing arterial stiffness, which is predictive of vascular
           disease. A portion of the artery pressure wave travelling towards the extremities is
           reflected back from peripheral impedance points. In healthy individuals, the reflected
           wave returns to the aorta during diastole. When arteries become stiff, the transit time
           for de incident and reflected waves is reduced. Thus, the reflected wave returns to the
           aorta during systole of the same cardiac cycle augmenting the central blood pressures.
           This augmenting of central pressure can be quantified by augmentation index (AIx). AIx
           has been associated with cardiovascular risk, predicts the presence or absence of
           coronary artery disease40. Higher values of AIx indicate increased wave reflection from
           periphery or earlier return of the reflected wave as a result of increased pulse
           velocity, which can be contributed to an increased arterial stiffness. In young healthy
           individuals, the systolic arterial pressure (aortic) is about 20 mmHg less than the
           peripheral systolic pressure (brachial).

      The applanation tonometry from the radial artery will be performed in the randomised subjects
      at the first visit and 12 weeks after the treatment.

      Statistical analysis The continuous variables will be analyzed using the Student's t-test and
      analysis of variance (ANOVA). Data will be presented as mean ± 1 SD for continuous variables
      and as frequencies for categorical variables. The chi-squared test will be utilized for the
      comparative study between the groups in use of vildagliptin with those in use of
      glibenclamide. Logistical regression will be performed for associations with statistical
      significance. An alpha error of 5% was considered acceptable giving significance with
      p-value<0.05.

      Pharmacovigilance requirements:

      Any serious adverse events will be reported to the Ethics Committee of the FAMERP within 24
      hours of the occurrence. All serious adverse events will also be reported to Novartis Drug
      Safety & Epidemiology (DS&E) within 24 hours of the investigator (or designee) being aware of
      the serious adverse event. Specific definitions of adverse events, and serious adverse
      events, are outlined below, along with reporting criteria required by Novartis.

      Adverse events (AE) Information about all AEs, whether volunteered by the patient, discovered
      by investigator questioning, or detected through physical examination, laboratory test or
      other means, will be collected and recorded on an Adverse Event Case Report Form and will be
      followed up as appropriate.

      An AE is any undesirable sign, symptom or medical condition occurring after starting study
      treatment, even if the event is not considered to be treatment-related. Study treatment
      includes the study medication under evaluation, and any reference or placebo drug (or
      therapy) given during any phase of the trial.

      Medical conditions/diseases present before starting study treatment will only be considered
      adverse events if they worsen after starting study treatment (any procedures specified in the
      protocol). Adverse events (but not serious adverse events) occurring before starting study
      treatment but after signing the informed consent form will be recorded on the Medical
      History/Current Medical Conditions Case Report Form. Abnormal laboratory values or test
      results constitute adverse events only if they induce clinical signs or symptoms, are
      considered clinically significant or require therapy, and are recorded on the Adverse Events
      Case Report Form under the signs, symptoms or diagnosis associated with them.

      As far as possible, each adverse event will also be described by:

        1. its duration (start and end dates),

        2. the severity grade (mild, moderate, severe),

        3. its relationship to the study drug (suspected / not suspected),

        4. the action(s) taken.
    
  