
    
      1. Recruitment:

           Suitable potential subjects will be identified, namely those who have failed first or
           second line chemotherapy agents.

        2. Liver biopsy Right before the 1st transarterial chemoembolisation procedure, the liver
           metastases will be biopsied under ultrasound or CT guidance by the IR with a 18G core
           biopsy needle. Tissue will be sent for histological analysis as well as stored for
           molecular studies with NCCS.

        3. Transarterial chemoembolisation procedure (DEBIRI TACE):

      100mg of irinotecan will be loaded into the DEB solution at least 2 hours before the
      procedure by the pharmacy.

      Diagnostic angiography (DSA) will performed under fluoroscopic guidance, most commonly via
      right groin puncture. Using dedicated catheters, arterial supply of the liver and the tumour
      involved segments will be determined. A solution of 75-150 μm DEBIRI mixed with non-ionic
      contrast medium (1:1) will be injected into the artery feeding the metastases.

      For unilobar disease, two treatments will be planned, each of them with a maximum of 100mg
      irinotecan loaded in into the DEB, separated by four weeks. Intravenous fentanyl will be
      administered for procedural pain relief. Post procedural pain relief medications will be
      given as deemed necessary by the physician.

      For bilobar disease, there will be four treatments planned, alternating between the right and
      left lobe, separated by 2 weeks duration, each of them with a maximum of 100mg irinotecan
      loaded into the DEB. Intravenous fentanyl will be administered for the procedural pain
      relief. Post procedural pain relief will be given as deemed necessary by the physician.

      Technical success is defined as delivery of all the DEBIRI or when stasis has been reached in
      the hepatic artery.

      Patients will be expected to stay in the hospital for at least a day for monitoring of
      adverse events, after which they will be followed up in the clinic.

      Procedures will be delayed at the physician's discretion should:

        -  Liver function tests and bilirubin 5-folds more than the normal values

        -  Absolute neutrophil count of less than 1500 cells/µL

        -  Platelet count of less than 100,000/µL

        -  Severe adverse events.

      Should the patient development significant extrahepatic metastases at any time during the
      course of the trial, the referring clinician may choose to stop the trial and/or offer
      patients other treatment modalities e.g. radiotherapy or further lines of chemotherapy.

      4)Follow up:

      Patients will be expected to stay in the hospital for at least a day for monitoring of
      adverse events, after which they will be followed up in the clinic. All patients will be seen
      in the clinical 1 week after each procedure with FBC and LFT determinations being performed.
      They will then be seen in the clinic 1 week prior to their next procedure.

      Patients will be followed up 3 months after the last procedure. Serum drug levels and adverse
      events will be monitored. Imaging response will be determined by modified RECIST criteria.

      A CT scan will be performed 1 month and 3 months after completion of the procedure to
      evaluate treatment response. Tumor response will be determined using modified RECIST criteria
      (7).

      5)Pharmacokinetics of irinotecan Blood samples (3 mL) for pharmacokinetic analyses will be
      collected at the following time points after administration of the first dose on day 1: 0
      minutes (pretreatment blank), 1h, 2h, 4h, 8h and 24h hours postinfusion. Blood will be
      immediately centrifuged at 2000 g for fifteen minutes, and the plasma transferred to a 1.5 mL
      polypropylene tube and stored at -20°C. Irinotecan and its metabolites, SN-38 and SN-38G will
      be assayed using LC-MS/MS method. The purpose of performing pharmacokinetics would be to
      quantitate the AUC of irinotecan, SN-38 and SN-38G in plasma.

      6)Pharmacogenetics Analysis Pharmacogenetic analyses for UGT1A1*28 and UGT1A1*6 will be done
      in all patients prior to administration of irinotecan in accordance with previously published
      studies by our laboratory (6-9). All participating patients will have venous blood samples (3
      mL) drawn for genomic DNA collection in EDTA tubes and labeled with the patient's
      identification number, date of collection, age, ethnic group and sex.

      Unused DNA samples from patients enrolled in the genotyping arm will be stored at -20°C for
      future pharmacogenetic investigations related to irinotecan research. Patients will be
      informed and written consent will be taken from them.

      8)Potential Risks and benefits

      Anticipated benefits:

        1. Reduction in the size of the liver lesions hence prolonging survival

        2. Meeting criteria for liver resection for metastases

      Possible risks:

      Adverse events related to procedure include:

        1. Access site injuries

        2. Hepatic artery injury

        3. Non target embolization resulting in acute cholecystitis, peptic ulcer, pancreatitis
           etc.

        4. Post embolization syndrome, manifested by fever, malaise, right upper quadrant pain,
           nausea, and vomiting

        5. Hepatic abscess and biloma

        6. Biliary strictures

        7. Liver failure

      Adverse events related to irinotecan include:

        1. Diarrhea

        2. Vomiting

        3. Leucopenia

        4. Anemia

        5. Thrombocytopenia

      7. Abdominal pain 8. Fever

      All chemotherapeutic toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute
      Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC version 3).

      Hematological Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as follows: grade 4 neutropenia of >7
      days duration, neutropenic fever, grade 4 anemia or grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia that occurs
      during the first cycle of treatment.

      9)Adverse events

      Using Health Science Authority's Safety Reporting for Clinical Trials (June 2011), a serious
      adverse event (experience) or reaction is any untoward medical occurrence that at any dose

        1. Results in death

        2. Is life-threatening

        3. Requires inpatient hospitalisation or prolongation of existing hospitalization

        4. Results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, or

        5. A congenital anomaly/birth defect.

      An adverse event is defined as: Any untoward medical occurrence in a patient or clinical
      investigation subject administered a medicinal product and which does not necessarily have a
      causal relationship with this treatment.

      Adverse events related to procedure include:

        1. Access site injuries

        2. Hepatic artery injury

        3. Non target embolization resulting in acute cholecystitis, peptic ulcer, pancreatitis
           etc.

        4. Post embolization syndrome, manifested by fever, malaise, right upper quadrant pain,
           nausea, and vomiting

        5. Hepatic abscess and biloma

        6. Biliary strictures

        7. Liver failure

      All chemotherapeutic toxicities will be graded according to the National Cancer Institute
      Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI CTC version 3).

      Hematological Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) is defined as follows: grade 4 neutropenia of >7
      days duration, neutropenic fever, grade 4 anemia or grade 3-4 thrombocytopenia that occurs
      during the first cycle of treatment.

      Non-hematologic DLT is defined as any grade 3 or grade 4 non-hematologic toxicity that occurs
      during the first cycle of treatment.

      Toxicities will be classified as related to the study drug unless they were attributable to
      either underlying tumour progression, concurrent medical condition or a concomitant
      medication. Any unusual toxicities must be reported to the Principal Investigator.

      10)Safety Monitoring Plan

      Data monitoring

      - The principle and co-investigators.

      Safety monitoring

        -  The medical practitioner performing the procedure will be overall responsible for the
           patient prior to, during and after the intervention.

        -  The monitoring nurse in the recovery area and the circulating nurse during the procedure
           will assist the medical practitioner in recording and monitoring the patient's
           parameters.

        -  All complications and adverse events will be recorded in the CRFs and the patient will
           be followed up.

      In the event of any SAE's regardless of the causality of the event, the investigator will
      notify to the IRB of SingHealth. The reporting timelines are:

      Urgent Reporting: All problems involving local deaths should be reported immediately within
      24 hours after first knowledge by the investigator.

      Expedited Reporting: All other SAE must be reported as soon as possible but not later than 7
      calendar days after first knowledge by the investigator.

      A Data & Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC) comprising of co-principal investigators from the
      participating centres, will monitor the safety data .

      If the DSMC have any safety concerns, they may make written recommendations to the primary PI
      and the IRB of SingHealth to modify or terminate the study following discussions with the
      primary PI. The final decision on the termination of the study will be made by SGH after
      consulting with IRB and HSA about the safety findings or concerns.

      11)Confidentiality of Data and Patient Records

      Data required according to the protocol will be recorded on the CRFs as soon as possible.

        -  Entries must be made with a ballpoint pen and written legibly. No pencils or correction
           fluids will be used.

        -  Relevant information will be documented into the patient's hospital files (either paper
           or electronic records).

        -  Necessary corrections will be entered by the investigator or, if appropriate, by an
           authorized member of the investigator's staff in the following manner: The wrong entry
           will be crossed out, although it must remain legible, and the correct entry will be
           placed next to it. All corrections will be initialed and dated. For corrections
           concerning adverse events or the primary variable, a reason for any alteration must be
           provided.

        -  Any documents related to the study must be archived at the study site or in a central
           archive. This includes the careful listing of the identities of the patients involved in
           the study. This list and the signed informed consent statements are key documents in the
           files to be stored by the investigator.

        -  Patient (hospital) files will be archived according to local regulations. All documents
           related to the study must be retained until at least 15 years after the end of the
           study. At the end of this period, the investigator is to obtain permission from the
           relevant authorities (IRB) before any documents are destroyed.
    
  