
    
      SPECIFIC AIMS Erythropoietin (Epo) stimulates red blood cell (RBC) production. Erythropoietin
      treatment of anemic, very low birth weight (VLBW) preterm infants has not been as effective
      as originally anticipated in eliminating multiple RBC transfusions (RBCTX). This conclusion
      is based on Epoetin Alpha dosing studies employing inconsistent RBCTX criteria, and study
      designs that did not fully consider Epoetin Alpha's complex pharmacokinetics (PK) and
      pharmacodynamics (PD). The hypothesis of this project challenges the conclusion that Epoetin
      Alpha therapy cannot reduce RBCTX in VLBW infants to a clinically important extent. This
      challenge is based on our novel comprehensive determinations of the PD of endogenous Epo in
      VLBW infants, and on our recent computer Epo simulation modeling results predicting that
      RBCTX can be eliminated in a select group of VLBW infants.

      Study Objective To develop a pharmacodynamically-based, individualized medicine approach
      capable of completely eliminating RBCTX in an identifiable group of VLBW infants by optimally
      administering Epoetin Alpha.

      Central Hypotheses Infants with good Epoetin Alpha responsiveness can be identified by a
      mechanism-driven, individualized prediction model. Optimized Epoetin Alpha treatment of the
      predicted good responders that is based on sound, evidence based PK/PD principles will
      eliminate the need for RBCTX.

      Epoetin Alpha responsiveness is determined by two key components: 1) RBC production, which
      depends on Epoetin Alpha PD. 2) RBC lifespan. Individualized covariate-based (ie, patient
      specific characteristics) prediction of these two components is critical for the development
      of an individualized prediction model of Epoetin Alpha responsiveness that will be used for
      testing the Central Hypothesis. These important predictors of Epoetin Alpha responsiveness
      will be investigated in the following Specific Aims (SA) and Hypotheses (HY):

      INFANT STUDY 1 (Years 1-3) performed in VLBW infants with birth weights from 1.0 to 1.5 kg SA
      1 Determine clinical and laboratory covariates (ie, patient-specific characteristics)
      controlling the large inter-subject variability in Epoetin Alpha's PD using data from Epoetin
      Alpha dosing of VLBW infants HY 1 The inter-subject variability in Epoetin Alpha's PD is
      predictable by several covariates that are identifiable by our PK/PD modeling approach.

      SA 2 Determine the lifespan of fetal RBC in the gestational age spectrum of the study
      infants.

      HY 2 There exists a significant inter-subject variability in the lifespan of fetal RBCs in
      VLBW infants that is predictable based on gestational age.

      SA 3 Derive an individualized, optimal Epoetin Alpha dosing algorithm and an individualized
      prediction model for the Epoetin Alpha responsiveness in VLBW infants from the results in
      Specific Aims 1 and 2.

      HY 3 Crossvalidation-type computer simulations based on individualized and optimized Epoetin
      Alpha dosing in a subgroup of VLBW infants with good Epoetin Alpha responsiveness, identified
      by the prediction model, will indicate that RBCTX can be avoided in a select group of VLBW
      infants.

      INFANT STUDY 2 (Years 3-4, to be addressed as a modification after completion of study 1)
      also performed in VLBW infant with birth weights from 1.0 to 1.5 kg SA 4 Apply the optimal
      Epoetin Alpha dosing algorithm and Epoetin Alpha responsiveness prediction model developed in
      Infant Study 1 to an Epoetin Alpha dosing study to test the Central Hypothesis.

      HY 4 The subgroup of VLBW infants with good Epoetin Alpha responsiveness will have a higher
      proportion of infants that will not have any RBCTX compared to those with poor Epoetin Alpha
      responsiveness.

      Expected Outcomes SA 1 Among the covariates considered in Specific Aims 1 (e.g. clinical
      neonatal/maternal factors, blood cell parameters, cytokines linked to erythropoiesis,
      inflammation biomarkers, oxidative stress, iron status, and genetic factors), we will
      identify several with statistically significant correlations to Epoetin Alpha's PD.

      SA2 The lifespan of fetal RBCs will show similar relationship to gestational age as that
      which was observed by us in the ovine fetus.

      SA3 The model will accurately predict individual Epoetin Alpha responsiveness to optimized
      Epo dosing and will provide strong support for our hypothesis that RBCTX can be completely
      eliminated in a select group of VLBW infants.

      SA4 Infant Study 2 will show that the select group of VLBW infants that are predicted to be
      good Epoetin Alpha responders by the combined use of an individualized Epoetin Alpha
      responsiveness prediction model and an optimal, individualized Epo dosing algorithm will have
      a greater proportion of infants who do not require any RBCTX compared to those predicted to
      have poor Epoetin Alpha responsiveness.

      A successful completion of the proposed research is potentially transformative and is likely
      to be applied to the care of VLBW infants, resulting in a significant overall impact.
      Moreover, a successful demonstration of the utility and power of these principles will lead
      to improvements in the complex pharmacotherapy of VLBW infants, who are among the most
      difficult to study of any patient group.
    
  