
    
      The investigators propose a double blinded, randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial at
      the time of initiation of induction of labor for fetal demise at 20 weeks gestational age or
      greater.

        1. Diagnose fetal demise: confirm absence of fetal heart motion by attending physician as
           per the institutional standards and protocols.

        2. Confirm gestational age at presentation to labor and delivery based on available medical
           records and/or ultrasonography as per standard practice and institutional protocols.

        3. Based on inclusion and exclusion criteria potential participants will be informed about
           the research, offered the opportunity to contribute, and trained research staff will
           complete the informed consent process. After documentation of consent and discussion of
           the research as indicated the participants will be randomized to the intervention or
           control arm. Both groups will receive emotional and physical support with induction of
           labor as per practice guidelines and standard of care by Montefiore physicians, faculty
           and staff irrespective of participation or assignment.

        4. Interventional Arm: Ingest 200mg tab of mifepristone orally. This will coincide with or
           be implemented prior to the initiation of the induction of labor plan as delineated by
           the attending physician. The timing will be sensitive to the needs of the participant
           and the labor and delivery room staff.

        5. Control Arm: Ingest a placebo tab orally with similar physical properties. This will
           coincide with or be implemented prior to the initiation of the induction of labor plan
           as delineated by the attending physician. The timing will be sensitive to the needs of
           the participant and the labor and delivery room staff.

        6. Montefiore protocol for induction of labor: will follow institutional standards.

        7. Data: Patient data will be collected by the Labor and Delivery staff via electronic
           medical record or paper record that will be scanned into the electronic medical record.
           The investigators will use data abstraction tools to collect information such as time of
           medication administration, medications administered, time of delivery of fetus, duration
           of admittance to labor and delivery, and postpartum course, or complications from the
           electronic medical record.
    
  