
    
      Objectives:

      Edema is one of the major clinical manifestations of nephrotic syndrome. All patients are
      initially treated with diuretics and sodium restriction but the results are sometimes not
      satisfactory. Hypertonic saline solutions have been studied in congestive heart failure and a
      meta-analysis confirmed it's role in achieving adequate diuresis and protecting patients
      against acute kidney injury although the proposed mechanism of action is not known (osmotic
      action?, inhibition of renin-angiotensin-aldostrerone system?, increase in renal perfusion?,
      myocardial contractility?). The investigators therefore hypothesized that it may exert
      beneficial effects also in nephrotic syndrome.

      Treatment protocol:

      A prospective placebo-controlled randomized trial. Subjects will be randomized to high-dose
      furosemide vs high-dose furosemide plus hypertonic intravenous saline in a 1:1 fashion. All
      subjects will receive furosemide tid (starting with 3x40 mg i.v.) with or without hypertonic
      saline solution (3x100 ml of 3% NaCl - in a combined infusion lasting 10 minutes). Subjects
      randomized to furosemide only will receive 3x100 ml of 5% glucose (in a combined infusion
      lasting 10 minutes). The dose of furosemide will be determined by the investigator based on
      patients weight, severity of edema, 24-h urine volume, kidney function. In case of poor
      clinical response (urine volume below 1000 ml) the investigator will be able to titrate the
      furosemide dose up to 3x180 mg i.v. All patients will be kept on low-salt diet and water
      restriction (500-1000 ml/day), their weight will assessed every morning before breakfast and
      measurement of 24-h urine volume will be performed every day. Additionally BNP levels will be
      measured at baseline and after 5 days of treatment. Treatment will be continued for 5 days.
      The primary measure of efficacy will be urine volume and the rate of acute kidney injury
      (AKI), secondary measure of efficacy will be the expected decrease in brain natriuretic
      peptides (BNP) levels and the length of hospitalization.

      Hydrochlorothiazide, spironolactone and other diuretics use will be contraindicated during
      the study. Patients will be required to receive standard concurrent therapy as determined by
      their attending physician and according to current guidelines (including steroids and other
      immunosuppresives).
    
  