
    
      Background Intra- and postoperative fluid therapy aims to achieve or maintain pre-specified
      thresholds of oxygen delivery/blood flow which can be accomplished by use of fluids with or
      without inotropic drugs. The used thresholds of oxygen delivery were suggested over 40 years
      ago, in considerably younger patients compared to the current patients. Update of the
      characteristics of perioperative oxygen delivery and consumption is reasonable in modern
      clinical settings.

      Primary outcome:

      relative changes of oxygen consumption induced by anaesthesia

      Secondary outcomes:

      relative changes of oxygen consumption and delivery during surgery and postoperatively,
      oxygen extraction ratio (measured and estimated), potential markers of oxygen debt frequency
      of in-hospital postoperative complications, mortality (30 Days)

      Population:

      Men and women ≥65 years undergoing major/complex surgical procedures, when intra-operative
      cardiovascular monitoring is justified according to clinical decision.

      Intervention: no study related intervention, general anaesthesia and surgery according to
      clinical routine

      Blinding: no blinding

      Study size:

      Pilot study 1: feasibility assessment of study protocol of intra-operative measurements (n=
      max 10) Pilot study 2: feasibility assessment of study protocol of postoperative measurements
      (n= max 10) Main study: 60 subjects (20+´40) Planned analysis of oxygen consumption after 20
      monitored subjects

      Study duration:

      Duration of haemodynamic monitoring 24-36 hours Duration of observation of clinical outcomes:
      7-10 days, mortality at 30 days postop.

      Investigational events:

      monitoring of oxygen consumption and delivery monitoring of postoperative clinical outcomes
      monitoring of markers of tissue injury

      Assessments, Procedures and Schedule of Investigational Events:

      Subjects are identified by the operation planning list and assessed for eligibility. The
      study information will be given verbal during the first hospital visit. Subjects who give
      written informed consent will be included in the study.

      Measurements:

      oxygen consumption by indirect calorimetry via face mask (in awake state) and via expiratory
      extension tube of anaesthesia machine (unconscious state) cardiac output monitoring via
      arterial line (LiDCO) blood samples: arterial and venous blood gase samples, Troponin-T urine
      samples: N-gal

      Clinical outcomes:

      Data collection from medical records on postoperative complications using the POMS
      (postoperative morbidity survey) screening survey at days 3,7 and 10. Postoperative mortality
      at day 30.
    
  