
    
      This is an open-label, single arm, phase 2 trial that will include pre or post-menopausal
      female subjects, that have ER-positive, HER2-negative early breast cancer. Subject will
      receive 4 cycles of palbociclib 125 mg (each cycle of palbociclib consists of treatment from
      D1 to D21 followed by a week of rest) combined with endocrine therapy given continuously
      (each cycle of endocrine therapy consists of treatment from D1 to D28).

      The endocrine therapy will be determined according to the menopausal status of the subject
      evaluated at the study screening.

      For post-menopausal subjects: endocrine therapy will consist of letrozole 2.5 mg
      continuously.

      For pre-menopausal or peri-menopausal subjects: endocrine therapy will consist of tamoxifen
      20 mg continuously, combined or not with goserelin 3.6 mg monthly at the local investigator's
      discretion.

      Endocrine therapy for both groups should continue until the last day of palbociclib treatment
      (i.e. the day before surgery).

      Subject's response to therapy will be evaluated before and after the 4 cycles of treatment by
      ultrasound to determine response to therapy. Post treatment ultrasound should be performed 7
      to 10 days before surgery (with a maximum delay of 3 days in case of delayed surgery date).

      Surgery will be performed 4 to 8 days after the end of the 4th cycle of study treatment.

      Biopsy samples will be collected after the subject's inclusion in the study and prior to Day
      1 Cycle 1 of study treatment (pre-treatment biopsy) and will consist of collection of 4 core
      biopsies (2 FFPE and 2 Frozen).

      FFPE and frozen material will be collected from the surgical material left over, after
      sufficient and relevant parts has been retained to establish, improve or complement the
      diagnosis or treatment of the subject.

      One whole blood sample (1x10 mL) will also be collected after the subject's inclusion and
      prior to Day 1 Cycle 1 of study treatment.

      Blood samples for plasma processing (4x10 mL per time point) will be collected after the
      subject's inclusion and prior to Day 1 Cycle 1, prior to Day 1 Cycle 2 of study treatment, at
      surgery day (prior surgery) and one month after surgery.

      All the biological samples collected (pre-treatment biopsy, material from surgery and all
      blood samples) within the study are mandatory. The breast biopsy samples as well as imaging
      tumour assessment (ultrasound breast) performed prior to the signature of the study ICF are
      not admissible for assessment of study end-points and should be repeated within the required
      study time window.

      Primary objective :

      • To identify biomarkers of resistance to a 4-month preoperative treatment of palbociclib
      plus endocrine therapy defined as stable or progressive disease by ultrasound (based on WHO
      criteria) using RNA-seq of the baseline tumour biopsy.

      Secondary objectives :

        -  To identify biomarkers of resistance to a 4-month preoperative treatment of endocrine
           therapy and palbociclib by correlating tumour response by ultrasound (mandatory) or
           magnetic resonance (optional) imaging (response will be assessed as continuous or
           categorical variable) with RNA-seq of the baseline tumour biopsy

        -  To identify biomarkers of resistance to a 4-month preoperative treatment of palbociclib
           plus endocrine therapy defined as residual disease burden, RCB of 3 using RNA-seq of the
           baseline tumour biopsy

        -  To identify biomarkers of resistance to a 4-month preoperative treatment of endocrine
           therapy and palbociclib defined as GGI high by RNA-seq of the residual tumour at surgery
           using RNA-seq of the baseline tumour biopsy

        -  To understand mechanisms of resistance to the combination of endocrine therapy and
           palbociclib by comparing the transcriptome of tumours at baseline and at surgery using
           RNA-seq

        -  To evaluate the safety of the combination of palbociclib plus endocrine therapy

        -  To evaluate the role of plasma ctDNA in monitoring response/resistance to pre-operative
           treatment with endocrine therapy and palbociclib

        -  To validate/further refine an 11-gene expression signature associated with
           response/resistance to palbociclib and endocrine treatment
    
  