
    
      The goal of this study is to develop and evaluate a new program for surveillance and
      improvement of test results-related diagnostic safety. The investigators will use a
      multifaceted measurement approach, the Virtual Breakthrough Series (VBTS) model, to account
      for processes of care and work systems issues as well as outcomes and implement change.

      This is for Aim 2 of the study which was approved under IRB Protocol Number: H-45450. This
      study will implement the Change Package which was developed in the research team's recent
      work (Aim1, prior IRB Protocol Number: H-43661 from October 2018 - September 2019) via
      Virtual Breakthrough Series using a stepped-wedge cluster-randomized control trial. The study
      design involves random and sequential crossover of clusters from control to intervention
      until all clusters are exposed. A Change Package is a catalogue of evidence-based practices,
      change concepts, and action steps/strategies that help guide improvement efforts. VBTS
      involves monthly learning sessions where participants are provided with education/review of a
      specific component of a Change Package along with reviewing de-identified data, and having a
      facilitated discussion about successes, challenges, and implementation progress related to
      needed changes. The intervention will consist of coached implementation of the SAFER Change
      Package using a VBTS Collaborative, plus automated near real-time surveillance data on
      potentially missed test results through monthly data extraction within the Corporate Data
      Warehouse (CDW) platform.

      The study's outcome measures will be the rate of missed test results, determined through
      random manual medical record review conducted nationally as part of the VHA
      performance-measurement system, known as the External Peer Review Program (EPRP) which has
      been collecting facility-level data on timeliness of communication of test results to
      patients within the time periods specified by VHA Directive 1088, as well as automated
      indicators (Triggers) of missed test results. Electronic surveillance will be made possible
      through the use of the research team's trigger algorithms which will determine the number of
      patients potentially lost to follow-up for the specified condition based on a previously
      validated timeframe. The triggers use the national EHR data warehouse (VINCI/CDW) to identify
      patients at risk for delays or patients who may have fallen through the cracks. For data
      surveillance, the investigators will apply five triggers to the medical record data contained
      within the CDW for the participating facilities during the Intervention Phase along with
      evaluating EPRP data. The research team hypothesizes there will be fewer missed test results
      in participating sites during the SAFER TRACKS Intervention as compared to during the
      pre-intervention period.
    
  