
    
      Very recently, pioglitazone was banned for use in type 2 diabetes patients in India as well,
      by the notification from Government of India based on a case series - the ban was revoked a
      few days later due to lack of evidence.

      The incidence rates of bladder cancer among different ethnicities differ markedly, with
      Caucasians having the highest incidence. Another important distinction pertains to the dose
      of pioglitazone- the daily dose of pioglitazone used in the previous studies (from western
      countries) was 45 mg, which is higher than currently prescribed in India (7.5-30 mg).
      Therefore the risk of bladder cancer in Indian patients cannot be extrapolated from studies
      conducted in other regions of the world. Consequently, it is an interesting issue to explore
      the risk of bladder cancer amongst the pioglitazone-users in our settings with different
      ethnicity and risk profile. There has been a single report of eight cases of sporadic bladder
      cancer from India.10 However, the study had no denominator and there has been no further
      study from India exploring the relationship between pioglitazone and bladder cancer.

      Furthermore the risk of bladder cancer is highest in males greater than 50 years. The other
      risk factors are smoking, occupational exposure to aromatic amines in metal, leather, and
      paint industries etc., all of which are more common in males. The increase, if any, in the
      rate of bladder cancer with pioglitazone is expected to be highest in this group.

      The results from currently available studies either in-vitro, animal, human (observational)
      on the link between pioglitazone and bladder cancer are not consistent. Whether the positive
      link in patients using pioglitazone in some studies could be due to the drug per se, or due
      to the underlying disease of diabetes, the interactions with other concomitant drugs, the
      inherent flaws associated with study designs and statistical analyses, or the different
      ethnicities between studies, are worthy of discussion. Diabetes per se may increase the risk
      of cancer, probably via the activation of the Ras/Raf mitogen-activated protein kinase
      pathway in association with a reduction of the expression of epidermal growth factor
      receptor. In fact, epidemiologic studies also suggest an increased risk of bladder cancer in
      diabetic patients, independent of the commonly used oral anti-diabetic agents or insulin.

      Hence we plan to investigate the risk of bladder cancer in type 2 diabetes subjects using
      pioglitazone as compared to those who have never been exposed to pioglitazone. We will
      thoroughly scrutinize the records and also interview the subjects regarding other risk
      factors for bladder cancer in addition to pioglitazone.
    
  