
    
      Background: Acute pancreatitis is a common problem in the United States necessitating 275,000
      hospital admissions per year, with resultant healthcare costs of approximately 2.5 billion
      USD annually. As numerous trials have failed to show a benefit to specific pharmacologic
      therapies in acute pancreatitis, the mainstay of treatment has been both supportive care and
      early, aggressive fluid resuscitation. Small randomized studies have shown conflicting
      results with regards to the influence of resuscitation fluid on outcomes in acute
      pancreatitis, necessitating a large randomized trial to clarify if fluid choice matters or
      not in the treatment of acute pancreatitis.

      Objective: To assess the comparative efficacy of normal saline versus lactated ringer's
      solution in the management of acute pancreatitis.

      Study Design: Patients presenting to the Los Angeles County Hospital with acute pancreatitis
      are the focus population of this study. Patients will be randomized to fluid resuscitation
      with NS or LR within 8 hours of diagnosis of pancreatitis. The inclusion and exclusion
      criterion will be assessed (see below). Randomization will be performed using a random
      sequence algorithm with concealed allocation. The patients will be blinded to allocation by
      covering the bag with an opaque covering. A study physician determining the outcomes will
      also be blinded. Following randomization, the volumes of fluid administered for the
      resuscitation will be determined by a pre-determined algorithm that will be the same for both
      treatment arms. The hydration algorithm is as follows: all patients will receive a bolus of
      the treatment fluid at a rate of 5 mL/kg/hour to be administered over the first two hours
      (total 10 mL/kg) with an assessment for volume overload at 1 hour. They will then will
      receive maintenance fluids at a rate of 3 mL/kg/hour. After 12 hours participants will have
      blood urea nitrogen (BUN) assessed, which is part of the standard clinical procedure. Those
      who do not have a fall in this parameter or who develop SIRS by this 12 hour checkpoint will
      receive a second 5 mL/kg/hour bolus over two hours (as above) of their designated treatment
      fluid followed by further treatment fluid at a rate of 3 mL/kg/hour. Those who do have a fall
      in BUN will receive further treatment fluid at a rate of 3 mL/kg/hour for 12 additional
      hours. Patients' volume status will be assessed in the following manner: study physicians
      will perform a targeted physical exam which will include assessment of JVD, lung
      auscultation, and monitoring for edema Q12 hours for the first 24 hours, then daily for the
      remainder of the hospital admission. In elderly patients and those with co-morbidities, the
      targeted physical exam will be performed Q12 hours for the entire hospital admission. Vitals
      will also be obtained Q6-8 hours. If they develop signs of fluid overload including pitting
      edema, ascites, anasacra, pulmonary edema, or dyspnea, or signs of renal failure including
      oliguria, anuria, or hypotension, they will have their fluid rate managed at the discretion
      of their treating physicians. However, it will be requested that if further fluid is given
      that it be the assigned type (LR versus NS). At 24 hours patients will be assessed for SIRS
      development (see outcomes). Beyond this point fluid rate will be per the primary team though
      it still be encouraged that the assigned type of fluid (LR versus NS) is used for additional
      resuscitation with the rate and volume beyond this point at the discretion of the treating
      physician. However, if the treating physicians have a strong preference to change to a
      different fluid type for clinical reasons this will be recorded (for post hoc analysis) and
      the patient included in the intention to treat analysis.
    
  