
    
      This is a physiologic study to assess the effects of lower airway and lung tissue changes of
      COPD on upper airway collapsibility. Increased in lung volume and destruction of alveolar
      wall in COPD may have opposite and various effects on the upper airway collapsibility, which
      is an important factor of OSA development.

      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) are very
      common disorders associated with considerable morbidity, mortality, and healthcare costs. The
      prevalence of both co-existing conditions is estimated to be ~4% of the general population.
      This COPD-OSA "overlap" syndrome causes more severe hypoxemia than either COPD or OSA alone
      and has important clinical consequences, including death. COPD is usually excluded in OSA
      research and OSA is typically excluded or not assessed in studies of COPD; thus, available
      information about the "overlap" syndrome is limited. Therefore, it is important to identify
      patients with both COPD and OSA and determine the mechanisms of poor outcomes for these
      patients in order to optimize therapy. The pathophysiology of the COPD-OSA syndrome is not
      well understood. The investigators propose to investigate upper airway (UA) anatomic
      characteristics and collapsibility as potential underlying mechanisms that may help to
      explain the negative additive effect of having both conditions. The objectives are to study
      CT measures of airway anatomy and the critical closing pressure of the upper airway (Pcrit),
      a gold standard measure of upper airway collapsibility, in patients with COPD-OSA compared
      with COPD only and normal controls. CT scan of upper airway and chest will allow precise
      measures of upper airway characteristics and COPD associated alveolar and lower airway ch.
      angesMeasures of upper airway collapsibility will provide us information about the mechanical
      nature of the airway and if the patients are more likely to have OSA. Subjects with COPD-OSA
      may exhibit more upper airway inflammation possibly due to their pre-existing COPD disease
      and the reoccurring opening and closing of the upper airway due to the OSA. Therefore the
      investigators would like to assess the degree of inflammation in these patients compared to
      normal controls.
    
  