
    
      Urinary infections in children is very common and should be diagnosed as soon as possible.
      Delay in the diagnosis ma be followed by complications such as sepsis, renal scar, high blood
      pressure, renal insufficiency.

      The diagnosis may be tough when it comes to children because of its unspecific
      symptomatology. Pyelonephritis is a febrile urinary infection associated to renal
      abnormalities. Following the french recommendations ("Sociéte de Pathologie Infectieuse de
      Langue Française" The French Society of Infectious disease SPILF and "Groupe de Pathologies
      Infectieuses Pédiatriques" The Pediatric infectious disease Group GPIP 2015), the
      investigators should first use an intravenous probabilistic antibiotic during minimum 48
      hours to lower the bacterial inoculum. Then, the investigators should switch to an oral
      antibiotic during 8 days to sterilise the urines.

      In local experience, about 30 to 40 % of the children don't have an inflammatory syndrom or
      echographical abnormalities. Do they really have a renal injury? In fact, only the
      scintigraphy or the Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) may show these lesions, but are done
      only in specific cases (diagnosis of uropathy or nephropathy). Recent studies have shown that
      plasmatic Neutrophil Gelatinase-Associated Lipocalin (NGAL) is associated traumatic or
      inflammatory renal lesions. But the plasmatic NGAL cutoff is fluctuant depending on the
      cohorts and gold standards. In those studies, dosing NGAL was non automatised and long.

      the investigators would like to evaluate a new methodology of dosing NGAL, (immuno-dosage
      turbidimetric dosage). The investigators suppose that plasmatic NGAL protein will detect
      renal injury, which would be confirmed by MRI.

      This is an interventional, prospective, multicentered study. It will last for 2 years. The
      aim of this study is to evaluate the AUC of plasmatic NGAL protein with an automatised
      method, for the detection of renal injury. This would be confirmed by reno vesical MRI, in
      children over 2 years old with febrile urinary infections.
    
  