
    
      This research project will investigate the efficacy of RT in sequential combination with dCIT
      relative to the therapies given alone and study the factors relevant to outcomes prediction
      to inform clinical practice. There will be 3 primary purposes in this comprehensive research:

      Ⅰ. We will examine the effects of RT combined with dCIT (RT + dCIT) compared to RT, dCIT, and
      a dose-matched control therapy (DMCT) in stroke patients. Outcome domains will include motor,
      sensory, and muscle functions, amount of arm activity in real-life situations,
      patient-reported outcomes of daily performance and quality of life, and kinematic performance
      at before treatment, midterm assessment, and after treatment. In addition, potential adverse
      effects including post-exertional fatigue, post-exertional pain, and a biomarker of oxidative
      stress will be examined. We hypothesized that the therapeutic regimen combining RT with dCIT
      will contribute to more significantly reduction in impairment and disability for stroke
      patients than the other intervention groups.

      Ⅱ. We will investigate if the demographical and clinical characteristics of stroke patients
      may significantly predict the probability of achieving clinically significant changes of
      treatment outcomes. The proposed candidate predictors will be chronicity, side of lesion,
      muscle tone, finger extension, motor function of distal upper limb (UL), and amount of
      real-life arm activity.

      Ⅲ. We will examine whether the improvements after treatments are clinically important and
      will assess clinimetric properties of the outcome measures to establish the clinical
      significance relevant for individualized stroke rehabilitation. We will also assess and
      compare the clinimetric properties (e.g., validity, responsiveness, minimal detectable
      change, and minimal clinically important difference) of the rehabilitation outcomes to inform
      selection of instruments.
    
  