
    
      This is a prospective, observational multi-center study, building on an initial single-centre
      study from Toronto, Canada (ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT03271892). Adult patients with
      small, low-risk papillary thyroid cancer may choose either active surveillance (close
      follow-up with the intention of surgery if the disease progresses or if the patient changes
      their mind and wants surgery) or immediate thyroid surgery (thyroidectomy). Patients who
      choose active surveillance are clinically followed at the participating study centre and
      those who choose surgery, receive usual care from their treating surgeon and/or other thyroid
      cancer specialists.

      Thyroid cancer clinical and treatment outcomes are tracked (by medical record review) at
      least yearly for up to 10 years after enrollment. Patients are also asked to complete study
      questionnaires (patient reported outcomes) yearly for up to 5 years.

      The underlying assumption in the study is that since patients' disease management goals
      differ for individuals choosing active surveillance and those choosing surgery, 'successful'
      disease management is defined differently for these patient groups. For patients choosing
      active surveillance, successful disease management may be defined by avoiding thyroid surgery
      for thyroid cancer progression (i.e. thyroid cancer that has grown or spread to other
      tissues). For patients choosing surgery, the ultimate goal is cure of the thyroid cancer
      (i.e. no thyroid cancer detected at long-term follow-up).

      The primary analysis in this study is a description of how often patients' initial disease
      management goals are not achieved at long-term follow-up. For this study, 'failure' of
      disease management is defined as follows: a) in active surveillance group - surgery for
      disease progression, and b) in the immediate surgery group - requiring additional treatment
      for persistent or recurrent thyroid cancer (i.e. thyroid cancer that is detected and treated
      in follow-up). Thyroid cancer clinical and treatment outcomes as well as patient
      questionnaire outcomes will be reported.
    
  