
    
      Co-occuring pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbance is a common symptom cluster among patients
      with advanced cancer, diminishing functional status and quality of life. Cognitive-behavioral
      (CB) strategies (e.g., relaxation, distraction, and imagery) are effective treatments for
      each of these symptoms, and provide a logical choice in managing all three co-occurring
      symptoms. CB strategies are thought to work psychologically by reducing anxiety and stress,
      improving expectations for symptom outcomes, and enhancing perceptions of personal control.
      Recent research also suggests a physiologic pathway, in which CB strategies attenuate
      dysregulation in stress hormones and reduce proinflammatory cytokines that contribute to
      symptom exacerbation. CB strategies are not equally effective for all patients, with
      differences based on individual preferences and skills and concurrent symptoms. Thus,
      training in a single strategy is not sufficient. Our previous work demonstrates feasibility
      and initial efficacy of a patient-controlled cognitive-behavioral (PC-CB) intervention in
      which patients receive information about their symptoms and rationale for CB strategies, then
      self-administer their selection of various relaxation, distraction, and imagery strategies
      via MP3 player, using the CB strategies at whatever time and place they are needed. This
      brief intervention was designed to be mindful of the high symptom burden, unpredictable
      treatment course, and often short life expectancy of persons with advanced cancer. The
      purpose of this study is to test efficacy of the PC-CB intervention in a randomized
      controlled trial and to test moderators and mediators of intervention effects. The specific
      aims are (1) to test efficacy of the PC-CB intervention on severity, distress, and
      interference with daily life from the pain, fatigue, sleep disturbance symptom cluster, (2)
      to test proposed moderators (imaging ability, concurrent symptoms) of PC-CB intervention
      effects, (3) to test psychological mediators (anxiety, stress, outcome expectancy, perceived
      control) of PC-CB intervention effects, and (4) to explore two types of physiological
      mediators (neuroendocrine stress hormones and indices of inflammation) of PC-CB intervention
      effects. A sample of 198 adults receiving chemotherapy for advanced breast, lung, colorectal,
      prostate, gynecologic or other solid tumor cancers and experiencing pain, fatigue, and sleep
      disturbance will be recruited. Patients randomized to the PC-CB intervention will receive a
      brief training session and instructions to use the recorded CB strategies during 9-weeks of
      cancer treatment. Patients randomized to attention control will receive instructions to use
      cancer educational recordings over the same period. Measures of symptom severity and
      distress, symptom interference with daily life, and proposed psychological and physiologic
      mediating variables will be completed at baseline and the 3-week (primary) time point.
      Symptom outcome measures will be repeated at 6- and 9-week (secondary) time points to
      evaluate longer term treatment effects.
    
  