
    
      Introduction :Pain is a major symptom of many patients presenting to the emergency department
      (ED), with up to 42% of ED visits being related to painful conditions. ED providers are
      challenged with how best to treat acute pain, specifically when non-opioid analgesics are
      ineffective or contraindicated. There is considerable debate regarding most appropriate
      choice of analgesic when treating acute pain. Providers seek to prescribe the most effective
      analgesic with the least side effects, including the least risk of opioid dependence. Factors
      contributing to debate around the most appropriate opioid analgesic have also been influenced
      by pharmaceutical industry marketing and health care systems' efforts to improve clinicians'
      treatment of pain.

      Ontario's most commonly prescribed opioid is codeine. Yet, its utilization as an analgesic is
      debated in the analgesic literature. Codeine is a prodrug that is metabolized to morphine in
      the liver. In most people, 5% to 10% of codeine is converted to morphine. Thus, some experts
      suggest that a 30 mg dose of codeine is considered equivalent to a 3 mg dose of morphine.
      However, other experts in this area suggest equi-analgesic doses of opioids are equally
      efficacious in relieving pain. In fact, codeine has been compared to hydrocodone using
      morphine-equivalent doses and were found equally efficacious at relieving pain the ED in a
      randomized controlled trial. Two additional randomized controlled trials have compared short
      acting hydrocodone and short acting oxycodone found them to be equally effective to relieve
      pain.

      Another recent study by Chang et al., reported no statistically significant or clinically
      important differences in pain reduction at 2 hours after single-dose treatment with ibuprofen
      and acetaminophen or with 3 different opioid and acetaminophen combination analgesics for
      patients presenting to the ED with acute extremity pain. The largest difference in decline in
      mean pain score between any two treatments was 0.9 at the 2-hour time point, a difference
      that was not statistically significant and was less than 1.3, which was the author's a priori
      criterion to define a minimal clinically important difference in pain. This study had several
      limitations including the limited follow-up time of 2 hours, lack of adverse event reporting,
      and the exclusion of patients over the age of 65 years. This study is one of the only
      published randomized trials evaluating analgesic efficacy of opioid and non-opioid analgesics
      for an acutely painful condition.

      There is a surprising paucity of studies evaluating analgesic efficacy, particularly after ED
      discharge, and there are no guidelines informing best practice for the management of acute
      pain following ED disposition for acute pain. To date, there have not been studies directly
      comparing the 3 most commonly prescribed opioids in Canadian EDs: codeine, hydromorphone and
      oxycodone. In light of mounting concern about the misuse of oral opioids, studies are needed
      to inform policy makers and to assist physicians in making evidence-based decisions about
      optimal short-term outpatient pain management.

      There remains a paucity of data informing ED providers of opioid efficacy and patient
      important, functional outcomes in adults. Therefore, the objective of this study is to
      identify a preferred prescribed oral opioid analgesic for outpatient pain management among
      adults presenting to the ED with an acutely painful condition.

      reater pharmacodynamic sensitivity to analgesic central nervous system effects. Objectives

      Primary:

      To identify the most effective prescribed oral opioid analgesic for outpatient pain
      management among adults presenting to the emergency department with an acutely painful
      condition.

      Secondary:

      To describe analgesic use, side effects, adverse events and patient-important, functional
      outcomes in adults.

      METHODS:

      Study Setting This will be a pragmatic, blinded, randomized controlled trial (RCT) conducted
      in the ED of Mount Sinai Hospital, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. This is a tertiary care,
      urban teaching hospital with approximately 65,000 ED visits per year.

      Inclusion Criteria Patients will be considered for inclusion if they are 18 years and older,
      live independently, present to the ED with an acutely painful condition occurring within 7
      days prior to ED visit, and if their treating ED physician intends to prescribe opioid
      analgesic upon ED discharge.

      Exclusion Criteria Patients will be excluded from this study if they have an allergy to any
      of the study drugs (acetaminophen, polyethylene glycol 3350 (PEG), codeine, oxycodone or
      hydromorphone), are non-English speaking without an adequate interpreter available, are
      already on prescribed chronic opioid pain medication, have ongoing use of sedating
      medications (ie. benzodiazepines, antipsychotics), have current substance use disorder
      (excluding tobacco), are on opioid substitution therapy, comorbidity representing an absolute
      or relative contraindication to acute opioid prescribing (ie. any medical condition requiring
      home oxygen, Addison's disease, dialysis dependence, obstructive sleep apnea on non-invasive
      positive pressure ventilation, body mass index > 45, Cushing's Disease), have moderate or
      severe dementia, inability to follow-up, or reside in a nursing home or location where a
      professional dispenses medications.

      Study Protocol Attending physicians will identify eligible patients prior to ED discharge,
      and informed written consent for trial participation will be obtained by trained research
      personnel. Research personnel will not approach physicians for fractures or painful
      conditions alone, rather they approached on the basis of the treating physician's intent to
      prescribe opioids for home use. After providing informed written consent, patients will be
      randomized to either receive oxycodone, hydromorphone or codeine for analgesia for home use
      using a fixed 1:1:1 allocation ratio produced by a computer-based random number generator.
      Block sizes of 6 will be used to ensure equal allocation to each group. MSH pharmacy will
      prepare study drugs in opaque vials with identical labels based on a randomization scheme
      provided by the trial methodologist. The opaque vials will be included in sealed,
      sequentially numbered study packets that will be replaced as they are used. To avoid
      potential patient selection and allocation bias, all physicians, nurses, RAs and patients
      will be blinded to the randomization schedule. Study investigators will be permitted to
      un-blind the study medication in the event of allergic reaction, consisting of rash and/or
      airway compromise.

      Each research packet to be dispensed to patients at ED discharge will contain 3 medication
      vials and medication instructions as below:

        1. Acetaminophen 500 mg Instructions: Take 1 - 2 tablets by mouth every 8 hours as needed
           for pain.

        2. Polyethylene Glycol 3350 (PEG) 17 g sachets Instructions: Dissolve in 120 to 240 mL (4
           to 8 ounces) of beverage and drink. Use one sachet daily as needed to prevent
           constipation if you are taking the opioid study drug.

        3. Blinded Opioid Study Medication in an opaque vial (5 mg morphine equivalent tablets of
           either codeine, oxycodone or hydromorphone) Codeine: 30 mg tablets Oxycodone: 5 mg
           tablets Hydromorphone: 1 mg tablets Instructions: Take 1 tablet every 4 hours as needed
           for moderate to severe pain if you continue to have pain despite taking acetaminophen.

      The research packet will be kept in the locked narcotic cupboard of the ambulatory care
      assessment are in the ED in a box labeled "Study Drugs". At any given time, 3 packets will be
      maintained, and the temperature of this cupboard will be monitored by the study RA. The room
      temp logs will be maintained on a daily basis with a calibrated thermometer. The key to this
      cupboard is kept by the nurse on duty in this area.

      Once a patient is randomized, the physician will order a study medication packet with a paper
      order for prescribing the study drug (designed and provided by MSH pharmacy). The nurse in
      the ambulatory care area will remove this packet from the cupboard, log its removal on a
      study specific narcotic sheet for inventory in ED. As in any other narcotic stored in the ED,
      the study packets will be counted daily at the end of the day as per narcotic regulations.

      The RA will record the patient's name, MRN, and other info on label that is dispensed with
      study medication (follow labeling requirements). The RA will inform the patient of medication
      instructions, possible side effects and medication reconciliation procedures.

      Trained research personnel will collect demographic and clinical parameters (medical history,
      physical examination findings, diagnostic testing, ED management) from the patient and from
      paper and electronic charts using a standardized data collection tool.

      Discharge instructions will be read by the attending physician. Patients will be provided a
      printed copy of the discharge instructions. The RA will discuss each of the medications
      provided to the patient and read the specific instructions and potential side effects for
      each medication. The RA will also instruct the patient how to complete the Medication Diary.
      Prior to ED discharge, the RA will schedule the telephone follow-up assessment and will
      administer the BPI. Patients will be provided a pre-addressed envelope to return study
      medications and the completed Medication Diary to the research team at study completion. At
      the time of discharge, a time will be scheduled for a courier to pick up unused study
      medications from their home. The envelope will be signed by the patient on shipping and
      signed by the study coordinator or pharmacy on receiving. The patient will also have the
      option of bringing their unused study medications to their scheduled MSH Fracture Clinic
      appointment, if applicable, where the RA will meet them to reconcile the study medications.

      Patients will be contacted via telephone by a RA to complete follow-up assessments 72 hours
      following the initial ED visit. To assess the compliance of patients with discharge
      instructions, they will be asked to complete a Medication Diary that consists of questions,
      taking less than 1 minute to complete daily. If telephone contact is not successful on the
      first day of scheduled follow-up, participants will be left a message to remind them of the
      scheduled telephone interview. If telephone follow-up is not successful on the first day of
      scheduled follow-up, attempts will be made on the 2nd and 3rd days. If contact is not made
      within a 3 day timeframe, patients will be considered lost to follow-up, and their data will
      be excluded from further analysis.

      Outcome Measures The primary outcome of this study will be differences in pain severity 3
      days following ED discharge as measured by the Brief Pain Inventory (BPI). BPI is the best
      way to measure differences in pain severity in clinical trials. It measures pain severity
      using the mean score of 4 questions (worst pain, least pain, average pain and current pain)
      on a numeric rating scale (0-10).

      Secondary outcomes will include differences in functional outcomes, analgesic use, side
      effects, and adverse events. Participants' functional outcomes will be assessed using the BPI
      - interference questions. Analgesic use will be quantified in pill counts collected from both
      telephone follow-up surveys as well as on the Medication Diaries. Side effects will be
      measured using a modified version of The Numerical Opioid Side Effect (NOSE) Assessment Tool
      during the telephone follow-up, and adverse events are defined as falls, unplanned visits to
      a healthcare provider (return ED visits, family physician, walk-in clinic), allergic
      reaction, overdose, and death.

      Data Analyses Data will be entered directly into a study specific Microsoft Excel database
      (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Washington). Descriptive statistics will be summarized using
      means with standard deviations (SD), medians with interquartile ranges (IQR) or frequencies
      with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) where appropriate. The study design assumes three arms
      (codeine, oxycodone and hydromorphone), therefore the 2-tailed alpha will be set to 0.025 to
      adjust for the increased risk of type-I error with 3 pairwise comparisons. An
      intention-to-treat analysis will be performed. To test for pairwise equality between groups,
      a 1-way ANOVA will be employed. Proportional differences will be assessed using Pearson
      chi-square statistic. Missing data points will be excluded from the analysis.

      Assuming a mean (SD) change in pain scores between groups of 2.2 (3.0), a minimum clinically
      important difference on the Brief Pain Inventory of 2.0 , a 2-tailed alpha of 0.025 to adjust
      for 3 pairwise comparisons and a beta of 0.20, the investigators estimate that 47 patients
      per group (N=141) will be required. To account for potential loss to follow-up, the
      investigators will increase sample size by 25% per group, resulting in a final sample size of
      177 patients (59 per group).
    
  