
    
      Ocular and oculocutaneous albinism represent a spectrum of disorders with absent or
      significantly diminished amount of melanin either across different body tissues - skin, hair,
      eye (Oculocutaneous Albinism 1 and 2), or exclusively in eye tissues only (Ocular Albinism 1)
      .

      The functionality and the clinical findings are diverse (the phenotype), and no direct
      correlation has been established to the underlying mutations (genotype).

      The common ocular phenotype includes iris transillumination, foveal hypoplasia, nystagmus,
      reduced visual acuity, refractive error, photosensitivity and abnormal development of the
      visual pathways with characteristic abnormal routing of ganglion cell axons in the chiasma,
      resulting in abnormal visually evoked potentials. Current treatment options are limited to
      optical methods and low vision aids.

      The mechanism of melanin pigment formation in the RPE cells and its role in the visual
      pathways and structures development is not completely understood, but a correlation was found
      between the amount of fundus pigmentation and visual function in albino patients. The absent
      pigmentation within the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) may thus contribute to visual
      performance deficits.

      The macular pigment (MP) consists of two main carotenoids, lutein and zeaxanthin, which are
      concentrated in the macular region of the retina. MP is hypothesized to function via a
      protective mechanism by absorbing blue light incident on the retina thereby reducing
      oxidative damage to the underlying photoreceptors. It is also thought to improve visual
      function via reduction of chromatic aberration and glare. It is currently unclear as to how
      the variability in macular pigment optical density (MPOD) affects congenital retinal
      conditions. The MP would, however, be a hypothetical and good candidate to improve visual
      performance - simply by increasing pigmentation, reducing light scatter and thus glare
      sensitivity.

      As this pigment is not produced in the retina, but is absorbed via diet, it can be
      manipulated by alteration in diet and supplementation thereby providing potential therapy for
      retinal diseases. It is however necessary first to see if MPOD levels are measurable in this
      disorder before dietary advice can be provided after completion of the LUVIA study. Further
      to this, evaluation of both the structural and functional properties of the retina will
      provide greater insight into the possible function of MP in this retinal disease including
      whether supplementation would be of benefit.
    
  