
    
      Transgender women who have receptive anal intercourse with men (TGWSM; assigned male sex at
      birth and taking/planning to take feminizing hormone therapy) are at high risk of HIV, and
      many HIV infections occur due to exposure to the rectal mucosa. In this study, the
      researchers will examine the biologic effects of feminizing hormone therapy on the mucosal
      immune milieu of the rectum. A better understanding of rectal HIV transmission among TGWSM
      will lead to the development of improved biomedical prevention interventions.

      Historically, TGWSM have been grouped with men who have sex with men (MSM) in HIV prevention
      studies due to presumed similar risks of rectal HIV exposure despite their unique
      psychosocial, biologic, and prevention needs. From a biologic perspective, many TGWSM use
      feminizing hormone therapy with uncertain rectal mucosal effects. The effects of endogenous
      and exogenous hormones in the human and animal-model female genital tract has been described
      with estrogen generally being seen as hindering HIV transmission and progesterone
      facilitating transmission; however, few studies report effects on the rectal mucosa. In
      addition, the intestinal mucosa is known to be steroidogenic, and colonic epithelial cells
      express estrogen receptor β, suggesting that exogenous hormone therapy likely has an effect
      on the rectal mucosa that could influence HIV transmission. For this project, the researchers
      will build upon our successful translational mucosal immunology program with a highly
      successful clinical research and retention infrastructure that was designed to understand
      factors that may influence rectal HIV transmission and propose to examine the effects of
      feminizing hormone therapy on the rectal mucosal resident cellular populations,
      transcriptome, and microbiome in TGWSM. In the rectal mucosa, the researchers will compare
      HIV target cell availability, the transcriptome, and microbiome in a cross-sectional cohort
      of 1) TGWSM on using feminizing hormone therapy (n=300) and 2) cisgender MSM (n=150). The
      researchers will also examine HIV target cell availability, the transcriptome, and microbiome
      in a longitudinal study of TGWSM (n=70) before and after initiating feminizing hormone
      therapy.

      Two cohorts of HIV-negative TGWSM will be enrolled in this study. Cohort 1 will be a
      cross-sectional study where the researchers will enroll 300 TGWSM who are on feminizing
      hormone therapy and a control group of 150 sexually active cisgender men (assigned male sex
      at birth and currently identify as male) who have sex with men. Individuals in Cohort 1 will
      participate in study activities for up to 12 weeks. Cohort 2 is a longitudinal study where 70
      TGWSM who are naïve to feminizing hormone therapy or have not taken feminizing hormone
      therapy for > 6 months and plan to initiate feminizing hormone therapy will be enrolled.
      Individuals in Cohort 2 will participate in study activities for 18 months.
    
  