
    
      Multiple myeloma (MM) accounts for 1% of all cancers and ∼10% of all hematological
      malignancies. Despite recent advances in myeloma treatment, including the introduction of
      proteasome inhibitors, immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) and stem cell transplantation, myeloma
      remains an incurable disease. The treatment of bortezomib and lenalidomide refractory myeloma
      is still an unmet medical need. Once patients have relapsed after IMiD-containing therapies
      and have become bortezomib-resistant, their prognosis is extremely poor.

      Pomalidomide is a third-generation, Swissmedic approved, oral immunomodulatory drug with
      activity in such patients. However the toxicity of pomalidomide in the pivotal MM-003 trial
      was considerable, with 60% of patients experiencing drug-related G3/4 toxicity. Neutropenia
      (48% vs 16%) and pneumonia (13% vs 8%) were significantly more common in the pomalidomide
      arm. This resulted in frequent dose interruptions (67%) and dose reductions (27%). This
      suggests that for the majority of patients the 4 mg daily dosing schedule (4 mg daily on 21
      of 28 days) is toxic, and that strategies to deliver reduced dosing of pomalidomide are of
      high practical relevance.

      Alternative dosing schedules:

      There is robust data available indicating that lower pomalidomide doses (e.g. 2 mg daily)
      lead to similar responses and progression free survival with fewer side effects. Due to its
      unique pharmacological characteristics, pomalidomide is well suited for alternate day dosing.
      The decline of the plasma concentration at the terminal phase is slow. These data make
      pomalidomide an ideal candidate for alternate day dosing. Therefore, a phase I study has
      already been conducted in 2008 to test the alternating administration of the drug showing
      excellent responses with a marked reduction of thrombotic events and less severe
      myelosuppression.

      The drug costs of pomalidomide are quite high. Interestingly, the manufacturer determined a
      pricing model that is independent from the capsule strength (costs for one capsule 1 mg=2
      mg=3 mg=4 mg). In patients requiring dose reductions due to hematologic toxicity, daily
      dosing of reduced strength pomalidomide (e.g. 2 mg daily) is approved and suggested by the
      manufacturer. This delivers 50% less pomalidomide to the patient, albeit at 100% of the price
      of full dosing.

      In summary, the establishment of the modified pomalidomide schedule would be an interesting
      option for our patients to achieve similar efficacy with fewer side effects. In addition, it
      would optimize the cost-effectiveness of the drug.
    
  