
    
      Array-CGH is a front-line technique in many genetic indications in both prenatal and
      postnatal settings. It allows the detection of chromosomal rearrangements (duplication or
      deletion for example) in routine. The interpretation and classification of these copy number
      variations or CNVs is essential but complex. It requires a systematic and methodical analysis
      of the variation in the context of the scientific literature. When these revisions do not
      meet either pathogenicity or benignity criteria, they are referred to as variation of unknown
      significance (or VUS). They account for a significant proportion of the revisions up to 75%
      (Palmer et al., 2013).

      The detection of VUS does not, in most cases, allow for a diagnosis and often requires the
      use of other, costly techniques. The human impact may also be significant in the absence of
      possible genetic counselling (e.g. in the context of a future pregnancy). Reanalysis of an
      VUS is of major interest for at least two reasons : (1) the first, if it is classified as
      benign, makes it possible to close the investigation of the variant, to consider other leads
      without ulterior motives, and to reassure the patient about the absence of pathogenicity of
      the variant. (2) if the VUS is ultimately pathogenic, this makes it possible to name the
      disease for the patient, to specify genetic counselling, to avoid further long and costly
      investigation and possibly to propose treatment.

      Currently, VUS can be reanalysed by the laboratory at the request of the prescribing
      physician or possibly another physician. However, no systematic reanalysis procedure is
      currently in place.

      Although these variations of unknown meanings are frequent and represent an important issue,
      to our knowledge, no systematic database study has been carried out. Some similar work has
      nevertheless been carried out over a shorter period or on an ad hoc basis, showing an
      interest in this type of approach (Palmer et al., 2014).

      Indeed, it seems essential to determine the interest of reanalysing such variations in
      several modes: diagnostic, economic and human.
    
  