
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the toxicity and safety of bevacizumab when given together with cisplatin,
           irinotecan hydrochloride, and radiotherapy followed by surgery and adjuvant bevacizumab
           in patients with locally advanced esophageal adenocarcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  Observe the rate of pathologic complete response in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Observe overall survival, disease-free survival, and patterns of failure in these
           patients.

        -  Clarify toxicity and tolerability of this regimen.

        -  Evaluate pre-treatment levels of vascular endothelial growth factor in patient serum as
           a corollary of response to this regimen.

        -  Correlate serum proteomics data with complete pathologic response.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label study.

        -  Induction therapy: Patients receive cisplatin IV over 30 minutes and irinotecan
           hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1, 8, 22, and 29. Patients also receive
           bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 1 and 22.

        -  Combination therapy and radiotherapy: Patients receive cisplatin and irinotecan
           hydrochloride as in induction chemotherapy on days 43, 50, 64, and 71. Patients also
           receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on days 43 and 64. Patients undergo external
           beam radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks beginning on day 43.

        -  Surgery: Patients undergo surgery 6-8 weeks after finishing combination therapy and
           radiotherapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Approximately 6 weeks after surgery, patients receive bevacizumab
           IV over 30-90 minutes every 3 weeks for 6 months.

      Blood samples are obtained at baseline, after finishing chemoradiotherapy, and prior to
      maintenance therapy and are examined by the matrix-assisted laser-desorption ionization time
      of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectometry for proteomic profiling.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 4
      months for 1 year, every 6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.
    
  