
    
      Gingival recession has high prevalence among both individuals with periodontal disease and
      those with high standers of oral hygiene. The management of RT-2 ( Miller Class III) gingival
      recessions is very challenging and there is controversy in the literature concerning the most
      predictable approach to treat these defects.

      Treatment of gingival recession is performed to enhance esthetics, reduce dentinal
      hypersensitivity, eliminate caries risk, stop the progression of gingival recession and
      periodontal attachment loss and keratinized tissue augmentation to enable the patient to
      maintain adequate plaque control.Gingival recession or "Marginal tissue recession" is
      recognized as the apical migration of the marginal gingiva to its normal position on the root
      surface. Connective tissue graft (CTG) is considered to be the best root coverage techniques
      for the treatment of gingival recession defects.

      However, it is challenging sometimes to harvest the largest volume of tissue especially in
      thin palatal tissue as recently it was recommended to keep 2mm of soft tissue thickness
      covering the palate to minimize the postoperative pain. Otherwise, necrosis/dehiscence of the
      flap may happen which was reported to occur frequently for the trap-door approach. Moreover,
      it is necessary to extend the dissection deeper into the palatal tissues to leave adequate
      thickness of connective tissue to maintain the vitality of the primary flap which may cause
      more painful post-operative course.

      To overcome these limitations, CTG harvesting with de-epithelialized gingival grafts (DGG)
      can be executed even in the presence of thin palatal tissues. CTG preparation can be
      performed more superficially by this approach to obtain collagen-rich connective tissue from
      Lamina pro- pria of the palatal mucosa. The findings of Zucchelli et al. study support the
      observation that CTGs which are presumed to have denser connective tissue are comparatively
      less prone to post-operative shrinkage . According to this assumption, DGG technique may
      enable to harvest an adequate amount of dense and stable tissue
    
  