
    
      Participants: Participants (n=80) aged 18-65 years will be recruited from referrals within
      the outpatient clinics of HDH and PCH. Participants who consent to take part in the study
      will be evaluated by one of the psychiatrists on the team through a video appointment.
      Diagnosis of MDD and/or GAD will be confirmed using the DSM-5 and approved through the
      M.I.N.I. The inclusion criteria for the study will include the capacity to consent; a
      diagnosis of MDD and/or GAD, the ability to speak and read English, and having consistent and
      reliable access to the internet. Exclusion criteria include active psychosis, acute mania,
      severe alcohol or substance use disorder, and/or active suicidal or homicidal ideation. If a
      participant is receiving another form of psychotherapy, they will also be excluded from the
      study. If eligible for the study, participants will be randomly assigned to either the
      electronic psychotherapy (e-psychotherapy) or control (i.e. Treatment as usual (TAU)) group,
      stratified by sex, age group, and gender.

      Participants selected for the e-psychotherapy group will receive a 9-week program that
      includes a combination of CBT, mindfulness, and problem-based therapy, in addition to TAU.
      The content of the e-psychotherapy program will be customized to reflect the challenges that
      individuals face through the COVID-19 pandemic and will be developed into interactive and
      engaging therapy modules. All online sessions and interactions will occur through Online
      Psychotherapy Tool (OPTT), a secure online platform.

      Through OPTT, all participants will be assigned to a team of psychiatrists and social workers
      (SWs). The SW working with each patient will assign a pre-designed therapy module to that
      patient on a specific day of the week through OPTT. Participants will then be able to access
      the therapy content at any time throughout the week. Each weekly module will highlight a
      different topic and include general information, an overview of skills, and homework that is
      to be completed by a specific day that week. Completing each weekly module requires an
      average time commitment of 40-minutes, which can be completed at once or in blocks of time.
      This homework will be directly submitted through OPTT to the clinician who will then provide
      personalized feedback to the patient. To ensure a consistent high-quality outcome, SWs will
      use pre-designed session-specific feedback templates to respond to each weekly patient
      submission. Each patient's care team will be able to securely communicate through OPTT to
      make decisions regarding each patient's care path. The control group will receive treatment
      as usual during the first 9 weeks; if they still present significant symptoms (less than 50%
      response to treatment from baseline), they will be offered the e-psychotherapy program.

      Module Content: The first 3 sessions will be designed to address the symptoms caused by fear
      of illness or concerns about personal safety in the context of a pandemic. Electronic-CBT
      (e-CBT) modules will focus on problem-solving techniques, with mindfulness practices
      included, to help build healthy coping skills to address the uncertainties surrounding the
      COVID-19 pandemic. e-CBT modules will involve guiding participants to develop constructive
      and balanced coping strategies through 5 focuses: stimulus control, cognitive therapy, sleep
      hygiene, relaxation therapy, and sleep restriction. Additional focus will be placed on the
      connection between thoughts, behaviours, emotions, physical reaction and one's environment.

      Training: Through training, all SWs will learn the standard care pathway, the aim, and the
      content of each therapeutic session. Moreover, they will be provided sample homework from a
      patient and asked to provide feedback. Feedback templates will vary from session to session
      and SWs will personalize each template for each patients' homework. Training will occur
      through webinars and exercises with feedback.

      Outcome Evaluation: Primary outcomes measured will be stress level changes based on the
      DASS-21, resilience based on RS-14, and quality of life-based on Q-LES-Q. Additional
      measurements will be made based on participant diagnosis (PHQ9, MADRS, GAD7). All
      questionnaires will be collected directly through OPTT at baseline, session 6, after the
      final session, and at a 6-month follow up. Healthcare providers will be asked about the
      feasibility of providing the e-psychotherapy, how it compared to in-person psychotherapy with
      respect to time commitment, feelings of 'connectedness' to the participant, and any perceived
      benefits/drawbacks to e-psychotherapy. From focus groups, factors related to personal,
      social, and cultural factors (gender, sexuality, background, supportive resources,
      structural/social barriers, etc.) will be extracted using an Interpretive Phenomenological
      Analysis (IPA) approach.

      Ethics and Data Privacy: All procedures have been submitted for approval of ethical
      compliance to the Queen's University Health Sciences and Affiliated Teaching Hospitals
      Research Ethics Board. Only the care providers involved in the care of the participant will
      have access to their chart. Patients will only be identifiable by an ID number on the OPTT
      platform and their real identity and consent forms will be stored locally in a locked file
      cabinet and destroyed 5 years after the study completion date. Only anonymized data will be
      provided to the analysis team members.

      OPTT is HIPAA, PIPEDA and SOC-2 compliant and all servers and databases are hosted in AWS
      Canada cloud infrastructure which is managed by Medstack to assure all provincial and federal
      privacy and security regulations are met. OPTT will not collect any identifiable personal
      information or IP addresses for privacy purposes. OPTT will only collect anonymized metadata
      to improve its service quality and provide advanced analytics to the clinician team. All data
      is encrypted by OPTT and no employee has direct access to patient data. All encrypted backups
      are kept in the S3 storage that is dedicated to Queen's University.

      Data Analysis: Repeated MANOVA will be used to evaluate treatment efficacy in changes in
      scores on the DASS-21, RS-14 & Q-LES-Q between the participant groups (TAU, anxiety, and
      depression), and changes within each specific diagnosis at four different time points.
      Thematic analysis will be applied to analyze survey questions in order to better capture
      experiences, acceptability and patient-centeredness of e-psychotherapy. Descriptive analysis
      of time spent by each care team member for individual participants to evaluate the cost
      efficiency of care delivery will occur.
    
  