
    
      Peripheral arterial disease is part of the diseases derived from arteriosclerosis, such as
      myocardial infarction or stroke. These entities are the leading cause of mortality in
      developed countries. The peripheral arterial disease is a narrowing of the diameter of the
      arteries in the legs due to plaque formation of atheroma. When the obstruction is significant
      enough, there is a decrease in blood flow to the musculature of the lower limbs and
      consequently, depending on the severity of the narrowing, we can find from asymptomatic
      patients to patients with atrophic lesions, going through different degrees of pain when
      walking or at rest.

      It is estimated that in 2010 more than 200 million people had peripheral arterial disease
      worldwide, with symptoms that range from mild to severe. The forecast is heading towards an
      increase in prevalence due to the increase in the life span of the world population and
      cardiovascular risk factors.

      There is evidence in countries with high cardiovascular risk regarding the benefit obtained
      in physical exercise programs supervised in patients with pain when walking, both in
      increasing the distance walked and in prolonging at the time of onset of pain. Despite being
      a treatment with proven efficacy and relatively inexpensive, it continues being little used
      for the management of patients with intermittent claudication caused by arteriopathy in
      Spain.

      This project aims to assess the effectiveness of various supervised physical exercise
      programs in patients with Symptomatic Peripheral Artery Disease (Intermittent Claudication)
      versus single advice to exercise without supervision. After a first initial assessment visit,
      four groups will be formed at random. A control group who will be given standard advice to
      perform physical exercise and three experimental intervention groups. They will be assessed
      at 3 and 6 months after performing sessions of supervised exercise lasting one hour 3 times a
      week and 12 months after the initial visit, (after 6 months of end supervised exercise
      sessions). The impact in terms of changes in quality of life will also be evaluated.

      In the longer term, and depending on the results obtained, it is intended to implement a
      similar intervention, at the level of primary care, or as close as possible to the place of
      residence of this type of patient to facilitate the performance of the exercise, improve the
      symptoms and quality of life of these patients
    
  