
    
      The present work took place at the Department of Physiology of Nutrition at the Instituto
      Nacional de Ciencias Medicas y Nutricion Salvador Zubiran (INCMNSZ). The study followed a
      randomized, controlled, double-blind, parallel design encompassing five visits. On the first
      visit, volunteers were screened for eligibility criteria. Subjects that met the inclusion
      criteria were then invited to a second visit. Herein, volunteers received a thorough
      explanation of the experimental maneuver, as well as the overall objectives of the study.
      Thereafter, subjects who agreed to participate signed a consent form.

      Upon agreement, assessment of habitual dietary intake and physical activity was obtained by
      24-hour dietary recalls, food frequency questionnaire (FFQ), and by the International
      Physical Activity Questionnaire (IPAQ), respectively. Additionally, anthropometric
      measurements and blood samples were registered and collected. Then, volunteers underwent
      dietary standardization for two weeks with isocaloric diets (LSFD), which followed the
      National Cholesterol Education Program (NCEP) , Adult Treatment Panel III (ATP III) criteria.
      That is, 50-60% carbohydrates, 15% protein, 25-35% fat,<7% saturated fat,≤ 200mg of dietary
      cholesterol, 20-35g of fiber, and 2000mg/d of sodium.

      On the third visit, subjects were randomly allocated to either LSFD plus placebo or an LSFD
      plus the dietary portfolio (DP). Of note, the prescribed diets were matched to the
      volunteers' habitual caloric intake -considering the energy provided by the placebo or DP- to
      avoid variability of the endpoint variables due to weight-loss. The DP and placebo provided
      200kcal; the DP included 25g of soy protein, 14g of dehydrated nopal,14g of oats, 4g of chia
      seeds, 4g of inulin, and 0.15g of flavoring. The placebo consisted of 30g of calcium
      caseinate, 30g of maltodextrin, and 0.2g of flavoring. The organoleptic characteristics and
      packaging were similar between treatments. Subjects were instructed to consume two packets
      per day, preferably with breakfast and dinner. The content of each packet (30g of product)
      was dissolved in 250-300ml of water.

      Volunteers followed the given treatment for two consecutive months, during which two
      follow-up visits took place. Blood samples, anthropometric characteristics, and blood
      pressure were obtained in all visits.

      Compliance to diet, placebo, and DP was assessed with 24-hour dietary recalls, 3-day dietary
      records, and with the number of empty packets returned on the corresponding visits.
    
  