
    
      MDD and AUD are each highly prevalent among young adults, and the comorbidity of those two
      disorders occurs more often than would be expected by chance alone. The presence of this
      comorbidity is associated with increased risk for motor vehicle accidents, relapse to alcohol
      use, suicide, recurrence of depressive illness, increased morbidity, and costly
      hospitalization. Thus, the comorbidity of AUD/MDD is a highly significant public health
      problem among young adults, with considerable unmet treatment needs. Previous medication
      trials with SSRI antidepressants involving those co-occurring conditions, including our own
      recent trials with SSRI medications, have produced disappointing results, especially for
      decreasing the level of alcohol consumption. Mirtazapine is an FDA-approved medication for
      treating MDD with a unique pharmacological profile, unrelated to SSRIs. Recent study results
      suggest that mirtazapine is more effective than other antidepressants for treating
      non-comorbid depression. A few recent studies have demonstrated efficacy for mirtazapine for
      decreasing the depressive symptoms and the alcohol craving of subjects with comorbid AUD/MDD,
      but those studies did not measure level of alcohol consumption. Therefore, it is unclear
      whether mirtazapine decreases the level of alcohol use of that comorbid population. Our own
      recent pilot data suggest within-group efficacy for mirtazapine for decreasing both the
      excessive alcohol use and the depressive symptoms of persons with comorbid AD/MDD. However,
      that pilot study did not include a placebo control group, so the efficacy of mirtazapine for
      decreasing the level of alcohol use among persons with comorbid AUD/MDD remains unclear. To
      date, no double-blind, placebo-controlled study has even been conducted to assess whether
      mirtazapine decreases both the level of drinking and the depressive symptoms of young adults
      with comorbid AD/MDD. In this submission, we propose a proof of concept, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled pilot trial to provide a preliminary assessment of the efficacy of the
      medication mirtazapine vs. placebo in the treatment of young adults with co-occurring alcohol
      use disorders (AUD) and major depression (MDD). If results (effect sizes) from the proposed
      study are found to be promising concerning outcome differences between the mirtazapine and
      placebo groups, then we will use those findings to apply for an R01 study to definitively
      assess the efficacy of mirtazapine for treating young adults with AUD/MDD.
    
  