
    
      The hallmark of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is cognitive decline with varied associated symptoms
      and signs. Unfortunately, there is no cure as yet for AD. Available treatments, including 5
      FDA-approved medications, have limited efficacy in terms of slowing pathological progression
      or controlling the symptoms and signs of cognitive decline in AD patients. Given the high
      burdens and costs of AD, and the therapeutic limitations, the development of novel treatment
      approaches for AD is of the highest importance for patients, families, medical providers, and
      society. This randomized controlled trial will determine if innovative, low-risk
      neurostimulation at home for 6 months can improve cognitive performance and symptoms in
      patients with mild to moderate AD.

      The primary objective is to determine the effects produced by 6 months of active tDCS or sham
      delivered over dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) in home settings on global cognitive
      performance (assessed by ADAS-Cog test - primary outcome), and secondarily on executive
      control/spatial selective attention (Eriksen Flanker Test), depressed mood (Geriatric
      depression scale), quality of life (Quality of Life Questionnaire-Alzheimer's Disease), and
      patient satisfaction with both the device and procedure (Neurostimulation User's Survey), in
      mild-to-moderate AD patients (n=100). The investigators also aim to determine functional and
      structural brain connectivity/network changes in response to the study intervention using
      functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI; during rest and during executive function
      tasks), diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), and multivariate covariance-based analytic
      approaches. Lastly, the investigators aim to examine time characteristics (durability) of the
      tDCS behavioral and neuroplasticity effects for up to 3 months following the intervention
      period.

      The intervention will consist of remotely supervised active tDCS stimulation and sham tDCS
      stimulation over the area of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, applied at home for 30
      minutes 5 times per week for 6 months. Participants randomized to the active tDCS will
      receive at each application 30 minutes of direct current stimulation at the intensity of 2
      mA. Participants randomized to the sham group will receive sham tDCS which consists of
      current ramped up to 2mA over 30 seconds, ramped down over 30 seconds and stay at 0 current
      for the remaining time of the 30-minute application.
    
  