
    
      Skeletal muscles host ~40% of all protein in the body. Muscles are not only crucial for
      locomotion but also represent the body's largest metabolically active tissue, glucose
      disposal site and fuel reservoir for other organs in pathological conditions (i.e., supply of
      amino acids to the liver for gluconeogenesis). Muscle atrophy is characterized by a reduction
      in cross sectional area (CSA) and length and occurs in many common illnesses (e.g. cancers
      (1), renal/heart failure, sepsis, genetic diseases, neurodegenerative disorders etc). It is
      also prevalent in situations of reduced neural input such as leg casting after fractures (2),
      bed-rest, spinal cord injury (3), space flight and chronic physical inactivity. Atrophy
      results in a loss of muscle power and strength (which is related to increased morbidity and
      mortality (4)) and reduced capacities for whole-body glucose storage and metabolism which
      causes insulin resistance. Strategies to oppose atrophy are limited but include mechanical
      loading (5) and the synergistic anabolic effects of nutrients. Although muscle atrophy is of
      great clinical importance, relatively little mechanistic research has been done in humans.
      Thus, the aim of this study is to assess the link between the variation in muscle
      physiological responses to disuse atrophy with variation in protein turnover and
      molecular-networks. This will not only provide new hypotheses for physiological regulation of
      human muscle and generate 'intervention targets' derived from clinically relevant human
      studies, it will also improve understanding of whether the response to disuse is altered with
      age and determine if mechanistic differences in atrophy resistant and atrophy sensitive
      muscles might explain inter-muscular variation in susceptibility to atrophy.

      This study aims to define the molecular and metabolic mechanisms causing disuse atrophy in
      both young and older individuals and explore how and why some muscles are protected against
      it. The study will also assess temporal aspects of disuse atrophy (in younger individuals
      only) to explore the mechanistic basis for the more rapid atrophy observed in the early days
      of disuse.
    
  