
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To examine the effects of abemaciclib on the CD8/FOXP3 ratio in chemotherapy resistant
      triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) patients following neoadjuvant chemotherapy.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess abemaciclib toxicities. II. To examine the effects of abemaciclib on the percentage
      of vimentin expressing invasive cancer cells.

      III. Within TNBC molecular subtypes (basal, mesenchymal, and luminal androgen receptor
      [LAR]), to evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on:

      IIIa. The individual elements of tumor grade (mitoses, nuclear pleomorphism, and tubule
      formation).

      IIIb. Tumor proliferation (as measured by tumor Ki-67 and serum tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      [TKI]).

      IIIc. pDUB3 as well as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers including SNAIL/SLUG,
      TWIST, and E-Cadherin as measured by immunohistochemistry (IHC).

      IIId. Quantification of tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (as examined by hematoxylin and eosin
      [H&E]).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of abemaciclib on tumor ribonucleic acid (RNA)-seq data.

      II. To evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on the immune phenotype of peripheral blood
      mononuclear cells (PBMC), by evaluating expression of a panel of cell surface markers
      optimized of identification of human immune cell subpopulations.

      III. To evaluate the effects of abemaciclib on tumor-infiltrating immune cells in
      formalinfixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tumor sections, using multiplexed imaging technologies
      (e.g imaging mass cytometry, Nanostring digital spatial profiling [DSP] or CODEX) which will
      include:

      IIIa. Genes directly involved in tumor cell antigen presentation (e.g. B2M, HLA-A, HLA-B,
      HLA-C, TAP1, TAP2, TAPBP).

      IIIb. Interferon-stimulated genes (ISGs) that regulate antigen presentation (e.g. STAT1,
      NLRC5) and other ISGs (e.g. IRFs, OAS2).

      IIIc. Genes involved in double-strand ribonucleic acid (dsRNA) response (e.g. DDX58, DHX58).

      IIId. Genes encoding interferons, including type 3 IFNs (e.g. IFNL1, IFNL2, IFNL3).

      IIIe. Genes indicating a cytotoxic T cell response (e.g. PRF1, GZMB). IIIf. Regulatory T-cell
      (Treg)-specific transcription factor genes (e.g. FOXP3, IKZF2).

      IV. To assess the difference in the frequency of JAK-2 amplification among patients whose
      post-abemaciclib CD8/FOXP3 ratio >= 1.6 and that among patients whose post-abemaciclib
      CD8/FOXP3 ratio < 1.6.

      V. To generate organoids for future research. VI. To evaluate changes in the microbiome with
      exposure to abemaciclib.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive abemaciclib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-14 or days 1-21 in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then undergo standard of
      care surgical resection no later than 12 weeks after the last dose of neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up within 30-60 days.
    
  