
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer death for both men and women in the
      industrialized world. Small cell lung cancer accounts for about 25% of lung cancers and is
      usually widespread when it first presents. The remaining 75% of lung cancers are collectively
      termed non-small cell lung cancers. When presentation is by symptoms or incidental discovery,
      about 50 to 60% of non-small cell lung cancers are parenchymal nodules or masses and 40 to
      50% are bronchial or hilar. More than 50% of patients with non-small cell cancer will have
      distant metastases at the time of diagnosis and only 25% will be potentially resectable for
      cure.1 Overall survival at five years for lung cancer is approximately 15% and has not
      significantly improved over the last several decades. Prognosis for lung cancer is affected
      by many factors but one of the most important is the stage of the disease at presentation.
      Individuals with peripheral lesions less than 3 cm in diameter (T1) at presentation are ideal
      candidates for surgical resection and have the best outcomes, with 5-year survival rates as
      high as 60 to 80%.2 Patients with small subcentimeter pulmonary nodes may have even better
      survival with resection. Computed tomography can now detect cancers less than 4 mm in
      diameter, and it has been shown that resection of subcentimetre lung cancers results in a
      survival rate of up to 85%.3 However, Suzuki et al found 54% of 92 patients undergoing video
      assisted thoracoscopic excision of subcentimetre nodules, required conversion to a
      thoracotomy. Forty percent of those nodules were found to be malignant.4 The most common
      reason for this conversion was failure to localize the nodule using thoracoscopic
      visualization or palpation. Furthermore, univariate and multivariate analysis of eleven
      variables revealed that if the distance from the pleural surface was greater than 5 mm, the
      probability of failure to detect the nodule was 63%.
    
  