
    
      This is a proof-of-concept study to determine if a dynamic computational model can be used to
      predict surgical outcomes. If the results from the study are positive, they can be used to
      help design a larger subsequent study. The purpose of this research is to develop a
      computational model that simulates OSA and different surgical treatments for OSA in children
      and young adults with DS. Thus, the only population that will be studied is children and
      young adults with DS who have persistent OSA despite having previously undergone T&A.

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) occurs in 50-100% of patients with Down syndrome (DS) and can
      significantly cause and exacerbate medical problems in these patients. Current surgical
      management of children with DS is imperfect. There are variable surgical success rates for
      both first line surgery of palatine tonsillectomy and adenoidectomy (T&A) as well as
      secondary surgeries performed if and when T&A fails. There is a critical need for a
      diagnostic modality that takes into account airway anatomy, tissue compliance, and
      collapsibility to be able to predict surgical outcome and improve surgical planning in these
      patients. Our central hypothesis is that upper airway flow-structure interaction (FSI)
      modeling using three-dimensional (3-D) computational simulations from dynamic magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI or MR) data can be used to predict surgical outcomes for children with
      DS who have OSA despite previous T&A. The long-term goal is to improve surgical outcome of
      children with Down syndrome and OSA by creating an accurate FSI predictive model. Such a
      diagnostic tool would help tailor surgical procedures to be more effective as well as
      identify and avoid unnecessary or unhelpful surgical procedures. These created models can in
      future be adjusted and applied to other populations with OSA. Our specific aims include: 1)
      In children with Down syndrome and persistent OSA despite previous T&A, to collect data
      characterizing upper airway anatomy, tissue compliance, and collapsibility; 2) to generate
      and validate individualized dynamic FSI models for each child and 3) to use the validated
      dynamic computational models to predict the success of surgical treatment on children with
      Down syndrome who have persistent OSA despite previous T&A. This work is innovative as it
      uses dynamic rather than static MR imaging data and applies a unique computational model that
      accurately captures the unsteadiness of the flow and accounts for the interaction between the
      airflow and the surrounding airway flexible structures.

      Research components will involve two parts of the project. The first will be the generation,
      validation and use of computational models from MRI data. The second is the measure of
      critical closing pressure (Pcrit) on DS subjects who are at least three months post T&A, have
      OSA and are being evaluated for possible additional airway surgery. The measurement of Pcrit
      will be done during the research PSG (in the Sleep Center) and during the clinical sleep MRI
      (in the MRI suite). Pcrit measurements will be acquired with the use of a Continuous Positive
      Air Pressure (CPAP) mask during sleep. Additionally, to measure improvement in OSA based on
      quality of life (QOL) and sleep, the Obstructive Sleep Apnea questionnaire (OSA18) will be
      administered both preoperatively and postoperatively.
    
  