
    
      Atypical antipsychotics, also known as new antipsychotics, are a group of drugs that act on
      the central nervous system to treat schizophrenia, psychotic disorder or bipolar disorder.
      Compared with typical antipsychotics, atypical antipsychotics have the advantages of good
      efficacy and fewer side effects. Therefore, currently, atypical antipsychotics are widely
      used in clinical practice. In recent years, the effects of atypical antipsychotics on
      metabolism and cardiovascular system have attracted more and more clinical attention. Studies
      have found that long-term use of atypical antipsychotics can lead to arrhythmias,
      drug-induced myocarditis, and even cardiac arrest. Since antipsychotics can cause cardiac
      adverse events in patients with schizophrenia, accompanied by medical complications,
      resulting in a generally shorter life span of 15-25 years compared with the general
      population, cardiac safety assessment of drugs for patients with schizophrenia is becoming
      increasingly important. But the domestic study of antipsychotics in the cardiovascular field,
      especially about the safety of heart systemic evaluation are few and far between, so this
      research has focused on patients with schizophrenia in China people use different mechanisms
      of atypical antipsychotics (Risperidone, Aripiprazole, Ziprasidone, Amisulpride, Quetiapine)
      on heart safety.

      In the first stage, a total of 350 schizophrenia patients were enrolled who were either not
      on medication for the first time or stopped for more than 2 weeks. They were treated with
      atypical antipsychotics respectively, follow-up of 12 weeks, evaluating the effects of
      antipsychotics on cardiac function and structure in patients with schizophrenia from general
      data, biochemistry, electrocardiogram, etc. In the second stage, 50 patients of adverse
      cardiac reactions caused by taking antipsychotics were selected from enrolled subjects, and a
      retrospective analysis(day1, week4, week12, and week24) was conducted to try to build a
      cardiac safety detection indicator model, so as to understand the impact of antipsychotics on
      cardiac safety. More rational use of antipsychotics in the context of ensuring clinical
      efficacy and minimum side effects, and the use of monitoring indicator models to reduce the
      occurrence of cardiac toxicity, improve the safety of antipsychotics in use.
    
  