
    
      Building and Sustaining Interventions for Children (BASIC): Task-sharing mental health care
      in low-resource settings builds on our 15-year history of collaborations with research
      partners in Kenya, prior NIH-funded work that identified mental health needs of orphaned
      children in low- and middle-income countries, and iterative and collaborative intervention
      adaptation and testing using a task-sharing approach, to address these needs.Our goal is to
      identify locally sustainable implementation policies and practices (IPPs) that lead to
      effective implementation of task-shared evidence-based treatment (EBT) delivery (a locally
      adapted version of Trauma-focused Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (TF-CBT), Pamoja Tunaweza in
      this study) in 2 governmental sectors in Kenya. Both sectors were identified by our Kenyan
      partners as potential platforms for scale- up-Education via teacher delivery and Health via
      community health volunteer (CHV) delivery. Both Education and Health may be viable sectors
      for mental health care delivery, but the IPPs that predict implementation success and
      intervention effectiveness in either/ both sectors are unknown. This study identifies
      con-textually relevant, practical, and actionable IPPs that can inform implementation
      planning, while also assessing child outcomes and intervention costs in both sectors.

      The recent devolvement of the Kenyan government (leading to more local decision-making), the
      launch of a National Mental Health Policy, and our Kenyan partners' empowerment work building
      enthusiasm for TF-CBT are converging to create a local climate in which BASIC could become
      part of the county plan, if evidence-based guidance for implementation, using mostly existing
      resources, existed. The trial design is an incomplete stepped wedge cluster randomized
      controlled trial (SW-CRT) including 40 schools and the 40 surrounding villages. The school
      and the surrounding community are considered a "village cluster." Each of the 40 "village
      clusters" has 1 team of teachers and 1 team of CHVs delivering Pamoja Tunaweza, resulting in
      120 trained lay counselors in each sector, who provide TF-CBT to 1,280 youth and one of their
      guardians, across seven sequences of the SW-CRT. Site leaders are enrolled for data
      collection (up to 80), but do not provide services. The study uses a novel method,
      qualitative comparative analyses (QCA), that holds potential for substantially advancing the
      field of implementation science. QCA leverages the rigor of quantitative approaches and the
      detail of qualitative approaches, and allows for complex causality and equifinality (i.e., an
      outcome can be reached by multiple means).

      Study aims are: 1) Identify actionable IPPs that predict adoption (delivery) and fidelity
      (high- quality delivery) after 10 sites in each sector implement TF-CBT (sequence 1). Use
      identified IPPs to (Aim 1a) guide implementation planning support for subsequent sites and to
      (Aim 1b) generate testable hypotheses about IPPs as causal mechanisms; 2) Test mechanisms of
      implementation success in both sectors across all 7 sequences; and 3) Test TF-CBT
      effectiveness (i.e., mental health outcomes; functioning) and cost in both sectors. This
      research has important implications for implementing an evidence-based treatment in
      low-resource settings, including the US.
    
  