
    
      Intimate partner violence is a serious social problem with potentially severe mental health
      and functional consequences consistent with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Shelters
      provide an important resource for abused women in that they offer emergency shelter, support,
      and access to community resources that can aid in establishing long-term safety for women and
      their children. However, recent research suggests that symptoms of PTSD can compromise abused
      women's ability to access and effectively use these resources, emphasizing the importance of
      initiating treatment for PTSD. Despite the fact that on an annual basis 300,000 battered
      women and children access shelter services, virtually no research has investigated treatment
      of PTSD in sheltered abused women. A woman's entry into a shelter seems to be a prime time to
      begin any necessary psychological treatment. Helping to Overcome PTSD through Empowerment
      (HOPE), a brief cognitive behavioral treatment that emphasizes stabilization and empowerment
      of women, may help in treating abused women with PTSD. This study will evaluate the
      effectiveness of HOPE in treating abused women with PTSD who are in shelters.

      Participation in this single-blind study will begin during a woman's shelter stay and will
      end 8 months after she completes the shelter treatment period. All potential participants
      will first undergo an initial interview, which will include questions about their abusive
      relationships, emotional difficulties, stressful events, and other previous treatments.
      Participants invited to continue with the study will be randomly assigned to the HOPE program
      or to shelter treatment as usual. Participants assigned to the HOPE program will participate
      in a maximum of 16 counseling sessions, with up to 10 of these sessions taking place while
      they are at the shelter. During these sessions, participants will learn skills to help manage
      emotional difficulties and ways to deal with their abusive relationships. Participants will
      attend two 60- to 90-minute sessions each week until they complete of the 10 shelter-based
      counseling sessions or depart from the shelter. Counseling sessions will continue at St.
      Thomas Hospital or other agreed-upon location twice per week during the first 8 weeks after
      departure from the shelter. All participants will repeat the initial interview and/or
      questionnaire at various times during and after the shelter stay, for a total of eight
      assessments. The final interview assessment will occur 6 months after participants complete
      the counseling sessions.
    
  