
    
      Acute kidney injury (AKI) is classically described as an abrupt or rapidly reversible
      reduction in the excretion of nitrogenous waste products, including urea, nitrogen, and
      creatinine. Acute kidney injury (AKI) affects approximately 20% of hospitalized patients and
      up to 67% of those admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU), making it among the most common
      organ dysfunctions among the critically ill. Depending on severity, AKI contributes to
      short-term mortality rates between 40% and 70%, and survivors are at increased risk for
      chronic kidney disease. Because surgical care and perioperative events and comorbidities
      interact to contribute to renal dysfunction in different patterns than in nonsurgical
      patients, surgical patients have unique risk factors for renal dysfunction.

      Major adverse cardiac events (MACE) after non cardiac surgery are a leading cause of
      morbidity and mortality. The reported incidence of postoperative myocardial infarction (POMI)
      among patients undergoing noncardiac surgery is between 3% and 6%. Early recognition and
      timely treatment of POMI after surgery are very important. Therefore, routinemonitoring of
      cardiac troponin has been recommended to identify patients at risk of early postoperative
      cardiovascular events after surgery. Myocardial injury after noncardiac surgery (MINS) is
      defined as follows: myocardial injury caused by ischemia (that may or may not result in
      necrosis), has prognostic relevance, and occurs duringor within 30 days after noncardiac
      surgery. MINS can be measured by postoperative troponin elevation in the presence or absence
      of clinical symptoms. MINS occurs in 8% to 22% of adults undergoing major non cardiacsurgery.
      To date, there have been few studies investigatingthe risk factors of MINS in critical
      patients.

      The postoperative AKI is a new risk factor of MINS in critical patients, and the impact of
      AKI on MINS has not been evaluated in previous studies.

      It is unclear by what mechanisms AKI influences theMINS in critical patients. A possible
      explanation of this finding is that in patientswith postoperativeAKI, disturbed autonomic
      nerve functions may induce postoperative hypotension and hypoperfusion, which may lead to
      MINS .

      Other idependent risk factors for myocardial injury after non cardiac surgery such as
      emergency surgery and long time operation.The aim of this study is to Identify the impact of
      acute kidney injury on the development of myocardial injury after non cardiac surgery and to
      correlate it with other risk factors of for MINS.
    
  