
    
      Patient Recruitment Recruiters: Primary care centers.

      Screening procedure: Nurses at the primary care centers will get information about the study
      and the screening protocol from the data collector and project leader. There will be contact
      persons at each recruiting unit that will be responsible for the protocols and to contact the
      data collector when a patient fulfills all the criteria for participation. The project leader
      will have regular contact with the contact persons at the recruiting units. All screening
      protocols will be sent to the data collector. All participants will get orally and written
      information about the study from the data collector, and patients will provide written
      informed consent.

      Randomization: Using a computer-generated list of random numbers, participants will be
      randomly assigned to being assessed, diagnosed and treated either by a physiotherapist or a
      physician first. A project coordinator is included among the health care providers in the
      study, but will not be involved in the screening procedure nor the data collection. The
      project coordinator will manage the sequence generation, allocation concealment, enrolment
      and assignments of participants and keep the concealed randomization scheme and sequentially
      numbered, sealed envelopes in a locked cupboard (in the same building where the enrolment
      will be), only available for the project coordinator. The project coordinator reveals the
      allocation to the participant shortly after the baseline measurement and to the health care
      providers.

      Participants and health care providers in both groups will be aware of the allocated group,
      whereas data collector, data analyst and statistician will be kept blinded of allocation
      until completion of all outcome assessments.

      The blinded data collector and analyst (is a physical therapist) whom is not involved in
      assessing diagnosing and treating patients with knee osteoarthritis while the study is
      conducted.

      Data Collection: Measurements will be collected at baseline (before randomization), at 3- ,
      6- , and at 12 months follow up.

      Data management: All data will be coded and managed according to the Data Protection Act
      (1998:204), which means that all data will be confidential and no unauthorized will have
      access to the patient registry. The results will be presented at group level, therefore, no
      individual information can be identified. Data will be saved for at least 10 years to enable
      audit.

      Sample size: To detect a minimal clinical improvement in health related quality of life of
      0.121(SD 0.2) on the EQ5D-index, with a two-sided 5% significance level and a power of 80%, a
      sample size of 50 patients per group will be necessary, given an anticipated dropout rate of
      14%.

      Statistical analysis: Data will be analyzed descriptively and presented as numbers and
      percent, mean and standard deviation or median and 25th to 75th percentiles. The primary
      outcome will be mean change in HrQoL (EQ5D-index and EQ5D-scale) and secondary outcomes will
      include mean change in pain intensity (VAS), physical performance (30CST) and self-efficacy
      (ASES-S). The changes in scores for the outcomes will be constructed by calculating raw
      differences between baseline and the follow ups. For group comparison the Χ2-test will be
      used for nominal data and Fischer's exact test for small numbers, parametric student t-test
      for continuous variables and Mann-Whitney's test for ordinal data and at skewed
      distributions. Statistical analysis will be made in SPSS Windows and the analysis will be
      applied with intention-to-treat (ITT). The level of significance will be p< 0.05.
    
  