
    
      Of the 885 that assessed for eligibility (see Figure 2), 184 (20.8%) met exclusion criteria,
      such as not speaking French (N=43), severe cognitive disturbances (N=27) or hospitalization
      for less than 3 days (N=28); 6.2% refused to participate (N=55). Of the remaining patients
      (N= 701), 64.8% (N=454) did not qualify as complex patients (INTERMED score < 20). The
      remaining 247 patients were randomized, 125 (84 rheumatology inpatients and 41 diabetes
      outpatients) to the intervention and 122 to care as usual (78 rheumatology inpatients and 44
      diabetes outpatients). With regard to sociodemographics and baseline measurements (including
      the above mentioned strata of the rheumatology patients and the different types of diabetes),
      intervention and care as usual group did not differ at baseline (see Table 1). More than half
      of the sample (61% of the intervention group and 56% of the care as usual group) suffered
      from major depression.

      In the intervention arm, most patients (N = 107) received an intervention conducted by the
      psychiatric liaison nurse; the interventions, effectuated as single interventions or
      combined, consisted of "facilitating emotional expression" (73%), "giving practical advice"
      (71%), "promoting life narrative" (48%) and "providing psycho-educational interventions"
      (44%). For about half of the patients in the intervention group (N = 76) also other types of
      interventions were proposed, such as referral to a liaison psychiatrist (N = 36), psychiatric
      advice to the treating physician (N = 32) or interdisciplinary case conferences (N = 8). A
      minority of patients (N=13) did not receive any treatment (due to no indication for a
      psycho-social intervention or patients lacking motivation) (N=13). The liaison nurses, who
      effectuated the intervention and organized psychiatric referral, psychiatric advice to the
      treating physician and interdisciplinary case conferences, were supervised weekly for an hour
      by a senior psychiatrist (FS) or an experienced psychiatric liaison nurse (YD).

      Between 62% and 70% of the patients of the intervention arm and between 57% to 69% of
      patients of the usual care arm provided complete follow up data at the four time points (see
      Figure 2). Patients with missing data did not differ from patients with complete data with
      regard to age, sex, educational and professional status, baseline quality of life and
      depression on each of the four follow up assessments.

      Effects of intervention

      In Table 2 and Figures 3-7, comparisons between patients in the intervention arm on and usual
      care arm on the main outcomes are presented. Overall, the intervention was associated with
      less depression and higher levels of quality of life during follow up. Using statistical
      tests to evaluate differences at each of the separate follow up points, statistically
      significant differences are observed with regard to the prevalence of major depression at 12
      months, physical health at 3 months and quality of life at 3, 6, and 12 months (see Table 2).
    
  