
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To evaluate safety and confirm the combination recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the
      combination of copanlisib, nivolumab (and ipilimumab) in patients with molecularly-selected
      advanced solid tumors.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record antitumor activity. II. To assess clinical benefit of copanlisib in
      combination with nivolumab (and ipilimumab) in patients with molecularly-selected advanced
      solid tumors, as measured by objective response (OR) = complete response (CR) + partial
      response (PR).

      III. To assess overall duration of response (DoR), progression free survival (PFS), and
      overall survival (OS).

      IV. To assess immune-modulatory changes associated with copanlisib-induced PI3K inhibition
      and combination of copanlisib and nivolumab (and ipilimumab).

      V. To correlate molecular alterations in the PI3K-AKT pathway and treatment induced
      immune-modulatory changes with objective response (OR).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES), ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing, reverse phase
      protein array (RPPA), circulating tumor deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis, and immune
      profiling in order to:

      Ia. Identify potential predictive and prognostic biomarkers beyond any genomic alteration by
      which treatment may be assigned.

      Ib. Identify resistance mechanisms using genomic DNA- and RNA-based assessment platforms.

      II. To contribute genetic analysis data from de-identified biospecimens to Genomic Data
      Commons (GDC), a well annotated cancer molecular and clinical data repository, for current
      and future research.

      III. To bank formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue, blood (for cell-free DNA
      analysis), and nucleic acids obtained from patients at the Experimental Therapeutics Clinical
      Trials Network (ETCTN) Biorepository at Nationwide Children's Hospital.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of copanlisib followed by a phase II study.
      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 trials.

      TRIAL I: Patients receive copanlisib hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 1 hour on days 1,
      8, and 15 of cycle 1. Beginning in cycle 2, patients also receive nivolumab IV over 60
      minutes on day 1. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      TRIAL II: Patients receive copanlisib hydrochloride IV over 1 hour on days 1, 8, and 15 of
      cycle 1. Beginning in cycle 2, patients also receive nivolumab IV over 60 minutes on day 1
      and ipilimumab IV over 90 minutes every 8 weeks for 4 doses. Cycles repeat every 28 days in
      the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3-6
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  