
    
      Background and justification of the research. In France, 6,000 to 8,000 patients are affected
      by frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). FTLD are degenerative dementias related to
      Alzheimer's disease, characterized by behavioural, language and cognitive disorders beginning
      in the sixth decade. The genetic forms of FTLD are frequent (30-50% of the patients), but the
      genes responsible for 30-40% of familial FTLD are still unknown. At present, no molecular
      diagnosis can be proposed for 30% of the FTLD families and patients, for which the
      responsible genes are still unknown. No presymptomatic testing can be proposed either to
      at-risk relatives in these families.

      Objectives.

        1. The principal objective of this proposal is to identify one or several genes responsible
           for FTLD.

        2. The secondary objectives are to:

             -  evaluate the relative frequency of identified genes;

             -  describe the phenotypes associated with the mutations in these genes;

             -  establish phenotype-genotype correlations in order to improve the diagnostic
                procedures and strategies;

             -  develop new genetic diagnostic analyses in the near future.

      Project The patients will be recruited in three hospitals (Paris Salpetriere, Limoges,
      Lille). These three centers are partners of a national clinico-genetic network of 20 french
      centers experts in FTLD/FTLD-ALS, coordinated by Dr. I Le Ber. The participants in this
      network have collaborated for the last 15 years, and have already recruited over 1,000
      patients with FTLD. Sequencing of known genes in these families allowed the identification of
      150 families with an autosomal dominant form of FTLD not associated with a known mutation.
      Through the network, we aim to recruit 400 new patients with FTLD during the 4 years of the
      project. This estimation is based on the annual recruitment of the network during the last
      two years.

      In this project, the 30 most informative families will be extended (440 patients and
      relatives sampled).

      The combination of whole exome sequencing with genetic linkage studies in FTLD families
      without known mutations, and the large number of families included in this project, are two
      major points that should lead to the identification of several new genes. When causative
      genes are identified, we will establish the frequencies of mutations, extend the mutational
      spectrum, describe the clinical phenotypes and establish phenotype-genotype correlations.
      Genetic parameters such as penetrance will be analyzed.
    
  