
    
      Iron deficiency can lead to fatigue and anemia. Because iron is necessary for the formation
      of new blood cells (hematopoiesis), it is an extensive practice internationally among
      athletes to take iron supplements in the belief that this will improve endurance performance
      and oxygen transport capacity by increasing red blood cell production. Although iron intake
      in menstruating women has shown to reduce the prevalence of anemia and iron deficiency as
      well as increasing hemoglobin values and iron stores. However iron supplementation increases
      the risk of iron excess and can result in undesirable effects such as constipation and
      abdominal pain as well as negative impact on intestinal epithelial permeability and increase
      in oxidative stress. Because iron is important for the replication and survival of almost all
      bacteria, with few exceptions, the intake of iron also affect the composition of the
      intestinal bacteria. Not surprisingly, both high and low iron levels affect the composition
      of the microbiota in the gut.

      It is not known if young menstruating Norwegian female athletes cover their need for iron via
      the diet or whether extra intake in the form of a low-dose supplement could be beneficial in
      terms of hemoglobin levels and sports performance. Because iron preparations are not
      prescription and are sold in pharmacies, health food stores and larger grocery stores, this
      can lead to uncritical intake of iron. Since the use of iron preparations has been documented
      to be widespread in foreign sports environments, it is important to both characterize the
      iron status of Norwegian athletes and at the same time examine the beneficial value of iron
      supplements on sports performance as well as monitoring effects on microbiota composition and
      intestinal health.

      The aim of the study is therefore to characterize the diet and iron status of young female
      elite football players and examine the relationship between iron intake, iron status,
      hemoglobin levels, intestinal health and sports performance. In addition, the effects of
      low-dose iron supplements will be investigated in relation to iron stores, hemoglobin levels
      and sports performance and whether such supplementation affects intestinal health, microbiota
      composition and biomarkers for oxidative stress.
    
  