
    
      Using antibiotics wisely, only when and where they are really needed, is important to prevent
      superbugs emerging. At the moment, bone and joint infections are usually treated by a
      combination of surgery and antibiotics. Traditionally, treatment relies on several weeks of
      antibiotics as tablets or injections (systemic antibiotics), but these can sometimes cause
      problems.

      It is now possible to administer local antibiotics at the time of surgery directly to the
      site of infection. This allows much higher levels of the antibiotic to be delivered, for days
      or weeks, following surgery. Therefore, this study will investigate whether local antibiotics
      with a shorter course of systemic antibiotics can treat bone and joint infections as
      effectively as local antibiotics with a prolonged course of systemic antibiotics (usual
      treatment). If so, it may be possible to reduce antibiotic side effects, help to prevent
      antibiotic resistant bacteria emerging and limit overall treatment costs.

      Patients who agree to participate in this study will be allocated at random to two treatment
      strategies after surgery for bone and joint infection.

      One group of patients will be treated with local antibiotics and a long course of systemic
      antibiotics, which is the usual treatment: this is the 'long group'.

      The other group will be treated with local antibiotics and a short course of systemic
      antibiotics: this is the 'short group' whose treatment differs from the current usual
      treatment.

      Patients will be involved in the study for one year, and infection recurrence will be
      assessed at the time of routine clinic review up to 12 months after surgery. Whether or not
      treatment has been successful will be assessed by an independent committee of specialists,
      who will remain unaware of the patient's allocated treatment strategy.
    
  