
    
      Study Design and Treatment (continuation):

      The study will include two cohorts of patients: i) Triple Negative and ii) Luminal A+B, with
      an approximate 1:1 distribution between both groups.

      A safety dose testing or "run-in-phase", with a 6+6 design, in which toxicity will be
      evaluated within the first cycle, will be performed since pembrolizumab in combination with
      gemcitabine has not been previously tested. Initially 6 patients will be included in the
      study at dose level 0 (gemcitabine at a dose of 1,250mg/m2 as an IV infusion on day 1 and 8
      of each 21-day cycle and pembrolizumab at a dose of 200mg as an IV infusion on day 1 of each
      21-day cycle):

        -  If ≤ 2 patients experience Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT), 6 additional patients will be
           included at the current dose level. If there is a confirmation of this dose to be safe
           (≤ 3 patients experiencing DLT), this will be considered the RP2D and it will be used
           for the following recruited patients.

        -  If ≥ 3 patients experience DLT within the first 6 patients, or ≥ 4 within the first 12
           patients included at dose level 0, a de-escalation to dose level -1 (gemcitabine at a
           dose of 1,000mg/m2 as an IV infusion on day 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle and
           pembrolizumab at a dose of 200mg as an IV infusion on day 1 of each 21-day cycle) will
           be performed. In this case, a group of 12 additional patients will be included at dose
           level -1, if ≥ 4 experience DLT, this combination will be considered too toxic and the
           study will be stopped. If ≤ 3 experience DLT with this combination, this will be
           considered the RP2D and it will be used for the following recruited patients.

      Initially 3 patients will be allowed for inclusion simultaneously. These 3 patients will be
      followed closely during the first cycle to observe the occurrence of any DLT. At the times
      these 3 patients are completing the first cycle, the next 3 patients will be included one by
      one, until the first cohort is completed.

      If none of these 6 patients have a DLT, up to 4 patients will be allowed for inclusion from
      the second cohort of 6 patients; they will follow the same procedure as in the first cohort.
      If one of these patients from the second cohort has a DLT, the inclusion will be in smaller
      groups (with a maximum number of 4 patients with DLT) and following the same procedure as in
      the first cohort of 6 patients.

      An internal committee will periodically review the safety data in order to take the decision
      to maintain or decrease the dose level. This internal committee will consist of the chief
      investigator, the Grupo Español de Cáncer de Mama (GEICAM) Scientific Director and the study
      statistician. The meetings will be performed by teleconference to take these decisions as
      quickly as possible once the last patient finishes the first cycle of treatment. Other
      meetings will be considered ad-hoc whenever necessary (i.e when new DLTs appear).

      Patients included in the run-in-phase at the same dose than that in the phase II will be
      considered for the phase II analysis.

      Study Drug/Medication:

      Eligible patients will be enrolled and treated with:

      Pembrolizumab at a dose of 200mg as an intravenous (IV) infusion on day 1 of each 21-day
      cycle.

      in combination with Gemcitabine at a dose of 1,250mg/m2 or 1,000mg/m2 (this dose will be
      explored in combination with pembrolizumab in the initial exploratory run-in-phase if
      necessary) as an intravenous (IV) infusion on day 1 and 8 of each 21-day cycle.

      Treatment will be repeated on day 1 of each 21-day cycle until objective disease progression,
      clinical progression (under investigator criteria), unacceptable toxicity, death or
      withdrawal of consent, whichever occurs first. Patients completing 24 months of uninterrupted
      treatment with pembrolizumab or 35 administrations of study medication will stop
      pembrolizumab treatment (though may continue with gemcitabine). Subjects who stop
      pembrolizumab after 24 months may be eligible for up to one year of additional pembrolizumab
      treatment if they progress after stopping it.

      An initial exploratory run-in-phase will be performed to test the safety of the combination
      and determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of gemcitabine in combination with fixed
      doses of pembrolizumab.

      Primary Objective:

        -  Run-in-phase: To determine the Recommended Phase II Dose (RP2D) of gemcitabine in
           combination with fixed doses of pembrolizumab.

        -  Phase II: To assess the efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with gemcitabine in
           terms of Objective Response Rate (ORR) in patients with HER2-negative ABC.

      Primary End-point:

        -  Run-in-phase: To determine the incidence rate of Dose Limiting Toxicity (DLT) within the
           first cycle of the combination.

        -  Phase II: Objective Response Rate (ORR) is defined as Complete Response (CR) plus
           Partial Response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours
           (RECIST) version 1.1.

      Secondary Objectives:

      The following secondary objectives will be studied:

        -  To assess other efficacy measures of the combination in patients included in the phase
           II (including those in the run-in-phase at the same dose that in the phase II).

        -  To determine safety and tolerability of the combination in all patients included in the
           study.

      Secondary End-points:

      The following secondary end-points will be studied:

        -  Efficacy:

             -  Progression-Free Survival (PFS) assessed according to RECIST version 1.1 by the
                investigator.

             -  Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) defined as Complete Response (CR) plus Partial Response
                (PR) plus Stable Disease (SD) lasting ≥ 24 weeks according to RECIST version 1.1.

             -  Response Duration (RD) assessed according to RECIST version 1.1.

             -  Overall Survival (OS). With special interest on long term responders (i.e. alive
                and without disease progression after 24 months of study treatment).

        -  Safety will be assessed by standard clinical and laboratory tests (haematology, serum
           chemistry). Adverse Events (AE) grade will be defined by the NCI CTCAE (National Cancer
           Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events) version 4.0.

      Exploratory Objectives:

      The following exploratory objectives will be studied in all patients included in the study
      unless otherwise specified:

        -  To assess other efficacy measures of the combination based on immune-related (ir)
           response criteria in patients included in the phase II (including those in the
           run-in-phase at the same dose that in the phase II).

        -  To search for tumour tissue and peripheral blood biomarkers of clinical activity.

        -  To compare biomarkers data from cohorts of healthy volunteers (if available) with data
           from patients included in the study.

      Exploratory End-points:

      The following exploratory end-points will be studied:

        -  Efficacy:

             -  ORR is defined as immune-related Complete Response (irCR) plus immune-related
                Partial Response (irPR) according to immune-related RECIST (irRECIST).

             -  Progression-Free Survival (PFS) assessed according to irRECIST by the investigator.

             -  Clinical Benefit Rate (CBR) defined as irCR plus irPR plus immune-related Stable
                Disease (irSD) lasting ≥ 24 weeks according to irRECIST.

             -  Response Duration (RD) assessed according to irRECIST.

        -  A set of immune biomarkers will be analysed and correlated with evolution of the disease
           and efficacy of pembrolizumab in combination with gemcitabine (ORR and other efficacy
           end-points: PFS, CBR and RD), paying special attention to long term responders.

        -  This set of immune biomarkers will be compared with those from healthy volunteers (if
           available).

      Study population:

      Patients with HER2-negative advanced breast cancer.

      Justification of Sample size determination:

      A Simon's minimax two-stage design will be employed with the possibility of stopping early
      due to lack of response. Results from previous studies showed that gemcitabine produced a
      response rate of around 20%, this will be our expected H0. With the combination of
      pembrolizumab and gemcitabine, we expect to increase this rate to 35% what will be our H1 (an
      absolute increase of 15%), with an alpha error of 0.05 and a statistical power of 80%, we
      will need to include 53 evaluable patients in this trial. The first stage will include 31
      evaluable patients, if at least 7 present a response, recruitment will continue to include
      the 53 evaluable patients. The null hypothesis of H0=20% will be rejected if 16 or more
      responses are observed in 53 patients.

      Statistical Analyses:

      Demographics and Baseline Characteristics: Standard descriptive statistics, such as the mean,
      median, range and proportion, will be used to summarize the patient sample and to estimate
      parameters of interest.

      Safety Analyses: AEs and Serious Adverse Events (SAE) will be reported in frequency tables
      (overall and by intensity). The safety analysis will be performed in the population that has
      received at least one dose of any of the study drugs/medications.

      Efficacy Analyses: All efficacy endpoints will be evaluated in the Per-protocol and Intent to
      treat (ITT) populations.

      Biomarker analysis:The biomarker analysis will be exploratory and descriptive. For continuous
      variables, mean, standard deviation, median, minimum and maximum values will be provided.
      Categorical variables will be summarized by numbers and proportions. Biomarker endpoints will
      be evaluated in all patients enrolled in the study with available samples.

      Study Duration:

      The end date of study is date of last patient´s death or the date when there is sufficient
      data to achieve the primary and secondary objectives and all patients have ended the study
      treatment, whichever comes first.

      Performing exploratory objectives will be independent of the date of the end of the study.
    
  