
    
      Chemotherapy of recurrent ovarian cancer leads to severe thrombocytopenia in a considerable
      proportion of the patients, requiring treatment delays or dose reductions, and placing the
      patient at a high risk of bleeding complications. The amount of thrombocytopenia is highly
      schedule-dependent. In platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer that relapsed more than 6 months
      after end of primary therapy, a platinum containing reinduction therapy - the combination of
      paclitaxel/carboplatin, gemcitabine/carboplatin or PLD/carboplatin - is recommended according
      to the current AGO guidelines or recent ASCO presentations. Especially the latter two
      regimens often induce severe and even dose-limiting myelosuppression, including
      thrombocytopenia. Therefore, prophylaxis, or at least secondary prophylaxis of this toxicity
      is an important goal of supportive therapy. The use of platelet transfusions is limited by
      cost, supply problems, and associated risks, such as transfusion reactions, transmission of
      infection, and alloimmunization and platelet refractoriness. In contrast to the situation for
      the red and white blood cell compartments, the implementation of growth factor treatment in
      order to ameliorate the therapy of thrombocytopenia and its complications, is yet very
      limited. Romiplostim is an active second-generation thrombopoietic agent without safety
      problems due to immunogenicity, which proved to be beneficial in the treatment of immune
      thrombocytopenic purpura and myelodysplastic syndromes. The rationale of this trial is to
      obtain evidence that romiplostim can improve platelet counts/recovery in the treatment of
      recurrent ovarian cancer. Due to the fact, that the expected occurrence of severe
      thrombocytopenia and its complications may heavily depend on the selection of patient and
      their characteristics such as actually chosen treatment schedule, tumor stage, extent of
      metastasis, pre-treatment etc. a phase II design comparing the results to historical data or
      expectations is insufficient. A simple within-group control design, comparing subsequent
      cycles of the same patients with or without the supportive experimental drug may also be
      flawed, as "spontaneous" improvements after obviously unchanged chemotherapy are often
      observed. With some regimens, the first cycle proves to be generally more toxic than later
      ones. On the other hand, regimens may result in cumulative myelosuppression. A design
      including a randomized doubleblind control group is therefore warranted, moreover, as
      platelet counts represent a sensitive and valid surrogate marker for a clinical benefit. The
      current study will employ a model of secondary prophylaxis. The enrolment of subjects with
      grade 3 and/or 4 thrombocytopenia will facilitate an assessment of the ability of romiplostim
      to impact thrombocytopenia at clinically significant levels, which warrant the administration
      of platelet transfusions, dose reduction, and dose delay.
    
  