
    
      Abstract:

      Corticosteroids have been a mainstay of immunosuppression for kidney transplantation, but
      they are associated with significant toxicity after long-term use. Recent studies have
      concluded that steroid avoidance is safe and effective when combined with modern
      immunosuppressive maintenance therapy in low risk kidney transplant recipients. These studies
      have included antilymphocyte induction therapy with either an anti IL-2 receptor antibody, or
      an antithymocyte globulin, such as rabbit polyclonal antithymocyte globulin (Thymoglobulin).
      Mayo Clinic Scottsdale has adopted Thymoglobulin induction, tacrolimus, and mycophenolate
      mofetil with rapid steroid taper as their standard immunosuppressive therapy in low risk
      patients. Mayo Clinic Jacksonville is also utilizing this protocol. Together, both sites have
      utilized this approach in 64 patients. Recent improvements in immunosuppressive regimens have
      decreased acute rejection in kidney transplant recipients and increased one-year graft
      survival to nearly 90%. However, long-term graft survival has changed little with 30% of
      grafts being lost to ''chronic allograft nephropathy'' (CAN) in the first five years after
      transplantation. A recent paper highlighted this dilemma and demonstrated that a major cause
      of late CAN was chronic exposure to the nephrotoxic effects of calcineurin inhibitors (CNI)
      tacrolimus and cyclosporine and possibly cytomegalovirus infection. In this study, we will
      focus on the role of CNI in CAN. We propose a prospective, randomized, non-blinded trial of
      Thymoglobulin induction with rapid steroid elimination accompanied by tacrolimus (TAC) and
      mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) maintenance therapy. Patients are to be randomized at 1 month
      post-operatively to either remain on TAC/MMF or switch to SRL/MMF. The primary endpoint will
      be renal function at 1-year post-transplant. Secondary endpoints will include renal function
      at 2 years post-transplant, histology seen on protocol biopsies at 1 and 2 years
      post-transplant, incidence of biopsy proven rejection at 12 months, patient survival, graft
      survival, proportion of patients steroid free at 12 months, infectious complications, bone
      mineral density analysis, incidence of hyperlipidemia, and the incidence of new onset
      post-transplant diabetes mellitus.
    
  