
    
      Humoral rejection, related to immunization of the patient against the graft, is diagnosed by
      the presence of DSA. This serious complication, responsible for dysfunction and graft loss in
      kidney and heart transplant, is treated by strengthening the immunosuppressive treatment.
      Humoral rejection is poorly characterized in liver transplantation, but might explain the
      severe dysfunctions and misunderstood losses of liver transplant. In a preliminary study
      after liver transplantation, it was observed that the presence of DSAs was more common among
      patients with unexplained dysfunction (n = 22) compared to patients without dysfunction (n =
      69) (95% versus 51%). After liver transplantation, 20% of patients are immunized, against 50%
      after retransplantation, and after retransplantation, approximately 40% of patients present
      with graft dysfunction within 2 years.

      The role of humoral rejection in graft lesion and loss is unknown after liver transplantation
      because DSAs are not evaluated and histological lesions associated with DSAs are not
      analyzed. It is essential to characterize the humoral rejection in liver transplantation or
      after liver retransplantation (highly immunized population) and immunization markers that are
      responsible, for early management of this complication by an increased immunosuppressive
      therapy as it is done for kidney and heart transplantation. This could limit the progression
      to graft loss.

      A specific anti HLA immunization against the donor (DSA - Donor Specific Antibodies) is an
      underestimated factor in liver transplantation and may contribute to dysfunction and loss of
      liver graft, especially among candidates for retransplantation, stronger immune.

      This study will look for these markers of immunization at the time of liver retransplantation
      and systematically in patients follow-up. This will allow to characterize the histological
      lesions, to establish further investigations and to adapt early immunosuppressive therapy.

      Methodology, experimental design: prospective, multicenter study. Results of anti HLA
      antibodies and DSA will not be given not to influence the teams on patient treatment.

      Inclusion in the pre-retransplantation visit : obtaining of the informed consent, HLA and
      anti-HLA antibodies, HLA Typing.

      Visit before-ReTH: HLA antibodies and DSA Visit 1 (day of transplant): Standard biology, HLA
      antibodies and DSA, Crossmatch, Histological analysis of liver de-transplantation locally and
      centralized.

      Visits 2 and 3 (months 1 and 3 post retransplantation) : Standard biology, anti-HLA
      antibodies and DSA, liver Doppler Ultrasound (as usual the center).

      Visits 4 and 5 (months 12 and 24 post retransplantation), and in case of unexplained hepatic
      dysfunction: Standard biology, HLA antibodies and DSA, liver Doppler-Ultrasound, Fibroscan
      and hepatic puncture biopsy : histological analysis on site and centralized.

      Number of subjects required: 100 patients to be included (200 patients eligible to be
      selected in pre-transplant consultation for 100 patients retransplanted to include).

      Total study duration: up to 6 years (3 years for inclusion and 3 years of follow-up - up to 1
      year pre waiting Reth and 2 years post-transplant) Inclusion period: 2 years Duration of
      participation for a patient: up to 3 years (1 year maximum pre retransplantation waiting + 2
      years after transplantation)

      Number of participating centers: 11
    
  