
    
      Schizophrenia is associated with poor social functioning, which is perturbed by deficits in
      social interaction including nonverbal communication. The use of hand gestures is critical
      for nonverbal communication, but the majority of schizophrenia patients has severe gesture
      impairments. Today no intervention may ameliorate gesture impairments. Patients with gesture
      impairments have altered structure and function of the gesture network, particularly the left
      inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and also the left inferior parietal lobe (IPL). Noninvasive
      brain stimulation techniques may alter local brain function. Repetitive transcranial magnetic
      stimulation (rTMS) and particularly theta burst stimulation (TBS) for a few mins is a very
      safe method to alter brain states locally for approximately 1 hour. Indeed, facilitatory
      stimulation of the left frontal cortex by transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
      demonstrated improved gesture perception and interpretation in healthy subjects. In addition,
      inhibitory stimulation with continuous theta burst stimulation (cTBS) over left IFG may
      perturb gesture performance in healthy subjects. Thus, the investigators hypothesize that
      local changes of brain activity within the gesture network would change gesture performance.
      Particularly, facilitatory intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) of the left IFG would
      improve gesture performance. The investigators will test single sessions of rTMS in healthy
      subjects and schizophrenia patients. If one of the protocols proves to have superior effects,
      this result will help to plan interventional trials targeting social interaction deficits in
      schizophrenia. The aim of the study is to determine the effect of one session of iTBS over
      the left IFG on gesture performance compared to cTBS over the right IPL (active comparator)
      and one placebo rTMS sessions. This is a randomized, double-blind, cross-over,
      placebo-controlled single-center trial in 20 patients with schizophrenia spectrum disorders
      and 20 healthy controls. After baseline assessment of gesture performance, participants will
      receive one rTMS protocol at each time point, immediately followed by assessments of gesture
      performance and dexterity. rTMS sessions will be separated by 48 hours. Gesture performance
      will be measured with video recorded Test of Upper Limb Apraxia, which is rated blindly
      according to a manual.
    
  