
    
      Downstream signaling of fibroblast growth factor receptors 1-4 (FGFR 1-4) regulates cell
      proliferation, migration, differentiation and survival in healthy cells. Genetic alterations
      (amplifications, point-mutations and translocations) in FGFR1-4 genes cause altered signaling
      and oncogenic transformation. FGFR-alterations with sensitivity to kinase inhibition have
      been identified in a variety of tumors such as breast-, bladder- and endometrial-cancer,
      squamous cell lung and head and neck cancer, cholangiocarcinoma and glioblastoma.

      First-in-man/phase-I clinical trials with erdafitinib and BGJ398 - both selective FGFR
      inhibitors - enrolled patients with any genetic alterations in FGFR. The trials showed
      clinical responses with differences according to the type of FGFR alterations and
      histological subtypes. In the BGJ398 trial, the partial response rate was 11% (4/36) in
      patients with FGFR1 amplified squamous NSCLC (sqNSCLC) and 38% (3/8) in patients with
      FGFR3-mutant bladder cancer. No PR was observed in patients with FGFR1/2 amplified (n=25) and
      FGFR3 mutant (n=1) breast cancer. All patients with FGFR2-translocated (n=2) and
      FGFR2-mutated cholangiocarcinoma (n=1) showed reduced tumor burden of 20% and 10%,
      respectively. In the erdafitinib trial, 5 partial responses were seen in FGFR translocated
      tumors: 3/8 (37.5%) patients with urothelial carcinoma, 1/3 (33%) patients with glioblastoma
      and 1 patient with endometrial cancer reached PR. Summing up the results of the phase-I
      trials, the inhibition of FGFR downstream pathways in FGFR translocated and mutated solid
      tumors exerted clinical activity. Thus, focusing treatment with FGFR inhibitor on FGFR
      mutated and translocated solid tumors may increase response rates, progression free and
      overall survival in these tumors with otherwise adverse prognosis.

      In NSCLC patients without druggable alterations in genes as EGFR, ALK or ROS1 and without
      high PD-L1 (Programmed cell death 1 ligand 1) expression, prognosis remains adverse with a
      median survival time of about 18 months. Particularly in sqNSCLC, only few driver mutations
      have been identified yet. Of these, solely mutations of the KRAS gene (although observed at
      low frequency in sqNSCLC) were explored in large clinical studies targeting KRAS downstream
      signaling with no survival benefit comparing to chemotherapy. Immunotherapy with PD-1
      antibodies such as nivolumab and pembrolizumab showed benefit in patients with high PD-L1
      expression mainly.

      The frequency of somatic FGFR2 and FGFR3 mutations in squamous cell lung cancer is about 3%
      (Helsten et al., 2016). Translocations occur with a similar frequency of about 3% in squamous
      cell lung cancer. Multiple of these FGFR alterations are shown to have oncogenic potential as
      demonstrated in multiple in vitro, in vivo and first-in-man studies. Of note, FGFR
      alterations are less frequent in adenocarcinoma and arise mainly in squamous cell lung
      cancer. However, the exact distribution of mutations and translocations between sqNSCLC and
      lung adenocarcinoma hasn't been explored yet due to their low frequency.

      Preclinical models in sqNSCLC cell lines and xenografts showed oncogenic activity of FGFR2/3
      mutations with consecutive sensitivity to FGFR inhibitors. Similarly, FGFR3-TACC
      translocation exerted kinase activation in sqNSCLC cell lines and other tumor types.
      Furthermore, patient derived FGFR3-fusion lung xenograft model showed responses to FGFR
      targeted treatment.

      In summary, on the basis of genetically and phenotypically validated cell-line panels, in
      vivo and particularly on the basis of clinical data, there is strong evidence for a clinical
      benefit from FGFR inhibition for patients with FGFR altered NSCLC.

      The primary objective of the trial is to analyze the efficacy of erdafitinib in NSCLC
      patients with FGFR genetic alterations. NSCLC patient number will be based on a statistical
      hypothesis aiming at increasing the response rate comparing to chemotherapy/immunotherapy
      after standard treatment.
    
  