
    
      BACKGROUND Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is characterized by recurrent obstruction of the
      upper airway during sleep due to intermittent loss of pharyngeal dilator muscle tone. OSA is
      both a risk factor for stroke, as well as a common post-stroke co-morbidity with
      approximately 72% of patients with stroke or transient ischemic attack (TIA) having OSA.
      Post-stroke OSA is linked to post-stroke, fatigue, which is a top research priority for
      stroke patients. Moreover, post-stroke OSA is associated with greater mortality, a higher
      risk of recurrent stroke, poorer cognition and lower functional status. In addition, stroke
      patients with OSA spend significantly longer times in rehabilitation and in acute care
      hospitals. Since OSA has a significant impact on the health of stroke patients, it is
      imperative that effective treatments are used to assist patients. Continuous positive airway
      pressure (CPAP) is the gold standard treatment for patients with moderate to severe OSA.
      However, despite having been demonstrated to improve post-stroke cognition, motor and
      functional outcomes,and overall quality of life, rates of CPAP adherence are low. Reasons for
      poor post-stroke CPAP adherence are multi-factorial and often not easily modifiable. Overall,
      there is a major clinical need to develop an alternative effective and well-tolerated
      treatment for OSA.

      Oro-pharyngeal exercises (O-PEs) are commonly used by speech-language pathologists to improve
      oro-motor strength and range of motion and serve as a promising alternative approach to treat
      OSA. For example, in a randomized controlled trial in which patients with moderate OSA
      underwent 3 months of daily exercises focusing on strengthening oro-pharyngeal musculature,
      OSA severity and symptoms were demonstrated to be significantly reduced compared to sham
      exercises.Similarly, use of the didgeridoo, a wind instrument that strengthens muscles of the
      upper airway, has also been demonstrated to reduce OSA severity.

      METHODS Research Question: Is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of an O-PE regimen in
      post-stroke OSA feasible?

      Primary Objective: To examine whether an RCT of an O-PE regimen is feasible in stroke
      patients with OSA who are unable to tolerate CPAP. (i) The O-PE regimen will be considered
      feasible if >80% of enrolled patients complete >80% of the study exercises. (ii) We will also
      track the monthly number of eligible vs. recruited patients from Dr. Boulos' stroke and sleep
      disorders clinic. Hypothesis: An RCT of an O-PE regimen in post-stroke OSA will be feasible
      in that >80% of enrolled patients will complete >80% of the study exercises.

      Secondary Objectives: To explore whether an O-PE regimen, compared to sham activities, might
      be effective in (i) improving various objective sleep metrics (i.e. OSA severity and
      nocturnal oxygen saturation), (ii) improving various measures of oropharyngeal physiology and
      function (i.e. oro-pharyngeal deficits and dysarthria, tongue/lip/jaw weakness, and
      oro-facial kinematics), and (iii) enhancing self-reported sleep-related symptoms. Hypothesis:
      Compared to the sham activities, O-PEs will positively influence the outcomes noted above.
    
  