
    
      Purpose: The purpose of the CareSupport intervention is to coordinate often-fragmented care
      for SFHP members with heavy use of acute health care services, reducing cost of care for the
      San Francisco safety net (the San Francisco Department of Health and San Francisco General
      Hospital) while increasing use of sustaining services including primary care.

      The Program: The San Francisco Health Plan (SFHP) CareSupport program identifies
      high-utilizing SFHP members with high risk for mortality and morbidity due to factors that
      complicate underlying illness and care seeking patterns. These factors include housing
      instability, behavioral health issues, and complex medical illness. This population's
      medical, behavioral and social needs are not met by the existing delivery system, and while
      many issues they face may not be traditionally perceived as health care, they do impact this
      vulnerable population's health and care seeking patterns greatly.

      CareSupport Community Coordinators each carry a caseload of 25-35 eligible members identified
      based on health services use in the prior 12 months. Each team of 5 Coordinators is
      supervised by a skilled master's level Social Worker. Community Coordinators outreach to
      eligible patients and conduct detailed assessments in order to develop a Care Plan that is
      then shared with other providers within and outside of SFHP. Community Coordinators provide
      patient-centered, community-based advocacy and navigation across systems of care, to improve
      coordination and unify health and treatment goals. The CareSupport program incorporates a
      focus on prevention and early intervention within a continuum of quality health care that
      includes disease management, advocacy, appointment reminders and accompaniment, home visits,
      and regular communication with primary care and other providers. Community Coordinators are
      accountable for coordinating and following through on all aspects of a member's needs, and
      their duties are as variable as reminder calls, accompaniment to medical appointments,
      assistance with housing placement, and help obtaining food and other services. Twice weekly
      team meetings involve complex case reviews and program troubleshooting as well as mini
      trainings led by social work supervisors. The staff is trained in trauma-informed care,
      motivational interviewing, harm reduction, and other areas of relevance to the intervention
      target population.

      The investigators' composed of 3 groups of SFHP members, all of whom are heavy users of
      health care services: 1) members with a minimum of 2 hospitalizations in the year before
      enrollment 2) members with 5 ED visits and 1 hospitalization in the year before enrollment,
      and 3) members with 6 or more ED visits in the year before enrollment in the investigators'
      program.

      The current CareSupport staff does not have the capacity to serve all SFHP members who are
      eligible for CareSupport. The investigators propose to ethically allocate limited resources
      and evaluate the impact of CareSupport using a randomly selected comparison group of
      non-enrolled, CareSupport eligible SFHP members.

      Randomization

      Randomization process: First, eligible members will be rank ordered by descending age, then
      based first on number of hospital admissions in the prior year, and finally by number of ED
      visits in the prior year. SFHP members falling into the CareSupport target population based
      on their utilization in the prior 12 months will be assigned using a standard "every other"
      technique to either the CareSupport program (the intervention) or to the comparison group
      that will not be offered enrollment. This technique will result in a "member pair," where one
      member from the pair will be randomly assigned to the CareSupport intervention and one member
      of the pair will be randomly assigned to the comparison group. For the purposes of the
      evaluation, the member pair will share the same engagement date (see below).

      The investigators will use an intention to treat framework: all SFHP members assigned to
      CareSupport or the comparison group will remain in those groups for the analysis.

      Outcomes and Evaluation Methods As mentioned above, SFHP has enrollment, demographic and
      encounter/claims data for all SFHP members and these data will be used to conduct the
      investigators' analysis. The investigators' primary outcomes can be tracked based on
      administrative encounter data, and will include member services use across San Francisco
      rather than being limited to a single hospital or small network of clinics.

      A central goal of the investigators' evaluation is to determine whether the CareSupport
      demonstration project generates more savings to the delivery system than it costs to
      implement and sustain. The ability of the CareSupport program to succeed in this goal will
      help determine whether it is sustainable and exportable to other sites. The investigators
      anticipate that the CBCM model will produce cost-savings both by employing less expensive,
      more appropriately-trained staff, as well as by connecting vulnerable members more
      effectively to primary and preventive care, and social and behavioral resources, thereby
      reducing their use of acute care.
    
  