
    
      This is a 3-month, pragmatic, single-blinded randomized controlled trial evaluating the
      impact of tailored patient-provider communication on patient engagement and clinical outcomes
      of adult dermatology patients compared to non-tailored patient-provider communication. The
      pragmatic trial will compare patient engagement and clinical outcomes between the two models.
      The rationale for proposing a pragmatic trial is to test whether tailored patient-provider
      communication works in real life. This design allows for a large spectrum of everyday
      clinical settings in order to maximize applicability and generalizability. The pragmatic
      approaches are especially pronounced along the inclusive eligibility criteria, experimental
      intervention flexibility, and primary outcome being highly relevant to patients and providers
      alike.

      The investigators will recruit from approximately 32,310 adult patients from target
      populations, southern California to enroll 134 participants in the study. In addition to
      recruiting from the general population, the investigators will place a specific emphasis on
      recruiting patients living in rural and underserved communities; the investigators will also
      recruit from a full range of dermatological diseases.

      Patient recruitment and enrollment will begin the first month of year one and continue
      through the fourth month of year one. The expected duration of this pragmatic, single-blinded
      randomized controlled equivalency trial for each participant will be a maximum of 3 months,
      including an initial baseline visit. No additional follow-up visits beyond this are expected
      for this research study.

      Patients will be randomized to receive patient education via tailored or non-tailored
      patient-provider communication. The study team will know which form of communication each
      patient will receive while study participants will not know the different types of
      communication being studied. Patients randomized to either study population groups can be
      assessed remotely or in-person at the screening/baseline visit. At month 3, all patients will
      take high-quality photographs of their skin and submit these pictures to our dermatologist
      online. Any additional in-person or remote visits will be determined by providers and
      patients just as they would occur in the real-world. Primary and secondary outcomes will be
      monitored at months 0, 1.5, and 3.
    
  