
    
      Our belief is that the establishment of a pain protocol at the Ziv Medical Center will
      improve effectiveness of pain treatment. The present study involves surveying the current
      knowledge and attitudes of caregivers who are responsible for evaluating pain in patients and
      subsequent treatment in various departments of the hospital without a pain protocol.

      According to the IASP (International Association for the Study of Pain) :" Pain is an
      unpleasant sensory and emotional experience associated with actual or potential tissue
      damage, or described in terms of such damage". According to WHO, assessment is necessary in
      every situation that involves pain, excluding pain that is life threatening. Valid and
      reliable assessment is essential for effective pain management. The very nature of pain makes
      it impossible to measure objectively. There are different types of pain, and as caregivers,
      we need to diagnose the pain accurately in order that each patient gets the most effective
      treatment and continued evaluations, as needed. When caregivers decide on a treatment for
      pain, they are relying on the relatively objective VAS (Visual Analogue Scale.) According to
      recent studies most patients were dissatisfied with the pain treatment they had received.
      Approximately eighty percent of patients who present to emergency departments worldwide come
      because of pain.

      Often the patient and the caregiver have different ideas about what pain is and how to treat
      it. Cultural differences, gender differences, even age differences may affect reactions of
      both the caretaker and the patient. There are many ways to treat pain, and various reasons
      for how people react to pain.

      The present study is designed to measure the knowledge and attitudes of caregivers and in
      regard to the pain of their patients. An assessment of patient satisfaction to pain
      management will be also be performed.

      Staff members working in wards involved with pain will be asked to fill out anonymous
      questionnaires concerning knowledge and attitudes toward pain. Patients will also be asked to
      fill out anonymous questionnaires in regard to their pain treatment. Informed consent will be
      requested. Responses will be collated and recorded. A future study is planned using a new
      pain protocol. The questionnaires will be repeated after the protocol has been in place for
      12 months, at which time responses will be compared.
    
  