
    
      Objectives: To investigate the incidence of anosmia arising in patients after undergoing
      cardiopulmonary bypass, and compare it to a control group.

      Hypothesis: Patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass may suffer from anosmia.

      Methodology: Potential participants will be identified via scheduled operating lists at
      Manchester Royal Infirmary. Suitable patients will be informed, including informational
      leaflets about the study, and permissions sought with an informed consent form. Once
      recruited, when the patients come for their pre-operative assessment, olfactory assessment
      will be carried out using the Sniffing Sticks smell kit and a validated questionnaire
      (Dresden Questionnaire of Olfactory Disorders). The Sniffing Sticks smell kit composes of 12
      different pen-like odour dispensers. Each stick is presented to the patient who then chooses
      from four different answers, the one that best represents the odour. The patient then
      receives a score of 0 to 12. A reassessment via the same questionnaire and smell kit is
      repeated after 1 week or just before discharge (whichever is earlier) after the patient's
      surgery.

      Data Management and Statistical Analyses: All participant information will be stored
      electronically in a password protected trust computer. Participant identifiers will also be
      kept in a separate password protected folder from the main database of individual participant
      information. We will use MS Excel for compiling the data.

      Study Type: Prospective, single-centre, observational study

      Target Sample size: 50 patients undergoing elective surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass
      (study group) 50 patients total

      Procedures for Obtaining and Documenting Consent: All patients undergoing major surgery will
      require to attend a preoperative planning clinic. Information leaflets will be disseminated
      at this time, which includes contact details of involved researchers. Depending on
      availability, the principal researcher would be present during the preoperative clinics to
      answer any questions. Contact details will be taken for any patient considering to
      participate at this point whilst any patient who initially refuse and choose to participate
      later will require to contact the researchers to opt back in. Potential participants will
      then be contacted via their mode of choice (email/telephone) to assess if they want to
      participate. On the day of planned admission into hospital for elective surgery, or at
      another agreed upon time, a written consent will be obtained and all questions addressed
      immediately before the study is conducted. Patients undergoing major surgery are normally
      admitted into hospital the day before surgery. This time period is opportunistic as from
      experience, most patients will have ample free time from then till the day of surgery and a
      distraction would most probably be welcome. However, if no such opportunity is foreseen, a
      separate appointment in hospital grounds can be made at a suitable time. After the operation,
      a repeat study will be done, ideally in conjunction with any one of their follow up visits to
      the hospital, which normally involves a waiting time. Otherwise, an alternate suitable
      appointment can be arranged. Any arranged appointments will restricted to working hours
      (Mon-Fri 8am-5pm) in the ENT outpatients department at Manchester Royal Infirmary.

      Risks and benefits: There are no risks to patients who participate in this study. There are
      also no direct benefits to the participant other than having a free objective measurement of
      their sense of smell and learning about the nature of the study. Patient participation is
      purely voluntary.

      Confidentiality: Each participant will be identified by an assigned code number. This will be
      stored in a separate file from the main database, only accessible on a password protected
      server. Thus, each participant's data is kept anonymous. Informed consent forms will be
      locked a separate file cabinet.
    
  