
    
      Rationale:

      Most patients undergoing a cardiovascular procedure need an ICU-bed during the
      hospitalization and therefore it is possible that for the unforeseen future, because of the
      Covid-19 crisis, many patients will stay on the waiting list for many months to come. There
      are some studies showing an increased mortality associated with an increased waiting time for
      the patients on the waiting list for an elective cardiac surgery. However, there is no data
      on the evolution of the morbidity, the quality of life and the symptomatology of the patients
      waiting for an elective operation. Also it is not clear whether the period of waiting for an
      elective cardiovascular operation would impact the morbidity or the mortality of the planned
      operation at later stage. Furthermore, there is a plethora of studies on risk factors
      associated with the perioperative morbidity and mortality in general. Therefore, the
      rationale of the current study is to evaluate whether Digital Cardiac Counseling (DCC) would
      improve outcomes of the patients waiting for an elective cardiac operation. At the DCC
      platform, there will be assessments of cardiovascular symptoms, Covid-19 prevention for
      cardiovascular patients, smoking cessation, anxiety relief, exercise stimulation, pulmonary
      rehabilitation and diet adjustments. This will be done by means of questionnaires and
      E-consults. Investigators start this project now because of two reasons. First, the prolonged
      waiting list due to the Covid pandemic creates the opportunity to use this period for cardiac
      prehabilitation. Second, it is only recently that the investigators got the possibility to
      use a digital platform, which is ideal in this period of social distancing.

      Objective:

      Primary Objective:

        -  What is the effect of an interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling platform with
           E-consulting on cumulative incidence of major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) at 1
           year after the cardiac surgery compared to the control condition (no interactive Digital
           Cardiac Counseling)?

      Secondary Objective(s): - What is the effect of an interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling
      platform with E-consulting on patient-measured outcomes during treatment delay due to the
      Covid-19 pandemic measured just before, and 1 year after the cardiac surgery compared to the
      control condition (no interactive Digital Cardiac Counseling)?

      Study design:

      Randomized controlled trial. The investigators will use random permuted block size if
      technically feasible otherwise with random block sizes of 4, 6, and 8. The randomization will
      be computer-based and will generate two groups. Both groups will get access to the Digital
      Cardiac Counseling platform and both groups will complete the same set of validated
      questionnaires at the same time intervals. The intervention groups will get additional
      training modules and E-consulting based on the risk assessment retrieved from the completed
      questionnaires.

      Study population:

      The patient population will include any adult patient on the waiting list for any elective
      cardiovascular operation in MUMC (Maastricht University Medical Center) during Covid-19
      pandemic.

      Intervention:

      the intervention group will receive through the Digital Cardiac Counselling platform
      different modules with E-counselling for risk factors evaluated in the questionnaires.The
      digital counselling modules for intervention group are described below: -

        -  Screening for reduced physical fitness. If there are signs for a decreased physical
           condition we will refer the patient, after consultation, for a digital intake with our
           physiotherapist. The patients then get access to a digital module with information and
           videos of physical exercise training. The patient gets a trainings schedule and the
           investigators will contact the patient after about 1 and 3 weeks to check their
           progression and to give additional advice when needed.

        -  Screening for smoking. If the patient smokes and is motivated to quit smoking, the
           investigators will refer, after consultation, for a digital intake with one of our stop
           smoking nurses. Then, a digital and telephone supported counselling will start after an
           informed and shared decision making with the nurse. When needed, supportive medication
           can be prescribed.

        -  Screening for malnutrition and obesity. If there are signs of malnutrition (MUST-score)
           or obesity (BMI >30) the investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a
           digital intake with a dietician. The patients then get access to a digital module with
           information about a healthy diet. The investigators will contact the patient ever 2
           weeks in case of malnutrition and every 4 weeks in case of obesity. In the case of
           malnutrition the dietician can prescribe protein rich nutrition supplements when needed.

        -  Screening for anxiety and depression. If there are signs for anxiety and depression, the
           investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a digital intake with a
           psychological assistant. The patients then get access to a digital platform with
           information and exercises. The psychological assistant will guide the patient and will
           provide digital support after 1 and 3 weeks.

        -  Screening for elevated pulmonary risk score. When patients have an elevated risk score
           for adverse pulmonary complications (pulmonary risk score for cardiac surgery patients
           questionnaire) the investigators will refer the patient, after consultation, for a
           digital intake with our physiotherapist. The patients then get access to a digital
           module with information and videos of pulmonary exercise training. The investigators
           will send a inspiratory muscle trainer (IMT) to the patient to perform daily exercises.
           The patient gets a trainings schedule and the investigators will contact the patient
           after about 1 and 3 weeks to check their progression and to give additional advice when
           needed.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary endpoint is cumulative incidence of MACE (Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events) at
      1 year after cardiac surgery. The primary outcome is the difference in percentage of patients
      that experienced Mace at 1-year follow-up postoperatively. The investigators expect that
      approximately 20% of patients in the control group will experience an event. The
      investigators will include 197 patients per group, or 394 in total, to be able to have 80%
      power to detect a difference in MACE of 10% between groups in favor of the intervention
      group, using an alpha of 0.05.
    
  