
    
      Dysferlinopathy represents a rare group of muscular dystrophies, presenting a particular
      challenge for the definition of natural history and "trial readiness". In the early days
      after the cloning of the dysferlin gene, several papers described the clinical phenotype over
      time of collections of patients leading to the recognition of the "core" phenotypes of
      Miyoshi Myopathy (MM), LGMD2B and the rarer distal myopathy with anterior tibial involvement.
      Most of these papers dealt with inbred populations with a limited number of mutations
      represented. Subsequent studies have reported larger numbers of patients with outbred
      mutations and extended the clinical spectrum to include onset as young as early childhood and
      as late as old age, with a large group of patients in whom a clear distinction in their
      pattern of muscle involvement into Miyoshi or LGMD was not possible, with involvement of both
      the proximal and distal musculature in most patients, especially as the disease progresses. A
      limitation of all of these studies however is that with few exceptions, again mainly in
      inbred groups, long-term follow-up data are not presented and data on clinical progression
      are collected in different ways making precise comparisons between their conclusions
      difficult. Nonetheless, the studies overall are in agreement that dysferlinopathy is a
      chronically progressive condition sometimes with periods where there is a plateauing of
      muscle function, with variable age at wheelchair dependency and probably a low risk of
      cardiac and respiratory complications compared to other types of muscular dystrophy.
      Intriguing suggestions from these publications which require more systematic study include
      the definition of a particularly good level of sporting prowess before the onset of symptoms
      and the description of a subacute onset with muscle pain and swelling, both features, if
      better understood, that potentially could help in our understanding of the pathogenesis of
      the disease.

      Recently, two as yet unpublished studies have addressed the topic of charting the natural
      history of dysferlinopathy more systematically. In a study of 9 genetically confirmed LGMD2B
      and MM patients studied over 18 months, Isabel Illa and colleagues found a significant
      decline in muscle strength in a set of muscle groups measured by manual muscle testing, and
      in knee flexion measured by quantitative muscle testing, accompanied by a detectable
      deterioration on MRI imaging in biceps femori and tibialis posterior. Maggie Walter and
      colleagues assessed the natural course of disease and efficacy of deflazacort treatment in 25
      patients (between 25 and 63 years of age) with genetically confirmed dysferlinopathy in a
      double-blind, cross-over trial. During the first year of the study, they assessed the natural
      course of disease in 6-month intervals, evaluating MRC scores, quantitative strength
      measurement by hand-held dynamometry (Citec, Groningen, Netherlands), and torque measurement
      (M3 diagnose system, Fa. Schnell, Germany), Neuromuscular Symptoms Score (NSS), Timed
      Function Tests (getting up from lying and sitting position, climbing 4 stairs, running 10m),
      Vignos Scale, Hammersmith Motor Ability Score, and Global Assessment CGI Scale, quality of
      life SF-36 scale and laboratory parameters (sodium, potassium, creatinine, urea, GOT, GPT,
      gamma-GT, CK, blood count, ESR, CRP). Medication (placebo or deflazacort in a cross-over
      design) was only started in the 2nd year of the study. All patients showed a decline in
      muscle strength over one year, which was reflected in the tests performed.

      It is reassuring that from these data we can conclude that it is likely that there will be
      changes detectable with time in dysferlinopathy that could inform the design of future
      clinical trials, but the optimal measurements have yet to be defined and mapped in a much
      larger group of dysferlinopathy patients representing the entire clinical spectrum of this
      diverse disease group. Extrapolating from the requirements for studies in other types of
      muscular dystrophies, including the regulatory advice for establishing pivotal trials of
      therapies in these disorders, these measures would need to include not only measures of
      muscle strength, but also of function and some degree of patient reported outcomes. The
      unpublished results of Isabel Illa and colleagues, as well as another small study of MRI in
      dysferlinopathy, also show some hope for the use of MRI as a measure of change in muscle over
      time which might be applicable as an outcome measure. Up until now, muscle MRI has been seen
      more as a tool for delineating the pattern of muscles involved than for monitoring change -
      the use of MRI for monitoring disease progression in a non-invasive manner is however
      attracting a lot of current interest, though more study is needed especially in respect of
      functional correlates and patient relevance.

      The frequency of dysferlinopathy provides a further challenge to the collection of natural
      history data. The relative frequency of different forms of muscular dystrophy depends to a
      certain extent on the population studied. Dysferlinopathy appears to be a more common cause
      of LGMD in Southern European populations than in Northern European ones. Founder mutations
      exist in only a few small communities. There is little doubt that dysferlinopathy is
      under-diagnosed and, in fact, the clinical diagnostic process by which dysferlinopathy is
      diagnosed is also variable. Most laboratories still rely on the suggestion of the diagnosis
      by muscle immunocytochemistry or (more reliably) immunoblotting. Some laboratories carry out
      protein testing on monocytes as an alternative screening methodology. The gold standard for
      dysferlinopathy diagnosis has however become DNA testing, with sequencing carried out in a
      small number of commercial laboratories as well as a series of diagnostic laboratories in
      Europe and the USA. The Jain Foundation (www.jain-foundation.org) can help guide those who
      are unsure about their diagnosis through the process of getting a genetic analysis. Please
      contact Sarah Shira at the Jain Foundation for help with diagnosis at +1 425 882 1492

      With the perspective of different approaches to therapy in dysferlinopathy, a clearer
      definition of the natural history of the disease and the delineation of suitable outcome
      measures for clinical trials needs to be prioritised. The current protocol builds on existing
      national and international networks to bring together a critical mass to address the
      following specific aims:

        1. Define the natural history of dysferlinopathy in a large unselected patient group with
           respect to age and nature of onset, progression and presence of complications via
           existing and expanded registries and databases

        2. Study a selection of possible outcome measures for dysferlinopathy trials over a three
           year period in a multicentre evaluation of 150 patients based in centres of excellence
           for muscular dystrophy diagnosis and management

        3. Extend the existing registry activities coordinated by the Jain Foundation to ensure a
           comprehensive patient registry for dysferlinopathy, within the TREAT-NMD international
           registry framework.
    
  