
    
      Crohn's Disease (CD) is a life long disease that mainly affects young adults. There is
      evidence That gut tissue injury is the result of an abnormal immune response that involved
      multiple non immune cellular systems including the intestinal microvascular endothelial cell.
      Moreover, clinical studies have shown that 1-7% of irritable bowel disease (IBD) patients
      suffer from arterial and venous thromboembolic complication.

      Chronic inflammation has a major role in the development and propagation of endothelial
      dysfunction, which can lead to coronary artery disease.

      Endothelial dysfunction has been described in patients with various and diverse chronic
      inflammatory conditions. Over the last few years, dysfunction of vascular endothelium has
      been widely recognized as the first step in the development of atherosclerosis. Several
      inflammatory mediators, such as C-reactive protein (CRP), Tumor Necrosis Factor α, (TNF α),
      nitric oxide (NO), vascular endothelial growth factor, CD-40, interleukin-6 (IL-6), which are
      up-regulated in IBD, also are known to impact vascular impact.

      The normal endothelium produces a vasodilatatory response to ischemia referred to us as
      reactive hyperemia. Shear stress on the blood vessel wall leads to the production and release
      vasodilatation. With endothelial dysfunction there is often either a blunted vasodilatatory
      in response to ischemic event, and chronic inflammation.

      The hypothesis of this study is that patients with Crohn's disease have an increased
      incidence of endothelial dysfunction, which can be corrected or improved by treatment with
      anti TNF α.

      The purpose of our study was to assess endothelial function in patients with Crohn's Disease,
      before and after treatment (steroids, immunomodulators, and anti TNF α). This study assessed
      the presence of endothelial dysfunction in patients with Crohn's disease and evaluated the
      possible role of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α in the pathophysiology of this abnormality.

      In this study we will preformed an endothelial function test before and after treatment by
      Endopath device from Itamar medical, FDA approved.

      Safety- Each subject will be screened by clinical history, physical examination,
      electrocardiogram, chest X-ray, Mantoux test (PPD), routine chemical analysis, and
      biomarkers.

      The study protocol has been approved by the local institutional review board.
    
  