
    
      The primary study objectives of the PACT study are two-fold:

        1. Evaluate the feasibility of methods to conduct a full-scale multi-site randomized
           clinical trial comparing PACT self-management with traditional self-care for TMD. The
           study will also evaluate strategies to: identify, recruit, consent, and enroll eligible
           subjects into both groups meeting target goal; evaluate adherence to intervention and
           identification of barriers; evaluate adherence to outcomes assessment, and evaluate the
           on-line web-site functionality and acceptability.

        2. To demonstrate ability to accurately capture outcome measures to be used in the
           multi-site study.

      Primary study objective: Recruitment is measured through achievement of target sample, number
      of patients identified that meet eligibility criteria, and number (%) of subjects consenting
      compared with total contacted.

      Intervention adherence is measured by: number of participants enrolled in both groups, number
      of participants accessing on-line materials, completion of practice logs, and identification
      of self-reported barriers of participation in self-care. Outcome adherence is measured by the
      number of participants who complete the baseline assessment, complete the two and four month
      follow-up assessments, complete the program evaluation, and complete qualitative post-study
      interview. Website acceptability is measure by identification of problems and barriers during
      use and quality and ease of use at the post-intervention evaluation.

      Second objective: Efficacy of the program is measured by self-reported outcome assessments.
      The primary outcomes include TMD symptoms, jaw functioning, and emotional functioning.
      Secondary outcomes measures include symptom severity with the temporal aspects of pain, pain
      interference, and patient ratings of improvement. Additional information on mediators and
      modifiers will also be gathered to help inform the how and why the intervention has an
      effect. Mediators will be measured to identify factors that help explain why PACT may have an
      effect including self-efficacy, patient activation, exercise level, sleep quality, and social
      support. Contextual process factors to identify in whom the intervention does and does not
      work include disability status, catastrophizing, depression, repetitive strain from oral
      habits, and perceived stress.
    
  