
    
      The objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of home-based primary care on outcomes
      for home-bound older adults, including hospitalization and emergency department (ED) visits,
      quality of life and symptom control, costs of care, and burden of care for their informal
      caregivers. A mixed methods dissemination and implementation evaluation of home-based primary
      care will also be conducted.

      Over one million seniors in the U.S. have functional limitations that prevent them from
      receiving office-based primary care. As a result, home-bound adults typically experience poor
      disease control, high rates of hospitalization, and large healthcare expenditures resulting
      for hospitalizations and emergency department use. Few modes of healthcare delivery designed
      specifically for the home-bound have been studied, but observational data suggest that
      home-based primary care could improve outcomes and reduce spending for these highly
      vulnerable patients.

      The investigators propose a pragmatic randomized controlled trial of home-based primary care
      vs. office-based primary care for home-bound older adults, with 3 Specific Aims: to compare
      the impact of home-based primary care and office-based primary care 1) on hospitalization and
      emergency department visit rates, symptom control and quality of life, and satisfaction with
      care among home-bound elders; 2) on care-giving burden among informal caregivers (e.g.,
      family and friends); and 3) on healthcare expenditures for the home-bound. The hypothesis is
      that patients in home-based primary care and their caregivers will have better outcomes
      compared to office-based primary care patients.

      The study embraces the concepts of a pragmatic trial design to facilitate the translation of
      study findings for practical clinical, systems, and health policy applications. The study
      team includes experts in aging related health services research, health economics, health
      policy, randomized clinical trials, and the medical and nursing care of home-bound older
      adults.

      The proposed study would be the largest prospective study of home-bound older adults and the
      only randomized trial of home-based primary car for the home-bound. It would fill important
      knowledge gaps in our understanding of the effects of home-based primary care for the
      home-bound. The study is consistent with the Institute of Medicine's call for expanded
      research on comprehensive models of chronic care, including the multidisciplinary management
      of chronic diseases and the medical home concept.
    
  