
    
      The stability of a total knee replacement (TKR) surgery depends on soft tissue balance (i.e.
      balance of supporting ligaments) and bony cuts made during surgery that dictate the rotation
      of the femoral (thigh bone) component. Two main techniques predominate for execution of the
      bone cuts and soft tissue balance in TKR. In measured resection, pre-determined bony cuts are
      made and appropriate balance is obtained by judicious soft tissue releases as required. In
      gap balancing, the bony cuts for femoral rotation are driven by the native soft tissues. How
      these two surgical approaches affects the biomechanics of the knee invivo is unclear. The
      purpose of this study is to examine the patello-femoral articulation as well as coronal
      balance of the respective techniques under dynamic conditions. Secondary goals will be to
      examine the impact on femoral component position on changes to coronal plane position through
      a range of flexion/extension. As patellofemoral symptoms and flexion instability are two of
      the most common causes of patient dissatisfaction and revision in the short term, this study
      has the potential to have significant patient impact. The study also has the potential to
      provide information on long term wear potential if articular incongruity is found. TKA is a
      procedure that has good results in most patients, however, up to 20% of patients are not
      satisfied with their outcome. (1) Some of these dissatisfied patients require early revision.
      Early revisions are often attributed to technical issues, such as revisions required for
      instability, patellofemoral symptoms, stiffness or aseptic loosening (2). This highlights the
      impact of surgical technique on clinical outcomes. There are two main philosophies on how to
      complete bone resections and achieve a balanced TKA. The measured resection technique
      utilizes a standard set of bony cuts based on bony landmarks and then balances the knee by
      making judicious soft tissue releases. Component position, particularly femoral rotation, is
      fairly constant with using this technique. Gap balancing adjusts the bony cuts for femoral
      rotation to balance the soft tissues of the knee in flexion, potentially avoiding the
      necessity of soft tissue releases. In contrast to the measured resection technique, gap
      balancing allows for variable rotation of the femoral component. This variability in femoral
      rotation has the potential to impacts the coronal plane motion as well as tracking at the
      patellofemoral articulation. Surgeons have strong opinions that both the gap balanced (3) and
      measured resection techniques (4) provide superior results. However, in spite of a variety of
      literature in support of each technique, little has been done to compare the biomechanics of
      each technique. There is a lack of scientifically rigorous assessment of the impact of
      surgical technique on femoral rotation, with resultant changes to coronal plane motion. This
      prevents the elucidation of potential sources of clinical outcome differences both in the
      short term and the long term. The impact of femoral component rotation will be examined by
      examining the coronal plane motion. An area impacted by the two TKA techniques is how they
      impact coronal plane motion in flexion. There has only been one paper written utilizing
      dynamic fluoroscopy to examine the differences in techniques (7). This study examined
      lift-off of the lateral component in a comparative study of the two techniques using dynamic
      fluoroscopy. This study was limited in nature, with only the ability to quantify the amount
      of separation of the femoral component from the tibial component in flexion. It did not
      examine the impact of femoral rotation on flexion alignment, or correlate patient
      satisfaction scores to the dynamic fluoroscopy findings. With the combination of advanced
      imaging to determine component position with respect to bony landmarks (8) as well as dynamic
      fluoroscopy, a large area of new information can be gathered. Examination of the impact of
      surgical technique with the use of cement to femoral component rotation, and how this impacts
      coronal plane motion are achievable goals, with potential for a significant impact on patient
      outcomes.
    
  