
    
      Erector Spinae Plane Block(ESP) is a rather new method which can block ventral and dorsal
      rami of spinal nerves in the paravertebral area after they leave the spinal column.
      Originally used for thoracic somites, by spreading in a craniocaudal fashion in the erector
      spinae muscle group, it has the potential of blocking cervical or lumbar nerves as well.

      To provide better analgesia for surgical procedures, anesthesiologists use truncal blocks for
      peripheral intervention. Although these blocks are generally very effective and easy to
      apply, they are limited by a relatively small area of effectivity. In order to achieve denser
      effects for larger surfaces, epidural anesthesia must be used with the risk of more severe
      complications than any peripheral or truncal nerve blocks. Epidural anesthesia also has the
      disadvantages of requiring more experience and more cautiousness than ultrasound-guided
      truncal blocks and risks of an undesirable temporary motor blockade. ESP block could be the
      answer for better regional analgesia while avoiding motor blockade and complications of
      epidural anesthesia.

      The study will have two groups as Block Group(GB) and Control Group(GC) and two periods as
      during operation and 48 hours after the operation. Every participant will receive Total
      Intravenous Anesthesia(TIVA) and will be monitored with ECG, non-invasive blood pressure,
      heart rate, pulse oximeter, and Bispectral Index. Participants in GB will receive
      ultrasound-guided ESP block catheter after proper maintenance of anesthesia provided. The
      first period will be during operation. We will evaluate the administered drug amounts per
      kilogram for each patient. Investigators believe ESP block will help them deliver proper
      anesthesia with lower dosages. The second period will include postoperative 48 hours. Pain
      scores(NRS) will be evaluated at certain time intervals and at two critical moments between
      the two groups. One of the critical moment which patients fear and feel the pain most is the
      removal time of nephrostomy. The second moment is the first time patients start walking.

      Rescue analgesia will be ordered on demand for both groups as IV 1 mg/kg tramadol. Hours and
      amounts of rescue analgesia administered will be recorded.
    
  