
    
      Background:

        -  R1507 is a recombinant, fully human monoclonal IgG1 antibody that binds specifically to
           the human IGF-1R, resulting in direct inhibition of ligand binding and loss of receptor
           protein on the cell surface following intracellular internalization and degradation.

        -  Binding of R1507 has been shown to inhibit signal transduction and proliferation and
           survival functions mediated by the IGF-1R in cancer cells. Pre-clinical toxicology and
           safety pharmacology studies have been performed with R1507 and phase 1 studies in adults
           have resulted in a recommended intravenous dose of 9 mg/kg weekly. Phase 1 studies are
           ongoing in children.

        -  A Phase II study (SARC011/Roche NO21157): A Phase II Trial of R1507, a Recombinant Human
           Antibody to the Insulin-Like Growth Factor-1 Receptor for the treatment of patients with
           recurrent or refractory Ewing s sarcoma, osteosarcoma, synovial sarcoma,
           rhabdomyosarcoma and other sarcomas will allow an opportunity to collect tumor tissue
           and serum samples to further characterize the biology of sarcomas and their response to
           IGF1-R monoclonal antibody therapy.

      Objectives:

        -  To analyze tumor tissue for IGF-1R, phosphor (p)-IGF-1R, Akt, p-Akt, PTEN, and other
           candidate markers related to the mechanism of action of R1507 in the treatment of
           patients with sarcoma and other solid tumors.

        -  To determine whether specific tissue-based assays performed on diagnostic specimens will
           allow for the identification of newer prognostic categories and potentially new
           molecular targets for treatment of patients with sarcoma and other solid tumors.

        -  To determine whether serum levels of free IGF-I/II, total IGF-I and shed IGF-1R are of
           significance in the outcome of patients with sarcoma and other solid tumors.

        -  To identify new treatment targets for therapy. Further testing of these potential
           targets will be carried out in hopes of expediting translation of these findings to the
           clinical setting.

      Eligibility:

      -All patients enrolled on the Phase II study SARC011/Roche NO21157 will be eligible for
      enrollment.

      Design:

        -  Unstained tumor tissue slides from samples sent for confirmatory diagnosis will be
           forwarded for further analysis from Central Pathology Labs in New York or Leiden to
           Roche Clinical Sample Operations (CSO). Tissue based assays to evaluate the status of
           IGF-1R downstream pathway will be performed by Roche Central Lab (HistoGeneX) and NCI
           Lab.

        -  Serum based assays of free serum IGF-I/II, total serum IGF-I and shed IGF-1R receptor
           will be run using the samples obtained prior to the first dose of R1507 and at specified
           times during treatment as described in Table 3.3. All serum samples will be shipped to
           the Roche CSO and forwarded for analysis to the designated laboratories. Serum based
           assays will be performed by Roche Central Lab (MicroCoat) and Roche Diagnostics
           (Penzberg).
    
  