
    
      It is scientifically recognised that some probiotic effects can be obtained from inactivated
      bacteria or isolated bacterial components (e.g. bacterial DNA) or factors produced during
      fermentation (short-chain fatty acids, bacterial proteins, etc.) (7). This category also
      includes the ingredient which forms the focus of this trial: fermented rice flour, prepared
      from rice flour fermented by a probiotic (Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74) which was
      heat-inactivated at the end of the fermentation process. The finished product, therefore,
      does not contain live bacteria.

      The bacterium used - owned by the sponsor and filed with the BCCM/LMG bacteria collection -
      belongs to the species Lactobacillus paracasei, and is included in the Qualified Presumption
      of Safety (QPS) list of microorganisms compiled by the European Food Safety Authority's Panel
      on Biological Hazards (8). The bacterium has been tested for its sensitivity to antibiotics
      on the basis of the relevant criteria drawn up by the EFSA (9) and its genomic sequence is
      known. Pre-clinical studies have shown anti-inflammatory effects of food matrices fermented
      with Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 (stimulating the production of IL-10 and the reduction
      of IL-12), and in response to stimulation with Salmonella typhimurium (10). Recently, the
      clinical effects of the consumption of rice flour fermented with Lactobacillus paracasei CBA
      L74 for 12 weeks were tested in a pilot study conducted on children with moderate/severe AD
      (defined using the SCORAD index) (11). In this study, all the children reported an
      improvement in the severity of the AD and reduced topical steroid application frequency.

      Considering the rationale for the use of live or inactivated probiotics or isolated bacterial
      components for the treatment of AD as well as the clinical studies in the paediatric
      population that have shown encouraging results (11), this randomised, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled trial aims to evaluate the efficacy of rice flour fermented with
      Lactobacillus paracasei CBA L74 in subjects with AD; in particular, this trial will evaluate
      the clinical response in terms of the severity of the AD during and at the end of a 12-week
      treatment period and four weeks after the suspension of the treatment.
    
  