
    
      Methodology:

      Design: Prospective two-center observational study Data collection Frequency: Cross-sectional
      Sampling Design: convenience sampling Sampling Tool: Assessment forms & Questionnaires

      Data collection Time:

      Subject recruitment started from 1/2020 to 3/2020. Geriatric Attendance were extracted from
      the Clinical Data Analysis and Reporting System (CDARS) in the period of 1/2019 to 3/2019 and
      1/2020 to 3/2020 Numbers of fall cases were extracted from AIRS system. Setting: KWH A&E and
      PWH A&E (different cluster)

      Population and sample size For a 95% confidence interval with width=0.3, the expected sample
      size is at least 267 subjects needed to be recruited based on the rule of thumb that SD =
      range/4. In this study, approximately 300 subjects will be recruited (~150 from Kwong Wah
      Hospital and ~150 from Prince of Wales Hospital) .

      Subject recruitment:

      Nurse investigators will be assigned to different duty by Duty in-charge in each shift. First
      of all, the research nurse will screen the case with inclusion and exclusion criteria. After
      that, investigators will approach to the target group, 10mins will be given to the target
      group to consider whether to participate in the study or not. Once the target group decided
      to participate in the research, fall risk of targeted patients will be screened by using
      "STRATIFY" fall risk assessment tool at triage by investigators. Patient will be screened
      into 2 groups, either at risk (score≥2) or not at risk (score<2). Nursing intervention
      includes fall signage, fall bracelet, instruction card will be provided to high risk group
      (score≥2). Questionnaires will be distributed to the target groups to collect their opinions
      towards the screening tool and the intervention upon they were discharged or admitted.

      Content Validity The content validity of patient/caregiver effectiveness score questionnaire
      and instruction card will be established by a panel of eight including one geriatric nursing
      consultant, one emergency nursing consultant, two emergency medicine specialists and four
      advanced practice nurses from two A&Es. They will review the questionnaire and all
      suggestions will be incorporated into the final version of the questionnaire. Ten lay persons
      will be invited to complete the questionnaire to examine the readability to general public.

      Selection and Withdrawal of subjects Nurse investigator will be assigned to different duty by
      Duty in-charge in each shift. First of all, the research nurse will screen the case with
      inclusion and exclusion criteria. After that, investigators will approach to the target
      group, 20mins will be given to the target group to consider whether to participate in the
      study or not. Once the target group decided to participate in the research, fall risk of
      targeted patients will be screened by using STRATIFY at triage by investigators. Patient will
      be screened into 2 groups, either at risk (score≥2) or not at risk (score<2).

      Nursing interventions Fall signage, fall bracelet, instruction card will be provided to high
      risk group. Patients of high risk group will be positioned close to the nurse's station. For
      high risk patients, nurse should ensure that the bed is at the lowest height, the brakes are
      locked and the patient's belongings are within reach. Questionnaires will be distributed to
      the target groups to collect their opinions towards the screening tool and the interventions.

      Inclusion criteria:

      Patient aged 65years old or above Caregiver aged 18years old or above and has cared patient
      for at least 1month Able to read and listen Cantonese/English Able to consent Triage category
      3, 4, 5 Using Hong Kong Identity Card for registration

      Exclusion criteria Patient who has done the fall assessment using Morse Fall Scale (i.e.
      patient in Observation Ward in KWH and patient who admitted to EM Ward in PWH) Caregivers of
      patient who has done the fall assessment using Morse Fall Scale Unable to consent Unable to
      read and listen Cantonese/English Triage category 1&2 cases

      Primary Outcome:

      The effectiveness score of the fall preventing intervention collected from patient and/or
      caregivers via questionnaires within data collection period (Questionnaire Q2 & Q4).

      Secondary Outcome:

      The discrepancy of fall perception of patient/caregiver to STRATIFY screening tool
      (Questionnaire Q1).

      Number of fall cases in A&E of PWH and KWH which are properly documented and reported to
      AIRS.

      Method of Data Analysis The effectiveness score collected from patient and/or caregivers via
      questionnaires within data collection period (Questionnaire Q1-3) will be presented using
      descriptive method. The confidence intervals, correlation will be calculated.

      The discrepancy of fall perception of patient/caregiver to STRATIFY screening tool
      (Questionnaire Q4) is analyzed by constructing CI which estimates the proportion of subjects
      who do not know they are high risk but they actually are.

      Number of fall cases in A&E of PWH and KWH which are properly documented and reported to AIRS
      will be analyzed and presented with descriptive method.

      Direct Access to Source Data and Documents The principal investigator and other investigators
      of the research team are responsible for data collection and they will be permitted to access
      to source data and study record.

      Quality Control and Quality Assurance Daily logs will be recorded by the research nurse to
      monitor the study progress including the number of respondents approached, interviews
      completed or refused and incomplete interviews. All data entered in the database will be
      verified and cleaned. After completion of data entry, computer logic checks will be run for
      consistency of related code. Questionable data will be reviewed against the hard copy of
      questionnaire. Necessary corrections will be made to the database.

      Ethical approval The protocol will be submitted to the Research Ethics Committee (Kowloon
      Central/Kowloon East and NTEC). The conduct of the study will be complied with the
      "declaration of Helsinki". Participation in the study is voluntary and withdrawal is allowed
      at any moment during data collection. An information sheet is provided and a written consent
      is required from the participant.

      Data Handling, Record Keeping, Publication and Disposal All identifiable personal data will
      be anonymized and will follow the HA policy on handling of patient data privacy. The
      completed questionnaires and records will be kept in a locked cabinet for 3 years. The
      computerized research and personal data will be kept by encryption with restricted use to
      authorized person only. All data are used for research only.

      The completed questionnaires will be destroyed by cross-cut shredding and disposed to
      confidential disposal container. The computerized research and personal data will be
      destroyed by data erasure software to ensure the data cannot be recovered. The data disposing
      procedure will be held at the end of 3 years storage period.

      Financing and Insurance Not applicable

      Publication Policy The dissemination of research findings will be presented in post
      registered core course.

      Supplements Written consent form, questionnaires and patient information sheet.

      Indemnity and Insurance N/A
    
  