
    
      Main Hypothesis and Anticipated Results

      Virology

        1. Rhinovirus is a common causative agent of bronchiolitis.

        2. Persistence of rhinovirus (or any virus) infection worsens long-term outcome.

        3. The dose of virus inoculation at the time of acute wheezing (assessed
           semi-quantitatively for rhinovirus and respiratory syncytial virus) is related to
           outcome.

           Immunology

        4. Children susceptible to rhinovirus induced early wheezing have altered immunology (T
           cell regulation and interferon responses) when compared to children with RSV induced
           wheezing and children with rhinovirus induced upper respiratory infection without
           wheezing.

        5. These immunological events are related to recurrent wheezing and asthma inception.

           Therapeutic intervention with systemic corticosteroid

           Systemic corticosteroid in children susceptible for rhinovirus-induced early wheezing

        6. decreases persistence of rhinovirus infection

        7. decreases the severity and relapses of the first wheezing episode, and prevents
           recurrent wheezing, and asthma,

        8. prevents Th2-polarization, favours Th1- and Treg-responses during the treatment period.

      Design and Time

      Prospective, randomized, double blind, placebo controlled, parallel, one-center trial. The
      study was commenced in 6/2007.

      Inclusion Criteria

      Age 3-23 months, be delivered at >37 weeks, first wheezing episode, written informed consent
      from guardian.

      Inclusion Criteria for the Intervention and the Follow-up

      Rhinovirus PCR positive wheezing episode and still signs of lower respiratory symptoms
      (cough, noisy breathing or wheezing) at the time the initiation of study drug.

      Inclusion Criteria for the Follow-up without Intervention

      Any rhinovirus negative wheezing episode.

      Exclusion Criteria

      Chronic illness other than atopy, previous systemic or inhaled corticosteroid treatment,
      participation to another study (excluding long-term follow-up studies in childhood),
      varicella contact if previously intact, need for intensive care unit treatment, or poor
      understanding of Finnish.

      Intervention

      The need for hospitalization will be decided independently of the study by an on-duty
      physician in the emergency room. Whether hospitalized or not, the eligible children
      (rhinovirus positive wheezers, n=70) will be randomly assigned (2 separate randomization
      lists: one for hospitalized and one for out-patients) in a double-blind fashion to receive
      either oral prednisolone (first dose 2 mg/kg (max 60 mg), then 2 mg/kg/d (max 60 mg/d) in 3
      divided doses for 3 days, Prednisolon®, 5 mg tablets, Oy Leiras Finland Ab, Helsinki,
      Finland) or placebo after informed consent had been obtained. The randomization code list
      will be stored in the hospital pharmacy and will be revealed only after all children had
      completed first 2 months of the study. Separate codes for each patients will be stored in
      patients charts and revealed in case of emergency. The tablets and packages will be
      indistinguishable in appearance from those of the active drug (Oy Leiras Finland Ab,
      Helsinki, Finland) and be provided in numbered containers. The study drugs will be
      administered by nurses independent of the study or by parents. The tablets will be minced and
      administered with jelly or yogurt. All patients will receive nebulized albuterol 0.15 mg/kg
      at 2 h intervals for the first 12 h, then at 4 h intervals while in the hospital. After
      discharge, beta2-agonists were used on demand. The patients will receive antibiotics or
      nebulized epinephrine (in emergency room or hospital) on demand.

      Risk-benefit ratio

      Previously, the efficacy of prednisolone has only been evaluated post-hoc in rhinovirus
      induced early wheezing in <3 year-old-children. The prevalence of relapses within 2 months
      after discharge was 22% in prednisolone group and 56% in placebo group. This observation
      needs to be confirmed in a prospective randomized trial, which is the purpose of the current
      study. Prednisolone has not been found beneficial in RSV-induced early wheezing in many
      studies and therefore, is not recommended to these children. Neither, prednisolone is used in
      upper respiratory tract infections without wheezing. Short courses (up to 5 days) of
      prednisolone have been used for decades in the treatment wheezing illnesses and they are well
      tolerated. There are no data that this dosage in this patient group could cause similar
      long-term neurological consequences as systemic corticosteroid treatment in mechanically
      ventilated premature infants suffering from severe respiratory distress syndrome.

      Sample Size

      Required sample size for the intervention will be >70 rhinovirus positive wheezing patients,
      which will include >35 infants for prednisolone group and >35 infants for placebo group. In
      addition, >200 healthy control children (no wheezing during the first 2 years of life) will
      be recruited and followed until school age.

      Our primary endpoint is the occurrence of new wheezing episode within 2 months after
      discharge. According to our previous data on rhinovirus induced first or second episode of
      wheezing in children aged less than 3 years, the prevalence of relapses within 2 months after
      discharge in prednisolone group is 22% and in placebo group 56%. To maintain an alpha error
      of 0.05 and a beta error of 0.20, the required size of the sample is 29 children for each
      treatment group for the 2-month follow-up. When assessing the risk for the development of
      asthma at age 6 years, we expect 60% in the rhinovirus group and 18% in the RSV group to
      develop asthma by that age. We expect approximately 10-20% of the children to discontinue the
      study within 6 years. Thus, 35 children are needed in each group for the follow-up until
      school-age.

      We expect approximately 15-25 subjects in each virus specific group to be sufficient to
      reveal immunologically or clinically meaningful differences.

      Recruitment

      Study subject will be recruited in the outpatient clinic of the Department of Pediatrics, or
      in the Pediatric Infectious Diseases Ward in the Turku University Hospital. Study
      physician/nurse or on-duty physician/nurse tells the guardian about the study and givens
      written information about the study. After the guardian has had adequate time the get
      familiar with the study and has had change to ask, his/her signature will be seeked to the
      informed consent form and the study will commence.

      Description of Laboratory Methods for VINKU 2-study

      The study protocol is presented in Table 1. Several laboratory analyses will enable us to
      address questions regarding the relationship between viral infections, T cell regulation,
      genetics, atopy, and pulmonary function. Laboratory work will be done according to modern
      standards.

      Outcomes of the Intervention

      Primary outcome: The occurrence of and time to a new physician-confirmed wheezing episode
      within 2 months after discharge; number of physician-confirmed wheezing episodes during the
      first 12 months after discharge; diagnoses of asthma during the full study period. Asthma is
      defined according to NAEPP Guidelines (http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/guidelines/asthma).

      Secondary outcomes: Up to 2 weeks after the acute respiratory tract infection, severity of
      symptoms (cough, wheeze, noisy breathing, breathlessness, rhinitis) will be assessed on a
      4-graded scale (0-3, mild 1, moderate 2 and severe 3) by the parents as well as exact number
      of bronchodilator puffs used (symptom diary 1). Up to 2 months after the acute respiratory
      tract infection, parents will record days with rhinitis, cough, noisy breathing, wheezing,
      night-time symptoms, medication (bronchodilator, corticosteroid or antibiotics) and visits to
      physician or hospitalizations for wheezing (symptom diary 2). Up to 12 months, the number of
      out-patient care visits and hospitalizations for wheezing and courses of systemic or inhaled
      corticosteroids will be recorded (diary 3). Multiple immunologic markers and pulmonary
      function after 24-36 months and at age 6 years will be measured.

      Termination of Study

      Criteria for the termination of the study are:

        1. Parent or guardian neglects the study orders.

        2. Parent or guardian does not want to continue the study with any reason.

        3. Completion of the study.

      Ethical Aspects

      The study protocol has been approved by the Ethics Committee of the Turku University Hospital
      in 11/2006 and will follow the rules of the current revision of the Declaration of Helsinki
      and the directives for clinical research by European Union (HE 20/2004). Patients or guardian
      won't get any financial benefits from the study. Children will be covered by the insurance
      (potilasvakuutus). This is an academic project and researchers have no conflicts of
      interests. Patient data will be confidential and won't be shared outside research group
      without coding. All deviations from the original protocol will be reported to the Ethics
      Committee of the Turku University Hospital and to the national authorities (Lääkelaitos).

      Adverse events

      All adverse events during hospitalization will be recorded on a four-point scale (0-3) and
      their possible relation to study drug will be assessed on a three-point scale (no, possible,
      likely, Appendix 4). Parents will be asked to record all adverse events on a two-week home
      symptom diary (Appendix 5). Investigator shall report all clinically meaningful adverse
      events in a timely correct manner to the national authorities (Lääkelaitos) according to
      national law, and to Leiras / Drug Safety Officer Johanna Kause. In case of premature
      termination of the trial, due to safety concerns, the investigator shall write a safety
      summary report and immediately forward this to Leiras and the national authorities. In case
      of an emergency, sealed envelope containing the randomization code will be available in the
      patient chart in the Turku University Hospital and can be easily opened.
    
  