
    
      Pain is a very common complaint in the emergency department (ED). The use of opioids to treat
      moderate to severe pain has increased over the last decade as well as the number of opioid
      related deaths. In 1999 to 2016, more than 630,000 people died from a drug overdose.
      Treatment for acute pain has been assessed in the ED, with review of several different pain
      medications. Sub-dissociative ketamine (SDK) has become a valuable treatment option for acute
      pain and in recent years, has been of increased interest due to the growing concerns
      regarding opioid abuse and opioid shortage in the United States. Sub-dissociative ketamine,
      an NMDA receptor antagonist, has been studied in dose ranges of 1-4.5 mg/kg for dissociative
      sedation, as well as dose ranges of 0.1-0.3 mg/kg to treat pain. The onset of action for an
      IV dose of 2 mg/kg has been studied, with onset usually within 30 seconds after injection and
      anesthetic effect lasting 5-10 minutes. Common side effects include elevated blood pressure,
      diplopia or nystagmus, nausea and vomiting. More rare and more severe side effects in
      dissociative doses include respiratory depression, emergency phenomenon, tonic and clonic
      movements, and anaphylaxis. However, these were rarely, if ever seen, findings in
      sub-dissociative doses. Several studies indicate that SDK is a safe and effective alternative
      to opioids for patients with complaints of moderate to severe pain that provides adequate
      analgesic effect by itself. In particular, several studies have compared SDK versus morphine,
      particularly looking at pain in individuals with abdominal pain, flank pain, low back pain or
      musculoskeletal pain, and acute fractures. SDK has also shown to decrease opioid consumption
      and the need for rescue analgesia. The studies showed that that there was no difference in
      average pain scores, but the amount of morphine required was significantly decreased. SDK has
      proven to be a safe alternative, but the side effects, although short, make it less desirable
      to use. To the investigator's knowledge, there has never been a study focusing on the use of
      combination fentanyl and SDK. Fentanyl, an opioid agonist, has been studied in low dose forms
      of 2 mcg/kg for pain, moderate dose forms of 2-20 mcg/kg for major surgical procedures, and
      high dose forms of 20-50 mcg/kg for orthopedic and open heart surgeries. Onset of action is
      almost immediate when given IV, and maximal effect of the drug may take several minutes. The
      usual duration of action is 30-60 minutes. Common side effects include hypertension,
      hypotension, dizziness, blurred vision, nausea, vomiting and laryngospasm. Serious side
      effects included respiratory depression, apnea, rigidity, bradycardia, serotonin syndrome,
      adrenal insufficiency, and if left untreated could cause cardiac arrest and circulatory
      depression. There have been several combination studies with SDK, but none regarding fentanyl
      and ketamine. In one study, combination SDK and reduced dose hydromorphone produced rapid
      pain relief without significant side effects. Another study indicated that morphine and SDK
      both provided adequate pain relief alone, but combined morphine and SDK required less
      morphine administration, had faster onset of relief, and provided sustained reduction in pain
      intensity for up to 2 hours.
    
  