
    
      The study population will involve all assenting/consenting patients, both male and female,
      admitted to the McLean Anxiety Mastery Program at McLean Hospital. This program provides
      intensive group-based treatment for anxious youth (aged 6-18). Patients in the McLean Anxiety
      Mastery Program participate in a minimum of four weeks of treatment and attend the program
      for four days per week. Three days per week, patients attend group-based treatment for
      two-and-a-half hours per day. The fourth day of each week consists of a one-hour group-based
      treatment, a one-hour family meeting, and a one-hour exposure session that includes children
      and their caregivers. One day per week, parents also attend a one-hour parent guidance group
      as part of the overall treatment package. Patients also have psychopharmacology consultations
      with the program psychiatrist on a case-by-case basis. On their first birthday that falls
      after the date of discharge, patients are sent a birthday card that includes a greeting and
      reminders about coping skills that they learned in the program.

      The investigators expect to recruit at least 45 assenting/consenting patients in the first
      year of the study. The plan is to treat six-to-eight patients during each one-month module
      and to have a waitlist, if interest in the program exceeds the program's capacity. If a
      waitlist exists, patients, who are on this waitlist, will be evaluated as the study's control
      group once they are four weeks away from their target admission date.

      Before the patient's first assessment through the program, an Independent Assessor will
      inform the patient and caregivers about the opportunity to participate in a voluntary
      research study at the McLean Anxiety Mastery Program. Assent/consent will be requested to
      utilize these data for research purposes. The patient and caregivers will be told that all of
      the information gathered from the semi-structured clinical interviews and self- and
      caregiver-report measures are part of routine clinical practice, and permission is being
      sought to use this de-identified data for research purposes. The patient and caregivers will
      be reminded that their decision to or not to participate in the research study will not
      affect the treatment they receive.

      The assessments are conducted at the following time points: 1) Four weeks pre-admission (if
      there is a treatment waitlist), 2) upon admission, 3) weekly while the patients are
      participating in treatment, 4) upon discharge, and 5) at a three-month follow-up visit. If
      the program is not at capacity and therefore does not have a waitlist, patients will not be
      asked to postpone treatment for the sake of the waitlist control assessment and, instead,
      will be admitted directly into the program. Patients only will be included on the waitlist,
      if they are approximately four weeks from program admission. If the patient is fewer than
      four weeks from admission, the patient's first assessment will be upon admission.

      Families, who have assented/consented to participate in the research study, begin the
      assessment either while on the waitlist or upon admission to the program. The assessment
      process at each time point involves the same semi-structured interviews: the Anxiety
      Disorders Interview Schedule (ADIS), the Yale Global Tic Severity Scale (YGTSS) and the
      Children's Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale (CY-BOCS). The same questionnaire battery
      also is administered on the same day as the semi-structured interviews at each of these time
      points. The semi-structured interviews takes approximately two-to-four hours to complete, and
      the remainder of the battery, the self- and parent-report measures, takes approximately 15
      minutes.

      Trained Independent Assessors conduct the interviews, and the self-report questionnaires are
      administered through REDCap Survey, a secure, HIPAA-compliant program for building and
      managing online surveys. The self-report measures are completed at secure computer terminals
      on-site at the program. If families are unable to travel to the program to complete surveys
      while on the waitlist or at follow-up, the Independent Assessors will use REDCap Survey to
      send two survey links (i.e., a parent survey and a child survey) to the caregiver and child.
      If a patient or family member does not complete the online survey within 48 hours, an
      Independent Assessor will contact them with a reminder one time via phone or e-mail. The
      survey does not include questions assessing risk (e.g., for suicidal ideation, self-harm,
      substance use).
    
  