
    
      The main objective of this study is to analyze the rate and type of infectious complications
      while performing closed reduction internal fixation (CRIF) of hand fractures in the operating
      room versus an ambulatory setting. The investigators will do so by prospectively collecting
      data into a hand fracture database, recording the type of fracture, handedness,
      co-morbidities, duration of treatment, number of K-wires, duration of fixation and
      complication rate. These will be recorded on a data collection form, which will be
      transcribed into a password protected excel spread sheet by Dr. Lalonde. The data will be
      de-identified and the patients will be assigned a number to place on the data collection
      sheet depending on order of presentation. The investigators will include all adult patients
      presenting with a metacarpal or phalangeal that is amenable to CRIF with K-wires.

      The investigators will recruit patients prospectively from the emergency room or clinic
      referrals. All patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be asked to
      participate by the attending surgeon or resident. The patients will be assigned a number
      according to chronological presentation. The patients will be recruited from academic centers
      in Canada. Three centers, Halifax, Toronto and McMaster, do not perform CRIF with K-wires in
      a clinical setting and thus will represent the main operating room cohort. The clinical
      setting CRIF cohort will be comprised of patients from St. John, Calgary, Ottawa, Vancouver
      and St John's where CRIF of hand fractures are routinely performed under local anaesthetic
      and field sterility. The characteristics of the injury, fracture, timing of injury, patient
      comorbidities which predispose to infections, handedness, smoking status, sex and age will be
      recorded.

      All procedures in the operating room or the clinic area will be performed under the
      anaesthetic that is standard in that center. A procedure will be deemed "field sterility" if
      the usual surgical preparation of povidone-iodine or isopropyl alcohol-chlorohexidine
      gluconate and sterile drape is performed with sterile gloves and masks but without surgical
      gowns. In the outpatient clinic area, a basic tray will be used along with the K-wire driver
      and wire-cutters. A mini C-arm fluoroscopy machine is used to visualize the reduction and
      placement of the K-wires. The patients will then be dressed with a non-antibiotic containing
      dressing and splinted. The surgical information such as number and type of K-wires, OR time,
      type of anaesthesia, place of operation, and antibiotic use will be recorded. There will be
      no additional pin site care offered, as there is no standard accepted method to decrease
      pin-tract infection. They will be followed up as per the local protocol.

      The patients will be instructed that if they are concerned regarding a complication or
      infection that they must present to their attending surgeon or other plastic surgery
      colleague covering outpatient calls. They will be provided a contact number for after hours.
      The necessity to contact the attending team will be stressed to improve documentation of
      complications and ensure that the proper diagnosis of an infection will be made and
      appropriate antibiotic coverage started. If the patient is to present to the emergency
      department or family physician, improper antibiotic coverage may be started for a patient
      presenting with normal wound healing, which will falsely elevate the incidence of recorded
      hand infections. The patient will be followed until K-wire removal around 3 to 4 weeks, as
      per local protocol, and the duration of K-wire fixation will be recorded along with any
      complications.
    
  