
    
      Background:

      The existing knowledge regarding pulmonary embolism is primarily focused on the diagnostic
      methods and medical treatment of the condition, and furthermore on the short term prognosis
      in terms of mortality and complications. Few studies have investigated the effect of exercise
      training on physical capacity and quality of life in patients struck by a pulmonary embolism,
      although many patients display worries and concerns about their physical and psychological
      wellbeing after discharge. Furthermore, a number of cross sectional studies and cohort
      studies have found some patients to have long-term reduced physical capacity and reduced
      quality of life following pulmonary embolism.

      For the time being, no rehabilitation options are available for these patients neither in
      Denmark, or internationally. As no research exists regarding rehabilitation and exercise for
      these patients, the study will contribute with important knowledge in terms of what kind of
      exercise and physical tests we should provide in the future.

      Methods and materials:

      30 patients medically treated for pulmonary embolism will be recruited from three different
      hospitals. After inclusion and performance of baseline tests, the patients will be randomly
      allocated to either the control group, receiving standard care, or the intervention group,
      receiving an eight-week supervised interval training program in addition to standard care. At
      the time of inclusion and at the end of the training program (eight-weeks), the patient's
      physical capacity is measured using Vo2 Max test on an ergometer cycle and by the Incremental
      shuttle walk test. Furthermore, the patients complete a questionnaire on quality of life
      (Pulmonary Embolism Quality of Life Questionnaire and Euro-Qol 5 Dimensions), and also, daily
      physical activity during 7 days will be measured using accelerometry the week prior to
      baseline test, and the week following the 8-week test.

      Statistical analysis:

      For the primary outcome, change in physical capacity, parametrical statistics will be used to
      describe and analyse data (assuming these are normally distributed). For the secondary
      outcomes on quality oflife, these are ordinal scale data, and therefore will be described and
      analysed using non-parametrical statistics, while change in average physical activity level
      as measured with accelerometry and change in walking capacity as measured with the
      Incremental Shuttle Walk test will be measured using parametrical statistics, assuming a
      normal distribution of data.

      As this is a pilot study the overall aim of the study is the estimate the potential effect of
      a supervise exercise program and further, to estimate the variance on the Watt-max test and
      VO2 max for this patient group, in order to calculate the needed sample size for a future
      full scale randomized controlled trial. In addition the aim of the pilot trial is to assess
      reach and feasibility of the intervention in this target group.

      Expected outcomes and perspective:

      The investigators expect that the supervised interval training program will increase the
      outcome of Vo2 Max, the incremental shuttle walk and PEQoL significantly compared to the
      control group receiving usual care. The feasibility of the intervention will be assessed, as
      well as recrution and retention rate of participants. The study will furthermore contribute
      significantly to the limited knowledge about the optimal rehabilitation for this group of
      patients and may thereby form the basis of future recommendations in this field.
    
  