
    
      Study design and settings:

      This present study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, multi-center
      trial to be conducted at 14 medical centers in tertiary hospitals with Neonatal Intensive
      Care Unit that were selected by the expert committee. A total of 200 neonates fulfilling the
      eligibility criteria will be enrolled. Subsequently, the participants will be randomly
      divided into two groups (ACBMNC infusion group and control (placebo) group ) in a ratio of
      1:1.

      Objectives:

      Primary objective： The primary objective of this trial is to evaluate the efficacy of ACBMNC
      infusion in preventing bronchopulmonary dysplasia at 36 weeks of postmenstrual age or
      discharge home in extremely preterm infants.

      Secondary objectives：

        -  To compare the mortality rate at 36 weeks of postmenstrual age.

        -  To compare the rate of other common preterm complications included intraventricular
           hemorrhage (IVH), necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP),
           respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), ventilation-associated pneumonia (VAP), hypoxic
           ischemic encephalopathy (HIE), late onset sepsis (LOS) and anemia.To compare the
           duration of mechanical ventilation and oxygen therapy in two groups

        -  To determine re-intubation rate and time return to BW

        -  To compare the duration of antibiotic usage

        -  To determine the long term outcomes after two years follow up

      Participants:

      Inclusion criteria:

      Infants fulfilling all the following inclusion criteria will be enrolled in this trial: 1.
      born at study hospital; 2. singleton birth; 3. less than 28 weeks GA 4.Signed informed
      consent obtained; 5. had available umbilical cord blood (UCB).

      Exclusion criteria:

      Those infants are excluded if they were 1. with severe congenital abnormalities; 2.with
      maternal clinical chorioamnionitis 3. the mother was positive for hepatitis B (HBsAg and/or
      HBeAg) or C virus (anti-HCV), syphilis, HIV (anti-HIV-1 and -2) or IgM against
      cytomegalovirus, rubella, toxoplasma and herpes simplex virus.

      Trial treatment methods:

      Soon after the preterm infant was deliveried, written consent was signed by the parents, and
      autologous cord blood infusion was applied to the baby in addition to routine pulmonary
      surfactant replacement, and mechanical ventilation support as indicated. Those assigned to
      the ACBMNC group received an infusion of ACBMNC with 24 h after birth. Those in control group
      received an infusion of a placebo solution which is normal saline with the same volume. Cell
      dose for all patients was targeted at 5×107 cells per kilogram.
    
  