
    
      Thiazide diuretics have been widely used for the management of essential hypertension,
      especially in patients with salt-sensitive hypertension. Most recent guidelines continue to
      recommend thiazide diuretics as first-line agents for all patients with hypertension in spite
      of the potential metabolic side effects such as hypokalemia, hypertriglyceridemia, impaired
      glucose tolerance and increases in serum cholesterol and uric acid. However,
      mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), such as spironolactone or eplerenone, are
      mainly recommended to be used in patients with resistant hypertension or heart failure
      because they have never been evaluated for efficacy in reducing cardiovascular events in
      uncomplicated patients with hypertension. Indeed, it has been demonstrated that MRAs reduced
      total mortality or cardiovascular death in patients with systolic heart failure with severe
      or mild symptoms and in patients undergoing hemodialysis for chronic renal dysfunction.
      Animal studies demonstrated that MRAs induce beneficial changes in left ventricular
      remodeling and prevent or partially reverse cardiac fibrosis and pathological hypertrophy
      that contribute to the development of diastolic heart failure. MRAs have also been shown to
      decrease inflammation and myocardial fibrosis in patients with obesity and the metabolic
      syndrome. Of interest is the recent finding in EMPHASIS-HF study in which almost all of the
      benefit of eplerenone was found in those patients with an increased waist circumference.
      Therefore, the investigators have reason to believe that MRAs will be more effective than
      thiazide diuretics in preventing target organ damage and can be used initially in patients
      with essential hypertension and visceral obesity. In the proposed study, the investigators
      planned to randomize 400 patients with essential hypertension and increased waist
      circumference to receive spironolactone or indapamide in combination with amlodipine for 12
      months. The effects of the two diuretics on target organ damage detected by changes in left
      atrial volume index(LAVI) by echocardiography reflecting left ventricular diastolic
      dysfunction or changes in carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity(PWV) reflecting arterial
      stiffness will be compared. If it proves that spironolactone as first-line antihypertensive
      medication is more effective than indapamide in target organ protection, the investigators
      would propose a large scale cardiovascular outcome trial to evaluate cardiovascular events in
      patients with essential hypertension and visceral obesity.
    
  