
    
      Breast cancer is the second most common cancer worldwide, and the most frequent cancer among
      females with nearly 1.67 million new cases diagnosed in 2012 (WHO, 2012). Due to population
      increases, health service and cancer awareness, more women are diagnosed with breast cancer
      each year. Advances in diagnosis and in treatment have seen an increase in survival from
      breast cancer for Irish women in recent years (ABC, 2010). In Ireland, after non-melanoma
      skin cancer, breast cancer is the most common tumour diagnosed in women in 2008-2010. With an
      average annual amount of 2,767 women diagnosed with breast cancer in 2008-2010 (NCRI, 2013).
      As a result, more women are living with the permanent effects of breast cancer (Gho et al.,
      2010).

      For patients' newly diagnosed with breast cancer, surgery is the first choice of treatment.
      84% of females receive surgery as a form of treatment, be it as a single modality or in
      combination with radiotherapy, chemotherapy and/or hormone therapy (NCRI, 2012).

      A randomized interventional comparative control study will be undertaken to compare the THEYA
      Recovery Range postoperatively for patients undergoing wider lumpectomies, partial
      mastectomies and total mastectomies using a mixed method combining quantitative and
      qualitative instruments. 100 female participants are hoped to be recruited following breast
      surgery after a newly diagnosed breast cancer.

      Who can participate? Women over the age of 18 years with no upper age limit, with a newly
      diagnosed breast cancer that are planned to undergo breast surgery as treatment in a 3 month
      period from recruitment.

      What does the study involve? Participants will be randomly assigned, by use of a sealed
      envelope into two groups: an intervention and a control group.

      Women in the intervention group will be fitted by the investigator with a THEYA Recovery bra.

      Women in the control group will have standard post-operative care, with recommended bra or
      fitted by the Breast Care Nurse Specialist.

      All participants will complete three questionnaires before fitting : The Breast Q, The Body
      Image Scale and the EQ 5D 3L.

      All participants will be asked to continue wearing bra for a period of three to four weeks,
      then re-assessed on return visit, with re-assessment of the three questionnaires. 30
      partcipants will be randomly selected from the sealed envelope to undergo a semi-structured
      interview, in order to gain a better understanding of their experience.

      What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? The benefits for participating
      include receiving the same level of care, and for those undergoing lumpectomy a free bra. The
      study aims to evaluate the patients requirements in post-operative lingerie in order to help
      and further assiss these women. As this is an area of minimal research. There are no risks
      envisaged from participating in this study.

      Where is the study run from? The study is ran from The Beacon Hospital, Mater Misericordiae
      University Hospital, Mater Private Hospital and St.James's Hospital.

      When is the study starting and how long is it expected to run for? The study is planned to
      start in November 2015 and is expected to run until December 2016.

      Who is funding the study? The study is being funded from the Irish Research Council and THEYA
      as part of an Employment Based PostGraduate Award.

      Who is the main contact? Claire Kelly, Researcher.

      claire@theya.healthcare
    
  