
    
      General description :

      This protocol is multicenter (University Hospitals of Geneva (HUG), Lausanne University
      Hospital (CHUV), Hospital of Sion (HVS), dialysis center of the Champel clinic in Geneva and
      dialysis center of the Cécil clinic in Lausanne) and encompasses two parts, a cross-sectional
      and a longitudinal study:

        1. Cross-sectional study: It is performed to differentiate the respective impact of uremia
           and protein-energy wasting (PEW) on gut barrier and gut microbiota. It will compare gut
           barrier of hemodialysis (HD) patients with PEW, with gut barrier of age-matched HD
           well-nourished patients, non dialyzed patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and
           healthy non obese volunteers (10 in each group). This study part is essential for
           interpretation of the changes occurring in the longitudinal study.

        2. Longitudinal double blind randomized crossover study: HD patients with PEW (36
           patients), receive, in a randomized double-blind order, either BCAA or an isocaloric
           isonitrogenous placebo for 4 months each, with a wash-out period of 1 month.

      Randomization :

        1. Cross-sectional study: No randomization will be performed. HD patients without PEW, non
           dialyzed patients with CKD and healthy non obese volunteers will be included if matched
           for gender and age with the included HD patients with PEW. Age-matching will allow a
           discrepancy of +/- 5 years compared to the HD patient.

        2. Longitudinal study: Sequence assignment will be randomized separately in each center to
           ensure an equal percentage of each sequence in both centers. For this purpose, the
           investigators will generate 2 lists of randomization with the method of randomly
           permuted blocks with random block sizes of 2 and 4.

      Recruitment :

      Patients will be recruited among the outpatients of the Nephrology Divisions or Services of
      the HUG, CHUV, HVS and Champel and Cécil clinics. Healthy volunteers will be recruited among
      hospital staff or their relatives.

      Inclusion Criteria :

        1. HD patients with PEW

             -  Age ≥ 18 years.

             -  Maintenance HD for at least 3 months.

             -  Fasting predialysis plasma albumin < 38 g/l in the absence of an known acute
                infection during the last 2 weeks or body weight loss > 5% of estimated dry body
                weight over 3 months

             -  Dietary intakes (24h dietary recall) between 20-30 kcal/kg/d and < 1 g protein/kg/d
                on one occasion, during screening. These intakes will not include the intake of
                oral nutritional supplements, as intakes below 20 kcal/kg/d request artificial
                nutrition.

             -  Absence of any systematic antibiotic treatment for an acute infection in the month
                preceding the inclusion.

        2. HD patients without PEW

             -  Patients matched for age and gender to HD patients with PEW.

             -  Maintenance HD for at least 3 months.

             -  Fasting predialysis plasma albumin ≥ 40 g/l, in the absence of any known acute
                infection during the last 2 weeks

             -  Dietary intakes (24h dietary recall) > 30 kcal/kg/d and > 1.2 g protein/kg/d, once
                during screening.

             -  Absence of any systematic antibiotic treatment for an acute infection in the month
                preceding the inclusion.

        3. Non dialysed patients with chronic kidney disease stage 4

             -  Patients matched for age and gender to HD patients with PEW.

             -  Chronic kidney disease, stage 4 or 5, not requiring HD.

             -  Fasting predialysis plasma albumin ≥ 40 g/l, in the absence of any known acute
                infection during the last 2 weeks

             -  Dietary intakes (24h dietary recall) > 30 kcal/kg/d once during screening.

             -  Absence of any systematic antibiotic treatment for an acute infection in the month
                preceding the inclusion.

        4. Healthy non obese volunteers

             -  Subjects matched for age and gender to HD patients with PEW.

             -  Body mass index < 30 kg/m2

             -  Absence of chronic disease potentially leading to wasting or cachexia.

             -  Absence of plasma C-reactive protein > 50 mg/l in the last 2 weeks or known acute
                infection.

             -  Absence of any systematic antibiotic treatment for an acute infection in the month
                preceding the inclusion.
    
  