
    
      Gastrointestinal fistula may be a life-threatening condition caused by several types of
      injuries (iatrogenic, traumatic, post-operative), requiring complex and multidisciplinary
      management. To date, no clear guidelines have been drawn up for the treatment, that may
      include a conservative, minimally invasive, or major surgical approach depending on the
      patient's specific clinical characteristics. Furthermore, patients with fistulas are often
      fragile, and surgical treatments are highly risky and invasive. Less invasive treatments such
      as stenting, endoluminal endoscopic vacuum therapy and suturing are widely employed, but
      these treatments often require long hospitalization, highly skilled operators, without
      certain results and with high rates of complications.

      The aim of this study is to exploit the regenerative-tissue capacities of autologous
      emulsified adipose tissue-derived stromal vascular fraction (tSVFem, widely used in other
      medical fields - like plastic surgery -for different purposes) harvested and delivered
      locally by endoscopy to close the GI fistula. Indeed, the anti-inflammatory and
      regenerative-tissue promoting effects of tSVFem may safely promote rapid and effective tissue
      healing as alternative, and in this setting they were not investigated before. Fistulas are
      often long-standing chronic conditions, thus healing mechanisms are delayed and subverted in
      favor of inflammation and fibrosis, resembling chronic inflammatory diseases. Delivery of
      tSVFem is a promising new approach that promotes healing in virtue of its immunosuppressive,
      immunomodulatory, pro-angiogenic and regenerative potentials. Since the grafted material used
      in this study is autologous, there is no risk for rejection. All the procedures are performed
      under general anesthesia with orotracheal intubation or laryngeal mask. Approximately 30 cc
      of fat are harvested from the superficial layer of subcutaneous tissue by a 2.1 mm
      microcannula with 4, 1-mm size holes, arranged in a single raw, to get the so-called
      "microfat". Twenty cc of the harvested microfat are mechanical emulsified by sequential
      passages through 2.4mm and 1.2mm filters, and a 600/400 μm disposable filtering device.

      Then the material is centrifuged at 3000 rounds for three minutes, obtaining the tSVFem after
      removal of supernatant fraction and oil released upon mature adipocytes mechanical
      disruption.

      Subsequently, an endoscopy is performed to inject 10 cc of microfat into the fistula (through
      a 6-French catheter) until it was completely filled. Then, with a 22 Gauge endoscopic needle,
      a total of 1-2 cc of tSVFem were injected into the submucosa of the 4 quadrants of the
      fistula borders, to obliterate it completely.

      A radiologic and endoscopic control at day-7 is done to evaluate complete healing of the
      fistula.

      The technique proposed by the investigators for the treatment of GI fistulas with tSVFem
      requires a minimal, inexpensive, easily reproducible mechanical manipulation of autologous
      adipose tissue without necessity of any enzymatic digestion or cell expansion.
    
  