
    
      The proposed study will employ a randomized, full factorial experimental design to examine
      the effects of brief message interventions on parents' acceptance of the first dose of HPV
      vaccine for their adolescents aged 11-14 years, as well as follow through with subsequent
      doses. Specifically, the study will employ a 2 x 2 experimental design, in which participants
      will be assigned randomly to one of two different message sidedness conditions (1 sided vs. 2
      sided) and two social compliance conditions (high compliance request [HCR] vs. noHCR). The
      interventions will be administered by a bilingual research assistant who will read, verbatim,
      scripts provided to them. Computer assisted telephone interview (CATI) will be used to gather
      demographic and background information as well as parental health beliefs regarding
      preexisting worries about HPV vaccine leading to safety concerns (moderator variable) prior
      to administration of the interventions. After the interventions, additional health beliefs
      will be assessed (mediators).

        1. A greater proportion of girls as compared to boys will receive a first dose of vaccine.

        2. Among both girls and boys who receive a first dose of Gardasil™, no differences in
           completion rates will be detected.

        3. The social compliance intervention to be more effective with parents of girls as
           compared to parents of boys. This prediction of a differential effect is based on the
           fact that cervical cancer will be seen as a more serious and less stigmatizing condition
           than genital warts.

      In summary, the implementation of this protocol will allow us to systematically examine the
      use of two different interventions on parents of both boys and girls. Thus, parents (n=800)
      of 11-14 year old girls and boys will be randomized to the two sets of interventions,
      resulting in a 2 X 2 design: message sidedness (1-sided; 2-sided) and HCR (yes; no).
    
  