
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To consolidate knowledge of existing interventions and their characteristics.

        -  To seek patients', caregivers', and healthcare professionals' views on existing
           interventions and to establish whether these groups utilize any additional interventions
           not currently described in the literature.

        -  To explore patients' perspectives on interrelationships among symptoms, in terms of
           clusters or causal relationships.

        -  To identify patients', caregivers', and healthcare professionals' views of the desirable
           components/characteristics of a novel intervention.

        -  Explore what is 'usual care' in the context of the study.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      The management of cough and breathlessness in respiratory diseases and lung cancer is
      assessed through a narrative review of interventions to support caregivers in providing
      physical care to patients with cancer and explore qualitative patient symptom experience with
      a particular focus on identifying specific characteristics and components of interventions
      and identifying patients' and caregivers' explanations of how the respiratory symptom cluster
      relates to other symptom experiences (e.g., fatigue, depression, anxiety).

      Patients and caregivers undergo 2-3 face-to-face interviews to assess views on existing
      interventions in terms of perceived effectiveness, acceptability, importance, and
      feasibility; to establish whether additional interventions (formal or self-initiated) are
      employed; to address patient and caregiver experiences of symptom interactions and clusters;
      and to fine tune the content of the planned intervention and identify any synergies between
      symptoms as discussed by patients. Healthcare professionals undergo similar assessments via
      focus groups.

      Patient and caregiver views on desirable components of a novel intervention are assessed by
      means of Discrete Choice Experiment (DCE) using a 'Best-Worst Scaling' (BWS) approach to
      allow identification of the relative importance of several attributes by means of a series of
      scenarios to enable a focus on characteristics of a nonpharmacological intervention, rather
      than requiring respondents to make judgments about the usefulness of specific interventions
      (e.g., counseling, aromatherapy) with which they may be unfamiliar.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue 30-40 pairs of patients and caregivers.
    
  