
    
      In this observational study, patients with idiopathic EMM, undergoing pars plana vitrectomy
      with Inner Limiting Membrane (ILM) peeling, at the Ophtalmology Clinic of IRCCS Policlinico
      San Matteo, are enrolled.

      The clinical diagnosis of EMM is based on indirect binocular ophthalmoscopy with a + 90 D
      no-contact lens (Volk Optical Inc., Ohio, USA) and on the SD-OCT examination (see below)
      which revealed an increase in macular volume associated with optically hyperreflective
      epiretinal echoes due to the presence of a membrane.

      Since several pathologies may induce changes of the macula bioelectrical responses, and their
      presence may represent potential confounding factors, patients enrolled in the present study
      were selected from a large EMM cohort of patients after exclusion of presence of dense lens
      opacities, ocular hypertension or glaucoma, diabetic retinopathy, drusen and age-related
      macular disease, other general diseases such as systemic hypertension, diabetes, connective
      tissue or neurological diseases.

      Based on that reported by Falkner-Radler et al. , our patient are divided into 2 groups in
      relationship to the integrity of IS/OS junction: a group in which an intact IS/OS junction
      was identified by SD-OCT examination (EMM-I Group) and a group in which a disrupted IS/OS
      junction was observed by SD-OCT examination, EMM-D Group.

      Evaluation of photoreceptor status is performed on the central part of the 1.5 mm of two
      perpendicular scans centered on the fovea. The intact IS/OS junction is identified as a
      continuous hyperreflective line ; the disrupted IS/OS junction is identified as interruptions
      of the normal hyperreflective line. Classification was assessed by the agreement of two
      different grader. In case of disagreement a third assessment was obtained by another expert
      grader.

      VA, mfERG and SD-OCT were assessed in each enrolled patient at baseline (pre-operative) and
      after 1, 3 and 6 month of follow-up after surgical treatment for EMM in each enrolled
      patient.

      Surgical treatment

      All the patients undergo a 25-gauge pars plana vitrectomy with a solution of 0.15% trypan
      blue, 0.025% brilliant blue G, 4% polyethylene glycol (MembraneBlue Dual) assisted Epiretinal
      Membrane/Inner Limiting Membrane (ERM/ILM) removal performed by a single surgeon (GV); no
      air-fluid exchange is performed during surgery. In phakic eyes, phacoemulsification with
      intraocular lens implantation was performed at the time of vitrectomy.

      Visual acuity evaluation

      Best-corrected VA is assessed by the modified ETDRS Charts (Lighthouse, Low vision products,
      Long Island City, N.Y. USA) and expressed in LogMAR values obtained at the distance of 4, 2,
      1 and 0.5 meters.

      MfERG recordings

      The Espion D310 Profile Multifocal System (Diagnosis UK LTD, Histon, Cambridge, UK) is used
      to record the mfERG.

      In all eyes, mfERGs are binocularly recorded under photopic conditions in normal room
      illumination. Pupils are maximally pharmacologically dilated with 1% tropicamide to a
      diameter of 7-8 mm. Binocular mfERG recording is preferred for helping subjects to have a
      stable target fixation. At every mfERG examination, each patient positively reported that
      he/she could clearly perceive the cross fixation target. The eye's position is continuously
      monitored by a fixation camera to track patient gaze.

      The cornea is anesthetized with 0.4% oxybuprocaine. MfERGs are recorded bipolarly between an
      active electrode (Dawson-Trick-Litzkow -DTL- thread electrodes) and a reference Ag/AgCl
      electrode placed on the temple. A small Ag/AgCl skin ground electrode s placed at the center
      of the forehead. Interelectrode resistance is less than 5 KOhms.

      The multifocal achromatic stimulus, consisting of 61 scaled hexagons, is displayed on a
      high-resolution liquid crystal displays (LCD), black-and-white 32" (diagonal) monitor (size
      70 cm width and 39.5 cm height) with a frame rate of 75 Hz (base period for stimulus
      presentation is 13.3 ms). The hexagon-shaped stimuli are arranged along several concentric
      rings and are randomly alternated between black (1 cd/m2) and white (400 cd/m2), with the
      on-off string of each hexagon determined according to a 14-bit M-sequence. This resulted in a
      contrast of 99%. The luminance of the monitor screen is 200 cd/m2 and a central fixation red
      cross is used as target in the center of the stimulation field. The eccentricity of the
      outermost ring of the 61-hexagon array is about 30° (radius from the fixation point to edge
      of display).

      The m-sequence had 213-1 elements and total recording time is approximately 5 min. Total
      recording time is divided into 9 segments, with a duration of 30 seconds each. Between
      segments, the subject is allowed to rest for a few seconds.

      The signal is amplified (gain 100.000) and filtered (band pass 10-100 Hz) by LPC2000 Flash
      Utility software V2.2.1. After automatic rejection of artefacts (and blinks) and application
      of line current (50 or 60 Hz) interference filter (or Runtime Mains Rejection), and automatic
      rejection of the bioelectrical responses with noise greater than 1 μV root mean square (RMS),
      the system software (V6.58.2) provided the 1st order kernel response, that was normalized
      considering the ratio between the bioelectrical responses and the relative retinal area from
      which the signals were collected. In the 1st order kernel response, different peaks (called
      with the letter indicating the negative, N and positive, P polarity and the sequential number
      of appearance) are identified in a time after the 0 ms corresponding to the presentation of
      the visual stimuli.

      In the analysis of normalized mfERG responses, the investigator considered the peak-to-peak
      amplitude between N1 and P1 peaks, called response amplitude density (RAD) measured in
      nanoVolt/degree2 (ɳV/deg2).

      MfERG ring analysis is selected to differentiate changes of the bioelectrical responses of
      the foveal region with respect to the more eccentric macular areas. The investigators analyze
      the averaged response obtained from two concentric annular retinal regions (rings, R)
      centered on the fovea. Therefore, the investigators analyze the N1-P1 RADs derived from 0 to
      5° (R1) and from 5 to 10° (R2).

      SD-OCT assessment

      All patients undergo structural SD-OCT scan using Heidelberg Spectralis (version 1.10.4.0,
      Heidelberg Engineering, Heidelberg Germany) after pupil dilation. The SD-OCT imaging protocol
      consist of at least 20°x15° volume scans of the macula area with 19 B-scans.

      A qualitative analysis is performed in order to evaluate the integrity of the inner segment
      and outer segment photoreceptoral junction . Quantitative analysis of central retinal
      thickness (CRT), including the overall, the inner (I-CRT) and outer (O-CRT) CRT, and macular
      volume (MV) are automatically obtained from the macular map centered to the fovea, through an
      inbuilt software of Heidelberg Spectralis (version 1.10.2.0).

      The research follows the tenets of the Declaration of Helsinki. Each patient signed an
      informed consent. The study was performed according to our routine clinical practice, thus
      IRB approval was not required.

      Statistical Analysis

      The Anderson-Darling and Kolmogorov-Smirnovtests are applied to verify that data were
      normally distributed. Only one eye is chosen for each patient.

      Pearson's correlation is used to assess the relationship between the differences (logarithmic
      values at 1, 3 and 6 months minus logarithmic values at baseline) in VA and mfERG and SD-OCT
      data. All statistical analyses is performed using SPSS V.26 (Statistical Package for Social
      Science IBM), and a p-value less than 0.05 is considered as statistically significant.
    
  