
    
      12 patients will be recruited from the waitinglist for corneal transplantation.The will all
      be of the age of 18 years or older and capable of making their own decisions. Their medical
      history and present medication is reveiwed and they undergo a thorough ophthalmological
      examination in order to find out if they meet the inclusion criteria and create baseline
      values for the study. Their general health or medication should not affect the cornea or
      ocular surface. The Eye should be healthy with the exception of the disease indication for
      corneal grafting. The corneal endothelium should be healthy. Any opacification in the eye to
      be grafted should not reach the Descemets membrane. Visual acuity in the fellow eye should be
      good. If these criteria are met the patient recieve oral and written information of the
      study. If they agree to participate they will be randomized to either recieve biosynthetic
      corneas ( 6 patients) or they will recieve a donated cornea ( 6 patients) . They will be
      scheduled for surgery within 2 weeks from the examination irrespective if they participate in
      the study or not.

      The surgery will be anterior deep lamellar using the femtosecond laser to do the patient cut.
      The laser cut wil be done in topical anaaestesi. The remaining surgery with either be
      performed in local oor general anaestesia according to the patients wish. The diameter of the
      cut will be 7 mm in diameter. The graft material will be punched to a diameter of 7.25 mm.
      The thickness of the material will be 500 µm . An amniotic membrane will be placed on the top
      of the biosynthetic material and sutured with single stiches together with the graft.A
      bandage lens will be placed . The donated corneas will be sutured with singled about 8
      stiches.

      The biosynthetic corneas will recieve topical antibiotics and dexametasone for 8 weeks when
      the sutures, remnants of the amniotic membrane and the bandage lens is removed. The donated
      corneas will recieve topical dexametasone for 5 months and the sutures will be removed after
      6 months.

      The check-up Schedule will be at 1 day,1,2 weeks,1,,2 months and extra when needed.The
      protocol in these check-ups will be descriptive and the exyes will be documented with slit
      lamp photography. Epitelialisation will be monitored with fluorescein staining.

      At the 3,6,9 and12 months will be extensive and the same in both groups. UCVA and BSCVA will
      be measured and also BCLCVA at 12 months. Corrneal topography,thickness sensitivity,tear
      production Visante OCT and slit- lamp photography will be performed. Tear samples will be
      taken also form earlier check-ups for proteomic analysis. In vivo confocal microscopy will be
      performed. The different examination with few exceptions can all be presented in results that
      can be quantified and statistically analysed.

      The CRFs and the adverse report forms will be filled out both on computer forms and on paper.

      The safety outcome criteria are: Good engraftment, maintained integrity of the graft,
      epithelialisation, transparency,no induced inflammation,no induced vasculatisation.

      The preliminary efficacy criteria are: UCVA,BSCVA and BCLCVA
    
  