
    
      Primary hypothyroidism is a common disorder, affecting 2% of the Australian population. The
      standard treatment is with thyroxine (T4), and conventionally, a serum thyrotropin (TSH)
      concentration within the laboratory range is taken as indicating adequacy of thyroxine
      dosage.

      Some patients with hypothyroidism complain of persistently impaired well-being, despite
      taking thyroxine in a dose which normalises serum TSH concentrations. It is not clear whether
      this is because of comorbidity or because standard thyroxine replacement is in some way
      inadequate for some individuals.

      The reference range for serum TSH is wide (currently 0.34-4.8 mU/L at PathCentre). The
      distribution of serum TSH concentrations in the population is skewed, with the mean and
      median in the lower reference range at approximately 1.0 mU/L. This has led some to argue
      that a serum TSH in the lower reference range should be the usual therapeutic target.
      Anecdotal evidence suggests that some thyroxine-treated patients do feel better if the
      thyroxine dose is adjusted so that serum TSH is in the lower reference range rather than the
      upper reference range. The National Academy for Clinical Biochemistry of the United States
      now recommends, that for thyroxine-treated patients, that serum TSH should be less than 2.0
      mU/L. There is, however, no evidence from properly conducted studies that aiming for a serum
      TSH concentration in the lower reference range improves symptoms of hypothyroidism or general
      wellbeing, and this proposal has not been generally adopted.

      Only one study examining the effects of fine titration of thyroxine dosage on wellbeing has
      been published. In this study, patients had significantly improved wellbeing if they took a
      dose of thyroxine which was 50 μg greater than their biochemically optimal dose as determined
      by a thyrotropin-releasing hormone test. In most cases, serum TSH was suppressed to below 0.2
      mU/L (the limit of sensitivity of the assay) on the thyroxine doses which improved wellbeing.
      This study was open-label and non-randomised, and the results therefore may have been
      affected by bias.

      A well-designed, double blind study of the effects of fine titration of thyroxine dosage on
      symptoms of hypothyroidism, wellbeing and quality of life is required to determine if a serum
      TSH in the lower reference range, rather than simply TSH within the reference range, should
      indeed be the usual therapeutic target for thyroxine therapy in primary hypothyroidism. It is
      also desirable to confirm the findings of Carr et al., that patients have improved wellbeing
      if TSH is suppressed to below normal levels.
    
  