
    
      Stage IA2 or IB1 cervical cancer is currently treated by a radical hysterectomy (removal of
      the uterus, cervix, and the parametrium) or radical trachelectomy (removal of the cervix and
      the parametrium). The parametrium is the tissue next to the uterus and cervix that holds
      these organs in place. Pelvic lymph nodes and possibly para-aortic lymph nodes (near the
      aorta in the abdomen) are also removed. This procedure is called a pelvic and para-aortic
      lymphadenectomy. While these surgeries are very effective, significant side effects can
      occur, such as bladder, bowel, and/or sexual dysfunction.

      Conservative surgery involves the removal of the pelvic lymph nodes (pelvic lymphadenectomy)
      and/or lymphatic mapping with sentinel lymph node biopsy. The cervix and parametrium are left
      intact. During surgery, for women no longer wanting children, a simple hysterectomy (removal
      of the uterus with or without removal of the fallopian tubes and ovaries) can also be
      performed. In this study, participants will have conservative surgery.

      Screening Tests:

      Signing this consent form does not mean that you will be able to take part in this study. You
      will have "screening tests" to help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in
      this study. The following tests and procedures will be performed:

      You will have a cervical cone biopsy and endocervical curettage (ECC) performed. A cone
      biopsy is surgery to remove a cone-shaped piece of tissue from the cervix and cervical canal.
      It is used to diagnose cervical cancer and also to learn how extensive the disease is. An ECC
      is a procedure using a curette, a spoon-shaped instrument, that is used to scrape the mucus
      membrane of the endocervical canal (passageway between cervix and uterus) in order to get a
      tissue sample.

      The tissue taken from both of these procedures will be reviewed by a pathologist from
      MDAnderson.

      If your tissue samples are negative for invasive cancer or adenocarcinoma-in-situ (AIS), you
      will be eligible for conservative surgery.

      If your tissue samples are positive for invasive cancer and/or AIS, you may have the cervical
      cone biopsy and ECC repeated. If the tissue samples are negative after the second procedure,
      you will be eligible for conservative surgery. If your tissue samples from the second
      procedure are positive, you will be removed from study and other treatment options will be
      offered.

      Conservative Surgery:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will have conservative
      surgery. You will be taken to the operating room where you will be put to sleep using general
      anesthesia. You will have your pelvic lymph nodes removed by pelvic lymph node dissection
      and/or lymphatic mapping with sentinel lymph node biopsy, however, the parametrium is left
      intact. If you no longer want to have children, you can have a simple hysterectomy. Removal
      of the pelvic lymph nodes takes about 1-2 hours. If you also decide to have a simple
      hysterectomy, this procedure will take about 2 hours.

      You will sign a separate consent for this surgery/procedure, which will discuss the risks in
      more detail.

      Study Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, the following information will be collected from
      your medical record and/or you will be asked for this information when you enroll in the
      study:

        -  Age at the time of the cancer diagnosis

        -  Race

        -  Height and weight to determine body mass index (BMI)

        -  Menopausal status

        -  Symptoms

        -  History of sexually transmitted diseases

        -  Smoking history

        -  Child bearing history

      The following information will be collected from your medical record and/or you will be asked
      for this information after surgery:

        -  How long the surgery took to complete

        -  What procedures were performed during the surgery

        -  How long you were in the hospital

        -  If there was any blood loss before or after surgery

        -  If blood transfusions were performed before or after surgery

        -  What complications, if any, happened that were related to the surgery

      Starting 3 months after your first visit after surgery, you will have study visits every 3
      months for 2 years. At these visits, the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will have a pelvic exam.

        -  You will have a pap smear.

      You will be contacted by telephone or by mail every year for 3 years. You will be asked if
      the cancer has returned, when you last saw your doctor, and any complications or problems you
      may be having. If you are called, the call will take less than 10 minutes.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for 5 years after surgery. You will be taken off study early if
      either the lymph nodes or cervix (if a simple hysterectomy was performed) removed during
      surgery contain cancer.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 195 patients will take part in this multicenter
      study. Up to 40 participants will be enrolled at MD Anderson and the Harris Health System.
    
  