
    
      Primary Endpoint: R0 resection rate ≥ 70%

      Secondary Endpoints: Disease free survival, Overall survival, Perioperative mortality and
      morbidity

      Treatment should start within 28 days of registration. Pre-operative Chemotherapy Patients
      will receive a combination of the agents (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) prior to surgery
      for a maximum of four cycles.

      Gemcitabine 1000 mg-m2 IV on days 1, 8, 15 Nab-paclitaxel 125 mg-m2 IV on days 1, 8, 15 28
      day cycles

      Post-operative Chemotherapy Treatment should start within 5-10 weeks of surgery. Patients
      will receive a combination of the agents (gemcitabine and nab-paclitaxel) after surgery for
      maximum of two cycles.

      Gemcitabine 1000 mg-m2 IV on days 1, 8, 15 Nab-paclitaxel 125 mg-m2 IV on days 1, 8, 15 28
      day cycles

      Radiation Therapy Immobilization and Treatment Planning CT Scan All patients will be
      immobilized in a full body immobilization device in the supine position.

      A 4D-CT scan from T5 to L5-S1 with intravenous and oral contrast will be performed.

      Radiation Toxicity All acute toxicities will be scored according to the NCI Common Toxicity
      Criteria v4.0. Late toxicity will be scored per RTOG guidelines.

      Surgery, Pre-operative Re-staging Pre-operative evaluation should occur within 2-4 weeks
      prior to the planned surgery date. Based on the results of the pre-operative evaluation, the
      corresponding action below should be taken.

      Radiological responding or stable disease: Patients should proceed to surgery per protocol.

      Surgery Pancreatic resection should occur within 4-10 weeks after the last dose of
      preoperative chemotherapy or SBRT. Staging laparoscopy may be performed at the time of
      planned laparotomy but is not required.

      Post-operative Restaging Evaluation should occur within 2 weeks prior to initiation of
      postoperative chemotherapy.

      Tumor Response Evaluation (Adapted From RECIST 1.1) Assessment of overall tumor burden and
      measurable disease To assess objective response or future progression, it is necessary to
      estimate the overall tumor burden at baseline and use this as a comparator for subsequent
      measurements. Only patients with measurable disease at baseline should be included in
      protocols where objective tumor response is the primary endpoint. Measurable disease is
      defined by the presence of at least one measurable. In studies where the primary endpoint is
      tumor progression (either time to progression or proportion with progression at a fixed
      date), the protocol must specify if entry is restricted to those with measurable disease or
      whether patients having non-measurable disease only are also eligible.
    
  