
    
      Rates of obesity in the United States have increased dramatically over the past four decades.
      Although research studies have demonstrated that weight loss is achievable through lifestyle
      modifications, the maintenance of weight reduction beyond six months remains a challenge.

      This study will examine the feasibility of a telehealth program for weight maintenance.
      Telehealth is the delivery of health related services to promote healthy behaviors through
      the innovative use of technology, without the need for travel. The telehealth program will be
      accessible at home through Internet-enabled television sets. The telehealth program includes
      three components: (1) weekly video programs that discuss problem solving and relapse
      prevention strategies and include motivational stories; (2) regularly updated video exercise
      programs; and (3) online communication with other study participants and an exercise and
      nutrition specialist.

      A randomized controlled trial will determine the feasibility and acceptability of the weight
      maintenance telehealth program. The study participants will be African-American women, as
      they have a higher prevalence of obesity with a disproportionate risk of related chronic
      diseases (e.g., diabetes). Two churches will collaborate with the University of Illinois at
      Chicago and assist in meeting the social, spiritual, and cultural needs of the participants.
      One hundred women will be recruited to participate in a one-year trial. The study includes a
      weight loss phase (Phase 1), and a weight maintenance phase (Phase 2). During Phase 1, all
      participants will attend a 12-week weight loss program held in the participating churches.
      Following completion of this program, one church will be assigned to be the intervention
      group, and the other church will be the comparison group. During Phase 2, participants in the
      intervention group will receive monthly telephone counseling plus access to the telehealth
      program, while the comparison group will only receive monthly telephone counseling. The
      specific aims of the study include: (1) to evaluate the effect of the telehealth program on
      change in body mass index; and (2) to evaluate the effect of the telehealth program on
      physical activity and fat, fiber, fruit and vegetable intake.
    
  