
    
      Positioning of the patient during hyperacute ischemic stroke (AIS) treatment is an important,
      yet understudied aspect of nursing care that could impact the course of treatment and
      clinical outcome. Since 1968, clinical symptom worsening in AIS patients has been documented
      with the head of bed (HOB) elevated to 30 degrees or higher, while clinical improvement or
      symptom stability has been noted with zero degree HOB positioning. Mechanisms for zero degree
      HOB clinical improvement include favorable gravitational blood flow conditions and
      recruitment of collateral blood channels, while in the case of treatment with clot-busting
      medications, increased blood flow may allow more medication to reach occluded arteries
      facilitating clot breakdown. Despite this, there is currently divide within the clinical
      community about what position is best for patients, although it has been argued that zero
      degree head positioning should be among the first steps taken to improve blood flow to the
      brain and prevent stroke symptom worsening. The investigators have shown that elevated ICP is
      absent in early AIS, and that pneumonia is rare using these piloted methods. However, no
      large clinical trial has examined efficacy and safety of zero degree HOB positioning within
      hyperacute large vessel occlusion (LVO) ischemic stroke patients with potentially viable
      brain tissue, leaving the acute stroke community confused as to what constitutes best
      practice. ZODIAC is a prospective randomized open blinded endpoint (PROBE) clinical trial of
      head positioning to determine if zero degree HOB positioning during the early phase of
      hyperacute LVO ischemic stroke management prevents neurological symptom worsening. Mechanical
      thrombectomy (MT) eligible patients (n=182) will be randomized to one of two groups: 1) Zero
      degree HOB positioning; or, 2) thirty degree HOB positioning. The hypothesis is that optimal
      HOB position can be determined by early neurological symptom worsening during the
      intervention (Aim 1) prior to initiation of the thrombectomy procedure, and the investigators
      propose that real-time deterioration may be a surrogate measure for decreased downstream
      perfusion, potentially impacting viability of brain at risk for infarction. Aim 2 will
      confirm that use of zero degree HOB positioning for AIS is safe. Use of this nursing measure
      holds significant promise as an innovative adjunct method to improve AIS symptoms, and
      ultimately reduce disability.
    
  