
    
      Mental health of university students is a noteworthy concern nowadays. Universities are thus
      challenged to set up effective preventative interventions to help students cope better with
      university life and improve their mental health. In this regard, it is confirmed that
      cognitive, behavioral, and mindfulness interventions are effective in reducing symptoms of
      anxiety in university students.

      Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) are defined as a type of intervention whose aim is
      training the mind to adopt a nonjudgmental present-focused awareness. In recent years, these
      interventions have expanded and have proven to be effective for a variety of clinical and
      nonclinical populations.This expansion has allowed to study the benefits of mindfulness in
      university students.

      The present study pursue to support this evidence but also to explore the potential benefits
      of Virtual Reality (VR) around the provision of mindfulness training to university students.
      VR has showed to be effective for treating several psychological disorders, especially
      anxiety disorders. However, current research finds promising results when it is incorporated
      in the third wave of therapy, although the number of studies is still limited yet. A recent
      study found a high acceptability of VR to practice mindfulness, a significant increase in
      mindfulness state, and an improved emotional state after one VR mindfulness session.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of a MBI program to reduce
      stress in university students, in comparison with a relaxation therapy program. The secondary
      aims are as follows: (1) to analyze the efficacy of a MBI program for improving the
      psychological well-being and academic functioning of university students, in comparison to
      the active control group treated with relaxation exercises; (2) to evaluate whether there are
      differences in the adherence to the mindfulness program, according to the modality in which
      this mindfulness program has been applied (i.e. with or without VR support); (3) to examine
      the possible differential effectiveness of each of the sub-groups of mindfulness (i.e. with
      or without support of the VR) in comparison to the active control group treated with
      relaxation therapy; (4) to assess the effects of different mindfulness-based VR environments
      on the emotional and mindfulness states of university students, as well as to evaluate the
      sensation of immersion caused by each VR environment.

      The investigator's main hypothesis is that the provision of mindfulness training will reduce
      student´s perceived stress of university students in comparison with the university students
      who have been provided of relaxation training.

      This is a randomized, controlled, pragmatic trial, involving three assessment time points
      (baseline, post-intervention and six-month follow-up). Participants will be randomized into
      three groups ('mindfulness', 'mindfulness + VR', and 'controls'), considering the secondary
      objective of evaluating the effectiveness of each mindfulness sub-group separately.
      Nevertheless, taking into account the primary aim of isolating the common effects of both
      mindfulness sub-groups, 'mindfulness' and 'mindfulness + VR' will work as an only one group
      of treatment. 225 participants will be needed: 75 participants in the active control group of
      relaxation therapy, and 150 participants in the MBI total group. Taking into account all the
      participants, and assuming a rate of losses of 25%, the total sample has been established in
      280 university students.

      Several outcomes will be measured and compared between mindfulness (with and without support
      of VR) and control groups. Three assessment time points will be considered: baseline,
      post-intervention and six-month follow-up. The investigators will collect data about
      socio-demographic variables and experience in the use of new technologies, as well as about
      the primary outcome variable (perceived stress) and secondary outcomes (psychological
      well-being, academic functioning, mindfulness and compassion).

      Socio-demographic data will be described in the baseline by means of frequencies, medians and
      means, depending on the nature of each of the variables. The treatment conditions will be
      compared to evaluate the success of randomization by means of Chi-Square test or Fisher test
      for qualitative variables, Kruskal-Wallis for non-parametric measures and one-way ANOVA for
      parametric variables. The efficacy of the mindfulness general program compared to the
      relaxation control group will be analyzed on the main perceived stress variable (PSS), which
      will be taken continuously. It will be developed by means of a repeated measures design and
      an intention to treat basis (ITT), using multilevel mixed-effects models,and including time
      as an independent variable and subjects and presence/absence of VR practices as random effect
      variables. The efficacy of the general program of mindfulness vs the relaxation control group
      regarding to psychological well-being, academic functioning, trait mindfulness and
      self-compassion, will be calculate following the same analytical strategy used for the main
      analysis. Also the efficacy of the each mindfulness sub-group (with or without VR) vs the
      control group regarding the main and secondary variables will be estimated - although in this
      case, the mixed regression model will only include the subjects as a random effects
      variable.Additionally, possible differences in emotional state, immersion in the VR
      environment and state mindfulness in the mindfulness + VR sub-group will be explored through
      each of the VR environments, using the same analytical strategy.
    
  