
    
      Previous studies at the NIH have demonstrated that in over 90% of cases of Wegener's
      granulomatosis (WG) and other systemic necrotizing vasculitides, glucocorticoid (GC) and
      daily low dose cyclophosphamide (CP) therapy has resulted in marked improvement and even
      remission. However, such therapy has been associated with about 50% relapses, 10% resistance
      to initial treatment and significant toxicity in almost all patients. Consequently, we have
      attempted to identify alternative therapies for the systemic vasculitides that would be less
      toxic then daily CP. An NIH study of the efficacy of intermittent high dose intravenous CP
      and daily GC (Protocol #88-I-56) revealed that 79% of 14 patients with WG either failed to
      respond to treatment, did not sustain improvement or could not tolerate continued treatment
      during a period of approximately two years. In another study (Protocol #89-I-18), we
      evaluated treatment with GC and weekly oral doses of methotrexate (MTX) in 15 patients with
      Takayasu's arteritis, in whom disease previously failed to be controlled with GC, GC + CP, or
      in whom remission with such treatment was followed by relapse. Fifty-three percent (8/15) of
      patients previously dependent on GC were able to achieve remission and discontinue GC
      therapy. Five of seven patients who remained on GC were in remission and receiving at least
      50% less GC than prior to MTX therapy. Only three patients had progressive disease. The mean
      follow-up period was 20 months. We have also recently analyzed our results for MTX + GC
      therapy and 29 patients with WG. Seventy-six percent of patients had marked improvement and
      69% achieved remission. Seventy-two percent of those in remission have not required GC
      therapy for a mean period 10 months. We conclude that weekly low dose MTX therapy is a
      feasible alternative to CP in the treatment of systemic vasculitis. Judgement of the ultimate
      value of such therapy should be deferred until a greater number of patients have been studied
      over a longer period of time.
    
  