
    
      Improved physical activity (PA) and nutrition behaviors in adolescents show great promise to
      reduce risk of cancers and other diseases. Fewer than 20% of adolescents meet recommendations
      for fat or fruits & vegetables consumption, and only 50% of adolescent girls and 67% of boys
      meet recommendations for vigorous PA. PACE+ will evaluate an integrated clinical and
      home-based intervention to improve physical activity (PA) and nutrition behaviors in
      adolescents. The intervention has three integrated components: a computer assessment and
      action planner; provider counseling; and 24 months of extended phone & mail contact. 768 male
      and female adolescents age 11 through 15; will be recruited from six healthcare settings.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned within practices to two successive one-year "doses" of
      PACE+ or a comparison condition involving counseling for sun protection behaviors. PACE+
      assesses four behaviors: 1) dietary fat, 2) fruits & vegetable consumption, 3) physical
      activity, and 4) sedentary behavior. Primary behavioral outcomes, secondary outcomes, and
      selected mediators and process variables will be measured prior to the first office visit and
      at 6, 12 and 24 months. Primary outcomes will be measured by the 7-day physical activity
      recall and 3-day food record of fruits & vegetables and fat at 12 months. Secondary outcomes
      include adiposity, fitness, BMI, psychosocial mediators of change, and body image. Potential
      risks are psychological and physical, however the risks are slight and of low likelihood.
      Benefits include helping bring about healthier lifestyles to prevent weight gain and reduce
      premature morbidity and mortality due to cancer, cardiovascular disease and other health
      problems. This study will be the first to evaluate a combined physical activity and nutrition
      intervention for youth that revolves around the primary health care setting.
    
  