
    
      Thiotepa is an alkylating agent with potent antitumor and immunosuppressive properties used
      in conditioning regimens of pediatric hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) to promote
      stem cell engraftment. Thiotepa is a prodrug that undergoes metabolic conversion in the liver
      by CYP2B6 and CYP3A4 to its primary active metabolite, TEPA.

      This is a single-center, prospective, non-interventional pharmacokinetics (PK) study
      investigating the clinical pharmacology of thiotepa and TEPA in 60 children undergoing
      hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HCT) at UCSF Benioff Children's Hospital.

      Patients would receive thiotepa regardless of whether or not they decide to consent to PK
      sampling.

      Thiotepa doses will not be adjusted based on PK data. The investigators will apply the
      combination of a limited sampling strategy and population PK methodologies to determine
      specific factors influencing thiotepa and TEPA exposure in pediatric HCT recipients.
      Population PK methodologies support the use of sparse sampling and therefore allow the
      investigators to investigate drug levels in a pediatric population that would otherwise not
      be feasible using traditional intensive PK sampling.

      Subjects will undergo PK sampling of plasma thiotepa and TEPA drug concentrations over the
      duration of thiotepa therapy (3 to 5 days).

      To evaluate sources of variability impacting thiotepa and TEPA exposure clinical data will be
      obtained from the patient's medical chart on each day of PK sampling.

      A single blood draw for the collection of DNA and genotyping of single nucleotide
      polymorphisms of genes involved in fludarabine activation, transport or elimination will
      occur in all patients.

      To assess exposure-response relationships neutrophil engraftment, treatment-related toxicity,
      and survival data will be collected through day 100 post-transplant.
    
  