
    
      Acute Kidney Injury (AKI) is a severe complication developing in intensive care patients as a
      result of hypovolemic, cardiogenic or septic shock. It is defined by an abrupt decrease in
      kidney function. It encompasses both direct injury to the kidney as well as acute impairment
      of function, including decreased glomerular filtration rate (GFR). Its prevention is crucial
      because AKI increases morbidity and mortality (1). Mechanisms comprise ischemia/reperfusion,
      oxidative stress, inflammation and toxicity (2).The common pathophysiological pathway
      includes endothelial damage to microvessels leading to impaired macro- and microvascular flow
      and this will aggravate ischemia (3).

      Up to now, much controversy exists about

        -  the changes in renal blood flow during different kinds of shock

        -  the relation between renal blood flow, glomerular filtration rate and the development of
           AKI

        -  the relation between renal blood flow and markers of the systemic and microcirculation

      In this prospective observational study, three study measurement will be performed in two
      groups of critically ill patients (shock and no shock).

        1. The Renal Resistive Index (RRI) will be determined using Renal Doppler Ultrasound . The
           renal resistive index (RRI) is a sonographic index assessing resistance of the
           intrarenal arcuate or interlobar arteries and is used to assess renal arterial disease.
           It is measured as RRI = (peak systolic velocity - end diastolic velocity)/peak systolic
           velocity. The normal value is ≈ 0,60, with 0,70 being around the upper limits of normal.

        2. The sublingual microcirculation will be quantified using side stream dark field imaging
           (SDF)

        3. Fluid status will be determined by Bioelectrical impedance analysis (BIA) using the
           Akern device.

      In addition, routinely measured markers of circulation, renal function and fluid balance will
      be collected for analysis.
    
  