
    
      Focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS) is the most common cause of end-stage renal disease
      (ESRD) in adolescents. The refractory nature of FSGS and a more than 30% recurrence rate
      after kidney transplantation renders treatment of FSGS one of the most difficult challenges
      in pediatric nephrology. A significant knowledge gap in understanding the mechanism of FSGS
      treatment resistance and progression hampers development of successful treatment strategies.
      Beneficial effect of removal of low-density lipoproteins by LDL-apheresis indicates that
      lipids contribute to progression in FSGS. We have previously reported increased urinary fatty
      acids (FA) and lysophosphatidylcholines (LPC) levels with non-targeted urinary lipidomic
      analysis in children with FSGS. Unregulated phospholipase A2(PLA2) activity causes an
      increase in intracellular concentrations of free FA and LPC altering plasma membrane and
      mitochondrial permeability.

      Lipoprotein associated PLA2 is a biomarker involved in oxidative modification of LDL by
      hydrolyzing oxidative lysophosphatidylcholines (LPC) and oxidized free fatty acids (FFA) both
      of which are proinflammatory and atherogenic. Lp-PLA2 is efficiently removed by
      LDL-apheresis. The investigators hypothesize that LDL-apheresis ameliorates cellular injury
      and vascular changes by removing circulating Lp-PLA2, oxidized LDL, LPC, FA and cytokines in
      FSGS. In this proposal, the hypothesis that removal of Lp-PLA2 and lipid metabolites by
      LDL-apheresis ameliorates proteinuria and cardiovascular comorbidities will be tested.
      Patients with FSGS and FSGS recurrence after kidney transplantation receiving LDL-apheresis
      as part of standard of care will be enrolled to the study. Investigators will monitor pre-and
      post serum and effluent concentrations of LPC, free FA, Lp-PLA2, oxidized LDL, fasting lipid
      profile, IL-6, TNF-α, and IL-1β of patients undergoing LDL-apheresis. The impact of
      LDL-apheresis on cardiovascular and clinical comorbidities by monitoring degree of
      proteinuria, blood pressures and arterial stiffness index will also be investigated.

      The investigators propose that LDL-apheresis as a conjunct therapy to standard treatment
      regimens is an efficient way to ameliorate progression prevent comorbidities such as systemic
      inflammation and lipid induced vascular changes thus progression in FSGS. Furthermore,
      removal of Lp-PLA2 and other lipids by LDL-apheresis can limit the direct toxicity caused by
      lipid metabolites to podocytes and proximal tubule epithelial cells. The investigators
      believe that this proposal will enhance understanding of lipid-mediated progression in FSGS
      and will delineate the role of LDL-apheresis as part of established treatment in treatment of
      FSGS.
    
  