
    
      A group of 12 subjects presenting a normal weight and a group of 12 obese subjects, with a
      good general health and a good dental state will be constituted. They will participate to 5
      different recording sessions during which they will be invited to chew and spit out foods and
      chewing gums of different hardness. During recording sessions with mastication and
      no-mastication periods, gas exchange (O2 concentration), cardiac activity
      (electrocardiography) and muscular activity of masticatory muscles (electromyography) will be
      recorded. Blood samples will be collected during one of the sessions to analyse the kinetic
      of appearance of some hormones in the blood compartment during or just after mastication. The
      selected hormones are involved in the eating behaviour and its regulation (ghrelin, peptide
      C, peptide YY and glucose-like peptide 1). From these recordings, energy expenditure, heart
      rate variability, intensity of masticatory muscle contraction, and hormone blood appearance
      will be analysed in link with the nature and hardness of the food chewed. Since the food
      bolus is spit out after mastication (without any swallowing = sham-feeding), the changes
      observed in theses variables will be directly attributed to sensory information coming from
      oral cavity during mastication. Food choice and sport activity of each volunteer will be
      taken into account to compare the results obtained for the two groups (normal weight and
      obese).

      The work will produce more data and evidence on the contribution of oral signals attributable
      to the food in the regulation of the energy balance. The results will also bring more
      knowledge on the involvement of the autonomic nervous system. Comparison of the results
      obtained for the two groups (normal weight and obese people), will bring some positive
      outcomes which could be useful in the fight against obesity.
    
  