
    
      The burden of Human Papillomavirus (HPV)-related disease in the US is substantial. A safe and
      effective vaccine has been available for >10 years, yet the current rate of completion for
      the HPV series is only 49% for U.S.13-17 year olds. The Advisory Committee on Immunization
      Practices (ACIP) recommends routine HPV vaccination at age 11-12 years (yrs), but states that
      the vaccine "can be given starting at age 9 years." Currently, the majority of pediatricians
      begin recommending the vaccine at ages 11-12 yrs, however, a recent retrospective study
      showed that on-time completion rates for HPV vaccine were much higher when the vaccine series
      was initiated at ages 9-10 compared to ages 11-12 (adjusted odds ratio, 12.8).

      HPV vaccine should be given prior to sexual activity which occurs earlier than 13 yrs for
      many teens. There are compelling reasons to think that earlier initiation of vaccination at
      ages 9-10 might result in higher rates of acceptance of the vaccine and earlier series
      completion. First, many parents refuse HPV vaccine because they have concerns that
      vaccination could result in higher promiscuity in early adolescents if the vaccine is
      discussed in the context of sexuality. Initiation at 9-10 yrs, when few providers discuss
      sex, could put the focus squarely on cancer prevention, decreasing vaccine refusal. Second,
      three vaccines are recommended at the 11-12 yr visit, but many parents/adolescents are
      unwilling to receive all three at one visit. When one of the vaccines is delayed, it is
      almost always HPV vaccine. Initiation at 9-10 yrs when no other vaccines are given could
      result in less deferral of vaccination to mid-adolescence and higher rates of vaccination
      prior to early sexual activity. Finally, initiation at age 9-10 years has been shown to be
      feasible and, in an observational study, to result in higher rates of on-time series
      completion.

      Therefore, we plan to test the effectiveness of shifting initiation of HPV vaccine to 9-10
      yrs in a randomized pragmatic trial. Our Specific Aims are to: SA 1: Recruit practices in two
      states (Colorado and California), randomize in a balanced fashion to recommending HPV vaccine
      at ages 9-10 yrs or 11-12 yrs and provide standardized training to both arms. SA 2: Conduct a
      trial to assess effectiveness of early initiation on the primary outcome of age at HPV series
      completion; secondary outcomes will examine HPV series completion by age 13 and age at HPV
      series initiation. SA 3: Examine the effect of earlier initiation on length of time for HPV
      vaccine discussions and on parent/provider communication about HPV vaccine via audio-taping
      of visits, audio-elicitation interviews with parents and structured interviews with providers
      and clinic staff.

      If earlier HPV initiation is successful in promoting higher HPV series completion by 13 yrs,
      this intervention could be rapidly disseminated and would have the potential to prevent
      thousands of cases of HPV-related cancers, their attendant morbidity and mortality as well as
      the costs of screening, diagnosis and treatment for these cancers yearly.
    
  