
    
      Background:

      Most depression treatment takes place in primary care, where the condition continues to be
      under-detected and under-treated. A collaborative care model derived from chronic illness
      management theory has been successful in improving care in other managed care settings.

      Objectives:

      This effectiveness study adapted collaborative care to the VA primary care setting
      ("collaborative care") and compared it with consult-liaison care ("CL care").

      Methods:

      Patients within a VA primary care clinic were randomly assigned by firm to the two
      interventions.

      In collaborative care, existing staff resources were reorganized to form a multidisciplinary
      mental health specialist team. The team developed a treatment plan based on an initial
      assessment and suggested the plan to the primary care provider. Primary care providers'
      treatment efforts were then supported by brief Social Work telephone calls designed to
      support adherence and monitor symptomatology. Treatment results were systematically reviewed
      and suggestions for treatment modification were fed back to the primary providers. In CL
      care, the primary care providers were informed of the diagnosis and study clinicians
      facilitated referrals to Psychiatry residents in-clinic as requested. Mailed and in-clinic
      surveys and provider referral were used to recruit 168 collaborative care and 186 CL care
      patients who met criteria for major depression and/or dysthymia based on structured
      interview. Patients were excluded only if they required immediate inpatient care, had a
      pending mental health specialty clinic appointment, or had primary alcohol abuse. Outcome
      data on the SCL-20 depression symptomatology measure, Veterans SF-36, and Sheehan Disability
      Scale were collected at baseline, 3 and 9 months. VA utilization and costs of care were
      analyzed.

      Status:

      Complete. Final Report submitted June 30, 2001.
    
  