
    
      Cortisol is a naturally occurring stress hormone. It is made by the adrenal glands in
      response to hormones produced by the pituitary and hypothalamus. Man-made forms of cortisol
      ('steroids', for example prednisolone) have been used for the treatment of rheumatoid
      arthritis since the 1950s; they are very effective at reducing inflammation. Steroids are
      prescribed for a wide variety of inflammatory conditions. The British prevalence of chronic
      (greater than 3 months) steroid prescription is 1%.

      A normal response to taking steroid treatment is that the body needs to make less cortisol.
      Following treatment with steroids, the system responsible for making cortisol (known as the
      hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis (HPA axis)) can be slow to re-establish production. If
      someone does not make enough cortisol, they are less able to deal with stress and are at
      increased risk of becoming unwell, or suffering a potentially fatal adrenal crisis. The
      prevalence of inadequate cortisol production following treatment with steroids is between
      10-30% of patients; its duration and whether any patient factors might predict which patients
      are at risk is unclear. Generally studies have been small in size and do not report
      sufficient information to determine if any potential factors maybe useful predictors; for
      example age, sex, length of treatment, length of time off treatment, other medications.

      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has a prevalence of 1%. Patients are usually treated with a 13 week
      course of prednisolone in a reducing dose (treatment regimen known as COBRA-light) at
      diagnosis. 1-2 patients present each week to the rheumatology department in Edinburgh with a
      new diagnosis of RA. At the end of the initial COBRA-light treatment, the adrenal axis is not
      routinely assessed in these patients. It is assumed that the slow reducing dosage of steroids
      reduces the risk of ongoing adrenal insufficiency. It should be noted that the meta-analysis
      of Joseph et al. demonstrated weaning had little impact upon the recovery of the HPA axis.
      These patients are thus potentially at risk of the morbidity and mortality associated with an
      underactive HPA axis.

      This study aims to improve our understanding of HPA axis recovery in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis following treatment with prednisolone. The investigators will also test two novel
      potential predictive biomarkers of recovery.

      A better understanding of the physiology of HPA axis recovery should inform the development
      of tools which would allow prediction of patients at risk following withdrawal of steroid
      treatment. Such tools would be useful to improve patient safety and wellbeing.
    
  