
    
      Screening:

      All subjects eligible for screening must sign an informed consent for the study prior to any
      study related procedures.

      Study Design:

      This is an open-label, single-institutional clinical study of lenalidomide as a treatment for
      MGUS associated neuropathy. Eligible patients will be followed for 28 days before starting
      study drug. Subjects who remain eligible during the 28 day pretreatment period will receive
      lenalidomide 25 mg per day for days 1-21 followed by 7 days rest (28-day cycle) for 12
      cycles. All patients on treatment will be followed and will be included in the intention to
      treat group. Patients will be evaluated every three months with the TNS. On-treatment
      patients must come to clinic at least monthly for the first 3 cycles, and then can come as
      per the schedule of study assessments only if they are on a stable dose of lenalidomide for
      at least one cycle. Subjects will be enrolled in the study for up to 14 months.

      Lenalidomide administration:

      Lenalidomide is an oral medication that will be taken at approximately the same time each day
      with or without food.

      Lenalidomide capsules should be swallowed whole, and should not be broken, chewed or opened.

      If a dose of lenalidomide is missed, it should be taken as soon as possible on the same day.
      If it is missed for the entire day, it should not be made up.

      Patients who take more than the prescribed dose of lenalidomide should be instructed to seek
      emergency medical care if needed and contact study staff immediately.

      Dosing Regimen:

      The planned dose of lenalidomide for investigation is 25 mg/day, orally on days 1-21 followed
      by 7 days rest (28 day cycle). Dosing will be in the morning at approximately the same time
      each day. The planned dose is: Plavix 75mg/day or aspirin 325mg/day.

      Subjects experiencing adverse events may need study treatment modifications
    
  