
    
      This project is a supplement to a parent grant, Drug Counseling and Abstinence-Contingent
      Take-Home Buprenorphine in Malaysia. The specific aims of the parent grant include evaluating
      whether the relatively minimal counseling and other services provided with standard
      buprenorphine maintenance treatment (Standard BUP) is sufficient or whether one or a
      combination of two enhanced behavioral treatments--behavioral drug and HIV risk reduction
      counseling (BDRC) or abstinence-contingent take-home buprenorphine (ACB)-improve its efficacy
      (Specific Aim 1) and are cost-effective, with regard to the direct economic costs of
      providing the treatments (Specific Aim 2) and also to provide training and mentoring in drug
      abuse treatment and HIV prevention research to clinical researchers and clinical training for
      health professionals in Malaysia (Specific Aim 4). BDRC utilizes short-term behavioral
      contracts to promote abstinence and reduce drug- and sex-related HIV risk behaviors and can
      be provided by nurses and medical assistants available in medical settings in developing
      countries.

      The specific aims of the proposed study are consistent with the specific aims of the parent
      grant and include evaluating in a pilot, randomized clinical trial in a methadone treatment
      program in Wuhan, China, the feasibility and potential efficacy for reducing illicit drug use
      and HIV risk behaviors of BDRC when combined with standard methadone treatment services
      (Standard Methadone) compared to Standard Methadone only (Specific Aim 1 of the proposed
      study). Additional Specific Aims of the proposed study include developing estimates of the
      treatment costs and cost-effectiveness of Standard Methadone and BDRC (Specific Aim 2 of the
      proposes study), and providing training and mentoring in drug abuse treatment and HIV
      prevention research to clinical researchers an clinical training for health professionals in
      China (Specific Aim 3 of the proposed study).

      Specific aims of the China project:

        1. Conduct a preliminary evaluation of the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary
           efficacy for increasing treatment retention and reducing drug use and HIV risk behaviors
           of Behavioral Drug and HIV Risk Reduction Counseling (BDRC) when combined with Standard
           Methadone, in comparison to Standard Methadone, among opiate dependent treatment seeking
           volunteers admitted to the Wuhan Methadone Clinic.

        2. Develop estimates of the costs and cost-effectiveness of Standard Methadone and BDRC.

        3. Train and provide ongoing clinical supervision to a core group of 10 drug counseling
           staff and provide additional mentoring in drug abuse and HIV risk reduction research to
           investigators in China.
    
  