
    
      Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE) is a neurodegenerative disease characterized by a
      distinct deposition of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in neurons and astrocytes in a pattern that
      is unique from other tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the
      neuropathological features of CTE have become further clarified in recent years, the clinical
      presentation of CTE is still not well characterized. Diagnostic criteria have only recently
      been published and lack validation.

      Neuroimaging and fluid biomarkers developed for the diagnosis of other neurodegenerative
      diseases have only been used in preliminary studies of individuals at high risk for CTE,
      namely athletes with histories of significant exposure to repetitive head impacts (RHI), such
      as former football players and boxers. There is thus an urgent need to develop accurate
      methods for detecting and diagnosing CTE during life so that effective interventions for
      prevention and treatment can be developed. Moreover, though a history of RHI is a necessary
      risk factor for CTE, it alone is not sufficient. There is a need to understand what specific
      aspects of RHI exposure places an individual at increased risk for CTE and to examine
      potential genetic polymorphisms that modify that risk.

      To address these needs, the investigators are conducting a multidisciplinary, multicenter,
      longitudinal study of former NFL and varsity college football players (with and without
      symptoms), and a control group of asymptomatic same-age men without any history of RHI
      exposure, traumatic brain injury or military service. Subjects will be seen at 1 of 4
      participating study sites in Boston; Las Vegas, ; New York; and Scottsdale/Phoenix . Subjects
      will undergo a baseline evaluation and a 3 year follow-up evaluation (currently former
      college players will not complete the follow-up evaluation). Each evaluation will be take
      place over a 3 day period and consist of the following procedures/tests: neurocognitive
      testing, determination of functional independence, neuropsychiatric examination (with
      measures of mood and behavior), neurological assessment (motor, headache, postural
      stability), neuroimaging (including structural, diffusion, functional, biochemical, and
      molecular imaging), lumbar punctures (for Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) biomarkers), blood draws
      (for blood biomarkers and DNA), and saliva samples (for biomarkers).
    
  