
    
      As of August 25, 2020, SARS-Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2; COVID-19) infections are approaching 6
      million persons and 180,000 deaths in the US. Of the 20% of patients admitted to hospital, up
      to half progress to ICU admission, respiratory failure or death. Prominent among these
      progressors are older men, particularly those with underlying comorbidities (e.g.,
      hypertension, diabetes, lung, heart, kidney or liver disease, obesity and immunocompromised),
      all common among Veterans. There are no drugs or other therapeutics approved by the FDA to
      prevent or treat COVID-19 infection.

      Convalescent plasma therapy is being used empirically, although only five of six small
      uncontrolled case series (total n=56) in SARS-CoV-23-8 and a recent study with non-randomized
      controls suggest improved selected clinical, virologic and laboratory outcomes; outcomes in
      another small randomized trial were equivocal. For other infections, such as influenza and
      Ebola virus, promising observational studies were not reliably confirmed by controlled
      trials. In multiple infections, use of convalescent plasma has been distinguished by its
      safety profile but not by the consistency of its benefit.

      The current double-blind, placebo-controlled RCT is designed to determine definitively
      whether this intervention is effective in a population at high risk of complications and
      death from SARS-CoV-2 infection. The investigators compare the effect of convalescent plasma
      vs. saline placebo with a robust study design, adequate sample size and statistical and
      logistical rigor to assure that the interventions the investigators make to treat serious
      disease are well-validated to support its use or to move on to test other potentially safe
      and effective treatments.

      This study is taking place at approximately 25 VA Medical Centers located across the US. A
      participant's involvement will last up to 33 days. The entire study, from the date the first
      person enters until the last participant is seen, is expected to last about 20 months.

      Data collected for this study will be analyzed and stored at the Palo Alto Cooperative
      Studies Program Coordinating Center (CSPCC). After the study is completed, the de-identified,
      archived data will continue to be stored at the Palo Alto CSPCC, accessible for use by
      researchers including those outside of the study with an approved Data Use Agreement. The
      biospecimens collected in the study for current and future research will be kept at the VA
      Biorepository in Palo Alto, CA unless otherwise specified. The biospecimens will be
      accessible for future research with an approved Sample Use Agreement. The VA CIRB will
      oversee the biorepository for this study. All samples will be destroyed by standard practice
      within 20 years of study completion. Sample destruction will be validated according to the
      Standard Operating Procedures of the VA Biorepository.
    
  