
    
      Within the American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) underrepresented minorities comprise only
      6.0% of leadership. Within the ASA, women additionally only hold 21% of House of Delegates
      and state society officer positions, while comprising 38% of the national anesthesiology
      workforce.

      The investigators will be using a survey via SurveyMonkey with potential for an opt-in phone
      or Zoom interview via the interviewee using the contact information at the bottom of the
      SurveyMonkey. The questions for the Survey Monkey are below. The investigators will use the
      Tufts HIPAA-compliant Zoom account for any Zoom interviews.

      In order to deidentify the phone and Zoom interviews, investigators will not label any
      transcripts of the interviews with names or identifying information. The investigators will
      also destroy all correspondence after a time and date for the phone/Zoom interview is set.

      Participants will be self-selecting for this survey. The investigators aim to email the
      coordinators of the ASA (medical student component, resident component, general body) who
      will then forward investigators' contact letter and survey to participants' constituents.
      Given the self-selecting nature of the survey, the investigators are not specifically
      targeting individuals who identify as minorities--as there are variable definitions to this
      term--but rather investigators will use the survey to evaluate for trends within the
      responses. The investigators hypothesize that gender/race/sexual orientation may play a role
      in career choices for individuals, which will be elucidated through the survey responses. The
      investigators will sort the surveys into groups to where minority identification played a
      large role in career versus where it did not and then calculate the trend as a percentage of
      the total survey responses.

      The investigators recognize that it may be more possible to provide in-depth responses to the
      survey via a phone or Zoom interview. Therefore, investigators have included a contact
      information in the contact letter and the Survey Monkey and will give participants the option
      of doing a phone/Zoom interview instead of the Survey Monkey.

      Survey Questions:

      Why did you decide to pursue medicine as a career? Why anesthesia? Did gender play a role in
      your decision to pursue medicine? In your decision to do anesthesia? Did race play a role in
      your decision to pursue medicine? In your decision to do anesthesia? Do you have any regrets
      about your career choice? Where do you currently practice? What led you to choose that
      practice setting? What mentorship resources were available to you along your career path?
      What is a professional success you had? What is a perceived failure you may have had? How did
      that effect your career? What if your five-year plan? Ten-year plan? Twenty? What is a
      minority?
    
  