
    
      Epilepsy is the most common severe neurological disorder among children. Most children with
      epilepsy, if treated, can live normal lives. Yet among the world's children living with
      epilepsy, about 80% of whom reside in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs), about half do
      not receive treatment; this is described as "the childhood epilepsy treatment gap." Among the
      LMICs of Africa, the childhood epilepsy treatment gap is about 67%-90% - unchanged for over
      twenty years. Although the World Health Organization (WHO) and other health agencies
      recommend that the epilepsy treatment gap be bridged by task shifting epilepsy care to
      community health extension workers (CHWs) in primary care settings, this recommendation has
      not been implemented on a large scale. This failure to scale up task shifting in epilepsy
      care is due to (a) inadequate evidence of efficacy of task-shifted epilepsy care, (b) a lack
      of methods and tools for implementing epilepsy task shifting, (c) inadequate understanding of
      task-shifted epilepsy care barriers, and (d) a lack of cost-effectiveness data for health
      policymakers. CHWs providing task-shifted epilepsy care must identify children with epilepsy,
      disadvantaged by stigma and unknown to the healthcare system, who are without access to
      neurologists or electroencephalograms (EEGs). An epilepsy screening tool in the local
      language (e.g., Hausa) is therefore essential for epilepsy diagnosis, seizure type
      classification, and medical management. Hausa, the most commonly spoken language in west
      Africa, with over 120 million Hausa speakers, is used in daily life, commerce, and education;
      our proposed study will be conducted in three major cities in Hausa-speaking Africa.

      Funded by an R21 grant (R21TW010899) in preparation for this cluster-randomized clinical
      trial (cRCT), we developed and piloted in Kano, Nigeria (a) a scalable epilepsy training
      program for CHWs, (b) an epilepsy community education program in Hausa to facilitate
      screening, diagnosis and treatment; and (c) an epilepsy data management system. We also (d)
      validated an epilepsy screening, diagnosis, and seizure classification tool in Hausa, (e)
      demonstrated feasibility of screening and enrolling children in a cRCT of task-shifted
      epilepsy care, and (f) piloted a task-shifted epilepsy diagnosis and management protocol. We
      will now conduct the first cRCT of task-shifted childhood epilepsy care in Africa with the
      following specific aims:

        1. Conduct a non-inferiority cRCT of a task-shifted childhood epilepsy care protocol
           compared to enhanced usual care (EUC) in three Hausa-speaking cities in northern
           Nigeria. We will enroll 1730 children (age 6 mo, <18 yrs) with epilepsy across 60
           randomly selected primary healthcare centers (PHCs) in Kano (30 PHCs), Kaduna (16 PHCs)
           and Zaria (14 PHCs). PHCs will be randomly assigned to intervention (task-shifted to
           CHWS childhood epilepsy care; 30 PHCs) or EUC (referral to a physician for epilepsy
           management; 30 PHCs). Primary outcome: we hypothesize that the proportion of children
           seizure-free for ≥ 6 months at 24 months follow-up (primary outcome) will be similar in
           the intervention and EUC arms. Secondary outcomes at 24 months include (a) percent
           seizure reduction from baseline, (b) time to next seizure after 3 months seizure-free,
           and (c) accuracy of epilepsy diagnosis and seizure type classification by CHWs compared
           to assessments by physician epilepsy specialists, blinded to the randomization arm.

        2. Assess socio-behavioral and implementation outcomes among providers, parents/guardians
           and patients in the cRCT. Outcome measures include: (1) Difference in baseline, 12- and
           24-month intervention acceptability, appropriateness, and feasibility measures among
           providers in the task-shifted intervention arm of the cRCT; (2) Difference in baseline,
           12- and 24-month quality of life, epilepsy knowledge and stigma, and trust in the
           healthcare system and providers among participants; (3) Comparison of 12- and 24-month
           quality of life, knowledge and stigma and trust measures among participants in the
           intervention and control arms.

        3. Determine the cost-effectiveness of the task-shifted epilepsy care intervention. Direct
           costs of the intervention and EUC will include personnel costs (including CHW epilepsy
           training) and expenses for diagnostic (EEG, brain imaging) and laboratory tests and
           anti-epileptic drugs. Indirect costs will include travel time and time away from work
           for parents/guardians and change in school attendance for patients. Cost-effectiveness
           will be expressed as US dollars per disability adjusted life year (DALY) averted.22-28

      This project will also establish a brain disorders clinical research network for
      Hausa-speaking Africa and provide data for health system leaders and policymakers to scale-up
      task-shifted childhood epilepsy care.
    
  