
    
      In collaboration with a 15-member Community Advisory Board that includes community care
      providers, healthcare organizations, and ADRD caregivers themselves, the proposed 5-year
      project will build on the current efforts of The Lutheran Home Association (TLHA) to evaluate
      eNeighbor remote monitoring technology for persons with ADRD living in the community and
      their family caregivers. The Specific Aims are as follows:

        1. To determine the efficacy of remote sensor technology over an 18-month period for 100
           persons with ADRD and their caregivers randomly assigned to an eNeighbor treatment
           condition when compared to 100 usual care controls. The investigators hypothesize:

           Hx. 1) Significant (p < .05) improvements in caregiver self-efficacy and sense of
           competence in managing a relative's ADRD; Hx. 2) Significant reductions in caregiver
           distress (e.g., subjective stress, or feelings of emotional fatigue and role entrapment;
           depressive symptoms); Hx. 3) Significant delay of or reductions in health transitions
           (falls, wandering) and service utilization (hospitalizations, nursing home admission)
           for persons with ADRD; and Hx. 4) Greater cost-effectiveness associated with a person
           with ADRD's health service use.

        2. To "embed" evaluation components: a) during the randomized controlled evaluation through
           the administration of open-ended survey items to all ADRD caregivers in the eNeighbor
           treatment condition every 6 months to examine the utility of the remote health
           monitoring technology; and b) at the conclusion of the 18-month evaluation by
           purposively sampling 15 ADRD caregivers who reported positive acceptance on the embedded
           qualitative and quantitative 6-, 12-, and 18-month system reviews and 15 ADRD caregivers
           who reported low acceptance on the embedded qualitative and quantitative 6-, 12-, and
           18-month system reviews to participate in semi-structured interviews. The interviews
           will help the research team determine why the health monitoring intervention was or was
           not efficacious; and

        3. To engage stakeholders on a quarterly basis throughout the 5-year project with the goal
           of enhancing the utility (via community-based participatory approaches) and
           stakeholder-relevance of eNeighbor implementation and evaluation for family caregivers
           of persons with ADRD.
    
  