
    
      Coronary bifurcation lesion (CBL) involves coronary artery stenosis adjacent to and/or
      including the origin of a significant side branch (SB) 1. Treatment of bifurcation lesions
      constitute about 15% of coronary interventions and are consequently of major clinical
      interest 2. Even in the modern era of per-cutaneous coronary intervention(PCI) with stent
      implantation, treatment of bifurcations is hampered by a higher event rate and requires
      longer procedure time, more radiation exposure, and higher volumes of contrast material
      compared with non-bifurcation lesions 3 .

      Occlusion of large side branches (SBs) may result in significant adverse clinical events 4.
      Occlusion of jailed sizable septal and right ventricular (RV) side branches (non-classic
      bifurcations) is often overlooked following left anterior descending (LAD) and right coronary
      artery (RCA) main vessel stenting, respectively. Most of the operators decline intervening in
      these side branches on contrary to classic bifurcations as diagonals and obtuse marginal
      branches, for example. Whether or not intervening with these occluded jailed side branches
      have clinical implications or even sub clinical left ventricular (LV) dysfunction was not
      previously elucidated and warrants studying.

      Left ventricular function is an important predictor of outcome in patients with coronary
      artery disease (CAD). Extensive myocardial ischemia can cause decreased LV contractility and
      function 5. Conventional echocardiography enables us to identify significant left ventricular
      dysfunction but not sub-clinical dysfunction [10]. Two-dimensional speckle tracking
      echocardiography (2D-STE) allows for an angle-independent evaluation of myocardial strain,
      and provides comprehensive information on LV myocardial contractility. Thus, 2DSTE is
      superior in detecting subtle deterioration of contractility 6 .

      In this study, investigators tried to explore the possible predictors and outcomes following
      occlusion of jailed side branches after main vessel coronary artery stenting, in both classic
      and non-classic bifurcations, and whether intervening via various techniques would have
      clinical benefit.
    
  