
    
      An important new element in recent guidelines is the recommendation to prevent the onset of
      heart failure syndrome and / or delay its progression. The degree of patient functional
      limitation is determined using the New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification, which in
      combination with the left ventricular ejection fraction is the main criterion for all
      clinical studies in HF.

      Specifically, NYHA's functional classification is used to describe the severity of symptoms
      and exercise tolerance and includes 4 classes (I-IV) :

      Class I: Unbound in physical activity. Conventional physical activity does not cause fatigue,
      palpitations or shortness of breath.

      Class II: Mild limitation to physical activity. No symptoms in the calm, but ordinary
      physical activity causes fatigue, palpitations or shortness of breath.

      Class III: Serious restriction to physical activity. No symptoms in the calm, but even mild
      physical activity causes fatigue, palpitations or shortness of breath.

      Class IV: Inability to perform any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms and
      seclusion. Strengthening the discomfort in any physical activity.

      The study evaluates the predictive capacity of the Cardiac Deficiency Questionnaire (HF-Q)
      for the occurrence of Adverse Cardiovascular Stroke (MACE) according to the New York Heart
      Association (NYHA) Functional Classification of Heart Failure in patients with symptomatic
      Heart Failure .

      This type of approach may be useful in the reproducibility of the results and the validity of
      the NYHA classification system, since the severity of the heart failure symptoms is recorded
      on the basis of the patient's own perception.

      The term MACE or "Major Unwanted Cardiovascular Syndromes" is undoubtedly the most common and
      complex endpoint in cardiology research. Historically, the term MACE appears to be used in
      the mid-1990s with its use being mainly limited to the intra-muscular complications
      associated with transcutaneous coronary interventions (PCIs). Despite the widespread use of
      the term in clinical trials, the definitions of MACE may differ, which makes it difficult to
      compare similar studies.

      The so-called "classic 3-point MACE" is defined based on the following17:

        -  Cardiovascular Death

        -  Myocardial infarction

        -  Cerebral Episode (Ischemic or Haemorrhagic) In general, MACE terminology is a complex
           clinical event and includes endpoints that reflect both safety and efficacy.
    
  