
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary aims:

        -  Determine if 25 grams of flaxseed supplementation daily

             -  modifies proliferation (ki-67) and apoptotic rates after six months

             -  modifies expression of estrogen regulated genes: Cyclin D1, survivin, and VEGF at
                six months

             -  modifies serum IGF-1 and serum binding protein (IGFBP)-3 levels from baseline to 6
                months

             -  and evaluate the feasibility and tolerability of flaxseed consumption, and
                determine factors that lead to decreased compliance

      STUDY OUTLINE:

      This is a randomized study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

        -  Arm I (intervention): Patients ingest 25 grams ground flaxseed daily, with already
           prepared foods, for 6 months. Patients are instructed to record the time and with what
           foods flaxseed is consumed, and the number of bowel movements daily. Throughout the
           6-month intervention period, patients also complete unannounced telephone-administered
           surveys recounting all foods and beverages consumed within the previous 24 hours.

        -  Arm II (observation): Patients do not receive ground flaxseed. All patients complete a
           diary about menstrual cycle duration and presence or improvement of premenstrual
           symptoms (e.g., cramping, bloating, headache, insomnia, or other irregular symptoms).
           Patients also complete questionnaires at 1, 3, and 6 months to access changes in diet,
           physical activity, menstrual history, demographic characteristics, and medical history
           and a specimen questionnaire at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months.

      Blood and first-void urine samples are collected at baseline and at 1, 3, and 6 months to
      measure levels of lignan metabolites, flaxseed compliance, serum thiocyanate,
      malondialdehyde, and for biomarker studies by capillary gas chromatography-mass spectrometry,
      high-performance liquid chromatography, and ELISA.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed monthly for up to 6 months.
    
  