
    
      Background of the study:

      Cisplatin (CDDP) is a major compound in chemotherapy in patients with non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC), small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and malignant mesothelioma. Cisplatin is
      associated with a number of side-effects, one of which is neurotoxicity. For a number of
      patients this neurotoxicity is a dose-limiting side-effect. At this point no measures are
      taken to prevent the occurrence of neurotoxicity during treatment with cisplatin. Recent
      studies have shown that the association of anti-oxidants to the treatment with cisplatin has
      a neuroprotective effect without loss of anti-tumour efficacy of cisplatin. One of these
      anti-oxidants is glutathione (GSH), this is a natural anti-oxidant that is synthesized in all
      cells, mainly in the liver and the muscles. This GSH plays a central role in the
      pathophysiology (of efficacy and of side-effects) of cisplatin. We want to investigate the
      efficacy of N-acetylcysteine (NAC), which serves as a substrate for the synthesis of GSH, in
      the prevention of cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity.

      Objective of the study:

        -  The primary objective is to establish the neuroprotective efficacy of NAC against
           cisplatin-induced neurotoxicity. Mainly the sensory neuronal guidance will be assessed
           before and after treatment with cisplatin in a group of patients receiving NAC compared
           to a control-group receiving placebo. If peripheral neuropathy can't be measured,
           neuropathy will be assessed as ototoxicity through measuring audiograms.

        -  The secondary objectives are establishing the protective effect of NAC regarding other
           cisplatin-induced side-effects such as haematological pathology (anaemia, leucopenia,
           thrombopenia, febrile neutropenia), loss of creatinine clearance and occurrence of
           liver-chemistry abnormalities. Secondary objectives include also establishing the effect
           on tumour response, clinical performance (Karnofsky performance index) and quality of
           life.

      Study design:

      Monocenter, non-academical teaching hospital, double-blind randomized placebo-controlled
      study.

      Study population:

      50 Consecutive patients, who will receive at least 4 cycles of cisplatin in the treatment of
      NSCLC, SCLC and malignant mesothelioma, will be admitted, irrespective of the disease stage.

      Intervention:

      Patients will be randomized in a placebo-arm and a NAC-arm. They will receive
      study-medication (NAC or placebo) intravenously every 3 weeks, each time 6 hours after the
      completion of the cisplatin-infusion.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

        -  Burdens: Patients will have to undergo three electromyographic (EMG) tests, which will
           normally take place during the course of the whole treatment, therefore patients will
           have to visit the hospital to be measured. To minimize this burden, the EMG-measurements
           will be planned on the same day, the patient has to visit the hospital for reasons
           regarding his/her regular chemotherapy-treatment. Only surface patch electrodes will be
           used (no needle electrodes). All other information will be obtained from the patients'
           files (blood samples, physic evaluations, etc) these are considered to be part of the
           routines of treatment. When EMG's can not be measured, audiograms will be used, these
           audiograms are also part of the routines of treatment, so are not considered an extra
           burden. Patients will have to fill in Quality of Life questionnaires.

        -  Risks: NAC is a well known drug, used for over thirty years, that is well tolerated. For
           intravenous NAC, allergic reactions have been reported. There is also a theoretical
           risk, that NAC may reduce anti-tumour efficacy of cisplatin, this risk will be
           theoretically ruled out by appropriate dosing of NAC. After inclusion of the first 30
           patients an interim analysis will be performed regarding the tumour response.

        -  Benefits: NAC will possibly prevent the occurrence of neurotoxicity, improving quality
           of life. This may, in turn, result in less probability of dose-reductions and of preterm
           arrest of treatment.
    
  