
    
      Despite the existence of an OSHA standard for hearing conservation, noise-induced hearing
      loss continues to be one of the most prevalent occupational conditions. Furthermore, hearing
      loss rates appear to vary significantly between industrial locations with similar measured
      noise exposure levels. The factors that determine an effective hearing conservation program
      remain poorly understood. The effective use of hearing protection, believed to be a critical
      component of such programs, is felt to be highly variable in real world situations.
      Provocative new data by our research group indicate that much of the preventable hearing loss
      in a large industrial workforce is occurring not among the workers in the highest ambient
      noise areas, but instead among employees working in areas where measured ambient median noise
      exposures are close to or even slightly below the current OSHA action level (85dBA for an 8
      hour time weighted average). One possible reason could be that the use of hearing protection
      is currently less effective in such areas of lower or intermittent noise compared to high
      noise areas. Since in many worksites, the majority of workers are exposed to moderate noise
      levels, there is an urgent need to better understand how to prevent hearing loss in these
      settings. There are also currently no national guidelines for ensuring correct fit and
      function of hearing protection, and there is an urgent need to find ways to promote the
      correct use of hearing protective devices. This study will assess the impact of hearing
      protector fit testing and daily noise exposure monitoring, with major implications for
      hearing conservation practice, and the wider prevention of noise-induced hearing loss. It
      will also explore the role of hearing protective devices in areas of median noise exposure
      less than 85dBA.

      This proposed study is a worksite intervention trial of a new technology to reduce
      occupational noise-induced hearing loss. The intervention will test the effectiveness of a
      noise exposure dosimeter, the QuietDose - essentially a small microphone connected to a noise
      logging device about the size of a beeper- that measures a worker's daily noise "dose", as
      well as peak noise exposure, inside of the worker's hearing protectors. Workers and the study
      coordinator receive daily feedback about noise exposures (if the device was used outside of
      the study it would be safety personnel that received the feedback outside of the workers
      themselves). Such feedback will allow steps to be taken to minimize such exposures, such as
      behavioral adjustments and improved awarenessThe goal of this study is to determine whether
      daily assessment and feedback of workers' noise exposures leads to more effective use of
      hearing protection and prevention of noise-induced hearing loss. The proposed study will take
      advantage of the unique working relationship between a research institution (the Yale
      Occupational and Environmental Medicine Program) and a major industrial corporation (Alcoa,
      Inc.) to conduct this intervention trial at several of the company's facilities.
    
  