
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary objectives

      A) Symptomatic patients at the time of recruitment: Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI) >5 to <16

        1. To compare the proportion of patients in each study group at week 13 who are in
           corticosteroid-free (CF) clinical remission as measured by a Harvey Bradshaw Index (HBI)
           of <5 (primary endpoint)

        2. To compare the proportion of patients in each study group at week 13 who are in
           biochemical remission as measured by a fecal calprotectin (FCP) of <250ug/g (primary
           endpoint).

      B) Asymptomatic patients with active disease at the time of recruitment: Harvey Bradshaw
      Index (HBI) <5

        1. To compare the proportion of patients in each study group at week 13 who are in
           biochemical remission as measured by a fecal calprotectin (FCP) of <250ug/g (primary
           endpoint).

        2. To compare the proportion of patients in each study group at week 13 who are in clinical
           remission as measured by sonographic findings of inflammation (Bowel Wall thickening ≤
           3mm).

      Secondary Hypothesis: The aim of the secondary objectives are to examine whether the dietary
      intervention has a significant effect on the gut microbiota and SCFAs in patients and whether
      this is associated with the intervention and disease recurrence at or before 13 weeks. The
      aim is also to examine whether the intervention has a significant effect on health-related
      quality of life.

        -  To identify the presence of within and between-group differences in microbial diversity,
           microbial composition, and abundance of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) and
           SCFA-producing bacteria at baseline and 13weeks.

        -  To identify the presence of within and between-group differences in fecal SCFA
           concentrations at baseline and 13 weeks. To compare the proportion of patients in each
           study group at week14 that achieve clinical response (decrease in HBI>3points)

      METHODS:

      Randomized controlled trial design: This 3-year study, investigator-blinded, RCT (N=102) at
      the University of Calgary (UoC). Eligible participants will be randomly allocated in a 2:1
      ratio to either the intervention group (CD-TDI) or conventional management (CM) alone (i.e.,
      control group) for 13 weeks.

      Conventional Management (Control) Group: CM patients will meet with the RD at baseline, week
      7 and week 13 to complete their 24 hour food recall twice on different days of the week,
      followed by a phone few days after the visit to complete the second part of the recall. They
      will be advised to follow their habitual diet and will be offered the dietary intervention at
      14 weeks if they are still experiencing a disease flare.

      Therapeutic diet Intervention ( CD-TDI )Group : Patients receiving CD-TDI will be offered
      patient-centered counseling for 12 weeks by a Registered Dietitian (RD) trained in the CD-TDI
      protocol with the goals of (a) identification and treatment of malnutrition if present, (b)
      targeted treatment of macro- and micronutrient deficiencies using whole foods;(c) increasing
      adherence to CD-TDI (d) multivitamin adherence and (e) reduced exposure to dietary antigens
      (e.g., maltodextrin, carrageenan, other food additives). They will receive a5 face-to-face
      appointment every 3 weeks with the study RD, and all other weekly appointments, which are 8
      in number will be completed by phone.
    
  