
    
      STUDY TYPE: Pragmatic health center-based evaluation to compare effectiveness of a
      MoH-mandated structured PCV13 schedule change from 3+0 to 2+1 dosing in a high disease burden
      setting in Malawi PROBLEM: Streptococcus pneumoniae is a leading cause of childhood
      pneumonia, meningitis, and bacteremia in sub-Saharan Africa. Pneumococcal conjugate vaccines
      (PCV) the commonest pneumococcal serotypes have been shown to be effective against
      pneumococcal meningitis and sepsis, so-called invasive pneumococcal disease (IPD), pneumonia,
      and all-cause mortality among young children when introduced into infant expanded programs on
      immunization (EPI). Colonization of the nasopharynx by Streptococcus pneumoniae is a
      necessary prerequisite to pneumococcal disease. Critically important to the population impact
      of PCV is therefore reducing vaccine serotype (VT) carriage prevalence, and therefore
      reducing both disease and onward transmission to vulnerable individuals. Thus, as well as
      protecting the vaccinated individual (direct protection), PCV confers indirect protection
      (herd immunity) to unvaccinated populations and to vaccinated individuals who have
      insufficient protective immunity.

      While the ability of PCVs to induce herd immunity has been strong enough to control
      pneumococcal carriage and disease in industrialized countries, such benefits have not been as
      marked in low-income countries. In Malawi, the introduction of the PCV13 achieved an
      approximate 70% reduction in IPD among vaccinated children, and an estimated 35% fall in
      all-cause mortality among vaccinated children. However, carriage surveillance 4 to 7 years
      post-vaccine implementation shows persistent VT carriage. Data suggests that most of the
      vaccine's direct benefit occurs in the first 12 months of life, further suggesting that
      vaccine-induced protection against pneumococcal disease and colonization wanes rapidly under
      the current 3+0 schedule. With the exception of South Africa, most sub-Saharan African
      countries, including Malawi, have introduced PCV using a 3+0 schedule (doses at 6, 10, and 14
      weeks of age). Whether the 2+1 schedule (6, 10 weeks and 9 months of age) will maximize
      vaccine-induced protection has been identified as a research gap by the WHO. There is a
      dearth of head-to-head studies directly comparing these two schedules. In this context, the
      Malawian Ministry of Health (MoH) and the National Immunizations Technical Advisory Committee
      (NITAG) are seeking evidence of adequate superiority of a 2+1 schedule to inform a change to
      the current Malawi EPI schedule.

      HYPOTHESIS: Prolonging the period of vaccine-induced protection with a booster vaccine dose
      at 9 months will extend the period of low VT carriage, hence providing longer direct
      vaccine-induced protection as well as boosting the indirect herd immunity effect.

      METHOD: The MoH will implement a 2+1 PCV13 vaccine schedule change in Blantyre District. A
      comparison with the ongoing 3+0 schedule will use a pragmatic health centre-based
      randomization protocol, with 10 centres continuing with the current 3+0 and 10 implementing
      the WHO-approved 2+1 schedule. This change will be implemented within the scope of the EPI,
      subjected to EPI standard procedures for delivery, monitoring, and assessment. This MoH-led
      change will be evaluated as part of a longstanding partnership with the Malawi Liverpool
      Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Programme. Researchers will undertake two population based
      pneumococcal carriage surveys in these 20 health centre catchment areas, at 15 and 33 months
      after the introduction of the 2+1 schedule.

      PRIMARY OUTCOME: VT carriage prevalence among children 15-24 months of age 36 months after
      schedule change.

      SECONDARY OUTCOMES: VT carriage prevalence among children 5-10 years old, among HIV infected
      adults 18-40 years, add among children 9 months old. Others include prevalence of multiple
      serotype carriage, and completeness of 3 doses PCV13.

      POPULATION: Children who are aged 15-24 months, residents of Blantyre District, and who have
      received PCV13 in either a 3+0 or a 2+1 schedule (recruited from households); Children aged
      5-10 years who have received PCV13 on a 3+0 schedule (recruited from schools); children aged
      9 months, who have received PCV13 in either a 3+0 or a 2+0 schedule (recruited from health
      centres at routine 9-month visit); HIV-infected adults aged 18-40 years receiving ART and
      PCV13-unvaccinated (recruited from the Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital (QECH) HIV/ART
      Clinic) EXPECTED FINDINGS: Data will inform NITAG decisions on national vaccine policy, with
      implications at a national, regional and global level. Results will be disseminated through
      peer-reviewed publications, scientific conferences, and other relevant stakeholder and
      policymakers' meetings. This work will strengthen collaboration between relevant government
      and academic institutions, provide research training for MoH staff and early-career
      researchers.
    
  