
    
      This mentored career development award (K01) will enable Dr. Michael J. Wesley to achieve his
      long-term goal of becoming an independent investigator with a clinical research program
      examining cannabis use disorder (CUD) in emerging adults, which is a current NIDA funding
      priority. Dr. Wesley is a new Assistant Professor at the University of Kentucky (UK) College
      of Medicine. The activities proposed in this award build on Dr. Wesley's background in
      neuroimaging and drug abuse research and will allow him to accomplish these specific
      short-term objectives: Become an expert in (1) clinical pharmacology and (2) non-invasive
      brain stimulation research, and enhance/develop his (3) knowledge of the responsible conduct
      of research, (4) skills for scientific communication and grant writing, and (5) ability to
      manage an independent research program. UK has numerous faculty and projects focused on drug
      abuse research and is an ideal environment for Dr. Wesley to successfully complete this
      award. Dr. Wesley has assembled a stellar mentoring team consisting of Dr. Josh Lile
      (Mentor), who runs a successful NIH-funded clinical pharmacology research program at UK and
      Drs. Mark George (Co-Mentor) and Colleen A. Hanlon of the Brain Stimulation Laboratory at the
      Medical University of South Carolina, Together they will guide and oversee Dr. Wesley's
      training in clinical pharmacology, brain stimulation, and scientific communication and grant
      writing. Dr. Wesley has proposed to engage in a series of formal classes, lab exchanges, and
      research seminars/meetings that will assist him in accomplishing the objectives of this
      award.

      The proposed research project is novel, innovative, and rigorous. It will combine the acute
      administration of Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the main psychoactive ingredient in
      cannabis, with brain stimulation and neuroimaging to examine the role of the dorsal lateral
      prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and connected brain areas in drug-impaired decision-making
      processes. Specifically, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) will be used to raise or
      lower DLPFC functionality following the administration THC in randomized, double-blind,
      placebo- and sham-controlled experiments.

      Aim 1 will test the hypotheses that excitatory TMS (raising DLPFC functionality; Exp. 1) will
      attenuate, whereas inhibitory TMS (lowering DLPFC functionality; Exp.2) will enhance, the
      impairing effects of THC on study outcomes.

      Aim 2 will use neuroimaging to test the hypothesis that individual differences in brain
      structure and function predict the specific and/or combined effects of THC and TMS on study
      outcomes. Results from this project will improve the investigator's understanding of the
      mechanisms involved in cannabis-impaired decision-making, which will inform CUD management
      and address a growing public health concern.
    
  