
    
      Patient recruitment:

      Patients who are eligible for the study will be asked by their ALS care team if they would
      like to speak to the research assistant about the study. Patients may also self refer if they
      hear about the study and are interested in learning more about it. As a part of this study,
      participants will meet briefly with a palliative care (PC) physician to discuss the goals of
      palliative care and the interventions a palliative care physician can provide. As part of the
      study, patients will be offered the choice of a palliative care consultation (in a timely
      manner - either at home or at the ALS clinic) or no palliative care consultation.
      Participants will fill out a brief questionnaire regarding their interest in a PC
      consultation. Relevant demographic information such as time since diagnosis and functional
      ability will be collected for all patients included in the study. This study is planned to
      recruit patients for the period of one year, with a total study period of 18 months (i.e. the
      first patient included to the study will be followed until death or for 18 months and the
      last patient recruited to the study will be followed for 6 months).

      Outcome Measures:

      All patients who agree to participate in the study, will be asked to complete two scales
      which measure quality of life: The ALS Specific Quality of Life Revised Scale (ALSSQOL-R,) a
      validated instrument to measure quality of life in ALS patients (8, 15) and the Hospital
      Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), a validated instrument for measuring anxiety and
      depression in patients and caregivers(16). These scales will be completed at baseline, 1
      month, 3 months and every 3 months for the entirety of the study period. Caregivers will
      complete the HADS at the same time interval. The ALSSQOL-R and HADS require 10-20 minutes and
      2-5 minutes to complete, respectively (15, 17). The ALSSQOL-R is routinely used as pre-visit
      screening in multidisciplinary ALS clinics and is felt to be feasible in the ALS
      population(15). The invitation to the study and coordination of survey completion will be led
      by a research assistant and not a member of the patient's care team. Survey completion rates
      and feasibility of routine completion will be examined. Qualitative reasons for declining a
      PC consult at the time of study initiation, as reported by patients on the consent to PC
      consultation questionnaire, will also be recorded.

      Patients and caregivers who receive a PC consult as a part of the study period will complete
      a questionnaire focusing on their satisfaction with the consultation, its timeliness (i.e.
      too early or too late in their illness trajectory) and any fatigue or distress which resulted
      from the consultation. Follow-up PC assessments will occur as determined by the patient and
      PC physician. Patients and caregivers who decline participation in the study as well as those
      who are included in the study but declined PC consultation will continue with usual care and
      thus be referred to a PC specialist at the discretion of their physicians. A detailed
      overview of the plan for study recruitment and planned outcome measures are outlined in
      Figure 1 and Table 1.

      Analyses Strategy:

      This study will focus on several different outcomes as listed in Table 1. The main outcome
      will be the effect of PC consultation on patient and caregiver quality of life. This will be
      determined by evaluating a change in ALSSQOL-R and HADS scores in patients and caregivers
      over time, both individually and between the groups of patients who received and did not
      receive a PC consult. Unfortunately, there are no previously reported minimally important
      differences for these scales in the ALS population. Difference in quality of life indicators
      will be examined between patients who received PC involvement and those in the usual care
      group. Mean quality of life scores will be compared at different time points post
      consultation and statistical significance will be determined using t-tests. Quality of life
      scores pre and post palliative care consultation will also be examined in patients and
      caregivers at different time points. They will be reported as mean scores (+95% confidence
      intervals) and significant change will be determined using univariate analyses. As this study
      has a focus on describing the PC needs of the ALS population, chart reviews of PC consults
      will be completed to identify the major themes and issues discussed in PC consults.

      Process measures for this study will also be examined. These include the proportion of
      patients that were approached who consented to be in the study, proportion of patients in the
      study who choose a PC consultation, the duration of the PC consultation, the number of
      follow-up appointments per patient, the delay between enrollment in the study and initial PC
      consultation. The acceptability and satisfaction with PC involvement will be assessed by
      qualitative and quantitative measures including patient and caregiver self-reported reasons
      for accepting or declining a PC consultation and responses to post PC satisfaction
      questionnaire. Balancing measures and potential negative effects of PC consultation,
      including anxiety and fatigue, will be assessed via the post PC consultation satisfaction
      scale. If data allows, subsequent studies may focus on the change in health care utilization
      (i.e. emergency department visits, hospitalizations etc.) in the group of patients who
      received PC when compared to the usual care group.

      Given the variability in presentation and often rapid clinical decline experienced by
      patients with ALS, the idea of early PC for all patients is likely not feasible and unlikely
      to be beneficial. Some patients may experience significant impairment and the time of
      diagnosis and benefit from immediate referral, while others may experience a period of
      stability and be comfortable without referral. Considering this, a goal of this study is
      understanding which factors are most likely to prompt a referral to PC, and which patients
      are most likely to benefit from a PC referral. As a part of the study, PC consultations and
      patient records will be reviewed and demographic information such as ALS Functional Rating
      Scale score (ALSFRS -R), time since diagnosis and the presence or absence of symptoms will be
      considered. This will be linked to reported quality of life scores to identify which factors
      are most likely to improve with PC referral and which factors are most associated the need
      for PC referral. This will help guide clinicians nationwide as to when to consider PC
      referrals in their patients, with the goal of ensuring patients have timely access to PC at
      the appropriate time.

      Potential Impact:

      Ultimately, there is immense potential to improve patient quality of life with this project.
      It is the first to introduce routine PC into a multi-disciplinary ALS clinic in Ontario, a
      population that is largely underserviced by PC. It seeks to understand the physical and
      emotional factors which limit patient quality of life and links to physicians and resources
      to act on these issues. This project also plans to improve the quality of life of caregivers,
      providing increased support and further understanding of caregiver needs. The investigators
      hope to identify the factors that make a patient/caregiver most likely to benefit from PC;
      which will guide referral criteria for all patients with ALS and ensure that PC consultations
      are available to patients at a timely manner when it is most likely to be impactful. Finally,
      this study will improve the capacity of current health care providers to address patient and
      caregiver quality of life concerns. It will provide a new foundation of knowledge on which
      larger, controlled studies can be built in the future.
    
  