
    
      Hospitalized PPE patients who are being expectantly managed, after initial assessment and
      stabilization period, will be considered for the study. After informed consent has been
      obtained subjects will be screened for eligibility. Screening includes obtaining the
      subject's medical/obstetric history and a physical examination which includes an assessment
      of maternal and fetal status. Blood samples for hematology, clinical chemistries, biomarkers,
      coagulation, immunogenicity and AT activity levels will be drawn. Urine will be collected for
      baseline urinalysis, protein/creatinine ratio and biomarkers. Eligible subjects who meet
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to receive a continuous
      infusion of either ATryn or placebo.

      Sampling for AT activity will be performed immediately prior to the first dose of study drug
      and at specified times thereafter.

      Subjects will continue on study drug until maternal and/or fetal indications for delivery
      necessitate cessation of expectant management or until 34 0/7 weeks of gestation. The average
      extension of pregnancy with standard of care expectant management in this patient population
      is approximately 7 days. It is assumed that treatment with ATryn will provide an additional
      increase in gestational age of 5-7 days as compared to this standard of care. Total duration
      on study drug is therefore estimated to be approximately 7 to 14 days on average.

      Post treatment assessments of the mother will be performed at hospital discharge and
      approximately 4-6 weeks after delivery of the neonate. Information on the neonates will be
      collected until they reach a post-menstrual age (PMA) of 36 weeks. If the neonate reaches 36
      weeks PMA < 28 days following delivery, the final neonatal follow-up visit should be done at
      the 4-6 week post-delivery visit.

      After the primary study completion and follow-up period, the neonate total number of days in
      the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), days on a ventilator, days requiring supplemental
      oxygen (FiO2 ≥21%),the neonate hospital discharge date and whether the neonate is discharged
      from the hospital with a requirement for supplemental home oxygen therapy will be collected
      to help assess health care utilization. In addition, the date of death will be collected if
      the neonate expires before hospital discharge. These data will be considered supplemental to
      the primary study data set.
    
  