
    
      Diabetes mellitus (DM) is very common in the United States, and the incidence as well as
      prevalence of this disease are increasing. DM is not only a risk factor for cardiovascular
      and pulmonary conditions, but is also linked with several digestive complications. Among
      digestive complaints, constipation occurs in approximated two-thirds of patients with DM,
      making constipation the most common gastrointestinal (GI) complaint among type 2 diabetics.
      Consequently, these patients suffer abdominal pain, bloating, and have a lower health related
      quality of life when compared with patients without DM and GI symptoms.Constipated
      individuals may be reluctant to eat on a regular schedule which may worsen glycemic control
      as well as the symptoms related to an underlying diabetic enteropathy.

      Effective therapies for constipation are limited and there is little data evaluating the
      treatment of constipation, specifically in diabetic patients. Lubiprostone has been shown to
      be superior to placebo in increasing the number of spontaneous bowel movements (SBMs) in
      patients with chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC) and irritable bowel syndrome with
      constipation (IBS-C). However, lubiprostone has not been previously studied in diabetics
      suffering with constipation. Furthermore, other prokinetic pharmacotherapeutics targeted
      toward constipated patients with diabetes mellitus type 2 are lacking.

      African Americans have the highest rate of DM compared with other ethnic groups in the Unites
      States. Furthermore, constipation is more prevalent in African Americans compared with other
      minority groups. However, there is little data evaluating the prevalence of constipation and
      the response to treatment in African Americans. Therefore, more information regarding the
      severity of symptoms, differences in bowel patterns, colonic transit, and response to therapy
      is important to improving the management of constipation in this group. Hence, in a
      subanalysis, we will study whether the responsiveness of African American patients to
      lubiprostone differs from that of the general population.

      Given the dearth of information on the effectiveness of lubiprostone in diabetics, who have a
      particularly strong need for alternative safe and effective treatments for constipation, we
      propose to assess the effectiveness of lubiprostone in constipated diabetic men and women.

      This is a randomized double- blind placebo controlled trial of lubiprostone in the treatment
      of constipation in diabetic patients.
    
  