
    
      1. Study design A prospective intervention study. HIV-infected patients using ART and who
           come for follow-up at the Teratai HIV clinic will be asked to participate in the study.
           All study participants will receive vitamin D supplementation (soft gel capsule
           containing cholecalciferol 400 IU) to be consumed 2 soft gel capsules daily for three
           consecutive months. The effect on the platelet parameters specified above will be
           determined before start cholecalciferol supplementation and after three months.

        2. Duration of study Usually, 150 HIV-infected patients are treated with ART every week at
           the Teratai HIV clinic of the Hasan Sadikin Hospital Bandung Indonesia. Between half
           January 2014 and end of February 2014, 50 patients will be enrolled in this study. We
           hypothesize that this period is long enough to include 50 patients for the present
           study. Supplementation will take place between March and May and analysis will be done
           in June and July. A summary of duration of study is depicted in the study timeline.

        3. Study population The study population consists of adult HIV-infected patients treated
           with ART enrolled at HIV polyclinic at Hasan Sadikin General Hospital, Bandung,
           Indonesia.

        4. Sample size calculation Our sample size calculation is based on the primary outcome,
           which is the area under the curve (AUC) of the platelet reactivity curve with P-selectin
           (CD62P) as platelet activation marker and ADP as platelet agonist. In a cohort of Dutch
           HIV-infected patients we found a mean AUC of 2500 with an SD of 660. Assuming that a
           decrease in AUC of 2500 to 2100 upon supplementation of vitamin D is clinically
           relevant, a sample size of 23 would be sufficient using a paired design with α 0.05 and
           a power of 80%.

        5. Methods Study parameters/endpoints

           There are two study parameters applied in this study:

             1. Platelet reactivity, expressed as the membrane expression of the platelet
                activation markers CD62P (P-selectin) and fibrinogen binding to integrin αIIbβ3, to
                stimulation with increasing concentration of platelet agonists ADP.

             2. Platelet-monocyte complexes.

        6. Study procedures

           a. Enrolment of patients During a scheduled routine polyclinic visit, the treating
           internist will identify patients fulfilling inclusion criteria. He/she will explain the
           background and objectives of the study to the patient. In case patients opt to
           participate, the patient will then be asked to read and undersign the informed consent
           form.

           Venous blood (three tubes of 3 mL each) will then drawn for study purpose at enrolment
           and after three months supplementation for:

             1. 25-hydroxyvitamin D level (3 ml serum)

             2. Platelet assays as specified above (3 ml CTAD)

             3. Full blood count and CD4 cells (3 ml EDTA) In many instances, this will not require
                an extra venepuncture as blood is usually collected for planned blood analysis for
                routine clinical care during regular polyclinic visits.

           Measurements and analysis consist of 25-hydroxyvitamin D level, platelet reactivity, and
           platelet-monocyte complexes will be done when the patients participate in the study. The
           study participants will receive 180 soft gel cholecalciferol capsules, to be taken 2
           capsules once a day for 90 days as stated above.

           As stated above, the second blood analysis will take place three months later after
           vitamin D supplementation is completed.

           b. Collection of blood samples for vitamin D level analysis As much as 3mL additional
           blood is withdrawn while applying venepuncture for routine CD4+ measurement. Collected
           blood is stored using red top serum tube without anticoagulant. This will take place at
           enrolment (day 0) and after 3 months vitamin D supplementation. Each day of blood
           withdrawal, the collected tubes are stored temporarily in wet-iced box prior transfer to
           laboratory for vitamin D analysis. At the end of the policlinic day, all tubes are
           transferred to the laboratory for serum separation. Then, separated serum is stored so
           25-hydroxyvitamin D measurements can be done later. All samples are analysed for
           25-hydroxyvitamin D measurements as well as other vitamin D metabolites such as free
           25-hydroxyvitamin D measurements. Such analysis can not be done in Indonesia and
           therefore samples will be shipped to the Netherlands for this purpose.

           c. Collection of blood samples for platelet function analysis As specified under study
           parameters above, platelet function analysis can be performed from one 3mL
           citrate-anticoagulated blood tube. This will take place at enrolment (day 0) and after 3
           months vitamin D supplementation. Each withdrawn blood from the patient, the tube is
           directly transferred to the laboratory for platelet function within 30 minutes.

           d. Full blood count and CD4 cell measurements These measurements are part of routine
           care and will be done in the routine haematological laboratory using 3 ml EDTA blood.
    
  