
    
      In this study, the drugs being used are vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and bevacizumab.
      Vemurafenib has been approved by the FDA for treatment of patients with advanced melanoma
      that harbors a BRAF mutation. However, vemurafenib in combination with cobimetinib has not
      been approved by the FDA for the treatment of cancer. Bevacizumab has been approved by the
      FDA for use in combination with first line chemotherapies for treatment of patients with
      colorectal, breast and lung cancer. Bevacizumab has not been approved for use in patients
      with metastatic melanoma.

      Vemurafenib and cobimetinib attack different proteins that cause cancer cells to grow.
      Vemurafenib works by blocking a protein called B-RAF. Researchers have found that a large
      number of melanomas have mutations (changes) in the BRAF gene. The BRAF gene codes for a
      protein called B-RAF, which is involved in sending signals in cells that can lead to cell
      growth. Research has determined that mutations in the BRAF gene at the V600 position cause a
      change in the B-RAF protein that can drive the growth and spread of melanoma cells.
      Vemurafenib works by preventing these altered B-RAF proteins from working, and thereby may
      block the growth and spread of cancer cells in patients with melanoma. Cobimetinib works by
      blocking a protein called MEK. MEK has been known to promote growth in cancer that carries
      either a mutation in the BRAF or KRAS genes. The vemurafenib/cobimetinib combination has been
      used in prior clinical studies. Information from those other research studies suggests that
      these drugs can shrink melanoma tumors in the majority of patients and slow tumor growth as
      compared to standard chemotherapy. Another drug to block the BRAF and MEK proteins was
      recently approved by the FDA in the treatment of patients with B-RAFV600 mutant melanoma. The
      researchers want to see if using vemurafenib and cobimetinib together will work in a similar
      way to treat malignant melanoma.

      Bevacizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody (a type of protein that is normally made by
      the immune system to help defend the body from infection and cancer) produced by using
      recombinant DNA technology. Bevacizumab is an antibody directed against vascular endothelial
      growth factor or VEGF. VEGF is a potent, specific growth factor with a well-defined role in
      normal and abnormal blood vessel formation. It is present in a wide variety of normal
      tissues, but is produced in excess by most solid cancers (tumors). In the setting of cancer,
      VEGF promotes the growth of blood vessels that bring nutrients to tumor cells. Its expression
      by the tumor has been associated with worse outcome in patients with a number of tumors types
      including melanoma. In laboratory experiments, bevacizumab inhibits the growth of several
      different types of human cancer cells by blocking the effects of VEGF.

      The purpose of this research study is to determine the effectiveness of using the study drugs
      vemurafenib, cobimetinib, and bevacizumab together relative to vemurafenib and cobimetinib
      alone. This study will investigate whether using both study drugs lengthens the amount of
      time before participants' melanoma worsens, increases the number of people whose melanoma
      responds to treatment and what the side effects are of using the drugs together rather than
      separately.
    
  