
    
      This study is an observational study. It will be managed by a project director for HHN and
      the Environmental Health Program Manager for CMH. Following enrollment in the study, a health
      assessment focusing on specific respiratory problems and lead exposure will be performed.
      Eligible subjects must be between the ages of 2 and 17 years of age, and stay in the home a
      minimum of 4 nights per week.

      The home environment will also be assessed using a specific set of on-site and laboratory
      sampling and analyses. Once study analyses are complete, a report will be written and
      provided to the family. The health and home assessments will be used in the presentation of
      in-home education related to specific strategies for creating and maintaining a safe and
      healthy home. Once the initial assessments are complete, the family will receive a set of
      standard and targeted interventions that together total no more than $2000 in value. If the
      house is in need of more than $2000 worth of interventions, the family would not qualify to
      participate in this study and would be offered alternative resources through the HHN, and the
      UMKC Center for the City, Home Center.

      The interim controls recommended in the assessment will be provided within 60 days of the
      in-home education. These interim controls include a set of standard interventions that will
      be provided in all homes and, in addition, a set of site-specific or targeted interventions
      based on the assessment findings. Six months after the interventions have been implemented,
      the child's health and the home will be assessed using the same instruments, procedures,
      questionnaires, and the same number and type of samples as in the initial assessment will be
      taken. This will ensure consistency and quality in data gathering.

      Recruitment of Subjects:

      The Healthy Homes Network will recruit participants from community physicians and clinics,
      and organizations affiliated with the HHN including health departments and housing
      authorities, the CMH Emergency Room, the CMH Allergy Clinic, other CMH primary care clinics.
      HHN will recruit through advertising in the media if necessary (see proposed ad included),
      but the CMH name or LOGO will not appear in the ad. Subjects will be referred to CMH for
      health evaluations.

      Expected Sample Size: Total study: 200 CMH only: 200

      Inclusion Criteria:

      Participants that qualify for the study will have one of the following health conditions:
      persistent asthma as defined by NHLBI guidelines, chronic respiratory symptoms, and/or have
      lead levels equal to or above 15 micrograms per deciliter. They must be between the ages of 2
      and 17 years of age, and stay in the home a minimum of 4 nights per week and, they should
      reside in the KCEEC (Defined as the city limits of Kansas City Kansas or Kansas City
      Missouri). They will also have lived in the same housing, either rental or self-owned, for at
      least 6 months and have a reasonable expectation of remaining in this housing for at least
      one additional year.

      To qualify for the intervention phase of the study done by HHN, the home must have no more
      than $2000 estimated intervention costs. Examples of houses that would not qualify include: A
      house that needs a new roof, a house with extensive amounts of flaking lead paint, a house
      with significant structural problems.

      Exclusion Criteria:

      Any children who do not meet the age and residency requirements. Any home with more than
      $2000 worth of maintenance and repair problems. Any home with emergent, life threatening
      conditions. Children with other chronic diseases (leukemia, diabetes etc) will be referred
      through the HHN and CMH to appropriate medical services, agencies, organizations and other
      community resources.

      There is only one study group (the immediate intervention group). In this group, the child's
      health will be evaluated, the home environmental health will be assessed and reported to the
      family, and the family will receive in-home education. Within 60 days of the in-home
      education, a series of interim controls for the home will be provided by HHN using a specific
      set of standard interventions and a site-specific set of targeted interventions based on the
      assessment findings. The home will be checked to ensure the interventions were properly done.
      After 6 months, the child's health will be reevaluated and the environmental health of the
      home will be assessed a second time to evaluate the impact on the child's health.

      Observations/Measurements:

      Goal 1: Demonstrate improvement in overall health and chronic symptoms in children

      Pre/Post Measures:

        1. Health Assessment Questionnaire

        2. Asthma severity (assigned by blinded physician - based on health assessment and
           spirometry [for children >5 years old] )

        3. Medication dosage (taken from family health information)

        4. Blood lead level (measured in clinical lab)

        5. Allergen Specific IgG & IgE (measured in clinical lab)

        6. Number of days of school missed (taken from family health survey)

        7. Number of days as in-patient in hospital (taken from hospital records)

        8. Number of visits to physician/ER (taken from clinic records)

        9. Quality of life rating (from SF12 form)

       10. Asthma specific quality of life rating (Juniper et. al.)

      Goal 2: Reduce specific environmental hazards potentially affecting health through
      interventions

      Pre/Post Measures:

        1. IAQ Survey (On-site analyses for Temp. RH. CO2, CO, THC, VOC, TVOC)

        2. Allergen content in house dust (lab measurement by immunoassay)

        3. Total Particulate Analysis (on-site laser particle analysis)

        4. Airborne spore levels (measured by spore trap determination)

        5. Chemical Exposure Hazard (home assessment and site-specific chemical analysis)

      Goal 3: Demonstrate effectiveness of low-cost intervention

      Measures:

      a. Differential in environmental exposure factors and health symptom factors before enrolment
      in study and 6 months after home interventions. (Evaluated by statistical methods; mostly
      students t-test). Power analysis indicates adequate power to detect a 50% change in allergen
      level in dust at a 95% confidence level with 66 houses in each group.

      Goal 4: Reduce specific environmental hazards potentially affecting health through in-home
      education.

      Pre/Post Measures:

        1. IAQ Survey (On-site analyses for Temp. RH. CO2, CO, THC, TVOC, O3)

        2. Allergen content in house dust (lab measurement by immunoassay)

        3. Total Particulate Analysis (on-site laser particle analysis)

        4. Airborne spore levels (measured by spore trap determination)

        5. Chemical Exposure Hazard (home assessment and site-specific chemical analysis)
    
  