
    
      Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is the most common histological subtype of
      non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). This is an aggressive lymphoma, with an incidence in Western
      countries estimated at 5-6 cases/100,000 inhabitants/year that increases with age.

      Treatment for patients with DLBCL is currently based on immunochemotherapy, of which the
      R-CHOP regimen, which includes cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine and prednisone
      (CHOP) in combination with the anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody rituximab and is administered
      every 21 days for a total of 6-8 cycles, is the most commonly used.

      Cardiotoxicity is one of the undesirable effects that limit the use of anthracyclines, such
      as doxorubicin, as part of the CHOP regimen, which is caused by the formation of complexes
      between ferric ions and the anthracycline within the myocyte. Because of their oxidative
      properties, these complexes are toxic and produce highly reactive free radicals that damage
      the lipid membrane and lead to the cell death of myocytes. Several studies have linked the
      onset of cardiotoxicity with old age, high cumulative doses of doxorubicin, cardiovascular
      risk factors and previous heart disease, among others. Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity
      is cumulative and irreversible. Moreover, left ventricular dysfunction is an important late
      effect in patients with aggressive NHL who survive long term and, according to some studies,
      have received doxorubicin at doses higher than 200 mg/m². Cardiotoxicity may be silent or
      subclinical, which is usually detected as a decrease in left ventricular ejection fraction
      (LVEF), or clinical, with varying degrees of congestive heart failure (CHF). Depending on the
      symptoms, cardiotoxicity also differs between acute, subacute, late or chronic. The first is
      manifested at an early stage, usually as arrhythmia, transient ECG changes or pericarditis,
      among others, is usually reversible, is not detrimental to the continuation of treatment and
      is not associated with subacute and late toxicity.

      Chronic cardiotoxicity could be early or late. Early-onset cardiotoxicity occurs within 1
      year after anthracycline treatment and late-onset cardiotoxicity occurs more than 1 year
      after completion of anthracycline treatment. In the latter two, cardiotoxicity is associated
      with the lesion of cardiomyocytes and is therefore considered irreversible. The incidence of
      cardiotoxicity varies among different studies, depending on patient follow-up or the
      definition of cardiotoxicity used (acute, subacute or late).

      In addition to clinical findings, the determination of LVEF or, more recently, the use of
      biomarkers, are the most commonly used methods to diagnose and assess cardiotoxicity.
      Regarding the identification of biomarkers, troponin I and N-terminal fragment of pro-brain
      natriuretic peptide (NT-proBNP) are the most commonly used and investigated in the context of
      clinical studies. The advantages of using biomarkers include their minimally invasive
      identification, which is less expensive than echocardiography, and, unlike radionuclide
      ventriculography, they avoid irradiation of the patient. Furthermore, the interpretation of
      their results does not depend on the observer's experience, thus avoiding interobserver
      variability. Several studies have shown the role of troponins as indicators of early
      anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity or other chemotherapeutic agents, which are able to
      predict impaired ventricular function and higher incidence of cardiac events in patients with
      elevated values of this marker compared with patients with normal troponin values. Regarding
      the use of brain natriuretic peptides such as NT-proBNP, several studies have shown a
      correlation between persistently high values of this biomarker and impaired heart function
      parameters, in particular LVEF.

      Myocet® (non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin) is one of the several strategies developed to
      reduce cardiotoxicity and maintain the therapeutic efficacy of the R-CHOP regimen.
      Non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin has shown a similar efficacy and less cardiotoxicity than
      conventional doxorubicin in the treatment of women with metastatic breast cancer. In
      addition, several studies in patients with NHL have shown similar response rates with
      regimens containing non-pegylated liposomal doxorubicin to those obtained in historical
      controls with conventional doxorubicin, with a low incidence of clinical and subclinical
      cardiovascular events. The treatment is relatively well tolerated, while myelosuppression is
      its most important toxicity.

      Most of these phase I and II studies (with or without rituximab), which assessed Myocet® in
      combination with cyclophosphamide; vincristine and prednisone, showed that it is an active
      treatment in newly diagnosed patients with aggressive NHL.

      100% of the data registered on CRFs will be source data verified. eCRDs will be used in order
      to register the data. Nine monitoring visits per site will be performed.

      First monitoring vistit will be performed when the first patient is included Second
      monitoring visit willb be performed when the third patient is included Third monitoring visit
      will be perforemd when the fifth patient is included Fourth monitoring visit will be
      performed then the last patient finish study treatment One monitoring visit per year will be
      performed during follow-up phase.

      CRO (Dynamic) Standard Operating Procedures will be used to manage the clinical trial.

      Sample size of the study is based on the hypothesis of a LEVF decrease <55% in the 15% of
      patients assigned to R-CHOP treatment group and 5% of patients assigned to R-COMP treatment
      group.

      Categorical variables were show by absolute and relative frequencies, including the
      confidence interval of 95%.

      For the description of the continuous variables will be use the mean, standard deviation,
      median, mode, minimum and maximum, including the total number of valid values.

      In the case of compare subgroups of patients, will be use for quantitative variables
      parametric tests or nonparametric as characteristics of the variables under study. For
      qualitative variables will be use Chi-square test.

      Statistical analysis was planned with the SAS statistical package version 9.1 or later.

      Two interim analysis will be performed when the last patient peforms the end of treatment
      visit and when the last patient performd the 24 months follow-up visit.

      Final analysis will be performed at the end of the study.
    
  