
    
      Stimulation of the angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptors after arterial injury promotes
      vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) migration, proliferation, and extracellular matrix
      production, leading to the hope that blockade of this receptor by angiotensin-converting
      enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) or specific (AT1) receptor antagonists (ARBs) might reduce intimal
      hyperplasia. However, despite confirmatory evidence in several animal models of restenosis,
      the large scale MERCATOR and MARCATOR trials of cilazapril with balloon angioplasty failed to
      show benefit. In 1999, Kondo reported the results of a randomized pilot trial of 100 patients
      who received Palmaz-Schatz stents and were randomized to receive the ACE inhibitor quinapril
      or placebo. The volume of neointimal hyperplasia assessed by IVUS was significantly less
      quinapril than the control group (18 ± 0.6 mm3 vs. 25 ± 0.6 mm3; p < 0.05). The quinapril
      group's restenosis rate was 16%, with the quinapril benefit being observed only in patients
      with the D/D and I/D genotypes. Also, other study reported on a consecutively treated cohort
      of 1,598 stented patients, noting that ACE inhibitor usage at the time and after stenting
      reduced the risk of subsequent revascularization dramatically (adjusted odds ratio, 0.46; p =
      0.001). In the ValPREST trial which is a single-center randomized trial of patients receiving
      stents for type B2/C lesions, comparing valsartan (and ARV) 80 mgs daily with open treatment,
      patients randomized to valsartan had a 19% incidence of restenosis compared with 39% in the
      open treatment arm (p = 0.005).

      Recently, several randomized studies were conducted to compare the safety and efficacy of the
      two leading drug-eluting stent (DES). However, data on the association of ARBs for
      suppression of neointimal hyperplasia are limited in the DES era. Therefore, a pivotal
      randomized study is warranted.
    
  