
    
      The general research framework is focused on predicting the functional outcome of orthopaedic
      surgery for a given patient.

      Since surgery is an invasive and irreversible procedure, it may be useful to carry out
      surgical simulations on a digital clone before performing them on the real patient.

      This simulation would therefore be a tool for optimized surgical planning, based on a
      realistic functional objective.

      The investigators' work in the design and evaluation of biomechanical models is now
      applicable to orthopedic surgery.

      So, it is necessary to verify that the digital procedures allowing the realization of virtual
      surgical gestures are comparable to the procedures actually applied to the patient.

      Thus, a first retrospective study (Imaging for the generation of personalized biomechanical
      models of the musculoskeletal system before and after surgery - ORTHOSIM Retrospective)
      Clinical Trial N° NCT03835000, is in progress in order to validate the possibility of
      creating pre- and post-operative anatomical digital clones. The aim of this prospective study
      is to integrate the functional characteristics of the patient before and after surgery with
      the objective of dynamic validation of the biomechanical models created.

      OrthosimPro is a bi-centric, longitudinal and prospective study.

      10 patients needing orthopedic surgery will be enrolled after being informed about the study
      and potential risks. They will give written informed consent.

      This study will not modify :

        -  the operative indication

        -  the surgical procedure

        -  the management before and after the surgery

      Patients will have a pre and post operative assessment

        -  Anatomical by sectional imaging

        -  Functional by motion analysis

      Thus, it allows creating 3 digital models for the same patient:

        1. Creation of Model 1: preoperative dynamic model obtained from the anatomical and
           functional preoperative assessment.

        2. Creation of Model 2: Model 1 to which the surgery is applied according to the criteria
           indicated by the surgeon.

        3. Creation of Model 3: a dynamic postoperative model independent of Models 1 and 2
           obtained from the anatomical and functional postoperative assessment.

      Validation of each model:

      Each model will be compared with the patient data used to build the model, there is no
      comparison of patients regarding each other or models belonging to different patients. This
      study therefore aims to validate an individual's model on his or her own data.

        -  Comparison of model 1 (angle, forces, geometry) versus morphological and functional
           assessment before surgery

        -  Comparison of model 3 (angle, forces, geometry) versus morphological and functional
           assessment after surgery

      Evaluation the surgery simulation procedure:

      Comparison of model 2 (angle, forces, geometry) versus model 3
    
  