
    
      Maintaining body position and orientation is a complex and multifactorial task. Balance is
      defined as the ability to control and maintain the center of gravity or center of mass over
      the area of the support base. Postural control system aims (1) to maintain balance and
      postural orientation (2) to perform voluntary movement in static or dynamic circumstances and
      (3) to react to internal and external disturbances. Neural control of posture will be
      efficient when there is an interaction of sensory and motor information from multiple
      structures, and it will vary according to the age of the individuals, maturation of the
      structures involved, motor repertoire, neuromuscular synergies and musculoskeletal
      components, among others. The primary motor cortex (M1) has been persistently studied due to
      its complexity, numerous connections and direct involvement with motor control. Studies
      suggest that the main neural activity of M1 is to command muscle activity and optimize the
      effector system´s operation, producing a more uniform, efficient and coordinated motor
      response, including postural responses to mechanical disturbances.

      When one of the organs involved in this function is compromised, regardless of the age of the
      individuals, whether due to injury or a change in functioning or integration, body
      oscillations happen. Historically, balance deficit (and consequent falls) are considered
      normal and acceptable in childhood, however, it is necessary to be careful with falls and
      their consequences in children with mobility or behavioral diseases. Physical therapy is
      essential in the rehabilitation of children and adults with balance deficit, with or without
      injury in nervous system. Currently, there is an increasing number of studies that have
      pointed Transcranial direct current stimulation (TDCS) as an efficient and safe device to
      modulate motor performance. To our knowledge, despite this growing number of studies, little
      is known about how much TDCS could add to an balance exercise protocol for children without
      structural damage in nervous system with balance deficit. Therefore, it is relevant to carry
      out studies in order to investigate and possibly elucidate the effects of TDCS on postural
      control and balance in children. Thus, the aim of this study is to identify the effects of
      adding anodic TDCS over M1 to exercises on postural control of children with balance deficit.
      This is a randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial.
    
  