
    
      Cardiac arrest is common and is associated with poor survival despite intensive medical care.
      These patients are subjected to cooling therapy to improve neurological outcomes. After
      cooling these patients are allowed to spontaneously return to normal body temperature. From
      here on, the outcome of these patients is mainly dependent on a wait and watch approach as
      the clinical examination of patients in a coma is very limited. Despite these attempts, 41%
      of these patients die and only 55 % of them have a favourable neurological outcome.

      There have been few clinical scoring systems to provide prognosis in the face of a cardiac
      arrest but none of them address the more serious group- those in coma. For patients in coma,
      their medications, particularly those that suppress the central nervous system, cause
      difficulty in their clinical assessment. Multiple ancillary tests, such as routine CT or MRI
      of brain, do not give any useful prognostic information. We hypothesize that the neurological
      outcome of patients in coma is mainly dependent on presence of brainstem function.

      To the best of our knowledge, no study has addressed the issue of brainstem function in
      cardiac arrest patients. This may be due to the fact that there was no imaging tool which
      could confidently depict the function of the brainstem. In a recently performed study in our
      institution, using CT perfusion technique, we have demonstrated that patients with diffusely
      impaired brainstem perfusion have poor prognosis and do not survive. This study is already
      being considered by the World Health Organization for the modification of criteria for the
      declaration of brain death. We suggest that a similar imaging technique will potentially be
      useful in prognosticating patients in coma following cardiac arrest.

      In the present pilot study, we propose to determine if performing CT perfusion scans in
      post-cardiac arrest patients in coma will help prognosticate the outcome in these patients.
      This may potentially help in early withdrawal of care in patients with significantly impaired
      brainstem function. If so, this will have a significant impact on patient care and can
      potentially have huge financial implications for the health care system. Such early decision
      making may also help in organ harvesting in suitable situations. This will potentially
      improve the quality of life in many other terminally ill patients.
    
  