
    
      Postoperative pain after cesarean delivery can have a significant negative impact on the
      mother's ability to care for her newborn and lead to complications such as thromboembolism,
      chronic pain, and depression. Postoperative analgesia for cesarean delivery has undergone
      remarkable improvement and is currently based on a multimodal approach to improve pain
      control and reduce the systemic complications of opiates. Despite this some patients still
      experience moderate to severe pain after cesarean delivery, and further strategies to improve
      analgesia and postoperative recovery are warranted.

      The use of intraperitoneal local anesthetics to reduce postoperative pain has been studied in
      a variety of surgical settings, such as hysterectomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy and minor
      laparoscopic gynecological procedures. These studies have compared different local
      anesthetics and the timing of local anesthetic delivery in relation to surgery, for example
      pre-procedure, at the end of surgery or via continuous catheter infusion. Intraperitoneal
      lidocaine at the end of surgery was associated with lower postoperative pain scores after
      total abdominal hysterectomy (200mg lidocaine) and laparoscopic cholecystectomy (400mg
      lidocaine). There is a large growing body of evidence to support the use of intraperitoneal
      local anesthetic to reduce postoperative pain. However, there is a lack of data to support
      its use in postcesarean delivery pain. The investigators found one study reporting a
      decreased incidence of postoperative pain following intraperitoneal lidocaine instillation at
      the end of cesarean delivery, in which the parietal peritoneum had been sutured.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of intraperitoneal lidocaine 400mg
      instillation at the end of cesarean delivery on maternal pain scores and satisfaction, in the
      context of a multimodal analgesic regimen inclusive of intrathecal opioids and systemic
      NSAIDs, acetaminophen and opioids. The investigators hypothesize that intraperitoneal
      lidocaine will decrease VAS pain scores, reduce opioid consumption and opioid related side
      effects, and increase maternal satisfaction after cesarean delivery.
    
  