
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This population based study was significant because it offered a multidisciplinary, community
      HBP control program to help close the gap in health status for African Americans. The study
      was conducted in response to a demonstration and education initiative, "Improving
      Hypertensive Care for Inner City Minorities", which was reviewed and approved by the Clinical
      Applications and Prevention Advisory Committee in April 1992 and by the National Heart, Lung,
      and Blood Advisory Council in May 1992. The Request for Applications was released in October
      1992.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The two and a half year intervention trial sought to extend and test the generalizability of
      prior work in a similar inner city African American community, which demonstrated the
      efficacy of planned health education programs that were culturally-sensitive, community-based
      and owned, and built upon appropriate behavioral and community activation theory and
      principles, in improving the control of HBP and decreasing related morbidity and mortality.

      Five hundred men and 500 women were recruited from households in neighborhood blocks randomly
      assigned to a more or less intensive educational-behavioral intervention. Both groups
      received usual medical care, community HBP education, and HBP patient education materials. In
      addition, the more intensive group received 1) individualized educational counseling sessions
      with the CHW to increase understanding of HBP and to address barriers to control of HBP; 2)
      outreach and follow-up to address inadequate health care resources and health behavior
      related skills through interim monitoring and education "booster" sessions; and 3)
      mobilization of social support from a family member/friend identified by the participant as
      the primary source of daily reinforcement.

      Statistical analysis focused on BP change in all adults with HBP on randomized blocks whether
      or not they participated in either of the intervention groups (program effectiveness), as
      well as BP change in all adults participating in the two interventions regardless of their
      level of compliance (intervention efficacy). In addition, the analysis focused on differences
      in the two groups regarding individuals' adherence to HBP lowering recommendations to
      enter/re-enter care, remain in care, modify lifestyle, and take HBP medication. Multiple
      regression was done to determine the contribution of the changes in the major independent
      variables (perceived barriers, use of health care resources and health care skills, and
      social support) to changes in the outcome and intervening variables which included adherence
      to HBP lowering recommendations.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  