
    
      [F-18]W372 is being developed as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical for PET imaging of the
      human brain.

      SMI is seeking to determine if [F-18]W372 might be useful as a noninvasive assessment tool in
      aid of clinical evaluations of subjects with conditions associated with increased amyloid-β
      deposits, such as Alzheimer's disease.

      Compared to the other non-invasive imaging approach, the values of amyloid PET imaging are
      more sensitive and accurate than previously established measures by FDG PET or volumetric MRI
      for diagnostic classification of subjects, suggesting that amyloid PET ligands may be more
      useful in differentiating among Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, and normal
      aging as well as other neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, this novel kind of molecular
      markers may provide advantages to measure amyloid plaques in vivo, have the potential to
      revolutionize early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, and hopefully will facilitate the AD
      diagnosis with improved accuracy.

      In this exploratory study, the novel PET ligand for imaging amyloid plaques will be evaluated
      in age-matched normals with low probability being AD and subjects with high probability being
      AD in order to determine the bio-distribution, visualize signal/background in brains, and
      ultimately evaluate the safety and feasibility of [F-18] W372 as a potential PET biomarker
      for imaging amyloids in human brains.

      The IP presents no known risks from either in vitro study in cell lines or in vivo study in
      animals according to preclinical investigations of this compound.

      The population to be studied consists of a total of approximately twenty adult subjects,
      which will be a two group assignment. Group one will consist of ten subjects who have a low
      probability of being currently positive for Alzheimer's disease (AD) as defined by the
      protocol criteria. Four of the ten subjects in Group one will undergo evaluations for
      dosimetry. Group two will consist of ten subjects who have a high probability of currently
      being positive for AD as defined by the protocol criteria.

      In the first year, this exploratory trial will be conducted as a Phase 0 study designed to
      evaluate bio-distribution data, to collect baseline imaging data, and to gather preliminary
      safety data for this investigational product. Based on the analyzed study results, this
      information will be considered in the design of future clinical trials.

      The primary objectives of this exploratory study are:

        -  To collect drug safety information, bio-distribution data, and radiation dosimetry
           estimation

        -  To evaluate the drug uptake and signal/background information in brain PET imaging for
           subjects having a high probability of being currently positive for AD and age-matched
           subject having a low probability of being currently positive for AD

        -  To use this exploratory Investigational New Drug (eIND) document in order to obtain the
           necessary information to file an IND (Investigational New Drug) application with the FDA
           (Food and Drug Administration)

      The secondary objective for this exploratory study is:

      • To begin collection of baseline PET imaging data and to gain information to improve the
      study design for the conduct of future trials

      The trial is expected to begin subject enrollment in approximately August 2009 and end
      subject participation in approximately December 2009, depending on the rate of enrollment.

      The subject is expected to attend several visits, adding up to several hours (about 10 hours)
      of participation over three visits: a screening visit (Visit 1 - about 2 hours), a PET/CT
      imaging visit (Visit 2 - about 3-4 hours), and a follow up visit (Visit 3 - about 1 hour)
      about 24 hours after receiving the investigational product.

      The investigational product will be administered to each qualified subject via a bolus
      injection (approximately 10 mCi will be administered for all subjects, except 20 mCi for the
      four subjects with a low probability of being positive for AD that are involved in the
      dosimetry analysis). This dose will not exceed 20 mCi, as the imaging time will extend out to
      approximately three hours. A larger dose (20 mCi) is needed in order to obtain quality images
      at the later time points.

      Each study subject study subject will undergo three (3) visits. Visit 1 will be an initial
      screening visit to obtain informed consent and to determine if the prospective subject meets
      inclusion / exclusion criteria by having eligibility blood labs drawn and assessing mental
      status by performing the Mini-Mental Status Exam (MMSE). Concomitant medications and adverse
      events are recorded from the time of informed consent through Visit 3. Visit 2 will be an
      imaging visit in which a physical exam is performed, vital signs are measured, ECG testing is
      done, and pre-dose blood labs are drawn for safety. The subject then receives one dose of
      investigational product and undergoes PET imaging. The subject will undergo additional vital
      sign measurements and ECG testing after dosing during Visit 2. Visit 3 will be done to repeat
      the drawing of blood labs for safety, measure vital signs, ECG testing is done. All three
      visits must be completed in order to complete participation in the study.
    
  