
    
      Healthy adult individuals will be invited to participate in this study, at the University of
      Iowa, that involves one visit lasting 3-4 hours. The primary purpose of this work is to
      determine the effects of Malleo-Lok stiffness on gait biomechanics and ankle joint stiffness.
      Previous work has highlighted the effects of ankle foot orthosis stiffness on gait using
      devices with a traditional single posterior strut opposed to the Malleo-Lok, which has two
      laterally positioned struts. Orthosis stiffness is an important factor to consider during
      device prescription and manufacturing. The ability to tune overall joint level stiffness by
      determining the combined effects of biological limb stiffness and orthosis stiffness will
      enhance precision medicine when treating individuals who require an orthosis for daily
      activities. The secondary purpose of this research study is to determine the within session
      repeatability of a novel approach for in-vivo AFO stiffness testing. AFO stiffness testing is
      typically performed using mechanical testing systems without accounting for the interaction
      of the individual and the device.

      During the visit to the University of Iowa campus participants will review a list of
      inclusion and exclusion criteria to determine their eligibility for this study. Eligible
      participants will review an informed consent document and have the chance to ask any
      questions they may have. Study staff will thoroughly explain the informed consent document
      and answer all questions. Upon signing the informed consent document study activities will
      begin. Participants will complete all study activities wearing no brace and two braces of
      differing stiffness's. Anthropometric and demographic information will be collected from each
      participant. The investigators will also use a motion capture system to evaluate gait
      biomechanics and ankle joint stiffness. Participants will walk at a self-selected and a
      controlled speed to evaluate gait biomechanics, and will stand in the motion capture system
      and bring their knee forward over the foot to evaluate ankle joint stiffness. Participants
      will be provided visual feedback of muscle activity to minimize lower limb muscle activity
      during ankle stiffness testing.

      Results from the proposed study will provide information about the effects of orthosis
      stiffness on gait biomechanics and ankle joint stiffness. Study results will be made
      available to clinicians to use when prescribing and fitting individuals with ankle foot
      orthoses.
    
  