
    
      Central venous catheterization is a ubiquitous procedure in intensive care units and is
      mainly used for drug administration, hemodynamic monitoring and hemodialysis. Only in US more
      than five million catheters are inserted annually. One of the main complications associated
      to central venous lines are the mechanical ones, i.e. arterial puncture, bleeding and
      hematoma formation, which varies between 5% and 19%. The use of real-time ultrasonography to
      accomplish central venous catheterization was associated to a drastic reduction in
      complication rates, and when performed by trained personnel, some series show complications
      rates <1%, even in patients with coagulopathy.

      Patients presenting with chronic liver failure has a complex coagulation system balance,
      resulting from reduction in the majority of procoagulant and anticoagulant factors, opposed
      by preservation of thrombin generation. Thus, these patients are prone to develop hemorrhagic
      and thrombotic phenomena. The coagulation of cirrhotic patients have been classically
      evaluated by standard coagulation tests. Nevertheless, these tests present important
      limitations, as evaluation of plasmatic component only, and do not predict bleeding risk. The
      thromboelastometry is a point-of-care real-time coagulation system evaluation with the
      advantage of evaluating the cellular and plasmatic components of the coagulation and present
      a more comprehensive evaluation of blood coagulation, specially in cirrhotics. This
      technology is associated with reduced costs in diverse clinical settings.

      In clinical practice, approximately 90% of physicians empirically transfuse blood components
      to cirrhotic patients before invasive procedures. This practice is associated to increased
      risks related to blood transfusion per se, e.g. blood borne infections, immunologic and
      non-immunologic adverse reactions, to cite some. Several randomized clinical trials have
      shown that restrictive blood transfusion strategies are associated to better outcomes,
      including mortality.
    
  