
    
      -  Platinum derivatives and their toxicity Cisplatin, carboplatin, and oxaliplatin are
           major cytotoxic agents used in the treatment of many types of cancer. They exert their
           cytotoxic action by forming DNA adducts. However, their structural differences confer
           different pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties, and especially different
           toxicity profiles. Cisplatin induces a risk of nephrotoxicity at all ages, peripheral
           neuropathy of the extremities in young adults and a risk of ototoxicity in children.
           Carboplatin is essentially haematotoxic and sometimes ototoxic (especially at high
           doses), while oxaliplatin is essentially neurotoxic. Ototoxicity is measured by
           pure-tone audiometry and is scored from grade 0 to grade 4, where grades 3 and 4
           correspond to severe ototoxicity, according to the Brock grading system, the reference
           system for measuring ototoxicity at the time of treatment of these children and up until
           the present time (Brock et al., 1991) (Peters et al., 2000). Ototoxicity limits the
           cumulative dose of platinum derivatives in children. Cisplatin remains a major drug in
           paediatric oncology (osteosarcoma, high-risk neuroblastoma, malignant germ cell tumours,
           hepatoblastoma, medulloblastoma, other brain tumours). Cisplatin ototoxicity is fairly
           frequent and can be very severe (more than 50% of grade 1 or higher ototoxicity; 15% of
           grade 3 or 4 ototoxicity) (Bertolini et al., 2004). Carboplatin, an important component
           of the treatment of many embryonal tumours (neuroblastoma, medulloblastoma,
           retinoblastoma) is less frequently responsible for ototoxicity (between 1 and 5% of
           grade 1 or higher ototoxicity), but can nevertheless occasionally cause serious
           ototoxicity (1% of grade 4) (Jehanne et al., 2009). Ototoxicity can also appear and
           deteriorate for several years after treatment (median time to discovery of carboplatin
           ototoxicity: 3.7 years), while no cases of recovery of high-grade hearing loss have been
           reported (Bertolini et al., 2004; Jehanne et al., 2009). These ototoxicity phenomena can
           have very harmful consequences for the child's social development and schooling.
           Oxaliplatin will be excluded from this study, as few children are currently treated with
           this molecule, which is generally not ototoxic.

        -  Detoxification of platinum derivatives The glutathione (GSH) conjugation pathway is
           involved in detoxification of platinum derivatives and decreases their cytotoxicity by
           inhibiting the formation of DNA adducts. Conjugation to GSH is ensured by
           glutathione-S-transferases (GSTs), which constitute a multigenic family of enzymes
           involved in phase II metabolism that inactivate electrophilic molecules by conjugating
           them to glutathione, thereby promoting their elimination. GSTP1 is particularly involved
           in the conjugation of platinum derivatives. Elimination of glutathione conjugates then
           involves membrane transporters. These conjugates can be expelled from target tumour
           cells and then eliminated, essentially in the urine, by efflux membrane transporters,
           particularly MRP2 (Sun et al., 2009). Two other enzymes, thiopurine S-methyltransferase
           (TPMT) and catechol O-methyltransferase, have been reported to be associated with
           increased toxicity of cisplatin when their activity is decreased (Ross et al., 2009).

        -  Genetic factors predisposing to or protecting against the toxicity of platinum
           derivatives Several GST isoenzymes present polymorphisms modifying their activity. This
           is the case for the GSTM1 and GSTT1 isoenzymes, which can undergo deletions responsible
           for loss of activity of the enzyme, and GSTM3, for which the GSTM3*B allele has been
           associated with induction of enzyme activity by cisplatin (Peters et al., 2000). An A/G
           polymorphism situated in the substrate binding domain of the GSTP1 isoenzyme in position
           +313 of exon 5 (A313G) induces substitution of a isoleucine by a valine (Ile105Val).
           This polymorphism is relatively frequent (about 10% of homozygous mutants in Caucasian
           populations). It influences the activity of the enzyme and has been associated with
           better survival of patients receiving platinum-based chemotherapy (Goekkurt et al.,
           2006; Stoehlmacher et al., 2002; Sun et al., 2009). This polymorphism has also been
           shown to influence the toxicity of platinum-based treatments. For example, one study
           showed that the neurotoxicity of oxaliplatin was more frequent in subjects homozygous
           for GSTP1 105Ile allele than in heterozygous subjects or subjects homozygous for the
           GSTP1 105Val allele (odds ratio = 5.75). (Lecomte et al., 2006). This protective effect
           of the mutant allele has also been demonstrated for docetaxel peripheral neuropathies
           (odds ratio = 6.11) and cisplatin ototoxicity in testicular cancers in young men (Mir et
           al., 2009; Oldenburg et al., 2007).

      A study conducted in children demonstrated an association between GSTM1 and GSTT1
      polymorphisms (presence of at least one null genotype) and the development of grade 3 or
      higher toxicity related to treatment of medulloblastoma. However, this study, based on a
      small sample of children (42 children, 19 of whom experienced severe ototoxicity) and
      comprising patients receiving very different treatments, was unable to determine the
      proportion of toxicity specifically related to platinum derivatives, as some patients also
      received brain irradiation. Furthermore, this association between GST polymorphisms and
      toxicity was not observed when the analysis was specifically confined to grade 3 or higher
      ototoxicity. Finally, the role of GSTP1 Ile105Val polymorphism has not been evaluated in
      children (Barahmani et al., 2009). To our knowledge, only one study has specifically
      evaluated the potential impact of GST polymorphism on cisplatin ototoxicity in children. This
      study showed a protective effect of the GSTM3*B variant, but did not observe a protective
      effect of the GSTP1 105Val allele with respect to ototoxicity, as demonstrated in adults for
      neurotoxicity. However, these findings were based on small sample sizes (20 patients with
      ototoxicity versus 19 patients without ototoxicity) and the ototoxicity experienced by these
      patients was grade 2 (8 patients) or 3 (12 patients) with no cases of grade 4 ototoxicity
      (Peters et al., 2000). The results of this study therefore need to be confirmed by a study
      comprising a greater number of patients, cases and controls, including patients with more
      severe ototoxicity. Ross et al., studying drug metabolism enzymes, demonstrated a highly
      significant association between cisplatin ototoxicity in children and genetic variants of
      TPMT (rs12201199, p = 0.00022, OR = 17.0) and COMT (rs9332377, p = 0.00018, OR = 5.5).
      However, as the role of these enzymes in detoxification of platinum derivatives has not been
      previously reported, these results need to be confirmed by other studies with, in particular,
      matching for age, exclusion of cases of grade 2 ototoxicity from the group of severe
      ototoxicity, and a greater number of control patients (Ross et al., 2009). Finally, no study
      has investigated the genetic factors involved in carboplatin ototoxicity in children. One
      study concerning membrane transporters showed that a common polymorphism situated in the
      promoter region of the MRP2 (-24C>T) transporter gene was associated with a better response
      to platinum-based chemotherapy (allelic frequency: 18% of Caucasian) (Cascorbi, 2006; Sun et
      al., 2009). It would be interesting to determine whether polymorphisms affecting this gene
      can also modulate the toxicity of these treatments. A polymorphism of the gene coding for the
      influx transporter OCT2 (c.808G>T; p.270Ala>Ser) has also been shown to be associated in vivo
      and in vitro in mice with a protective effect in relation to cisplatin nephrotoxicity and
      ototoxicity (Ciarimboli et al.; Filipski et al., 2009), but the potential influence of this
      polymorphism on platinum ototoxicity has never been demonstrated in man. It therefore appears
      very interesting to study the potential impact of this polymorphism in the context of our
      study.

      In summary, all of these studies clearly confirm the hypothesis that genetic factors are
      involved in the predisposition of some children to experience harmful ototoxic effects of
      platinum derivatives, particularly cisplatin and carboplatin. These studies also suggest the
      existence of good candidate gene variants likely to be associated with the development of
      this ototoxicity. However, the results of most these studies have either not been reproduced
      or remain controversial, indicating the need for confirmation studies based on larger sample
      sizes and more homogeneous patient groups in terms of treatment, as in the Otoplat study.
    
  