
    
      Effective implementation of evidence-based practices (EBPs) to address complex and widespread
      public health issues, such as substance use disorders (SUDs) and HIV, remains a substantial
      challenge. Leadership and organizational context are associated with implementation climate
      and attitudes toward EBP, as well as clinical outcomes such as client satisfaction and
      quality of life. While there are many leadership development approaches, they are often not
      based on empirically supported approaches and curricula, nor are they specifically designed
      to develop strategic climates for EBP implementation. This project addresses these concerns
      and advances implementation science by testing the effects of the Leadership and
      Organizational Change for Implementation (LOCI) intervention. The goals of the LOCI
      intervention are to improve general leadership and implementation leadership and utilize
      organizational strategies to create a positive strategic organizational climate for EBP
      implementation. These should lead to more positive SUD treatment provider attitudes and
      behaviors that support EBP implementation outcomes of intervention fidelity and
      implementation process. Consistent with the Exploration, Preparation, Implementation,
      Sustainment (EPIS) conceptual framework, LOCI creates change at multiple levels within a
      provider organization (e.g., executives/mid- managers, workgroup leader, service provider) to
      foster a context supportive of EBP implementation and sustainment. Initial support for the
      feasibility, acceptability, and utility of the LOCI intervention have been successfully
      demonstrated in an NIH supported pilot study (R21MH082731, PI: Aarons). The proposed study
      will test whether LOCI can achieve change in outcomes of general and implementation
      leadership, implementation climate, implementation process, and EBP fidelity in SUD treatment
      agencies. Seventy-two workgroup leaders and their providers (i.e., subordinates) will be
      randomized to either the LOCI condition or a webinar control condition. All direct SUD
      treatment providers in both conditions will receive training in Motivational Interviewing
      (MI), a leading EBP for SUD and HIV prevention and treatment. The test of LOCI will occur
      within four agencies that provide SUD treatment at multiple sites across California. The test
      of the LOCI intervention will include SUD service providers (n=320), workgroup leaders
      (n=60), and agency executives/mid-managers (n=16). Hypotheses will be tested comparing LOCI
      and control group outcomes of leadership, implementation climate, psychological safety
      climate, provider attitudes and behaviors, MI fidelity, and implementation process. The
      proposed study will provide a practical implementation strategy that can be utilized to
      improve workgroup leadership and strategic climate for EBP implementation.
    
  