
    
      Hepatic Encephalopathy (HE) is a reversible neuropsychiatric syndrome that develops in
      patients with cirrhosis due to the accumulation of a variety of toxic substances that are
      produced from bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. It is characterized by slowing of
      function of the brain function and ranges in severity from mild cognitive impairment (grade
      1), presence of a shaking tremor called asterixis (grade 2), lethargy but arousable state
      (grade 3), and coma (grade 4). Decreased kidney function exacerbates the condition, and
      hospitalized patients with cirrhosis with new onset kidney failure are at risk for the
      development of severe HE.

      Possible treatments for HE include lactulose and antibiotics. Lactulose reduces the
      production of many of the toxins by the bacteria, and antibiotics work by reducing the number
      of bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. Rifaximin is an antibiotic that is an antibiotic
      that is not absorbed, possesses a wide antibacterial spectrum, and was approved by the Food
      and Drug Administration in 3/2010 for prevention of relapse for patients with recurrent
      severe hepatic encephalopathy. The aim of the current study is to determine whether rifaximin
      or lactulose is more effective in preventing the development of severe hepatic encephalopathy
      in hospitalized patients with cirrhosis and new onset kidney failure.

      To determine whether rifaximin or lactulose is more effective in preventing severe HE,
      seventy consecutive hospitalized patients with cirrhosis and new onset kidney failure will be
      recruited. New onset kidney failure will defined as a progressive and sustained increase in
      serum creatinine >0.5mg/dl from baseline to a value of 2.0mg/dl or greater within 3 days.
      Subjects will be randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups:

      Group A: Lactulose 20g dose titrated to 2-3 soft-formed bowel movements per day Group B:
      Rifaximin 550mg tablet twice daily. Subjects will be followed daily for two weeks or until
      hospital discharge. Severity of hepatic encephalopathy will be graded by physical
      examination, review of hospital chart, and performance of standard paper and pencil tests
      that evaluates the ability to concentrate. In addition, approximately one tablespoon will be
      drawn twice a week at every 3 to 4 day for ammonia level and other toxins. A sample of breath
      will also be collected by having the subjects breathe into a collection bag to measure
      substances that determine whether there are bacteria present in the small intestine.
      Treatment success is defined as prevention of grade 3 or 4 HE during hospitalization.
    
  