
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival of patients with unresectable colorectal
           cancer metastatic to the liver treated with regional and systemic chemotherapy with or
           without isolated hepatic perfusion with melphalan.

        -  Compare the response rate and duration of response in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the patterns of recurrence (liver vs systemic) in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the health-related quality of life (QOL) of patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Determine whether baseline QOL correlates with length of survival of patients treated
           with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to prior chemotherapy
      for liver metastasis (yes vs no) and percentage of hepatic replacement (less than 25% vs at
      least 25%). All patients undergo laparotomy to determine final eligibility. Eligible patients
      are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients undergo hyperthermic isolated hepatic perfusion with melphalan over 60
           minutes. Patients then undergo placement of an intrahepatic pump or port. At 6 weeks
           post hepatic perfusion, patients receive systemic chemotherapy comprising irinotecan IV
           over 90 minutes on day 1 followed by fluorouracil IV over 15 minutes and leucovorin
           calcium (CF) IV over 15 minutes on days 1-3. Patients receive local chemotherapy
           comprising floxuridine (FUDR) and CF by hepatic arterial infusion (HAI) continuously on
           days 14-28.

        -  Arm II: Patients undergo placement of an intrahepatic pump or port at laparotomy. At 7
           days post laparotomy, patients receive FUDR and CF by HAI continuously for 14 days.
           Beginning 2 weeks after completion of HAI, patients receive systemic and local
           chemotherapy as in arm I.

      Treatment with combined systemic and local chemotherapy repeats every 35 days for a maximum
      of 6 courses. Treatment with local chemotherapy alone repeats every 28 days for a maximum of
      6 additional courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, postoperatively, every third course of chemotherapy,
      every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 6 months thereafter.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 168 patients (84 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 54 months.
    
  