
    
      Aim 1. Compare the efficacy and tolerability of two 16-week strategies vs. control for
      treatment of CKD patients with MDD starting with (1) BAT or (2) bupropion, each augmented to
      a combination of both in non-remitters. Primary hypothesis: Treatment with either strategy
      will improve depression (primary endpoint) and be tolerable.

      Patients with non-dialysis stages 3b-5 CKD and MDD (N=201) will be randomized 1:1:1 to 16
      weeks of:

      Strategy 1: Single-blind BAT plus placebo, augmented in non-remitters at 8 weeks with
      single-blind bupropion; Strategy 2: Double-blind bupropion plus single-blind Clinical
      Management (CM) attention control, augmented in non-remitters at 8 weeks with single-blind
      BAT; Control: CM attention control plus placebo. There will be >80% power to detect a minimal
      clinically important difference (MCID) of 2 points on the Quick Inventory of Depressive
      Symptomatology between each intervention and control, assuming a 14% attrition rate.

      Exploratory aim (a): Explore if remote access to therapy via internet vs. travel to clinic
      affects treatment efficacy.

      Aim 2. Investigate efficacy and tolerability of 8 weeks (Phase 1) of (1) BAT plus placebo or
      (2) bupropion plus CM, vs. control, for improvement in depression. Secondary hypothesis:
      Treatment with 8 weeks of BAT or bupropion will improve depression. There will be 80% power
      to detect a MCID of 2 points between each arm and control, assuming 10% attrition.

      Exploratory aims:

      (a) Investigate whether patient preference for BAT vs. drug affects treatment efficacy; (b)
      compare efficacy of each combination in Phase 2 with control; (c) compare change from
      baseline in plasma C-reactive protein in drug vs. BAT or control arms.

      Aim 3. Investigate the efficacy of these two 16-week treatment strategies vs. control for
      improvement in CKD patient-centered outcomes including: (a) adherence to medications and
      healthcare visits; (b) fatigue; (c) sleep; (d) overall functioning. Secondary hypothesis:
      Treatment with either strategy will result in clinically meaningful improvements in
      adherence, fatigue, sleep and overall functioning in patients with CKD.
    
  