
    
      Lateral knee x rays will be collected from the registry system of Assiut University Hospital
      through Paxera pacs system . Posterior condylar offset, posterior condylar offset ratio and
      tibial slope will be measured from the x rays.

      In the sagittal plane, the femoral long axis will be drawn with equal distance to the
      anterior-posterior edges of the femoral shaft. One line will be drawn parallel to the
      anterior femoral shaft cortex and another parallel to the posterior femoral shaft cortex. A
      third line will be drawn parallel to the posterior femoral shaft cortex line, but tangent to
      the most posterior femoral condyles to represent the posterior condylar tangent line. The
      anterior-posterior dimension of the distal femur is defined as the distance between the
      anterior femoral shaft cortex line and the posterior femoral condyle tangent line . The
      posterior femoral condyle offset (PCO) is determined as the distance between the posterior
      femoral shaft cortex line and the posterior femoral condyle line, that is noted as PCO .The
      posterior femoral condyle offset ratio (PCOR) is calculated as the ratio of the posterior
      femoral condyle offset and the anterior-posterior dimension of the distal femur, i.e.,
      PCO/ACP.

      Tibial slope will be measured as follows; the tangent to the medial tibial plateau is
      considered to be the proximal reference line. This is the line connecting the highest
      anterior and posterior points of the medial plateau. The second reference is the axis of the
      tibia, defined as a line through the middle of the shaft at 10 and 20 cm. The angle between
      these two lines is the tibial slope.

      Data of the cases will be collected as name, age and gender. The results will be collected
      and will be compared with those of Asian and Western results. These results may be important
      to examine if contemporary TKA components match the anatomy of Egyptian populations or they
      are significantly different with the need of different prosthesis designs and geometrics.
    
  