
    
      Establishing the feasibility of an Internet-based format for the delivery of evidence-based
      parent management is a critical step in the evaluation of technological innovations and their
      potential for advancing children's mental health care. Drawing on teleconferencing
      technology, such a format affords real-time interactions for the provision of care
      traditionally delivered in person, regardless of a family's geographic proximity to a mental
      health facility. Moreover, drawing on technological innovation to deliver interventions
      directly to families in their natural settings may extend the ecological validity of
      treatments, as treatments are delivered in the very contexts in which child problems occur.

      The objective of the present study is to develop an Internet-delivered Parent-Child
      Interaction Therapy (PCIT) protocol for preschoolers with Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD)
      or Conduct Disorder (CD) and to evaluate via randomized controlled trial (RCT) the
      feasibility and acceptability of enrolling, retaining, and treating children with I-PCIT
      relative to traditional PCIT. Phase I will involve development of an Internet-delivered PCIT
      (I-PCIT) protocol and treatment materials, including therapist treatment manual and online
      session handouts. Phase II will entail a case series: the PI will treat 5 consecutive
      preschool ODD/CD cases with I-PCIT, affording opportunity to further work out any
      difficulties with protocol or equipment. Phase III will entail testing the feasibility and
      acceptability of I-PCIT in a pilot RCT conducted with 40 children (ages 3-5) meeting for a
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM-IV) principal diagnosis of ODD or CD and their
      parent(s) randomly assigned to I-PCIT or traditional PCIT. Parents will provide informed
      consent. All eligible families will receive evidence based treatment. Treatment will either
      be either in-clinic Parent-Child Interaction Therapy (PCIT) or Internet-delivered PCIT
      (I-PCIT). Formal evaluations will be conducted at baseline, post-treatment, and 6-month
      follow-up. Families can opt to participate in two optional psychophysiological components of
      the study (one involving behavioral tasks while parents are monitored via physiological
      equipment, and one involving play tasks while children are monitored via physiological
      equipment). All assessments will be conducted in the Department of Psychology at Florida
      International University (FIU), in the Center for Children and Families.
    
  