
    
      STUDY PURPOSE: The purpose of this pilot randomized trial is to use quantitative and
      qualitative approaches to achieve the following objectives in the four key pilot trial
      domains:

      1. Scientific domain objectives:

      1.a.) To determine the potential effectiveness of a digital knowledge translation tool for
      parents/caregivers about pediatric acute gastroenteritis (AGE). KT tools are intended to
      impact end-user experience, including increasing knowledge, influencing healthcare decision
      making, and use of healthcare resources/services. Comprehension and retention of health
      information is a key component of the patient experience, a determinant of care instruction
      follow-through, and the cornerstone of health literacy; therefore, parental knowledge over
      time will be assessed. In addition to comprehension, educational materials may also influence
      health decision making; therefore, parental decision regret over time will be assessed to
      examine this impact in light of the decision to bring their child to the ED for care.
      Additionally, minimal clinically important differences (MCIDs) will be identified for both
      knowledge and decision regret outcome measures. Finally, healthcare utilization post-ED visit
      will be explored as a potential future outcome.

        1. b.) To understand the perceived benefit and value of KT tools for parents/caregivers of
           a child with pediatric AGE, including important components that enhance knowledge and
           decision making.

        2. Process domain objectives:

      2.a.) To examine the feasibility of using an electronic, web-based platform for intervention
      delivery and data collection with this population.

      3. Management domain objectives: 3.a.) To assess parent/caregivers' willingness to
      participate in future, similar research (i.e., full-scale trial).

      4. Resource domain objectives: 4.a.) To determine time required for participants to complete
      data collection forms.

      4.b.) To examine the feasibility of using iPads to collect data with parents/caregivers in
      the ED.

      HYPOTHESIS: This pilot trial is not designed to test hypotheses, but rather to gather initial
      data to justify and inform a future, full-scale trial.

      METHODS & DESIGN: This is a parallel-arm, pilot randomized trial.

      Recruitment: Consecutive individuals will be approached in the ED waiting room post-triage
      assessment during data collection recruitment hours (7 days/week, 0700 - 2300). A member of
      the study team (Research Coordinator, Research Assistant, etc.) will assess
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and review the information letter. Informed consent will be
      indicated on iPads as part of the electronic data collection platform.

      Interventions: Participants will view the experimental (3 minute, whiteboard animation video
      on pediatric acute gastroenteritis) and sham control (3 minute, CDC video on hand washing for
      infection control) interventions on an iPad in the ED waiting room post-triage assessment.
      Headphones will be provided with the iPad to both groups in the ED to maintain blinding. At
      the end of data collection in the ED (post-intervention questionnaire 1), participants can
      select to receive a link to their allocated video via email. Participants from the
      experimental intervention group that are participating in the qualitative interview will view
      the whiteboard animation video again at the start of the interview.

      Randomization: Blocked randomization with randomly chosen block sizes will be used to ensure
      equal distribution of participants to intervention and standard care intervention study arms.
      The blocked randomization sequence will be computer generated. Following sequence generation,
      the randomization sequence will be entered into a confidential module on the electronic
      platform. Once the sequence is entered, the randomization module will only be accessible
      using a confidential password. The randomization sequence will be kept confidential. It will
      be inaccessible to data collectors/outcome assessors and to the study participants.

      After completing the pre-intervention questionnaire, including demographic information and
      baseline outcome data, on the electronic data collection platform, participants will
      automatically be randomized to one of the study conditions (i.e., intervention or sham
      control) based on the randomization sequence. This process will be seamless to participants.
      After viewing the study condition materials, participants will be automatically directed to
      the first post-intervention questionnaire.

      Blinding: Using an electronic platform for data collection, study group allocation, and
      intervention viewing will allow participants to access the interventions and provide data
      independent of the research team. Participants will know they are viewing information on an
      iPad, but won't know how the content differs between groups because they will be using
      headphones. Participants and outcome assessors will not be able to determine group allocation
      and since all data is collected electronically there is no risk of unblinding during data
      collection, data cleaning and data analysis.

      Sample size estimate: Sample size calculations are not required for pilot/feasibility studies
      as hypothesis testing is not the focus of this research design. Rather, recruitment will take
      place over a 6-month period and will be evaluated for quantitative and qualitative components
      as part of the identified process outcome measures. This 6-month period is intended to
      reflect the seasonal nature of viral gastroenteritis, the most common cause of infection, in
      temperate climates. Recruitment will take place over the peak infection time of late winter.

      Philosophically, qualitative methods do not conduct prospective determinations of a sample
      size; instead, an adequate sample permits a deep, case oriented analysis that results in a
      new understanding of experience. In this study, 12-20 interviews with participants are
      anticipated to see patterns in experiences.

      Data collection:

        1. Pre-intervention questionnaire (baseline): Participants will complete a pre-intervention
           questionnaire that includes demographics, knowledge questionnaire, and Decision Regret
           Scale within the iCare Adventure platform on the iPad.

           **Participants will then be randomized to view the study intervention or the sham
           control intervention within the electronic platform on the iPad. This process will be
           seamless for the participants.

        2. Post-intervention questionnaire 1 (immediate): After viewing the intervention,
           participants will complete the knowledge questionnaire and Decision Regret Scale a
           second time. In addition, participants will complete 2 items assessing their own
           performance on the knowledge questionnaire and Decision Regret Scale and 1 item
           regarding the perceived value and benefit of the KT tool. They will also be asked if
           they would like a video link emailed to them. At the end of this questionnaire, parents
           will be informed that the post-intervention questionnaire 2 will be emailed to them 4
           days after this ED visit for completion at their earliest convenience. Experimental
           intervention group parents will be asked about participation in a qualitative focus
           group at this time.

        3. Post-intervention questionnaire 2 (4-14 days post-ED visit): Participants will be
           emailed a secure link on day 4 post-ED discharge to complete the knowledge questionnaire
           and Decision Regret Scale a third time 2 items assessing their own performance on the
           knowledge questionnaire and Decision Regret Scale, 3 items related to healthcare
           utilization, and 3 items related to the perceived value and benefit of the KT tool (if
           applicable). Reminders to complete post-intervention questionnaire 2 will be sent every
           third day (day 7, day 10, day 13). The last day for follow-up questionnaire completion
           will be 14 days post ED visit (10 days after follow-up survey sent to participant).
           Previous research has demonstrated that 82% of AGE cases are resolved in three days or
           less and 14 days represents the outer limit for pediatric AGE resolution.

        4. Post-intervention semi-structured interview (sub-sample of experimental group):
           Participants in the experimental group indicating willingness to participate in an
           in-depth, semi-structured, qualitative interview will be contacted via telephone after
           completion of post-intervention questionnaire 2. Up to three phone calls will be made to
           establish interview date/time. Qualitative interviews will take 30-60 minutes to
           complete and focus on satisfaction with the electronic data collection platform,
           perceived benefit and value of the KT intervention, and willingness to participate in
           future, similar research.

      Data analysis: All data will be aggregated and analyzed as per the Alberta Health Information
      Act. Quantitative data will be downloaded from a secure Canadian server to SPSS for data
      cleaning and analysis. Data cleaning measures may include recoding into categorical variables
      and comparing and recoding free text responses where appropriate. Descriptive statistics and
      estimation are the recommended focus of pilot/feasibility trials. Descriptive statistics
      (e.g., frequencies, measures of variation and spread, etc.) will be calculated to describe
      the study groups. Analyses will be conducted based on intention-to-treat overall and by site
      (Stollery, IWK) to identify any differences in the pattern of results.

      Qualitative data will be de-identified during verbatim transcription. Prior to analysis,
      transcripts will be verified by a member of the research team. Qualitative data will be
      managed and analyzed using NVivo data management software. Qualitative outcomes will be
      analyzed using thematic analysis by breaking interview text into small units for a detailed,
      nuanced account of the data. This iterative process will be concurrent to data collection.
      Thematic analysis will be guided by the hybrid approach of inductive and deductive coding and
      theme development described by Fereday & Muir-Cochrane (2006). Deductive coding of the
      interview transcripts will be done first using the semi-structured interview guide as a
      framework; smaller units of data that emerge inductively will be coded for increased
      granularity and specificity. To ensure analytic rigor, field notes will be collected during
      the data collection and analysis process and coded alongside interview data.
    
  