
    
      1. Orthodontic patients ages 12-19 (target 120 subjects) nearing the end of treatment with
           metal braces at the UCLA Orthodontic Clinic will be recruited.

        2. Patients will be consented by Dr. Joseph Mullen, or an eligible and trained orthodontic
           resident.

        3. Participants will be assigned into one of three groups via stratified permuted block
           randomization. The groups will receive treatment as follows in a split-mouth study
           design:

           Group 1 - extended contact varnish on upper left and lower right teeth, 5% fluoride
           varnish on upper right and lower left teeth Group 2 - placebo varnish on upper left and
           lower right teeth, extended contact varnish on upper right and lower left teeth Group 3
           - 5% fluoride varnish on upper left and lower right teeth, placebo varnish on upper
           right and lower left teeth

        4. On the day their braces are coming off, each subject will fill out an oral health
           questionnaire and the investigators will use Trace Plaque Disclosing Liquid (a safe,
           commercially available product) to visualize the plaque. Intraoral photos of only the
           teeth surfaces will be taken. Dental plaque samples will be collected from buccal
           surfaces of the teeth. The plaque will be collected with a sterile dental instrument and
           carefully deposited into a sterile plastic collection tube containing a nutrient
           solution for the bacteria. After collection, the samples will be taken to the laboratory
           for further analysis and no subject identifiers will be used. Total DNA from each will
           be extracted, and sequencing analysis will be performed in order to determine the
           relative abundance of each species in the samples.

        5. After the subject's braces are removed, a professional cleaning will be done of the
           subjects teeth to remove all remaining plaque and calculus buildup on the teeth.

        6. After the cleaning, the subject will rinse with water and a second set of intraoral
           photos will be taken. The teeth will then be air dried for 15 seconds, and a third set
           of intraoral photos will be taken.

        7. The extent of the demineralized white spot lesions will be quantitatively assessed using
           the DiagnoDent, where a light is shined on the teeth and the fluorescence is measured to
           assess the depth/severity of the demineralization.

        8. The study varnishes will be applied to the patient's teeth (according to the
           manufacturer's instructions), consistent with their group allocation.

        9. The patient will be given written post-op instructions, including oral hygiene
           instructions to use OTC sodium fluoride toothpaste and a manual toothbrush. The subjects
           will be asked to refrain from using adjunctive fluoride products (such as mouthwash) for
           the duration of the study. Since all subjects will receive another professional cleaning
           at their 6-month visit (consistent with the standard of care to receive professional
           cleanings every 6 months), they will be asked to not receive additional dental cleanings
           from outside providers.

       10. Subjects will return to the clinic after 30, 90, and 180 days. At each appointment, they
           will have their plaque disclosed with Trace Plaque Disclosing solution, have 3 sets of
           intraoral photos taken (with plaque, with clean/moist teeth, and with clean/dry teeth),
           have the white spot lesion severity measured with the DiagnoDent, and have the varnishes
           reapplied to their teeth.

       11. At the final visit (day 180), subjects will receive a professional dental cleaning after
           the photos have been assessed.

       12. After study completion, blinded investigators will use the intraoral photos to (1)
           assess the extent of plaque using various plaque indices, and (2) assess the severity of
           white spot lesions using various visual indices.
    
  