
    
      BACKGROUND Atrial fibrillation ablation procedures typically involve isolation of all
      pulmonary veins (PVs), yet the need for such an extensive ablation strategy in all patients
      is unclear.

      OBJECTIVE:

      We conduct a randomized study comparing the safety and effectiveness of two interventional
      ablation techniques for treatment of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation: the segmental pulmonary
      vein ablation approach, (1) with empiric isolation of all pulmonary veins or (2) Segmental
      Isolation of only the arrhythmogenic pulmonary vein(s). The single-blind interventional,
      randomized study will include 106 patients in each arm.

      A reablation procedure, with the use of the same technique as the first ablation, will be
      offered to the patient in case of a symptomatic atrial fibrillation recurrence beyond the
      third month after the ablation procedure.

      Follow-Up After discharge, patients w ill be scheduled for repeated visits in the arrhythmia
      clinic at 3 and 6 months after the first ablation. At each of these visits, intensive
      questioning for arrhythmia-related symptoms (fatigue, dizziness, and nausea) since the last
      follow-up visit was performed, especially for those that the patient had experienced before
      ablation. At every follow-up visit, 7-day Holter monitoring w ill be performed. Multislice CT
      or MRI of the pulmonary vein w ill be obtained before and 3 months after the ablation
      procedure for evaluation of the pulmonary vein anatomy and for detection of radiofrequency
      ablation-induced pulmonary vein stenosis .

      Study End Points and Definitions The primary end point of the study will be freedom from
      atrial tachyarrhythmias (of > 30-second duration) including atrial fibrillation and atypical
      atrial flutter documented by 7-day Holter monitoring performed at the 6-month follow-up. Two
      secondary study end points will be chosen. The first will be freedom from arrhythmia-related
      symptoms during the 6-month follow-up. Because early recurrences of atrial tachyarrhythmias
      within the first month after ablation may be a transient phenomenon, this time interval was
      excluded from analysis. Second, a composite of periprocedural pericardial tamponade,
      thromboembolic complications, and pulmonary vein stenosis with > 50% lumen loss (main vessel
      or first branching) was defined as a safety end point
    
  