
    
      The study is a six month open-label treatment with Vyvanse, a novel preparation of the
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) medication dextroamphetamine in which the
      drug is inactivated and only becomes reactivated when digested. Vyvanse is thought to be
      safer in youth at risk for substance use disorder because it is harder to abuse and divert.
      It is FDA approved to treat ADHD in children age 6 through 12. Although there are no negative
      studies in adolescents 13-15, efficacy has not been established in the latter age group.

      In this study 30 adolescents (ages 11-15) will be identified who have Attention Deficit
      Disorder and are at risk for alcohol and substance use problems. We propose to treat their
      Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder with Vyvanse in the hope that it may prevent ADHD
      from promoting the development of alcohol and substance abuse problems. Our main goal is to
      see if we can identify children who are at risk because they have an older sibling who
      already has a substance abuse problem and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. This is
      dubbed "the younger sibling design." Families will be recruited via contacts in adolescent
      substance abuse treatment centers (e.g. Phoenix House, Odyssey House). Participating
      substance abuse treatment centers will inform families of our study. We will conduct two
      phone screens followed by an in person evaluation to determine eligibility. Relevant
      information includes family history with special emphasis on the growth and development of
      both children, as well as the results of a comprehensive clinical evaluation of the younger
      child. Subjects will therefore be the younger siblings of substance abusers in which both
      sibs have ADHD but only the older sib uses drugs or alcohol regularly. All subjects will
      receive active medication and all will be assessed weekly for the first three months of the
      study and monthly for three months thereafter. The assessments will focus on ADHD symptoms,
      substance use, and overall adolescent problem behaviors.
    
  