
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS), which comprises repeated episodes of total cessation
      of upper airway flow during sleep, is an underdiagnosed diasease and is closely related to
      major physiological desadjustments that compromises the systemic health of the human
      organism, including triggering death events; It is not surprising, therefore, that the
      prevalence of OSAS in adults and elderly varies widely.

      Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the instrument used as first-line treatment for
      OSAS because it has significant responses in attenuating the severity of the syndrome,
      however, the design and logistical operation of the use of this instrument compromise the
      adherence to OSAS treatment .

      In this sense, strategies such as regular exercise practice have promising initial results
      for the treatment of OSAS, despite the gaps that still exist due to the scarcity of studies
      completed in this area. To this end, it should be noted that studies evaluating the effects
      of exercise on the severity of OSAS deal mostly with adults / middle-aged adults in aerobic
      and / or resistance exercise practices performed in a terrestrial environment with
      alternation only of the ergometer used. Studies on physical exercise and OSAS in the elderly
      present marked scarcity and only one randomized clinical trial administered to elderly men
      was found.

      The prescription of physical exercise for the elderly requires some precautions and
      precautions arising from the maladjustments that senescence promotes and that compromise the
      functionality of organic systems. These misfits include, among other things, the attenuation
      of lean mass with consequent reduction in muscle strength and dynamic balance; Such damages
      trigger, in the elderly, fall events that, linked to the reduction of bone mineral density
      due to aging, not infrequently lead to the physical and functional disability of the elderly.

      Physical exercise performed in the aquatic environment, therefore, emerges as a safe and
      effective alternative in promoting physical and functional improvements for various
      populations due to the physical principles of water that promote buoyancy, reduction of joint
      stress, subjective perception of pain and exercise fatigue.

      Therefore, the aim of the present study is to evaluate the effects of a 24-week aquatic
      training program on the severity of obstructive sleep apnea syndrome in older women and is
      justified in the emerging needs of 1) finding alternative solutions to CPAP use. , 2) use the
      practice of physical exercise as a tool in mitigating OSAS risk factors and severity; and 3)
      promote strategies of physical exertion as safe as they are effective for the elderly
      population to combat OSAS.
    
  