
    
      Background Rehabilitation is becoming increasingly important in the face of growing diversity
      and intensity of cancer treatment and so is treatment with haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation from a donor. Non-myeloablative allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation (NMA-HSCT) is associated with innumerable complications and side-effects and
      a high treatment-related mortality. Maintaining quality of life, physical and psychosocial
      functioning, and participation in society is therefore challenging for patients undergoing
      treatment with NMA-HSCT. This situation creates an urgent need for rehabilitation for
      patients to return to a meaningful everyday life, and for knowledge about how to best help
      this group of patients return to everyday life.

      Purpose The overall aim is to develop and evaluate the feasibility of a targeted multimodal
      interdisciplinary rehabilitation programme by involving patients undergoing NMA-HSCT.

      Method Three studies were planned in accordance with the theoretical framework of Complex
      Interventions.

      Study I A qualitative focus group interview study using the Interpretive Description
      methodology. The purpose was to explore the experiences and perspectives of NMA-HSCT patients
      regarding their challenges and needs during their return to everyday life after HSCT
      transplantation.

      Study II A feasibility study using a single arm pre-test post-test design. The aim was to
      develop and to assess feasibility of the multimodal interdisciplinary rehabilitation
      programme HAPPY in patients with haematological cancers, undergoing NMA-HSCT. Furthermore, to
      report health related quality of life, Patient Activation Measurement, VO2max, muscle power,
      body-composition, days at hospital, return to work and survival. A 6-month multimodal
      interdisciplinary rehabilitation programme was tested. The investigators used motivating
      interviewing technique, individual supervised physical exercise training, relaxation
      exercises, nutritional counselling and lessons for patients and relatives in small groups. To
      reach patients at home, the team phoned patients, who were also given tablets with access to
      the project's homepage and an interactive physical exercise programme. Feasibility parameters
      were acceptability, practicality, safety and programme adherence.

      Study III A qualitative interview study using the Interpretive Description methodology. The
      aim was to explore patients' experiences and perspectives on relevance and meaning of
      participating in the multimodal interdisciplinary rehabilitation programme HAPPY, and the
      programme's influence on handling everyday life, during and after NMA-HSCT.

      Perspectives The project contributes with knowledge about the feasibility of a rehabilitation
      programme targeted at a vulnerable group of chronic cancer patients with rare diseases. The
      study will document the impact of an interdisciplinary intervention anchored in the hospital
      setting but aimed at reaching patients at home. If the intervention enhances quality of life,
      patient activation and functioning, it may not only reduce the number of hospitalizations and
      use of healthcare services, but may also allow more patients to maintain contact with the
      labour market and resume participation in society.
    
  