
    
      Malnutrition is common in older people admitted to the hospital and can worsen after
      discharge. Therefore, it seems necessary to integrate nutritional support not only during the
      hospital stay but also in the period after discharge. The aim of this Randomized Controlled
      Trial (RCT) is to test whether nutritional support provided by a dietitian, using Nutrition
      Care Process in combination with delivered meals designed for the needs of older adults
      (group 1), improves nutritional status, muscle strength, physical function, quality of life
      and as a secondary outcome re-hospitalization and/or mortality of geriatric patients with
      malnutrition risk after discharge compared to currently used standard care (group 2 =
      control).

      Time and work plan:

      After 12 months

        -  Need identification and product ideas ready

        -  Packaging material ready

        -  Estimate of the feasibility of meals for old adults

        -  Allowances from the ethical committee, the data protection committee, the Ph.D.
           committee of the Faculty of Food Science and Nutrition at the University of Iceland.

      After 24 months

        -  The last participant recruited

        -  End of intervention

      After 36 months

        -  End of follow up

        -  Database ready

        -  First paper submitted

      Methods-Intervention

      This 24-week randomized controlled trial will randomize the participants (N = 200) to two
      groups. The dietitian (Ph.D. student) will perform a total of 5 home visits during the study
      period to participants in the intervention group. Meals will be delivered weekly to the
      participants. Outcome parameters will be measured just before discharge from the hospital and
      after 12 weeks and at 24 weeks in the home of the participants. Data on hospital re-admission
      and mortality will also be followed up at 12 months.

      The aim of the intervention is to implement individual dietetic advice and optimize
      participants' nutritional status by following the Nutritional Care Process*, involving
      nutritional assessment, diagnosis, intervention, monitoring, and evaluation. Dietary
      counseling, motivation, and education will help to maintain participants' body weight, and
      ensure that energy and protein requirements as well as for other critical nutrients are
      achieved.

      *The Nutrition Care Process (NCP) reflects the current state of the art in nutrition care and
      is designed to improve the consistency and quality of individualized care for patients and
      the predictability of the patient outcomes. It is not intended to standardize nutrition care
      for each patient, but to establish a standardized process for providing care.

      To achieve the aim, the dietitian (Ph.D. student) will meet the participants in the
      intervention group, six times.

        -  The day before discharge where baseline measurements will be done,

        -  1 week after discharge,

        -  3 weeks after discharge,

        -  6 weeks after discharge,

        -  9 weeks after discharge, and

        -  12 weeks after discharge where endpoint measurements will be done. The dietitian (Ph.D.
           student) will perform an individual nutritional assessment focusing on dietary intake,
           activity level and weight of each participant, as a basis for developing an
           individualized nutrition care plan consistent with estimated nutritional requirements
           and nutritional rehabilitation goals. Total fluid, energy- and protein requirements will
           be estimated for each patient. To assess dietary intake, the dietitian will perform a
           dietary history interview at each visit to determine fluid, energy and protein intake of
           the participant. Strategies for achieving fluid, energy and protein requirements and
           achieving compliance included dietary counseling with attention to nutritional risk
           factors, timing, size and frequency of meals, recommendations for nutrient dense foods
           and drinks, and provision of educational material.

      If relevant, the dietitian will:

        -  initiate the prescription of oral nutritional supplements with high energy and protein
           density that will be reimbursed by Health Insurance.

        -  Contact providers of meals-on-wheels to change the meals to high energy and protein
           dense menu or to mashed/puréed food.

        -  Recommend use of vitamin D, calcium and other vitamins-minerals considered necessary to
           achieve optimal nutritional status,

        -  Invite home care and community nursing staff to participate in home visits to achieve
           the best possible outcome for the patient by interdisciplinary collaboration.

      If considered relevant the participants will receive a short consultation by telephone by the
      dietitian to give advice and to stimulate compliance to the proposed nutritional care plan
      in-between the home visits.

      The control group will meet the dietitian/staff for baseline, 12 weeks and at the 24-week
      endpoint measurements. The control group will not receive any dietary counseling or education
      during the study period which reflects current clinical practice.

      The Ph.D. students' contributions A Ph.D. student in clinical nutrition (Berglind Soffía
      Blondal) will be the project manager of the intervention study on a day-to-day base. The
      student will be supervised by Prof. Alfons Ramel and Assoc. Prof. Ólöf Guðný Geirsdóttir,
      both on the Faculty of Food Science and Nutrition. The student will be involved in
      application work to the ethical committee, screening, conduct of the intervention study, data
      work and writing of scientific papers.

      Ethics The study has been approved by the Ethics Committee of Landspitali- University
      Hospital of Iceland and informed written consent will be obtained from all participants. The
      study can only improve the nutritional status of geriatric patients that take part in the
      intervention groups. The participants in the control group, however, won't get any
      nutritional interventions and therefore have a greater risk of re-admissions and a worse
      overall outcome compared to the intervention groups.
    
  