
    
      For Caregivers:

      Symptoms of dehydration may include fatigue, muscle contractions, the need for sedation
      (calming medication), and hallucinations (where something is sensed that is not actually
      there). Hydration allows the body to get rid of the waste products from medications and other
      chemicals. When the fluid levels in the body are increased, the brain function may directly
      improve.

      If the patient under your care is found to be eligible to take part in this study, he or she
      will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of the coin) to one of 2 groups. Participants in
      Group 1 will receive normal saline (salt water) once a day. Participants in Group 2 will
      receive a lower amount of normal saline once a day. This lower amount is small enough to be
      considered a placebo. Doctors call something a placebo if it looks like the substance being
      tested but has no active ingredients (or in this case, few active ingredients).

      Both you and the patient will be asked to complete a number of questionnaires at the
      beginning of the study, on Days 1-7, and then every 3-5 days after that. Your questionnaires
      will ask about the feelings you may have about hydration and the care that you are providing
      to the patient. Each day's questionnaires will take about 30 minutes.

      Both you and the patient will also be interviewed by researchers at the beginning of the
      study and on Day 4 (+/- 2 days). The interviews will include questions about what it has been
      like for the patient to get fluids, whether the fluid was more like food or medicine, whether
      the patient has ever gotten dehydrated, and how you manage the patient's care. The interviews
      should each take about 30 minutes. The interviews in this study will be audio taped so the
      information can be studied by researchers. Only the research staff will listen to the audio
      tape of the interviews.

      If the patient goes off study, your participation in the study will be over.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 150 patients and 150 caregivers will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.

      For Patients:

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. You will be asked
      to complete a questionnaire. It will ask questions about your cancer diagnoses, the
      medications you are taking, and the symptoms you are having. The questionnaire also asks
      about your memory of being dehydrated, what it was like for you to get fluids, how you manage
      your care, and whether the fluid was more like food or medicine. It should take about 30
      minutes to complete.

      Both you and your caregiver will also be interviewed by researchers. There will be questions
      about what it has been like for you to get fluids, whether the fluid was more like food or
      medicine, and whether you have ever gotten dehydrated. Each interview should take about 30
      minutes. The interviews in this study will be audio taped so the information can be studied
      by researchers.

      The study staff will also check you for symptoms of muscle contraction, one of the signs of
      dehydration. The study staff will videotape your face, arms, hands, legs and toes for a total
      3-5 minutes on Days 1, 4, and 7, and then every 3-5 days after that.

      As part of the screening tests, you will also have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons) for
      routine tests. You will be asked questions about your ability to perform daily activities
      (performance status evaluation). You will be asked about any side effects you may have,
      including muscle contractions. You will also be asked to list any pain medications or other
      medications that you take.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be randomly assigned (as
      in the toss of the coin) to one of two groups. Participants in Group 1 will receive normal
      saline (salt water) once a day. Participants in Group 2 will receive a lower amount of normal
      saline once a day. This lower amount is small enough to be considered a placebo. Doctors call
      something a placebo if it looks like the substance being tested but has no active ingredients
      (or in this case, few active ingredients). You will have an equal chance of being placed in
      either group. Neither you nor any of the medical staff or researchers on this study will know
      which dose you are receiving.

      The research nurse will ask you to complete several questionnaires that ask questions about
      dehydration and the symptoms you may have experienced, including fatigue. The questionnaires
      will be completed on Days 1-7, and then every 3-5 days after that. In total, each day's
      questionnaires should take about 30 minutes. Your caregiver will also be asked about his or
      her memory of your dehydration. On Day 7, you will have blood drawn (about 2 teaspoons) for
      routine tests.

      Both you and your caregiver will also be interviewed by researchers on Day 4 (+/- 2 days),
      and then every 3-5 days after that. The interviews will be like the ones at screening.

      Starting on Day 1 of the study, you will receive saline through a catheter in a vein (over 4
      hours) every day. If you already have a central venous catheter, you will receive the saline
      through that catheter. If you do not have a central venous catheter, the saline will be
      infused under the skin. Either way, the infusion will last about 4 hours.

      During each infusion, an infusion research nurse will check to make sure that the saline is
      given properly. This nurse will know which treatment group you have been assigned to.

      Every day, the research nurse will ask you about the dehydration and any side effects you may
      have. Every day, the research nurse will also check the place where the infusion is given to
      make sure there is no infection.

      On Days 1-7 and then every 3-5 days, the research nurse will also check for any dehydration
      symptoms including the need for sedation, any restless feelings or actions, and/or muscle
      contractions. You will have a performance status evaluation daily. On Days 1-7, the research
      nurse will ask about any pain medications or other medications that you have taken.

      Every day, 2 hours [+/- 3 hours] after the infusion ends, you will also be checked by an
      assessment research nurse who will not know which treatment group you are in. The assessment
      research nurse will ask about any symptoms you may have. The study staff will also check you
      for symptoms of muscle contraction, one of the signs of dehydration. The study staff will
      videotape your face, arms, hands, legs and toes for a total 3-5 minutes on Days 1, 4, and 7,
      and then every 3-5 days after that.

      You may remain on study to receive the daily infusions for as long as you are benefitting up
      to Day 14 [+/- 3 days]. On Day 14 [+/- 3 days] you will be taken off study, and you will have
      off study assessments, which include questions about your symptoms including fatigue,
      performance status, medications you are taking, and dehydration symptoms. If intolerable side
      effects occur, you will be taken off study and given appropriate medical care. If you wish to
      continue receiving hydration fluids after you are taken off study [Day 14 +/- 3 days], you
      may discuss this option with your attending hospice physician. You may receive a liter of
      normal saline each day under the skin. Treatment will be given by hospice nurse. Fluid will
      be provided to you free of charge.

      This is an investigational study. Up to 150 patients and 150 caregivers will take part in
      this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  