
    
      Acute graft-versus-host disease (aGVHD), one of the most important complications of
      allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is associated with significant
      morbidity and mortality. Grades II to IV aGVHD occur in 30% to 50% of matched related donor
      recipients and 50% to 70% of unrelated donor recipients. Standard first-line treatment
      consists of methylprednisolone at a dose of 2 mg/kg/d or equivalent that produces response
      rates of 63% to 95% for grade II, 17% to 39% for grade III, and 0% to 6% for grade IV aGVHD.
      In aggregate, approximately 40% to 50% of patients with acute GVHD experience a complete or
      partial response with primary therapy, whereas 20% to 60% require salvage treatments. The
      1994 consensus conference on acute GVHD grading reported 100-day survival rates of 78% to 90%
      with grade I, 66% to 92% with grade II, 29% to 62% for grade III, and 23% to 25% for grade
      IV. The higher mortality rates were directly attributable to acute GVHD or to the subsequent
      immunosuppression from high-dose corticosteroids and other medications required for treatment
      of GVHD.

      Despite several studies seeking to improve first-line therapy for acute GVHD, standard care
      remains moderate-dose corticosteroids. Higher initial doses of corticosteroids, a more
      prolonged steroid tapering course, and addition of murine or equine anti-T-cell antibodies to
      standard GVHD therapy all failed to improve response rates. Acute GVHD therefore remains an
      unfavorable complication of transplantation that is difficult to manage. Various
      immunosuppressants including, Anti-thimocyte globulin (ATG), Denileukin Diftitox,
      Mycophenolate mofetil, Pentostatin, Infliximab, Rapamycin, Inolimomab and Daclizumab have
      been tried with variable success (table-1 in full protocol); there remains no consensus on
      the second-line treatment of aGVHD.

      Acute graft-versus-host-disease (aGVHD) is mediated by donor T-cells. The preventative and
      therapeutic strategies described above have therefore focused on quantitative reduction in T
      cells or reduction of their function through immune-modulation. The role of B-lymphocytes in
      the pathogenesis of GHVD is unclear. Recent reports of successful use of rituximab in cGVHD
      support the hypothesis that a coordinated B and T cell response is instrumental in cGVHD. The
      significance of B-cells in pathogenesis of aGVHD is unknown.

      Steroid Refractory Acute Graft-Versus-Host-Disease (SR-aGVHD) Initial treatment for aGVHD
      routinely consists of intensifying the dose of corticosteroids. This condition is called
      steroid-resistant (SR) aGVHD and requires secondary intervention.

      Rituximab is a human/murine chimeric monoclonal anti CD-20 antibody that is extensively used
      in patients with B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, or with autoimmune disease. The incidental
      observation of improvement in aGVHD following rituximab infusion for transplant-associated
      thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TA-TTP) and subsequent complete resolution of
      multi-agent refractory aGVHD in two patients forms the basis of this proposed pilot study.
      Table-2 (in full protocol) describes the patients and their responses to rituximab at our own
      institution.
    
  