
    
      Stroke, silent cerebral infarct (SCI), and cognitive impairment are frequent and highly
      morbid complications of sickle cell disease (SCD) in children. Current approaches to the
      prevention and treatment of neurological complications in SCD include screening by
      transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) to identify children with elevated cerebral blood flow
      velocity who are at increased risk for strokes; these children are then typically treated
      with chronic transfusions indefinitely. Hydroxyurea (HU) may have beneficial effects on
      central nervous system (CNS) complications in SCD and reduces the frequency of painful
      crisis, acute chest syndrome and transfusion. The safety of HU in infants and children has
      been suggested in a National Institutes of Health (NIH) sponsored phase III trial; however,
      the exact indications for the use of HU in children remain unclear, as well as its efficacy
      in preventing central nervous system (CNS) complications of SCD. Our preliminary data suggest
      that, if the cumulative frequency of abnormal TCD, SCI and stroke could be reduced by 50%,
      the majority of pediatric hematologists would prescribe HU to all young children with SCD.
      The long term goal of this project is to perform a primary prevention trial to demonstrate
      the neuroprotective effect of HU and broaden the indications for HU in children. The goals of
      this proposal are to: 1) conduct an internal pilot randomized placebo-controlled trial of HU
      to reduce the CNS complications of SCD (the term internal pilot is used, as the results from
      the participants in the pilot will be analyzed as part of a definitive phase III trial to
      follow); 2) demonstrate the safety of hydroxyurea and study procedures in young children with
      SCD; and 3) create the leadership, network of clinical centers and other procedures necessary
      to conduct a definitive phase III trial demonstrating the efficacy of HU for primary
      prevention of the neurological complications of SCD.

      The primary endpoint for the internal pilot and definitive phase III trials will be the
      development of abnormal TCD, SCI, TIA or stroke. To begin the internal pilot trial, the
      investigators obtained Clinical and Translational Science Award (CTSA) support at Johns
      Hopkins and Washington University; these sites will screen 40 participants 9-48 months of age
      and randomly assign and follow 20 participants for three years. Four additional centers
      (Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Vanderbilt University,Children's Hospital Medical
      Center, Cincinnati and the University of Alabama, Birmingham) began enrollment (up to 20
      patients screened and 10 participants randomly assigned per site), to provide a total of 80
      participants screened, 40 randomly assigned, and a minimum of 70 participant years of
      follow-up. Additional sites have been added. Participants must have TCD measurements that are
      well below transfusion thresholds and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain without
      evidence of SCI. Participants in the internal pilot will continue into a phase III trial, to
      complete 3 years on HU or placebo. The information from the internal pilot trial will be used
      to improve the design of the definitive phase III trial. The results of these studies could
      lead to true primary prevention of CNS complications of SCD, including abnormal TCD, SCI,
      neurocognitive impairment and stroke. In doing so, this study could also reduce the burden of
      chronic transfusions and change clinical practice by broadening the indications for HU.
    
  