
    
      1. Goals The overall goal of perioperative nutrition support is to abolish protein wasting
           and to promote anabolic processes by directing amino acids into protein synthesis rather
           than oxidation. Protein repletion and enhancement of anabolism appear to be particularly
           important in cancer patients who enter major abdominal surgery in a catabolic state.

        2. Objectives The objectives of this research program are

             -  to examine whether the anabolic effects of hypocaloric nutrition depend on the
                degree of catabolism before the operation and thus identify patients who benefit
                the most from perioperative nutrition support (study I)

             -  to investigate whether excluding glucose from hypocaloric nutrition, i.e. infusing
                an isonitrogenous amount of amino acids without glucose avoids hyperglycemia and,
                thus, accentuates the patient's anabolic response to feeding (study II).

      In order to confirm the validity of our assumptions we will perform two consecutive studies
      in two distinct patient populations. For the assessment of the patients' catabolic state and
      obtaining insight into the biochemical mechanisms, whereby the effects of nutrition are
      mediated, stable isotope tracer kinetics will be applied. Using primed continuous infusions
      of L-[1-13C]leucine and [6,6-2H2]glucose we will quantitate the whole body dynamics of
      protein and glucose metabolism, i.e. protein breakdown, amino acid oxidation, protein
      synthesis, glucose production and glucose uptake before and after surgery. A positive protein
      balance (difference between protein synthesis and protein breakdown) will be used as an
      indicator of anabolism. Anabolic processes at the organ level (liver, muscle), i.e.
      fractional synthesis rates of the acute phase proteins albumin and fibrinogen and muscle
      protein synthesis will be determined using L-[2H5]phenylalanine infusions. Skeletal muscle
      protein catabolism will be characterized by measuring the mRNA expression of ubiquitin and
      two of its key ligases in muscle (MAFbx/atrogen-1 and MuRF-1).
    
  