
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of an eHealth coaching program on the self-reported global health
      of women with breast cancer, as measured by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Patient
      Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) Global Health Scale version (v.)
      1.2.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the effect of an eHealth coaching program on the symptom experience of women
      with breast cancer as measured by the MDASI to MDASI-Br.

      II. To evaluate the effect of an eHealth coaching program on physical and mental health of
      women with a first-time diagnosis of breast cancer as measured by the subscales of the PROMIS
      Global Health Scale v 1.2.

      III. To evaluate the effect of an eHealth coaching program on the symptom experience and
      global health outcomes of women by:

      IIIa. Disease stage. IIIb. Active treatment type (i.e. surgery, radiation, chemotherapy,
      hormonal therapy, immunotherapy or a combination of these methodologies).

      IIIc. Time since diagnosis. IV. To evaluate the effect of an eHealth coaching program on the
      frequency of emergency room visits and hospital admissions for patients receiving treatment
      in the ambulatory setting.

      V. To evaluate the relationship between financial toxicity, as measured by the Consumer Score
      for Financial Toxicity (COST), and quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment
      of Quality of Life-Breast (FACT-B).

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 groups.

      GROUP I: Patients participate in PACK Health program consisting of weekly contact with an
      assigned health coach via text message, phone call, with or email for 3 months. Following the
      first 3 months of the program, study participants will then receive at least one touch point
      weekly between months 4-6 of their study enrollment, with additional engagement and frequency
      according to each patient's preference.

      GROUP II: Patients receive standard of care support services over 6 months.
    
  