
    
      The study is a cohort study using outpatients with Parkinson's Disease in Hoen and Yahr Stage
      2.5 - 3. Participants will have pre- and post-exercise testing, as well as participate in an
      8-week balance-training program.

      Subjects Subjects will be recruited from the outpatient clinics (physician, therapy) at the
      Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago (RIC) as well as the Northwestern Movement Disorders
      Clinic, through the Department of Neurology. Approximately 20 subjects will be screened for
      inclusion from these institutions and 12 subjects will be enrolled in the study. (see Power
      analysis below).

      Recruitment Procedures

      Potential subjects will be approached by their treating outpatient physician (Physiatrist or
      Neurologist) or Physical or Occupational Therapist to see if they would be interested in
      participating in the study. The principal investigator will also send introductory letters to
      his outpatients at RIC informing them of the study. Letters will only be sent to the PI's
      patients (Dr. Marciniak, Dr. Toledo). Potential subjects will be educated regarding study
      procedures, risks and benefits, and privacy risks. Informed consent will be obtained only
      during initial screening and signed if the patient is interested in proceeding. Eligibility
      criteria will be screened for (See below). Subjects who lack decisional capacity will not
      included in the study.

      Study Procedures This study will involve an initial visit (Visit 1) for screening and
      baseline data collection. The therapy/intervention sessions will be held 3 times per week for
      8 weeks, (Visits 2 - 25), and there will be 1 post-intervention visit for data collection
      (Visit 26). Subjects will be reimbursed 11 dollars for parking expenses that will be mailed
      to them weekly in the form of a check. All visits will take place at Abbott Hall, 3rd floor
      exercise room and all visits will take approximately 1 ½ hrs.

      Visit 1

      Following consent, the following baseline measures will be performed:

        1. Physician screening with a medical history (including falls in the month prior to the
           visit) and physical examination

        2. Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE)

        3. Hoehn and Yahr Staging

        4. Questionnaires:

             1. Activities-Specific Balance Scale

             2. Parkinson's Disease Quality of Life measure (PDQ-8 c. Geriatric Depression Scale.

        5. Berg Balance Scale, performed by a trained physical therapist

        6. Dynamic Gait Index, performed by the physical therapist

        7. Gait and mobility subscales of the UPDRS

        8. Sharpened Romberg with eyes open and closed

        9. Balance will also be measured using the Wii balance board. Subjects will stand on the
           board and a gait belt will be placed around their waist. Subjects will have an
           accelerometer (done via smart phone) clipped to their waist to measure sway, they will
           stand on the Wii board, and the subject's ability to performing a reaching task will be
           assessed, as measured by postural sway.

      The investigator will remain immediately next to the subject during the testing procedures
      for safety purposes with the gait belt in place, and a balance bar will also be next to the
      patient during the testing procedures.

      Visits 2- 25 (3x/ week for 8 weeks) (Within 2 weeks of initial testing) The subjects will be
      seen at the Wirtz Sports Center exercise room. They will participate in 3 Wii balance board
      games: a marble game, a skiing game, and a bubble game. Each subject will stand on a balance
      board and participate in each of the 3 games for 10 minutes per game with 10 minutes rest in
      between each of the games, a total of 30 minutes of balance training time per session.
      Subjects will have a gait belt in place during the exercises, and will be supervised by a
      physical therapist or research assistant. Either the Physical therapist or Research Assistant
      will always be immediately next to the subjects during the training program. A balance bar
      will also be next to the subject if needed for balance.

      Weekly, subjects will be asked about any changes in medications or falls that they may have
      experienced at home or in the community.

      Visit 26

      Subjects will seen for follow up assessments within 2 weeks of the final training session and
      the following tests repeated:

        1. Interval history (including falls), exam, Hoehn and Yahr Staging

        2. Questionnaires:

             1. Activities-Specific Balance Scale

             2. PDQ-8

             3. Geriatric Depression Scale.

        3. Berg Balance Scale

        4. Dynamic Gait Index

        5. United Parkinson Disease Rating Scale, subscales

        6. Sharpened Romberg

        7. Wii Balance Board Testing
    
  