
    
      We propose to conduct a study to increase our understanding of farming practices and of the
      potential for previous exposure to DDT in North Carolina African American male agricultural
      workers, a group especially likely to have had high DDT exposure. Because of potentially
      widespread DDT exposure from agricultural activities, African American farmers and farm
      workers may be uniquely at risk for any associated health effects. However, little is known
      about levels of pesticide exposure in African American farming populations. Three hundred and
      eighty-nine African American men who are current or former farmers or farm workers will be
      asked to participate in the study. These men are members of the Supplemental Minority Cohort
      of the NCI/NIEHS/EPA Agricultural Health Study (AHS). The AHS is a prospective study of the
      potential health effects associated with agricultural exposures. Men in the supplemental
      cohort were recruited in 1996. At that time, they completed an enrollment questionnaire that
      focused on lifetime agricultural exposures, demographics, lifestyle factors and health. In
      this new study, a follow-up questionnaire will be administered by telephone by a trained
      interviewer to all men. Following the interview, the participant will be asked to donate a
      blood specimen, to have anthropometric indices (e.g., height, weight, waist and hip
      circumference, etc.) measured, and to have a top- and side view Polaroid photograph of their
      head taken during one visit to a central community location, such as the local church or
      health clinic. We will quantitatively document serum p,p'-DDE levels, correlate these with
      self-reported farming activities and DDT exposure, and describe the health status of these
      men. We will also correlate serum p,p'-DDE levels and androgen concentrations, since p,p'-DDE
      is thought to be a potent androgen receptor antagonist. This exploration of the potential
      link between levels is important because the demonstration of any subclinical physiological
      effects of p,p'-DDE would increase the plausibility of a wide range of health effects that
      have been postulated to be associated with the endogenous endocrine environment and the
      so-called endocrine disrupters. In addition, we will evaluate the relationship between
      several important physiological parameters which can be easily and accurately measured in
      serum, and physical characteristics including hair patterning and distribution of body fat in
      these African American men.
    
  