
    
      For patient safety, the investigators will measure the following labs:

      Blood tests (routine safety and frequency). CBC/platelets: q 1 hr, at HD next day ABGs,
      including lactate: Q 1 hr x 6 Na, K, Cl, Bicarb, BUN, Creatinine, Ca, ionized Ca, Mg, Phos:
      Start, end, at HD next day Liver function test: Start, end, at HD next day LDH: Start, end,
      at HD next day Direct Coombs' Test: Start, end, at HD next day ESR and hsCRP: Start, end, at
      HD next day CPK: Start, end PT/PTT: Start, end

      The investigators will also be doing research blood testing:

      IL-6: Start, end, at HD next day Complement: Start, end, at HD next day Haptoglobin: Start,
      end, at HD next day Free Hg: Start, end, at HD next day Fibrinogen, D-dimer: Start, end, at
      HD next day

      In addition, the investigators will do material testing after each participant's test is
      complete.

      Material studies after in vivo testing :

      Cell and Protein Adhesion Studies:

        1. Scanning Electron Microscopy. The SNM will be placed in a solution containing 2%
           glutaraldehyde (Electron Microscopy Sciences, Fort Washington, PA), 3% sucrose (Sigma
           Aldrich) and 0.1 M of phosphate buffered saline (PBS) at 4°C and pH 7.4. After 1 hour,
           the substrates are rinsed twice with PBS for 30 minutes at 4°C and washed with distilled
           water for 5 minutes. Dehydration is achieved by placing the substrates in 50% ethanol
           for 15 minutes while increasing the concentration of ethanol to 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, and
           finally 100%. Dehydrated samples are then mounted on aluminum stubs, sputter-coated with
           gold-palladium, and examined using Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM; Ultra55 FEGSEM,
           ZEISS, Peabody, MA).

        2. Immunohistochemistry. Platelet adhesion and activation are assessed using
           immunofluorescence staining for the platelet marker, CD41 (Abcam, Cambridge, MA), and
           blood-clot marker, tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA, Abcam, Cambridge, MA). Platelets
           are fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde (Fisher Scientific, Waltham, MA) for 15 minutes
           followed by incubation in 1% bovine serum albumin for 30 minutes to block nonspecific
           binding. Platelets are double-labeled as follows: substrates were first incubated with
           primary antibodies (t-PA), diluted 1:50 in PBS for 60 minutes followed by Alexa Fluor
           546 donkey anti-mouse antibody (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, CA) diluted 1:100 in PBS for 60
           minutes. Finally, the samples are incubated with anti-human CD41 fluorescein
           isothiocyanate labeled mouse monoclonal antibody diluted 1:300 in PBS for 60 minutes.
           Images will be acquired per replicate using a Nikon Eclipse Ti-E motorized inverted
           microscope (Nikon Instruments Inc., Melville, NY) to obtain a total of 12 images per
           substrate. The fluorescent intensity of the images is quantified using ImageJ.
    
  