
    
      Psychotherapy for borderline personality disorder is often lengthy and resource-intensive.
      Mentalization-based therapy is an example of an evidence-based treatment that currently has
      empirical support as an 18-months outpatient program for borderline personality disorder.
      However, this duration is rarely available, and the long and costly treatment combined with a
      highly prevalent disorder result in insufficient access to evidence-based care.

      The trial is an investigator-initiated, single-centre, assessor-blinded, randomized clinical
      superiority trial of short-term (20 weeks) compared to long-term (14 months) outpatient
      mentalization-based therapy for borderline personality disorder or subthreshold borderline
      personality disorder. Participants will be recruited from the Outpatient Clinic for
      Personality Disorders at Stolpegaard Psychotherapy Centre, Mental Health Services, Capital
      Region of Denmark. Participants will be assessed at trial intake using the Mini International
      Neuropsychiatric Interview and the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-5 Personality
      Disorders. Participants will be included if they meet a minimum of four DSM-5 criteria for
      borderline personality disorder. Participants will be assessed blind to treatment allocation
      at baseline, and at 8, 16, and 24 months after randomization.

      The primary outcome is severity of borderline symptomatology assessed using the Zanarini
      Rating Scale for Borderline Personality Disorder interview. Secondary outcomes include
      self-harm incidents, functional impairment (Work and Social Adjustment Scale), quality of
      life (Short-Form Health Survey), and global functioning (Global Assessment of Functioning
      scale). Psychiatric symptoms (Symptom Checklist 90) will be included as an exploratory
      outcome. Measures of personality functioning, attachment, group alliance, borderline symptoms
      and mentalization skills will be included as predictor and mediator variables.
    
  