
    
      1. Introduction:

           The most common complication of loop ileostomies closure for rectal cancer patients
           undergoing a low anterior rectum resection, is the superficial surgical site infection
           (incidence 2-40%). In the literature there are various techniques related to closing
           loop ileostomy that try to reduce the rate of infections recorded. In a retrospective
           study at our center, the investigators objectify that superficial surgical site
           infection rate was reduced by more than a half by the application of a contralateral
           drainage (Penrose 速) in primary loop ileostomy closure.

        2. Objectives and Hypothesis:

           Hypothesis: The application of a contralateral drainage (Penrose 速) in primary loop
           ileostomy closure (in carriers of loop ileostomy by a low anterior rectum resection for
           rectal cancer) reduces the superficial surgical site infection.

           Main objective: To reduce the rate of superficial surgical site infection by the
           application of a contralateral drainage (Penrose 速) in surgical wound of primary loop
           ileostomy closure.

           Secondary objectives:

             -  Identify risk factors associated with superficial surgical site infection in
                relation to a primary loop ileostomy closure (with or without drainage).

             -  Reducing hospital stay and care at home.

        3. Methodology:

      Prospective and randomized clinical trial on the effectiveness of contralateral Penrose速
      drainage implementation in those patients that have a primary loop ileostomy (by low anterior
      rectum resection) closure to be able to know if the investigators can reduce the superficial
      surgical site infection rate.

      It will be used a simple randomization. To assess the occurrence of superficial incisional
      infection, the investigators will be monitoring patients till 30 days after surgery
    
  