
    
      Infant bronchiolitis is a frequent pathology that is the cause of a very large number of
      medical outpatient and physiotherapy treatments in France. Many international studies and
      recommendations have invalidated any drug treatment during its management during the first
      episode. In France, the consensus conference promoted by the National Agency for
      Accreditation and Health Evaluation (ANAES) in September 2000 was in the same vein.

      Regarding the respiratory physiotherapy component, posture drainage, vibration and percussion
      are not considered effective. ANAES recommended the use of respiratory physiotherapy with
      passive exhalation techniques. This is a method of care that has developed mainly in
      French-speaking countries, making it difficult to compare with the habits of Anglo-Saxon
      countries, which, more generally, do not prescribe it. In France, the level of evidence of
      its effectiveness is considered low (grade C). To date, the vast majority of studies have
      focused exclusively on a population of infants hospitalized for severe bronchiolitis. For
      this type of population, the value of such treatment to shorten the healing time has not been
      demonstrated. So much so that the ANAES, in its time, recommended that studies be carried out
      "on an outpatient basis" to assess their degree. In this respect, several recent studies have
      provided new data. Despite the reservations inherent in their methodologies and/or staff,
      they raise the question of the interest of respiratory physiotherapy in ambulatory care. In
      terms of professional practice, the American recommendations state that clinicians should
      educate family members about evidence-based diagnosis, treatment and prevention in
      bronchiolitis. Finally, an opinion survey concludes that holders of parental authority are
      seeking information on bronchiolitis and that approximately 90% have read the brochure given
      out of the maternity ward explaining the modes of transmission, manifestations, care and
      hygiene measures in the event of bronchiolitis. Pending new French recommendations, it seems
      legitimate to evaluate the level of perception of the effect of pediatric respiratory
      physiotherapy with increase in expiratory flow (IEF) in urban practice on the respiratory
      comfort of infants directly with families confronted with this pathology.
    
  