
    
      Nerves of the autonomic nervous system are frequently damaged during pelvic surgery, and
      those injuries may lead to postoperative complications like incontinence or impotence. This
      study aims at developing an imaging protocol providing images where nerves can be visualized
      and segmented. A simple preoperative MRI exam might yield an individualized mapping of pelvic
      nerves that would be combined to augmented reality, thereby providing a valuable support to
      guide surgeons during an intervention by indicating location of the nerves that have to be
      preserved.

      Up to now, investigations have been carried out with a 1.5 Tesla (1.5T) MRI system on an
      animal model (pig). MRI is non irradiant and non invasive imaging modality that proved to be
      a valuable method to visualize small structures like nerves. Investigations focused on MRI
      neurography, an anatomical imaging method highlighting nerves, and MRI tractography, a
      diffusion-tensor-based imaging method allowing reconstruction of nervous fibers. However, the
      swine model is not ideal due to major differences with human, more particularly the fact that
      the human pelvis contains a lot of fat unlike the swine pelvis, which is an interesting
      feature as there is a good contrast between fat and tissue in MRI. Therefore, it is important
      to perform new investigations in healthy volunteers to refine and assess the MRI
      acquisitions. Those investigations will be performed with a 3Tesla (3T) system from the same
      manufacturer, providing the same sequences but a higher field strength which should offer
      higher signal. There will be no injection of contrast agent. The protocol will use standard
      sequences from the manufacturer with parameters adjusted for the purposes of the study. The
      image quality will be scored on a 5-point Likert scale (0 = no possible delineation to
      4=nerves are entirely visible).
    
  