
    
      Introduction Menopause, mark the end of the reproductive period of women. It is a normal part
      of aging due to decreased production of estrogen and progesterone, associated with the loss
      of reproductive capacity, having appeared between 48 and 54 years.

      Note the difference between menopause and climateric, being climacteric period when the woman
      has the disappearance of their reproductive function, as well as changes in the secretion of
      sex hormones, who determining overall change in the body.

      Climateric is a sign within the phenomena occurring during menopause. Menopause is the period
      from 3 to 5 years with symptoms that reflect the beginning of the cessation of ovarian
      function and postmenopausal between 7 and 10 years. Found indices FSH (follicle stimulating
      hormone) elevated in early follicular phase, being> 40 IU / L45, the follicular phase of the
      cycle is shortened, the levels of estradiol and after inhibin folículoestatina decrease, and
      luteinizing hormone (LH) also increase, but less so than before. During menopause, the
      ovarian follicles stop responding to FSH and LH, and estradiol drops below 20 pg / mL.
      Progesterone is clinically undetectable and no disappear menstruation. Hypoestrogenemia, that
      is the deficit of estrogen levels below 20 pg / ml occurs. The postmenopausal ovary is not an
      inactive body as it continues to produce both estrogen and androstenedione, although in
      minimal amounts. Clinical studies suggest that 20 to 50% of postmenopausal women has estrogen
      levels indicative of follicular activity during the first 6-12 months after the cessation of
      menstruation.

      HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES

      -Hypothesis: Physiotherapy manual techniques improves the uterine vascularization.

      -Objectives:

      Fundamental objective:

      • Quantify the changes that occur in the vascularization index (IV)

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Quantify the changes that occur in vascular indices of endometrial and subendometrial
           flow Doppler angiography, after running the physiotherapy technique.

        -  Quantify the changes occurring in the flow rate of the uterine artery (right and left),
           both before and after running the physiotherapy technique.

        -  Quantify the longitudinal vascularization measure endometrial / subendometrial and
           valuing amount of endometrial / subendometrial, both before and after the physiotherapy
           technique.

        -  Measure by 3D ultrasound of total uterine volume, both before and after running the
           physiotherapy technique.

      PATIENTS AND METHODS The study population will be infertile women with hypoestrogenemia.

      Inclusion criteria:

        -  Women with hypoestrogenemia and menopausia, being estrogen levels below 20 pg / ml
           (demonstrated by hormone analysis).

        -  Women with morphologically normal uterus.

        -  Women without hormonal treatment of any kind.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  Patients with any disease in which manipulative therapy is contraindicated.
           (Contraindicated in the description of the technique)

        -  Patients with obesity IMC≥30 kg / m2.

        -  High pain to abdominal palpation.

        -  Pregnant patients.

        -  Patients with bleeding disorders.

      Sample size:

      Given that the primary endpoint of the study is the histogram vascularization index, and
      according to the estimate by the statistic department of the IVI, the "n" of the study is 52
      patients.

      All patients are one-sided test for paired samples t. The level of significance is 95% and
      80% power.

      ANALYSIS:

      The results are presented in Excel tables of continuous data, means and standard deviations,
      which will be interpreted by Dr. Garrido, a member of the research team in charge of
      statistical analysis.

      Methodology Study Design: Prospective experimental intervention study, double blind, paired
      samples in order to determine the benefit of a medical application technique.

      Work plan:

        1. Recruitment of patients

        2. Study of basal uterine vascularization by Doppler ultrasound prior of the osteopathic
           technique. The application of ultrasound technique will always performed by the same
           specialist gynecologist of Doppler (VSS) ultrasound. The scanner is calibrated so that
           all women are valued with the same calibration.

        3. Conducting osteopathic technique. The technique of stretching of the uterine ligaments
           externally and the rest of the technique together in one technique and applied in a
           single clinical session will be held. The duration of the execution of the technique, as
           proposed, will be 30 minutes.

        4. Re-evaluation of the uterine vascularization by ultrasound-Doppler after the osteopathic
           technique. Ultrasound measured is performed within 5 minutes after the execution of the
           physiotherapeutical technique.

        5. Interpretation, with 4DView profram VOCAL, of the obtained volumes of measuring uterine
           endometrial vascular.

        6. Statistical analysis of the data

      COSTS OF STUDY:

      The research is sponsored by the IVI Valencia, so that all costs of patient recruitment and
      application of diagnostic techniques do not entail direct expenditure on research.

      TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION OF ULTRASOUND:

      The Doppler application of ultrasound, is an special ultrasound that measures the direction
      and speed of blood cells as they move through vessels. The movement of blood cells causes a
      change in pitch of the reflected sound waves (called the Doppler effect). A computer collects
      and processes the sounds and creates graphs or color pictures that represent the flow through
      blood vessels.

      There is now a new diagnostic methodology, multiplanar volumetric three-dimensional
      ultrasound technique. This new method, using the available computing resources, allows the
      observation in different spatial planes (axial, sagittal and coronal) from obtaining volumes
      of anatomical structures, being the closest thing to a nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and
      facilitating the exploration in two stages, where first is done catch volumes and, in a
      second time, would be processed and report, it does not require that the probe is connected
      to be a (4D-View) program that allows working on the data from the computer. Therefore, these
      new diagnostic techniques using ultrasound Doppler will serve to objectify the potential
      benefits of the osteopathic techniques.

      The ultrasound technique that will be used for the diagnosis of the uterine vascularization
      is:

        1. study using colored transvaginal Doppler ultrasound of right and left uterine arteries,
           for measuring the resistance index (RI), pulsatility index (PI), peak systolic flow
           velocity (PSV), flow rate end-diastolic (EDV) and the maximum flow rate (TAmax: time
           Averaged Maximum Velocity) (these last three parameters after correction of the angle of
           incidence between the beam and uterine artery Doppler).

        2. Multiplanar Ultrasound 3D and three-dimensional ultrasound angiography (powerDoppler)
           next to the Quick Tools VOCAL (Virtual OrganComputer-AidedAnalysis), for the study of
           endometrial volume and rates of endometrial vascularization and subendometrial generated
           from the histogram data of angiography 3D Doppler.

             -  Index Vascularization (IV).

             -  Index Flow (IF).

             -  index Vascularization flow (IFV).

      Three-dimensional ultrasound is equipped with a computer software to measure the volumes
      generated waves. The best known and reported program is called VOCAL, an acronym derived from
      the first letters of the English words Virtual Organ Computer-aided Analysis. Not with
      standing the VOCAL acronyms it can also be interpreted as calculation of volume,
      VOlumeCALculation Saxon words. This method allows to delimit the volumes of a region of
      interest using a rotational method.

      We will use Doppler ultrasound, transvaginal application to assess the following variables:

        -  Primary variable (or dependent):

           -Endometrial/subendometrial Vascularization Index (VI).

        -  Explanatory variables that could change or influence the behavior of key variables are
           included in the exclusion criteria.

        -  Control variables (dependent):

        -  Resistance index (RI) of both uterine arteries. It is an independent measurement of the
           angle of the ultrasound beam. It is calculated as:

        -  pulsatility index (IP) of both uterine arteries.

        -  Average maximum flow rate (TAmax) of both uterine arteries. Angle correction required.

        -  peak systolic velocity (PSV) and end diastolic velocity (EDV) of both uterine arteries.
           Angle correction required.

        -  endometrial / subendometrial vascular map, evaluated qualitatively: the absence /
           presence of vessels.

        -  endometrial volume obtained with the VOCAL application from multiplanar sections of the
           uterus.

        -  Histogram of 3D angiography:

             -  Index Of endometrial and subendometrial flow (IF).

             -  Index Vascular flow (IFV).

      DESCRIPTION PHYSIOTHERAPEUTICAL MANUAL TECHNIQUE The place where the event will take will be
      a table equipped with the ultrasound equipement and prepared for measurement, always
      accompanied by the same sonographer gynecologist, for all women involved in the study.

      With the patient supine and lower limb triple flexion resting your feet on the table, put the
      left hand controlling the bent legs and the right hand, having caught a fold of skin, making
      contact on the uterine body. Both hands caught withdrawal into the uterine body, one on one
      with the right arm fixed extendidos. Right hand in uterus, while the left hand, with the
      levers of the lower limbs, combine parameters lateroflexion-rotation of the lumbar spine for
      improve stretching the uterine ligaments, repeating the movement until tissue relaxation.
      Subsequently we conducted a zigzag caudo-cranial massage anteroposterior making a push
      (Global hemodynamic maneuver) and finally we carried out an anteroposterior pumping on the
      uterine body generating positive and negative pressures.

      The therapist's hand will keep in touch at all times on the suprapubic region of the patient.
    
  