
    
      Adherence to antiretroviral (AR) therapy has become increasingly important in the management
      of HIV infection. Adherence to AR regimens is thought to be a critical factor in maintaining
      therapeutic drug levels, thus helping ensure viral suppression and minimizing the risk of
      drug resistance. However, AR regimens are often complex with demanding dosing schedules.
      Patients often miss doses because they simply forget; other factors such as substance abuse,
      depression, and low literacy levels also contribute to nonadherence. Adherence is influenced
      not only by individual behavior but also by the services, the quality of the patient-provider
      relationship, and the amount of social support offered the patient. There is no currently
      agreed upon, widely used, and generalizable intervention for improving adherence over the
      long course of HIV therapy. This study provides a long-term comparative evaluation of two
      interventions.

      Clinical sites, rather than individual patients, are randomized to one of four groups: a
      medication manager, an electronic medication reminder system, a medication manager plus an
      electronic medication reminder system, or usual care. Special training sessions are held for
      the staff of participating units assigned to medication manager and/or electronic medication
      reminder system interventions. The medication manager is a research staff member who works
      individually with study patients, addressing the knowledge, motivation, and skills necessary
      for adherence. The electronic medication reminder system is ALR (A Little Reminder). This is
      a small, portable alarm that is programmed to sound and flash at the times of the patient's
      scheduled AR medication doses. Patients enrolling into either the FIRST or MDR-HIV study at
      clinical sites authorized to carry out this study are offered the option of participating in
      the adherence intervention to which the clinical site has been randomly assigned. Data
      collected through the FIRST and the MDR-HIV protocols are used to address the Adherence study
      objectives. Patients on the FIRST protocol are assessed for time to first plasma HIV-RNA
      level above 2,000 copies/ml. Also, patients on the FIRST and MDR-HIV studies are assessed for
      changes in viral load, resistance, CD4 cell counts, adherence, and other factors.
    
  