
    
      This will be a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled multiple ascending dose study to
      assess the safety, tolerability, and electrocardiographic effects of lofexidine in 24
      methadone-maintained adult subjects. The study will include a Screening Visit, an Inpatient
      Treatment Visit, and a Follow-Up Visit. Subjects will be randomized in 3:1 ratio to receive
      up to 4 tablets of lofexidine (0.2 mg/tablet) QID or 4 tablets matching placebo QID.

      Subjects who are on a stable dose of methadone (80 - 120 mg/day) and who satisfy inclusion
      and exclusion criteria will be eligible for the study. Within 21 days of the Screening Visit,
      subjects will report to the inpatient study facility to begin the Inpatient Treatment Visit
      which will last between approximately 11 to 21 days. This visit will include an inpatient
      check-in (1 day), Methadone Baseline (1 day), Initial Lofexidine Titration (3 to 5 days), 1
      or 2 Lofexidine Plateaus (2 to 4 days), Methadone Reduction (2 to 6 days) and Methadone
      Re-Titration and Discharge (2 to 4 days). The order of steps subjects will proceed through
      during the Inpatient Treatment Visit will vary depending on whether subjects are able to
      titrate to the highest dose of lofexidine or placebo during the Initial Lofexidine Titration.
      The highest dose of lofexidine (or placebo) will be 4 tablets QID (0.2 mg lofexidine per
      tablet or placebo) for a total daily lofexidine dose of 16 tablets (3.2 mg or placebo).
      Diagrams for the two scenarios that can occur with lofexidine titration are located in Figure
      1 and 2 in the body of the protocol.

      During the Methadone Baseline phase subjects will take a single daily dose of methadone at 1
      PM and undergo baseline study assessments including electrocardiogram (ECG) monitoring, blood
      collection for methadone pharmacokinetics, and opiate withdrawal assessments (Clinical Opiate
      Withdrawal Scale, COWS and Short Opiate Withdrawal Scale, SOWS). The next day subjects will
      proceed to the Initial Lofexidine Titration phase. Subjects will continue using their
      baseline methadone dose. Lofexidine will be initiated at 2 tablets (0.4 mg or placebo) QID
      and titrated in daily increments of a single tablet (0.2 mg or placebo) QID to a total daily
      dose of 0.8 mg QID (or placebo), if tolerated by the subject. Lofexidine doses will escalate
      daily unless at any point the subject meets protocol-defined dose hold criteria (described
      below), which will trigger a reduction in dose to the previous highest tolerated dose (or to
      the 1 tablet dose, 0.2 mg or placebo, if subjects cannot tolerate the initial 2 tablets).
      Once subjects have titrated to the highest dose (ie, 4 tablets QID) or once the highest
      tolerated dose has been determined, they will proceed to a 2-day Lofexidine Plateau phase
      during which they will continue to receive their methadone maintenance dose. If the subject
      is unable to titrate up to 4 tablets QID (0.8 mg or placebo), the subject will continue to
      receive their highest tolerated dose in equal increments (eg, 2 or 3 tablets QID at 8AM, 1PM,
      6PM, 11PM) for both days of the plateau. If the subject tolerates 4 tablets QID (0.8 mg or
      placebo), on the first day they will receive the 4 tablets QID (0.8 mg or placebo) according
      to the normal dosing schedule. On the second day, the lofexidine dosing schedule will be
      modified with subjects receiving a 1 tablet (ie, 0.2 mg or placebo) increase of the 1 PM
      lofexidine dose (5 tablets: 1 mg or placebo) and a 1 tablet (0.2 mg or placebo) reduction in
      the subsequent lofexidine dose (3 tablets: 0.6 mg or placebo) with the other 2 doses of 4
      tablets (0.8 mg or placebo) for a total daily dose of 16 tablets (3.2 mg/day or placebo). On
      the second day of the Lofexidine Plateau phase, subjects will undergo electrocardiogram (ECG)
      monitoring and blood collection for methadone and lofexidine pharmacokinetics. COWS and SOWS
      assessments will be performed on both days of the Lofexidine Plateau.

      Subjects who are titrated to a daily dose of 4 tablets (0.8 mg or placebo) QID while
      receiving their full dose of methadone will undergo a 4-day methadone dose reduction of 50%
      while continuing to take lofexidine or placebo at a daily dose of 16 tablets to evaluate the
      effects of lofexidine on methadone withdrawal signs and symptoms. These subjects who complete
      the initial Lofexidine Plateau at a dose of 0.8 mg lofexidine (or placebo) QID and who reach
      a COWS of 5 or greater prior to the fourth day of the reduced methadone dose administration
      may proceed early to Methadone Re-titration and Discharge at the Investigator's discretion.
      If the COWS score does not reach 5 within 4 days, the subject will proceed to Methadone
      Re-titration and Discharge.

      Subjects who are unable to titrate to the highest lofexidine dose (4 tablets: 0.8 mg or
      placebo QID) while receiving their full dose of methadone will undergo a methadone dose
      reduction of 50% for up to 6 days while continuing to receive their highest tolerated dose of
      lofexidine from the initial titration. On the fourth day (or earlier at the investigator's
      discretion based on withdrawal response), lofexidine titration will resume by adding an
      incremental 1 tablet (0.2 mg or placebo) QID to the previously established tolerated dose up
      to the maximum 4 tablet (0.8 mg or placebo) QID dose. During these subsequent titration
      attempts lofexidine (or placebo) doses will escalate daily beginning on the fourth day of the
      reduction (or earlier based on discretion of the investigator) unless in any event a subject
      meets protocol defined dose-hold criteria (described below), which will trigger a reduction
      in dose to the previous highest tolerated dose and will require the Lofexidine Plateau
      procedures described above to be repeated while maintaining the subject on their newly
      reduced methadone dose (eg, 50% of their maintenance dose). Subjects who are unable to
      titrate to a higher lofexidine dose during the 50% Methadone Reduction than the dose they
      titrated to during the Initial Lofexidine Titration will not repeat the Lofexidine Plateau
      procedures.

      During Methadone Reduction (whether for subjects entering an experimental 4-day 50%
      withdrawal phase at the tolerated 4 tablet [0.8 mg or placebo] QID lofexidine dose or for
      subjects continuing lofexidine titration at 50% methadone reduction), COWS and SOWS
      assessments of opiate withdrawal will be performed.

      Following completion of the Lofexidine Plateau (repeated as necessary) and Methadone
      Reduction, subjects will begin the Methadone Re-Titration and Discharge phase during which
      lofexidine or placebo will be discontinued and methadone will be re-titrated to the starting
      dose (or to a higher or lower dose relative to baseline as medically indicated at the
      discretion of the investigator). Lofexidine may be used to treat withdrawal symptoms, if
      necessary. Following successful methadone titration and completion of study assessments,
      subjects will be discharged from the inpatient study clinic.

      Subjects will return to the study clinic for a follow-up visit 7 days (±2 days) following
      clinic discharge for safety follow-up and adverse event collection. Subjects will be
      discharged from the study at this time unless they are medically unstable on their dose of
      methadone. Subject may be medically followed at a regular interval, as determined by the
      investigator, until the subject is considered sufficiently stable for study discharge.

      Subjects who withdraw consent or meet any one of the following study termination criteria
      prior to completion of the study will be withdrawn. Study termination criteria will apply
      only to pre-dose readings. Baseline values for vital signs and ECG readings refer to values
      obtained at the time subjects are admitted to the clinic.

        1. Cardiovascular events including the following:

             1. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) <70 mmHg and >20% below baseline value (if subject is
                asymptomatic, SBP termination criteria <70 mmHg)*

             2. Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) <40 mmHg and >20% below baseline value (if subject
                is asymptomatic, DBP termination criteria <30 mmHg)*

             3. Heart rate (HR) <40 bpm and >20% below baseline value (if subject is asymptomatic,
                HR termination criteria <30 bpm)*

             4. QTc >500 msec or >25% above baseline value for both males and females*

             5. Absolute QTcF>500 ms in females or >480 ms in males with a concurrent increase in
                average QTcF value >60 ms from the baseline value

             6. Persistent increase in QTcF >60 ms above baseline or persistent QTcF≥480 ms and
                ≤500 ms and electrolytes are normal

             7. Absolute QRS>120 ms along with a 25% increase from baseline

             8. Absolute PR>240 ms along with a 25% increase from baseline

             9. Syncope

            10. Clinically significant arrhythmia (including telemetry indication of ventricular
                tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, Torsade de Pointes, 2nd degree AV block)*
                *ECGs and vital signs may be repeated as appropriate to confirm values and rule out
                extraneous results.

        2. Serious medical problems thought to be related or unrelated to the study medications.

        3. Intercurrent illness or medical complications that, in the opinion of the site
           investigator, preclude safe administration of study medications.

      At the time of termination from the study, subjects will be discontinued from lofexidine or
      placebo; however, they may remain inpatient for up to 4 days while their methadone
      maintenance dose is re-titrated to their pre-study maintenance dose.
    
  