
    
      A sedentary lifestyle is defined as an individual living with very little or no physical
      activity. In daily routine the person spending most of his or her time in watching
      television, playing games on mobile ,using internet, reading books , often sitting or lying
      down while doing these activities. It can lead to many health problems and potentially very
      harmful.

      Aerobic exercise is defined as physical exertion that depends upon energy generating process.
      Aerobic defined as something relating to and involving which required free oxygen. During
      aerobic exercise maximum use of oxygen can meet the energy demand of the body.

      Activities with light to moderate intensities that adequately meet the demands of aerobic
      metabolism, this can be performed for long period of times.There is a term use aerobic
      exercise that is "solely" aerobic which is defined as low intensity is required to consumed
      all carbohydrates in the body and termed them into energy. According to this ,some common
      examples of aerobic exercise that are walking , swimming , jogging, running and cycling.

      Aerobic has great impact on decrease the severity of depression and anxiety . Another study
      on people who are suffered from depression , asked them to walk for 30 minutes on treadmill
      and reassess them after 10 days. The results shows significant increase and improvement in
      their mood and reduction in overall depression episodes and symptoms, they feel fresh and
      more alive start participate in daily activities . Their negative thoughts which make them
      depressive also get reduced to some extent .The results shows that physical activity or
      exercise only for a short period of time may give you a boost in your mood and overall health
      status. Only a single exercise session has a great impact on the overall mental health.

      Another research was conducted on target matching foot stepping to evaluate the
      proprioception and function of knee osteoarthritis . It includes functional score , walking
      velocity and overall knee performance to determine the efficacy of knee osteoarthritis. The
      exercise was designed to perform in sitting position as knee arthritic patients are not able
      to tolerate in standing position.
    
  