
    
      The investigators will first develop a detailed manual for Coaching-CRAFT, which will be a
      telephone-based model of coaching that uses the web-version of an intervention already
      developed and available to the investigators. The investigators will conduct a preliminary
      nonrandomized feasibility trial of the use of Coaching-CRAFT with a sample of 50 family
      member callers recruited from VA's Coaching Into Care call center. Later in the study, the
      investigators will recruit up to 50 Veterans whose family members also participated in this
      study. Since the 'Coaching Into Care' telephone-based call center located at the Corporal
      Michael J. Crescenz VA Medical Center (CMCVAMC) is a national call center, study subjects
      (non-Veterans and Veterans) will be from all parts of the United States.

      Family members (spouses, siblings, or parents) of Veteran will be recruited from Coaching
      Into Care, and offered telephone-based coaching to the family member regarding their concern
      that the Veteran has a substance abuse problem and does not want to seek treatment. The
      program will involve approximately 12 telephone calls over 4-6 months. Family members will be
      assessed for their own mental health symptoms, their perception of their Veteran's mental
      health symptoms and substance use, his or her treatment, as well as their perception of
      burden on the relationship with the Veteran. These assessments will occur at study entry, 6
      months, and 12 months after study entry. Veteran's perceptions of the intervention will be
      sought at 12 months, whenever safe and practical. For Veterans who are not approached to
      participate in the study, VHA administrative data will be sought through a HIPAA Waiver to
      confirm any possible mental health and or substance abuse treatment the Veteran has received.
      Rates of initiation of treatment will be compared to QA data from the Coaching Into Care call
      center.
    
  