
    
      The study will be a 2 centre randomised, double blind, placebo controlled 4-way cross over
      study comparing montelukast, budesonide and their combination on exercise-induced
      bronchoconstriction (EIB). Subjects with stable mild to moderate asthma, between the ages of
      8-35 years, not on controller asthma therapy will be screened. A maxFEV1% ≥15% following a
      standardized dry air exercise challenge at screening (SC) and following a 1 week run-in (V-1)
      is required to qualify. Once qualified, subjects will return the following day (V0) for a
      skin prick test and a methacholine inhalation test before being randomised to 1 of 4
      treatment sequences. Each treatment will be given for a total of 14 days with a 4 weeks
      washout. During each period, subjects will attend the laboratory on 2 occasions, at the
      beginning and end of each period. Baseline spirometry; eNO; EBC will be performed, followed
      by an exercise challenge with serial FEV1 and eNO measurements up to 30 minutes post exercise
      and post-exercise EBC and sputum induction at each evaluation visit. There will be a total of
      10 visits and the duration of study will be approximately 148 days (21 weeks). All visits
      will be scheduled within 2 hours of the post-run visit (V1) and at least 8 hours after the
      last dose of trial medications.

      Investigational Product, Dose and Administration:

      Montelukast 5mg (<15 years) or 10mg (and matching placebo) will be taken 1 tablet in the
      evening together with inhaled budesonide turbuhalers 200ug (and matching placebo) taken 1
      puff in the morning and 1 puff in the evening.

      Efficacy on EIB:

      The changes between pre and post treatment exercise-induced maxFEV1% and area under the curve
      (AUC0-30) will be compared between the 4 periods. MaxFEV1% will be calculated as pre-exercise
      FEV1 minus post exercise lowest FEV1 divided by pre-exercise FEV1 multiplied by 100; AUC will
      be calculated using the trapezoidal rule. The protection provided by the active treatments
      will be defined as the pre-treatment maxFEV1% minus post-treatment maxFEV1% divided by
      pre-treatment maxFEV1% x 100. The proportions of subjects attaining ≥50% protection will be
      compared between the 4 arms.

      Efficacy on eNO and inflammatory parameters measured in sputum and EBC Changes in % and
      absolute counts of sputum differential cells, eNO and inflammatory mediators (in EBC/ sputum)
      at baseline and in response to exercise will be compared between the 4 arms.
    
  