
    
      Introduction:

      Epilepsy is a common neurological disease with an estimated annual incidence of 43 cases per
      100,000 population in developed countries (McHugh et al;. 2008). It is a chronic disease that
      can be disabling for the patient and his family. The management of patients with epilepsy
      must consider the quality of life, improving the quality of life is precisely one of the main
      objectives of therapeutic education (WHO1996).

      Background and rational of the study:

      The Epilepsy Patient Education (EPE) is very important for the comprehension of the disease
      and its management. By offering a better knowledge about the disease, helping the patients to
      learn how to manage crises and treatments, and especially, how to develop strategies to adapt
      to specific life situations, the EPE allows patients and caregivers to acquire together some
      autonomy and some skills that will help them live better with the disease.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of a program of educational
      activities (EA) on the quality of life of epileptic patients measured by the validated scale
      Quality Of Life in Epilepsy -31 (QOLIE-31).

      The secondary objectives are to study the evolution of knowledge of patients, to compare the
      frequency of crises and seeking care before and after the program, and to study the role of
      certain characteristics of the patient and his disease on response to the program.

      Methodology:

      This is a single-center, randomized, open, comparative, and longitudinal study with a
      duration of approximately 30 months, including 80 patients.

      Patients eligible to the study will be screened among epileptic patients followed-up by the
      neurologists specialized in epilepsy at the University Hospital of Caen. Patients should be
      major with an epileptic disease diagnosed for at least 6 months without other disabling
      chronic condition.

      Each pre-included patient will receive written information about the study. During the usual
      visit to the neurologist, a detailed letter of information about the study will be given to
      the patient and the various criteria will be evaluated. After randomization, patients will be
      divided into 2 groups: the first (EA group) will be included in the program of educational
      activities, while the second, control group (C group) will have a "standard" follow-up. An
      individual educational session and 3 group educational sessions (5-6 patients per group)
      built around the epileptic disease, its treatment and daily life, will constitute the program
      of EA group.

      Six months after inclusion, during the usual visit, the various criteria will be reassessed
      with the patient, to evaluate the degree of benefice of EA.
    
  