
    
      The objective is to compare two methods of cardiac output measurement: the new non-invasive
      method called esCCO™ (by Nihon Kohden, Tokyo, Japan) and the established more invasive method
      PiCCO™ (by PULSION Medical Systems, Munich, Germany). esCCO™ is a completely non-invasive
      method that could provide a cardiac output measurement in a large range of patients because
      of an extremely low risk benefit balance. Thus the valuable information of cardiac output in
      combination with standard patient monitoring could be integrated in the assessment and
      clinical handling of a patients circulatory system.

      In previous Japanese studies, esCCO™ was tested against the pulmonary artery catheter in
      patients undergoing heart surgery. Because of promising results in those studies, the
      validity of the method is now tested in patients scheduled for partial liver resection as a
      major visceral surgery intervention. Partial liver resection is a medium to high risk
      surgical intervention because of the extended blood supply of the organ. High and sudden
      blood loss can easily occur during the operation. Measurement period starts at the beginning
      of anesthesiologic induction and is continued until the extubation at the end of the
      intervention.

      The algorithm for esCCO™ -measurement is integrated in an approved patient monitor that
      replaces the standard patient monitor during the measurement-period. The PiCCO™-device is
      added on the same rack and a cable connects the PiCCO™-device to the patient monitor. To
      assure maximum quality of the reference method, a thermodilution for PiCCO™-calibration is
      accomplished every 30 minutes.

      In the study protocol, events like esCCO™ - and PiCCO™-calibration time, catheter positioning
      time, changes of the patient's position, ventilation settings, volume in- and output and drug
      administration, patients's data and diagnoses are logged. Vital parameters from the patient
      monitor including the PiCCO™-cardiac output values are recorded every second in real time on
      a study laptop mounted on the same rack as the patient monitor and the PiCCO™ device but
      separated electrically from the other devices.

      A total of 30 patients shall be investigated in the study during a planned study time of
      approximately 6 months. The ethics committee of the University of Heidelberg gave their
      consent to the study (S-188/2011). The investigators will approximately receive 1080 data
      pairs when averaging the values every 5 minutes with a mean duration of the surgical
      procedure of 3 hours.

      For statistical analysis, a Bland-Altman-test for multiple values in one patient, a t-test
      for depending values, correlation graphics and a regression equation will be performed.
    
  