
    
      An increasing number of patients with type 2 diabetes are treated with insulin. Patients with
      diabetes receiving intensive insulin therapy with various combinations of basal and prandial
      insulin can be caught in a vicious but common cycle, whereby insulin requirements increase
      over time, and this in turn contributes to weight gain and hypoglycemia and further increases
      in insulin dosing. At this stage, clinicians observe a practical limit to the efficacy of
      insulin titration alone on glucose-lowering and often add or continue metformin to reduce
      insulin resistance. Injectable glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs), such as
      liraglutide, are a relatively new addition to our treatment armamentarium. These drugs
      improve glucose control and insulin sensitivity and contribute to weight loss. Treatment with
      basal insulin plus GLP-1RAs is well-established in diabetes guidelines and may be as
      effective as adding prandial insulin therapy. When GLP-1 RAs are started, a preemptive
      reduction in insulin dosage by 25% to 30% in patients with HbA1c < 9% may reduce the risk for
      hypoglycemia. In overweight/obese patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes treated with
      more than three oral antidiabetic drugs (OADs) or high doses of premix insulin, Is
      basal-prandial insulin therapy the option treatment algorithm? Such an intensification
      strategy carries risk of increased hypoglycaemia and weight gain, both of which are
      associated with worse long-term outcomes. There have no randomized, controlled trials to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of GLP-1 RAs vs insulin glargine added to prandial insulin
      in overweight/obese patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes. So, the current 24-week,
      prospective, open-label, randomized, multicenter, parallel group trial will be preformed to
      assess whether Liraglutide plus prandial insulin therapy was noninferior to glargine plus
      prandial insulin therapy in overweight/obese patients with uncontrolled type 2 diabetes。
    
  