
    
      One of the commonly cited beneficial effects of tea is its ability to induce weight loss.
      Support for this contention include a controlled human trial showing increased weight loss
      when tea was added to a dietary regimen, and a mouse study demonstrating that administration
      of a tea extract with a high fat diet eliminated the weight gain observed in the absence of
      tea. Several different mechanisms have been postulated to account for this weight control.
      Multiple studies have reported modest increases in energy expenditure associated with
      ingestion of oolong or green teas. In addition, tea could inhibit the absorption of
      carbohydrate and/or fat. Studies supporting the possibility of carbohydrate malabsorption
      include a in vitro studies showing that constituents of tea inhibit the activity of
      carbohydrate digesting enzymes (α-amylase and α-glucosidase, and the mucosal uptake of
      glucose via an interaction with sodium dependent glucose transporters. The in vitro
      demonstration that tea extracts inhibit pancreatic lipase activity suggests that tea might
      interfere with triglyceride absorption.

      However, there have been no in vivo studies in humans or animals showing that tea
      preparations actually are capable of causing malabsorption of either carbohydrate or fat. In
      the present study, we utilized measurements of breath H2 and 13CO2 to investigate the ability
      of a mixture of black, green and mulberry tea leaf extracts to induce malabsorption of
      carbohydrate and fat in healthy volunteers.

      Protocol - The study group consisted of 20 healthy volunteers (ages 23 to 52, 10 females and
      10 males). The subjects fasted after their usual dinner on the day preceding the study until
      the following morning (approximately 8 am) when the experiments were performed. After
      collection of baseline breath samples for H2 and 13CO2 analysis, the subjects ingested the
      test meal that consisted of cooked white rice and butter. The rice was boiled for20 minutes,
      and then individual portions (176 g, which contained 50 g of carbohydrate) were weighed and
      frozen with 10g of butter. Immediately prior to ingestion, the meals were warmed in a
      microwave oven, and 0.2 g of 1,1,1-13C-triolein (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories, Andover, MA)
      was thoroughly mixed into the meal. Concurrent with ingestion of the meal, the subjects
      randomly were assigned to drink either 500 ml of the warm active tea preparation containing
      10 g of sucrose or 500 ml of a placebo preparation that also contained 10 g of sucrose.
      Breath samples were then collected at hourly intervals for eight hours. At the end of each
      test period, subjects were asked to rate a variety of symptoms including nausea, bloating,
      abdominal discomfort, and rectal gas (as well as obfuscating symptoms) on a previously
      described linear scale that ranged from zero (none) to 4 (severe). In addition, the number of
      loose bowel movements were noted. One week later the test was repeated with the subjects
      receiving the opposite preparation from that used in the initial study. The study was
      approved by the Human Studies Subcommittee of the Mpls. VA Medical center and informed
      consent was obtained from all subjects.
    
  