
    
      The Warfighter Head Injury Study (WHIS) is a comprehensive, multidisciplinary research study
      of head-injured warfighters to be conducted at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in
      Bethesda, Maryland. The goals of the WHIS include providing clinicians and scientists with
      new insights into the short term recovery of function following traumatic brain injury (TBI),
      the role of the prefrontal cortex (PFC) in executive and social functions, and to identify
      better predictors of short term outcome (including cognitive, neurological, and genetic
      factors). With the assistance of the Department of Veterans Affairs/Veterans Health
      Administration (VA/VHA), we propose to contact all Iraqi-Afghan (IA) warfighters with
      penetrating head injury (PHI), a cohort of blast injured warfighters, and a group of matched
      (for time in service, combat exposure, age, gender, and preinjury Armed Services Vocational
      Aptitude Battery [ASVAB] scores) healthy warfighter controls as well as healthy volunteers
      with different blast exposures (i.e.: explosives experts, artillery operators, etc ) but no
      documentation of brain injury. We will inquire about their willingness to participate in a
      comprehensive, multidisciplinary outpatient evaluation conducted at the NIH. In addition to
      IA warfighters, we also plan to enroll Vietnam warfighters who were included in the W. F.
      Caveness Vietnam Head Injury Study (VHIS) Registry, in order to conduct detailed comparisons
      between groups. These cohorts represent a unique opportunity for study; they were healthy and
      employed before injury, preinjury intelligence testing is available, and the VA/VHA permits
      long-term follow-up. We have previously investigated Vietnam warfighters with PHI and the
      published results of those studies have changed the management and evaluation of head-injured
      warfighters, and contributed to knowledge of brain function and the long-term effects of head
      injury. Furthermore, based on the knowledge acquired in our previous research with Vietnam
      warfighters and our current interests in the functions of the human PFC, cognitive
      neuroplasticity in the young brain, posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD), posttraumatic
      epilepsy (PTE), caregiver stress, and genetic-plasticity relationships, we are proposing a
      series of new cognitive neuroscience experiments and battery of standardized
      neuropsychological testing to be conducted during the WHIS. In this effort, the experimental
      testing will be complemented with structural imaging (magnetic resonance imaging [MRI] or
      computed tomography [CT]), diffusion tensor and perfusion imaging, electroencephalogram
      (EEG), near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), and molecular genetics evaluations. This
      combination of unique patients, cutting edge cognitive neuroscience experiments and state of
      the art techniques will lead to new scientific knowledge and improved clinical management of
      warfighters with TBI.
    
  