
    
      Obesity and metabolic disturbance are recognized as important risks for disorders such as
      cardiovascular disease, stroke, and cancer. However, these conditions also contribute to
      age-related cognitive decline and dementia. In particular, insulin resistance and
      hyperinsulinemia promote neurocognitive dysfunction and neurodegenerative changes during the
      extended pre-clinical phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The prevalence of both metabolic
      disturbance and dementia are increasing dramatically, and in the absence of effective
      treatment, preventive approaches are essential to address the ominous public health concern
      represented by Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia. Dietary intervention is a
      promising and under-investigated preventive option. Regimens involving restricted
      carbohydrate consumption designed to induce ketone metabolism have been shown to improve
      metabolic parameters. In addition, ketone metabolism is associated with a host of benefits
      for neural function, among them enhanced mitochondrial energy production and reduction of
      neuropathological factors. Ketone feeding studies have demonstrated acute functional
      improvement in older adults with neurocognitive decline.

      This research is designed to assess the efficacy of strict carbohydrate restriction in
      correcting hyperinsulinemia and improving neurocognitive function in older adults with early
      memory decline. Recently, we have shown that relatively brief intervention involving a low
      carbohydrate, ketogenic diet can improve memory in subjects with Mild Cognitive Impairment.
      We would like to extend these initial findings by adding new study arms involving older adult
      subjects with Parkinson's disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment. We also will increase the
      intervention period from six weeks to eight weeks.

      Aim 1: To evaluate the effect of adaptation to ketosis on cognitive function in older adults
      with Age-Associated Memory Impairment (AAMI) and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

      Hypothesis 1. Subjects with AAMI and MCI will show improved working memory and long-term
      memory ability after practicing a low carbohydrate, ketogenic diet for six weeks relative to
      comparison subjects who maintain a typical, high carbohydrate, nonketogenic diet.

      Aim 2: To assess the effect of ketone metabolism on memory and motor function in subjects
      with Parkinson's disease and Mild Cognitive Impairment after eight (8) weeks of dietary
      intervention.

      Hypothesis 2. Subjects with Parkinson's disease and MCI will show improved working memory and
      long-term memory function after practicing a low carbohydrate, ketogenic diet for eight weeks
      relative to comparison subjects who consume a typical, high carbohydrate nonketogenic diet.

      Hypothesis 3. Subjects with Parkinson's disease and MCI will show improved motor function
      after practicing a low carbohydrate, ketogenic diet for eight weeks relative to comparison
      subjects who consume a typical, high carbohydrate nonketogenic diet.

      We also will evaluate changes in mood, ketone body levels, serum lipids, inflammatory
      markers, and fasting glucose and insulin and assess relationships of these factors with the
      primary outcome measures. We will obtain diet records during the intervention to assess
      adherence to the protocol.
    
  