
    
      Obesity is associated with increased chronic disease risk, and therefore poses a major public
      health problem (Lobstein et al., 2004). In 2011, the Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention estimated that obesity affects about 12.5 million children and teens, or 17% of
      the US population. This is a marked increase from the ~5% rate of obesity found in this
      population in the late 1960s. Barlow (2007) points out that the complexity of obesity
      prevention lies less in the identification of target health behaviors, and much more in a
      process of influencing families to change behaviors when habits, culture, and environment
      promote less physical activity and more energy intake.

      Obesity prevention interventions may not be effective or sustainable without impacting home
      environments (Rosenkranz & Dzewaltowski, 2008). Conwell et al. (2010) suggest that home-based
      programs may offer significant advantages over center-based programs by offering better
      accessibility and convenience. Wellness coaching has shown promise for improving health
      behaviors related to chronic disease (Lawn & Schoo, 2010), but no published study has used a
      wellness coaching childhood obesity prevention model in the home environment.

      The primary aim of this trial is to determine whether the home-based wellness coaching
      delivery model is feasible as an obesity prevention intervention strategy in the community
      setting. The secondary objective is to determine the comparative effectiveness of the two
      wellness coaching interventions.

      Female children (aged 8-13 years) will be recruited through posted flyers, newspaper ads, and
      word of mouth in the Manhattan, KS area. After laboratory assessment, recruited participants
      will be randomly assigned to either healthful eating and physical activity skills coaching or
      general health education coaching intervention conditions. For both conditions, research
      assistants will serve as wellness coaches and deliver 12 intervention sessions in the home of
      each participating child. Assessments will be completed at baseline, intervention end (3
      months), and follow-up (6 months), comprising biomedical and psychosocial measures.

      We hypothesize that the research project will be successful in recruiting and retaining
      participating families, training research assistants to deliver the intervention components,
      and that both of the coaching conditions will be well received and appreciated by
      participating families. We hypothesize that the healthful eating and physical activity skills
      coaching intervention will be more effective than the support coaching condition in
      preventing increases in blood pressure, airway dysfunction and adiposity. We expect that both
      intervention conditions will show improvements to pediatric quality of life measures, but
      that the healthful eating and physical activity skills coaching intervention will be more
      effective than general health education coaching condition in increasing physical activity,
      physical activity enjoyment and self efficacy, fruit and vegetable consumption, and fruit and
      vegetable enjoyment and self-efficacy.
    
  