
    
      Patients with acute myocardial infarction have exceptionally high mortality rates exceeding
      10% during the first year post-MI. The incidence of sudden cardiac death after acute
      myocardial infarction is the same with ST-elevation and non-ST elevation myocardial
      infarction. The risk of disabling stroke and sudden cardiac death is high especially during
      the first months after myocardial infarction. Preventing these outcomes is of high priority,
      considering the fact that the quality of life can remain high in these patients, if serious
      adverse events can be avoided.

      The high mortality and comorbidity rates among cardiac patients provide an opportunistic
      environment for testing the utility of of home monitoring by mobile devices, data integration
      and resulting mass data. Long follow-up times are not required, which facilitates the linking
      of potential risk factors with outcome.

      The prospective part of the MADDEC (MAss Data in Detection and prevention of serious adverse
      Events in Cardiovascular disease) project aims at exploring mechanism of sudden death in the
      first month after a myocardial infarction and at detecting arrhythmias heralding
      life-threatening arrhythmias. Additionally, the project will define the incidence of new
      atrial fibrillation post myocardial infarction. The main outcomes of the study are all cause
      mortality, cardiovascular mortality, rehospitalization due to any or cardiovascular causes.

      Prospective home monitoring of patients after ST-elevation or non-ST elevation myocardial
      infarction will commence in May 2017 and continue until the end of 2019. For arrhythmia
      detection, two different methods will be used: 12-channel Holter recording (GE Seer 12®, GE
      Healthcare Finland) and the eMotion Faros® device (Bittium Biosignals Ltd/Mega Elec-troncs
      Ltd, Finland). The aim is to record continuous 12-channel Holter data from 200-250 patients
      with ST-elevation myo-cardial infarction and 1-3 channel ECG signal data with the mobile
      Faros 360 device from 550-600 patients with any type of myocardial infarction. Exclusion
      criteria are short life expectancy, unwillingness to participate and need for permanent
      insti-tutional care. The first 24-48 hour recording will commence at hospital discharge or
      transferral to another health care unit. The second recording will take place two weeks after
      the index event. As a part of the protocol, the subjects will also perform simple tests
      measuring their functional status and possible disability at study enrollment. All accrued
      ECG-data will be inte-grated into a research database for further analysis, linking it with
      outcome data. The Faros 360 mobile device will also ena-ble recording patient activity, such
      as movement and respiratory rate, simultaneously using an accelerometer.
    
  