
    
      Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a pathophysiological disorder hemodynamically characterized by
      increased pulmonary vascular resistance and pressure. This can lead to right ventricle
      pressure overload and failure, which is worsened by cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and
      extracorporeal circulation and is accompanied by high rates of morbidity and mortality in
      cardiac surgery patients. Pharmacological agents used to decrease pulmonary vascular
      resistance and right ventricle afterload are prostaglandins, iloprost, milrinone, nitric
      oxide (NO) and recently Levosimendan. These agents can be administered intravenously or via
      inhalation.

      In this study, the intravenous administration of Levosimendan will be compared with the
      inhalational use of milrinone in patients with pulmonary hypertension undergoing cardiac
      surgery.

      In this setting, 40 patients with PH caused by left sided heart disease, will be assigned
      into two groups:

      GROUP A: Intravenous administration of Levosimendan in dosage 6mcg/kg after induction of
      anesthesia.

      GROUP B: Inhalational administration of milrinone in dosage 50mcg/kg after induction of
      anesthesia.

      Before and after the administration of the drug, heart function will be evaluated by
      hemodynamic measurements obtained by the Swan-Ganz catheter. These parameters will be heart
      rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP), central venous
      pressure (CVP), cardiac output (CO), pulmonary capillary wedge pressure (PCWP), cardiac index
      (CI), systemic vascular resistance (SVR), pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR). Transthoracic
      echocardiography (TTE) and transoesophageal echocardiography (TOE) will also be used.

      This study will lead to conclusions regarding the effectiveness of intravenous administration
      of Levosimendan and inhalational use of Milrinone in the treatment of right heart failure and
      PH in cardiac surgery patients.
    
  