
    
      The CVM-1118 ER Capsule will be orally administered BID or TID before meal in 28-day
      treatment cycles. Patients will receive 400, 600, 800 to 1,200 mg of CVM-1118 ER Capsule in
      sequential cohort based on safety and dose tolerability. A single-patient cohort per dose
      level (accelerated titration design) will be applied to the first two cohorts, 400 and 600 mg
      daily, and followed by the conventional 3+3 dose escalation design from the dose level of 800
      mg/day. Within the first two cohorts, if any Grade 2 or greater toxicity at least possibly
      attributable to CVM-1118 ER capsule is reported in the first patient during first cycle, a
      single-patient cohort will be converted to conventional 3+3 study design once and expand to a
      minimum of 3 evaluable patients for assessment of toxicity within the first cycle. Dose
      escalation will occur until DLT occurs in 2 or more patients within a dose level. In any
      cohort, if 1 patient experiences a DLT, 3 additional patients will be enrolled to that dose
      level. If 2 or more patients experience a DLT, no further dose escalation will occur. Plasma
      pharmacokinetics samples will be collected at pre-determined time-points for all patients
      participating in the dose-escalation study.

      This study will be completed and closed once the MTD is determined for CVM-1118 ER capsules.
      However, at the end of 4 cycles, it is recommended that some patients should continue
      receiving the clinical benefit from CVM-1118 ER capsules. Thus, patients may be continuously
      treated at the assigned dose level or next higher dose level provided it has been shown to be
      safe in a previously treated cohort by safety committee, until the treating physician feels
      the patient is no longer benefiting from the treatment, or CVM-1118 ER Capsule becomes
      commercially available, as applicable in the country in which the patient lives. In the event
      of unacceptable toxicity at a given dose, CVM-1118 can be reduced to the previous dose level
      or suggested lower dose by PI. If unacceptable toxicity persists despite 2 dose reductions,
      the patient should be removed from study.
    
  