
    
      Aging is associated with a progressive development of impaired glucose tolerance (IGT), due
      to an increased peripheral tissue resistance to the action of insulin. Insulin resistance, a
      common state in both obese and sedentary individuals, eventually leads to the development of
      glucose intolerance, and type 2 diabetes with aging. Even in the absence of diabetes, insulin
      resistance is a key feature in various metabolic abnormalities that increase the risk for
      developing cardiovascular disease (CVD). Previous studies demonstrate improvements in glucose
      tolerance and glucose utilization following moderate energy restriction coupled with moderate
      intensity AEX. WL, through behavioral modification of diet and aerobic exercise (AEX), is
      perhaps the most effective way to treat as well as prevent insulin resistance and its
      associated metabolic complications of IGT and type 2 diabetes. Although these studies
      demonstrate the beneficial effect of weight loss (WL) and AEX on glucose tolerance and
      insulin action, not much is known about the cellular and molecular mechanisms by which these
      nonpharmacologic treatments improve glucose utilization in high-risk obese older individuals.

      This study seeks to determine the cellular mechanisms by which aerobic exercise and weight
      loss alter skeletal muscle insulin signaling to improve insulin action in older glucose
      intolerant individuals. A second purpose is to determine whether certain genes (hereditary
      information) affect the way the body utilizes glucose in response to exercise and weight
      loss. In addition, adipose tissue is increasingly recognized as more than an inert depot
      serving not only to accept and store excess energy in the form of triglycerides, but also to
      secrete hormones and adipokines that have substantial effects on lipid and glucose
      metabolism. Furthermore, there are depot differences in metabolic function, as well as
      adipokine content. However, the physiology both underlying and consequential to these
      observations remains unknown. Thus, a third aim is to examine the effects of obesity on
      regional adipokine secretion and expression, and the relationship of adipokines to insulin
      resistance and the metabolic syndrome.
    
  