
    
      Background and Significance:

      In patients with acute myocarditis (AM), spontaneous improvement can be observed in the
      majority of cases, but progression towards dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is a not rare outcome
      (around 20% of patients) (Feldmann N Engl J Med 2000;343:1388-98). Differences in the course
      of the disease may reflect the course of the underlying viral infection. In a large series of
      patients with AM submitted to two endo-myocardial biopsies (EMBs) in few months, Kuhl
      demonstrated that viral clearance was associated with spontaneous ejection fraction (EF)
      improvement, while EF did not improve or even deteriorated in patients with viral and
      myocardial inflammation persistence (Kühl Circulation 2005;111:887-93. Kühl Circulation
      2005;112:1965-70). However, repeated EMBs cannot be proposed in the clinical routine and,
      hence, non-invasive detection of the subgroup of patients with inflammation persistence
      should have important implications. Today, cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR) is recognized as
      an accurate non-invasive imaging tool to diagnose acute myocarditis, because of its ability
      to detect myocardial inflammation and necrosis (Friedrich J Am Coll Cardiol 2009;53:1475-87).

      The introduction of mapping techniques has significantly improved CMR sensitivity, allowing
      to detect both focal and diffuse involvement, with a substantial benefit in the convalescent
      phase where conventional Lake Louise criteria often fail.

      However, no technical development has been performed for the evaluation of Early Gadolinium
      Enhancement (EGE), which continues to be assessed on T1-w images, being the less robust Lake
      Louise criteria and eliminated from the updated Lake Louise criteria [Ferreira J Am Coll
      Cardiol 2018;72(24):3158-76.].

      Therefore, there are two major clinical needs: (a) the first being the improvement in
      diagnosis fulfilling the lack in technical advancement in the setting of EGE evaluation, (b)
      the second being risk-stratification and prediction of prognosis. The study hypothesis is
      that the development of a quantitative method based on T1 mapping for the assessment of EGE
      may be highly sensitive and specific for the diagnosis of myocarditis. Then, the assessment
      of early changes in CMR parameters at a short-term CMR study (2 months after symptoms onset)
      may have great value in outcome prediction.

      Preliminary data: A previous study performed on patients with chronic inflammatory
      cardiomyopathy demonstrated that the positivity of CMR parameters of necrosis (LGE) and
      inflammation (oedema) is significantly higher in patients with an active inflammation at EMB,
      compared to patients with borderline histological criteria (De Cobelli 2006 JACC;47:1649-54).
      These data suggest the possibility to detect with CMR the persistence of subtle myocardial
      inflammation after the acute phase in patients with myocarditis.

      Moreover, Wagner and Colleagues demonstrated, in a small group of patients, a correlation
      between CMR evidence of myocardial hyperaemia persistence 4 weeks after the onset of acute
      myocarditis and negative left ventricular (LV) remodelling 30 months later (Wagner A 2003
      MAGMA;16:17-20).

      Materials and Methods:

      This is a prospective multicentre cohort study. 80 patients with diagnosis of acute
      myocarditis (AM) will be enrolled.

      All patients admitted to Hospital with suspect of AM will be submitted to:

      collection of detailed anamnesis and physical examination, 12-lead ECG, laboratory exams,
      transthoracic echocardiography, coronary catheterization or coronary computed tomography (CT)
      angiography when an ischemic cause of symptoms need to be excluded and CMR imaging within 3-5
      days.

      CMR protocol will include Lake-Louise criteria, parametric mappings (native T1, T2 mapping
      and ECV), with an additional early-enhanced T1 mapping acquired 2 minutes after gadolinium
      injection.

      All patients with clinically or EMB confirmed diagnosis of AM will be enrolled and will
      undergo a second CMR study 2 month later.

      All patients will undergo a clinical/instrumental follow-up including: CMR assessment of LV
      ejection fraction and end-diastolic volume after at least 1 year from diagnosis; registration
      of all-cause mortality, cardiac death and aborted cardiac sudden death in patients with
      implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD).

      Impact and Translational Implications:

      Myocarditis is characterized by significant heterogeneity of long-term evolution. CMR could
      play a key role in the non-invasive and early identification of patients with persistent
      myocardial inflammation, at high risk to evolve towards an irreversible post-myocarditis
      heart failure. Thus, CMR may help to design tailored management of patients. In this
      perspective, invasive characterization of damage mechanism and aetiology might be reserved to
      patients with CMR evidence of inflammation persistence.
    
  