
    
      Stem cells are a special type of blood cell, which are able to grow and divide. Stem cells
      are given to patients after high dose chemotherapy to help restore blood production and
      immunity. For an autologous stem cell transplant, stem cells are collected from a patient
      before they have chemotherapy, then they are "transplanted" back to the same patient after
      treatment. Circulating blood contains a very small number of stem cells. It is often
      necessary to use the drug NeupogenTM, by injection under the skin twice a day for three days,
      before stem cells are collected to help move the stem cells out of the bone marrow and into
      the circulating blood. When the stem cells are in the blood, they can be collected more
      easily. The study drug pegfilgrastim is very similar to NeupogenTM, however, it is longer
      lasting. Therefore, treatment can be given as a single injection rather than several
      injections over many days.

      For this study, you will receive a single injection of pegfilgrastim under the skin. Starting
      3 days after the injection, you will have blood tests (1-2 tablespoons) once a day. These
      blood tests will be used to learn if there are enough stem cells circulating in the blood to
      start the collection procedure and for tests to check for any side effects of the drug. These
      once a day blood tests will continue up to 10 days after the completion of the stem cell
      collection procedure. When the stem cell count reaches a certain level (usually 4 or 5 days
      after the injection), stem cell collection will be started and done once a day until enough
      cells have been collected for transplantation.

      Before the collection starts, you will have blood (1-2 tablespoons) and urine samples
      collected for routine tests. You will also have a chest x-ray and an electrocardiogram (ECG -
      a test that measures the electrical activity of the heart). These tests are being done to
      make sure you can handle the collection process. You will then have a central venous line
      (CVL) placed. For this procedure, you will have a catheter (small flexible tube) placed in a
      large vein under the collar bone. The CVL will be used to collect the stem cells.

      You will have your stem cells collected by a procedure called apheresis. This procedure is
      similar to donating platelets in a blood bank. In this process blood is collected through the
      CVL and is passed through a cell separator machine. White cells (that contain the stem cells)
      are collected and frozen and the remaining blood is given back to you. During the apheresis
      procedure blood is kept from clotting by a continuous injection of ACD-A (sodium citrate
      solution). This may cause some loss of calcium from the blood. To help with this side effect,
      a calcium containing solution is continuously injected during the process of stem cell
      collection. The procedure takes around 4-6 hours. If sufficient numbers of stem cells are not
      collected in a single procedure, the procedure is repeated until the required number of stem
      cells can be collected. The maximum number of procedures will be 5. If enough stem cells
      cannot be collected after 5 procedures you will be taken off the study and your doctor will
      discuss other treatment options with you.

      The stem cells that are collected will be "transplanted" back to you after you have high-dose
      chemotherapy as part of your standard care.

      This is an investigational study. Pegfilgrastim is FDA approved and is commercially
      available. It is approved to increase white blood cell count after chemotherapy. However, its
      use in the collection of stem cells for transplantation is experimental. Up to 48
      participants will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at UTMDACC.
    
  