
    
      Objective:

      Abnormal immune responses and inflammatory mechanisms have been implicated in the
      pathogenesis of certain neurodegenerative diseases. Frontotemporal dementia (FTD) is a
      neurodegenerative disease characterized by focal atrophy of the frontal and temporal lobes.
      Evidence supports the presence of inflammation in FTD; however, the relationship between
      inflammation and FTD pathogenesis is poorly understood. In addition, there is evidence of
      inflammation in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE), a condition characterized by seizures
      originating from the mesial temporal lobe.

      In response to brain inflammation, microglia are activated and over-express the peripheral
      benzodiazepine receptor (PBR). In normal conditions, PBR is expressed in low numbers.
      Measuring PBR density can identify areas of brain inflammation, because activated microglial
      cells in these areas express more PBR than microglial cells in resting conditions. Positron
      emission tomography (PET) imaging can quantify PBR density in vivo using radioligands that
      bind to PBR sites. One PBR-specific radioligand,
      [11C]1-(2-chlorophenyl-N-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide (PK11195), has been used to
      identify areas of brain inflammation in patients with FTD. Unfortunately, [11C]PK11195 has
      several limitations, such as low brain uptake and low specific signal. A recently developed
      radioligand, [11C]N-acetyl-N-(2-methoxybenzyl)-2-phenoxy-5-pyridinamine (PBR28), has higher
      affinity than [11C]PK11195 for PBR. [11C]PBR28 has never been used to study inflammation in
      FTD.

      To further study brain inflammation in dementia and TLE, we wish to include patients with
      Alzheimer disease (AD) and TLE.

      Study population:

      In this protocol, we wish to evaluate 20 patients with FTD, 50 100 patients with AD, 20
      patients with TLE, and 30 55 healthy volunteers.

      Design:

      Subjects will undergo a dedicated brain PET with [11C]PBR28, as well as a brain MRI. In AD
      patients and controls, 11C PBR28 PET and MRI will then be repeated after an interval of one
      year but no more than 5 years.

      Outcome measures:

      Outcome measures will be the amount of 11C PBR28 binding in the brain in FTD patients, AD
      patients, TLE patients and in healthy controls. We will quantify the radioligand s brain
      uptake, washout, plasma clearance, and distribution volume using compartmental modeling.
      Distribution volume is proportional to the density of receptors and is equal to the ratio at
      equilibrium of uptake in brain to the concentration of parent radiotracer in plasma. 11C
      PBR28 binding will also be compared between baseline and follow-up scans to determine the
      change in binding related to evolution of AD pathology and that related to normal aging.
    
  