
    
      1. Introduction

           Stroke leads to many disabilities such as balance impairment,weakness in various groups
           of muscles, impairment of gait parameters and limitations of range of motion.Balance and
           gait disability are the main impairments among chronic stroke survivors.Lower extremity
           dysfunctions affect the walking ability and balance. Ankle dorsiflexion (weakness in
           dorsiflexor muscles) and increase in the tone of triceps surae (plantar flexor muscles)
           is the major leading cause of impairment of balance and gait parameters.Application of
           taping on calcaneus (favouring dorsiflexion & eversion) will provide normal determinants
           of gait and improve balance, as it significantly improving the accurate joint position
           by limiting or facilitating the movement.

           1.1.Problem Statement: In patients with chronic stroke immediate effects of different
           types of taping technique & targeted areas to determine its impact on balance , gait and
           range of motion has been checked.This study thus aims to evaluate the long term effects
           and application of calcaneal taping in the improvement of balance ,gait and range of
           motion in chronic stroke survivors .

           1.2.Purpose of the study: The study is targeting the calcaneus bone for the application
           of taping technique in patients with chronic stroke for the improvement of balance, gait
           and range of motion.

           1.3.Objectives of the study: To improve the balance (static & dynamic), gait parameters
           and ankle joint range of motion by the application of calcaneal taping in patients with
           chronic stroke.

        2. Procedure:

      Patients with chronic stroke on the basis of selection criteria will be randomly selected for
      both groups(experimental and control group).Procedure will be explained to the patients and
      written consent will be taken from them.

      Outcome measurements will be taken prior and after the intervention.Foot print method will be
      used for the analysis of gait parameters( step length, stride length and cadence ).Balance
      error scoring system (BESS) will be used for the assessment of static balance.Timed Up & Go
      test (TUG) will be performed for the assessment of dynamic balance.Universal goniometer will
      be used for the measurement of ankle joint range of motion.

      Interventions: In experimental group - Calcaneal taping will be provide to the patients by
      focusing the dorsiflexion with eversion (with stretch) in long sitting position foot out of
      edge. Conventional therapy (muscle strengthening exercises, balance related activities ) will
      be given to the patients.

      In control group- Sham taping (without stretch) will be provide and conventional therapy
      (muscle strengthening exercises, balance related activities ) to the patients.
    
  