
    
      Background: Service Dogs are trained to assist people with disabilities to accomplish tasks
      which permit the individual to be more functional in their home and social environment. Often
      the dogs are trained to help in the completion of activities of daily living and instrumental
      activities of daily living. Service Dogs are efficacious for individuals with disabilities,
      such as vision limitations, spinal cord injury and hearing problems. In addition, some mental
      health outcomes have improved with the introduction of a Service Dog. A research study was
      mandated in the Department of Defense Bill of 2010, to examine the efficacy of service dogs
      for Veterans with Post Traumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD). Together with the Cooperative
      Studies Program, the proponents have designed a research study to effectively meet the
      demands of the Bill and to provide timely research into an evolving field.

      Study Primary Objective: To examine how limitations on activity and quality of life in
      Veterans with PTSD are impacted by the provision of a Service Dog versus an Emotional Support
      Dog.

      Study Design: A three-year prospective randomized study is proposed which has two randomized
      arms. Arm one of the study will be Veterans (n=110) randomized to receiving a Service Dog,
      which has been trained for specific tasks to assist with the Veteran's disability. Arm two
      (n=110) of the study will be Veterans randomized to receive an Emotional Support Dog (a dog
      which provide emotional comfort). All Veterans, after confirmation of eligibility will be
      randomized to receive a Service Dog or Emotional Support Dog and will be observed a minimum
      of three months. During this period, Veterans will be required to participate in a Dog Care
      Course to ensure they are aware of the demands dogs place on humans. Once dogs become
      available, Veterans will be paired with a Service Dog or Emotional Support Dog. Follow-up
      will begin at one week post pairing to track any dog behavior issues, and will continue after
      pairing for 18 months. Primary outcomes to be examined include limitations on activity (as
      measured by the WHO- DAS 2.0), quality of life (measured by the VR-12). Secondary outcomes
      include PTSD symptoms (measured by the PCL), Suicidal ideation (Columbia-Suicide Severity
      Rating Scale); depression (PHQ-9) and Sleep (Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index). In addition,
      health care utilization, anger management, employment and productivity will also be examined.
      This multi-site study will be conducted at three locations, Nationwide.
    
  