
    
      Screening Visit:

      Obtain signed Informed Consent document and HIPAA Authorization. Review past medical history
      in Armed Forces Health Longitudinal Technology Application (AHLTA) to verify the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria and to verify the inclusion/exclusion criteria including
      previous encounter, vital signs review, medication list, co-morbidities, demographics,
      problems list, and note any prior acupuncture received.

      Record: Date of birth, age, gender, race, ethnicity, last 4 of social security number, name
      of standard of care weight loss intervention, current email address, height (in inches),
      weight (in pounds), waist circumference (in inches) measurement, previous bariatric surgery,
      and body mass index calculated.

      Visit 1-Week 1: (1st week of standard of care weight intervention)

      Subjects will be randomized into 1 of 2 groups and treated:

        -  Group 1: Standard of care weight loss intervention plus auricular acupuncture at Shen
           Men, Point Zero, and Appetite Control Point/Hunger Point in each ear. The 3 needles will
           remain in each ear for 15 minutes.

        -  Group 2: Standard of care weight loss intervention plus sham acupuncture at three
           nonacupoints in each ear. The 3 needles will remain in each ear for 15 minutes.

      All subjects, regardless of randomization group, will be instructed to have no heavy meals,
      no excessive hot or cold foods, no heavy exercise or intercourse, and no alcohol for 24 hours
      after this visit.

      Visit 2-12 (Week 2-12 of standard of care weight intervention):

      Subjects will be given treatment according to their randomization group. The acupuncture
      needles will be applied and remain in each ear for 15 minutes.

      Record: weight, waist circumference measurement, and document compliance for standard of care
      weight loss intervention (i.e. attendance and measurements from class).

      All subjects, regardless of randomization group, will be instructed to have no heavy meals,
      no excessive hot or cold foods, no heavy exercise or intercourse, and no alcohol for 24 hours
      after this visit.

      Visit 13 (Week 24/12 weeks post visit 12):

      Record: weight, and waist circumference measurement.

      Subjects will be asked the following questions:

        -  Do you follow a regular routine of physical exercise? Yes/No *If yes, what type of
           exercise (mark all that apply):

        -  Aerobic (cardiovascular endurance, e.g. cycling, swimming, walking, hiking)

        -  Anaerobic (strength or resistance, e.g. weight lifting, sprinting, interval training)

        -  Flexibility (stretching, e.g. yoga, pilates, gymnastics) On average, how many times per
           week do you exercise?

             -  0-1

             -  2-4

             -  5+ How many minutes on average is each exercise session?

             -  10-20

             -  20-30

             -  30-60

             -  60 At what level of intensity?

             -  Light

             -  Moderate

             -  Heavy How would you rate the "health" of your eating habits?

             -  Poor

             -  Fair

             -  Average

             -  Good

             -  Excellent
    
  