
    
      Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is one of the progressive neurodegenerative disorders,
      affecting upper and lower motor neurons in the cerebral cortex, brainstem and spinal cord.
      Hence, the signs of damage motor neurons are both at the peripheral (eg. atrophy), and
      central (eg. spasticity) level. There is no effective treatment for ALS and the majority of
      patients die within 5 years after diagnosis, usually due to the respiratory failure. Numerous
      studies on murine models revealed that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) successfully improve the
      clinical and pathological features of ALS patients. The goal of this nonrandomized, open
      label study is to investigate the safety and tolerability of allogeneic Wharton's
      jelly-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation into the individuals with diagnosed
      amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. This clinical trial is conducted to test the therapeutic
      (neuroprotective and paracrine) effect of allogeneic Wharton's jelly-derived mesenchymal stem
      cells (WJ-MSCs). All patients enrolled will have a documented history of ALS disease prior to
      enrollment. Patients are recruited for a clinical trial no more than 1 year from the disease
      diagnosis. Then, patients are divided into two groups: Group I - patients receiving
      intrathecally one application of WJ-MSCs and Group II - patients receiving intrathecally
      three applications (each administration every two months) of WJ-MSCs. Subsequently,
      allogeneic Wharton's jelly-derived mesenchymal stem cell transplantation to the cerebrospinal
      fluid at the site of the spinal cord will be performed. Finally, treatment safety, adverse
      events and exploratory parameters, including electromyographic (EMG) studies, forced vital
      capacity (FVC) and functional rating scale (FRS) to establish ALS progression rate will be
      recorded throughout the duration and in the post-treatment follow up period.
    
  