
    
      The prospective, randomized controlled trial was performed at University Hospital Ostrava.
      All eligible participants were adult patients of both genders aged 18 years or older, and
      scheduled for elective orthopaedic surgery (THR). The enrolled patients underwent
      per-protocol randomization into one of two groups (PCEA or non-PCEA group) using the
      envelopes method. Randomization was performed immediately after ICU admission by an
      independent physician, who was not involved in the data collection or management of the study
      subjects. Following randomization, patients were admitted to the ICU. Data for the analyses
      were collected for 24 hours after THR. The baseline demographic and preoperative
      characteristics (age, gender, weight, body mass index, and American Society of
      Anesthesiologists [ASA] physical status) were obtained at the time of admission. The degree
      of motor block was assessed using the modified Bromage Score. The level of sedation due to
      the residual effect of anaesthetics at the time of admission was assessed using a sedation
      score. The Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) values were determined at hourly intervals and 30
      minutes after administration of analgesics to determine the effect of the analgesic dose. The
      other parameters evaluated at hourly intervals were: a) the presence of hypotension defined
      as a decrease in systolic blood pressure below 90 mmHg or a greater than 30% decrease from
      the baseline value; b) bradypnea measured on a numeric scale; c) bradycardia defined as heart
      rate ≤ 50/min and tachycardia defined as heart rate ≥ 120/min; d) the presence of
      postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV); and e) skin itching. At the time of discharge from
      the ICU, the total consumption of analgesics was recorded, and patients' satisfaction was
      evaluated using the Likert scale. All patients were perioperatively treated by the protocol
      for administration of anesthesia and analgesia: The patients were administered 7.5 mg of
      midazolam orally one hour before surgery. Patients weighing more than 70 kg received 2 mg of
      bisulepin. Prior to surgery, a subarachnoid blockade was established with 2-4 ml of
      levobupivacaine 0.5% at the L2-L3 spinal interspace. Subsequently, a catheter for
      postoperative analgesia was inserted into the epidural space. If the subarachnoid blockade
      was insufficient for surgery, epidural levobupivacaine 0.5 % was administered to a maximum
      dose of 10 ml, after which the patient underwent general anesthesia and was excluded from the
      study. During surgery, patients were sedated with a target-controlled infusion of propofol
      (dose of 1-2 mg/kg body weight per hour) so that they were asleep but aroused when spoken to.
      After surgery, patients received a mixture of levobupivacaine 0.1% and sufentanil 1 µg/ml.
      Postoperatively, patients were moved to the ICU. Immediately after ICU admission, continuous
      monitoring of vital functions and pain was initiated. When the pain intensity exceeded ≥ 4
      points, analgesic therapy was initiated by the administration of a mixture containing
      levobupivacaine 0.1% and sufentanil 1 μg/ml. The PCEA group was initially given a bolus of 10
      ml of the mixture, and then a basal infusion at the rate of 3 ml/h. The bolus was set on 4
      ml, a lockout interval of 20 minutes, and a maximum dose of 40 ml/4 h according to the
      literature recommendation. The non-PCEA group was initially administered 5 ml of the
      analgesic mixture followed by a basal infusion at 5 ml/h. If pain developed, a bolus of 8 ml
      of the mixture was administered according to the physician's prescription. If analgesia was
      insufficient after 1 hour of maximal dosing in both groups, the patient was given adjunctive
      analgesic therapy including one or a combination of the following drugs: i.v. paracetamol,
      i.v. metamizole, or i.v. tramadol. Patients requiring systemic adjunctive medication were
      excluded from the final analysis.
    
  