
    
      Most gambling specific research involves men yet findings are typically generalized to women,
      a shortcoming addressed in the literature. Women are underrepresented in treatment. A
      previous study (Boughton and Brewster, 2002) with 365 Ontario women not in treatment,
      explored barriers and treatment needs. Many respondents indicated that women-only groups and
      self-help materials would be of value. Using web-based resources to increase treatment
      options has merit in a growing technological age. This study will introduce two unique forms
      of treatment, a women friendly tutorial workbook developed specifically to address issues
      commonly underlying women's gambling and a webinar based group facilitated by a gambling
      clinician. Group support has been demonstrated to be highly beneficial for women in reducing
      isolation and shame. The research will assist in developing Best Practices in the problem
      gambling field, especially for women, a neglected and vulnerable group.

      There are two questions:

        1. First, to what extent is the Tutorial Workbook effective by itself as a treatment option
           in helping women make changes to their gambling.

        2. What extent is the addition of the webinar discussion group option an incremental
           benefit to the participant in helping women make changes to their gambling.

      Web based therapy has proven effective in the treatment of addiction and mental health issues
      but more research is needed to assess its efficacy for problem gambling. Self-help tools have
      been demonstrated as effective in reducing gambling but no women specific tools are
      available. Evidence of the effectiveness of the TW and TWW treatment options will reduce
      barriers for hard to serve populations of women and expand options for clinical programs to
      meet the needs of women unable to attend face to face programs. The TW attends to the unique
      issues and treatment/support needs of women with gambling concerns.

      Ultimately the TW materials, once fully developed, can be made available to the general
      public as an online tool, used to assist n providing telephone counselling, individually or
      in a group (Webinar) format or be made available as a self-help paper based utorial workbook.
    
  