
    
      A leading pathophysiologic hypothesis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is
      based on the notion of a catecholamine [CA; norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (EPI), and
      dopamine (DA)] dysfunction. This hypothesis suggests that the CA response to environmental
      stimuli is attenuated in ADHD and is derived primarily from observations that drugs such as
      methylphenidate and amphetamine - considered to be CA agonists - are effective in treating
      the symptoms of ADHD. Despite this compelling evidence, a definitive role of CA
      responsiveness in ADHD remains controversial. Physical activity is widely known to be a
      powerful stimulus of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) and noradrenergic systems. On
      the basis of the nation of a CA dysfunction in ADHD, we reasoned that the normal robust
      increase in circulating CA seen in response to exercise would be blunted in children with
      ADHD.

      The objective of this study is to examine the possibility that exercise program and testing
      might be useful in differentiating CA responses to stress between children who had received a
      diagnosis of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and age- and gender-matched
      controls.

      This study will take place in 'Children and adolescence health and sports center' in Meir
      Medical Center, Kfar-Saba, Israel. Forty-five children, boys and girls between the ages 6 and
      18, with newly diagnosed ADHD that not receiving any drugs will be assigned to the
      intervention group. Age and gender matched children with ADHD, receiving Ritalin and not
      engaged in regular exercise, or healthy children's without ADHD will serve as controls. The
      intervention group will participate in an exercise program, including aerobic and anaerobic
      components, twice a week, for 3 months. Exercise testing, blood sampling and cognitive
      assessment will be performed at the start and in the end of this study.
    
  