
    
      There is an urgent need for feasible, effective, and cost-efficient programs to help
      overweight children control their weight. To start to address this unmet need, we are
      evaluating after school team sports as an intervention for reducing weight gain among
      low-income and at-risk of being overweight, and overweight children. After school sports
      programs may be generalizable, motivating, and cost-efficient interventions for long-term
      weight control among at-risk and overweight children. The infrastructure needed to provide
      such programs already exists in most communities. In contrast, more traditional, medically-
      and behaviorally-oriented treatment programs are expensive, generally not very effective,
      often inconvenient, and not available in most communities. While children involved in team
      sports tend to be more physically fit than their uninvolved peers, team sports has not yet
      been tested as a method to increase involvement of at-risk and overweight children in regular
      physical activity. As an added bonus, these sports programs can displace typical after school
      television viewing and snacking. Team sports is a potentially innovative and high impact
      approach for intervening with at-risk and overweight children, as it may provide an
      opportunity to reduce weight gain while increasing social interaction and self-esteem. If our
      proposed research finds that team sports are an efficacious intervention for reducing weight
      gain among low-income, at-risk and overweight children, it is an intervention approach that
      could be rapidly diffused and tested for effectiveness. The policy implications of these
      findings would be great, encouraging expanded access to team sports programs to a population
      that has not been previously targeted or included.

      We propose a 1 year randomized controlled trial comparing weight changes among low-income,
      overweight children randomized to participate in an after school team sports program versus a
      traditional weight control/health education program.
    
  