
    
      Study Design:

      Over a 2-year period, we will perform a retrospective observational cohort analysis of 1000
      patients referred to the BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery for evaluation
      of recurrent pregnancy loss. This cohort will include a retrospective analysis of 200
      infertility patients referred to Dr. Piazza's Cardiovascular Medicine clinic for evaluation
      of thrombophilia.

      We will also enroll prospectively for 18 months patients referred to the BWH Center for
      Infertility and Reproductive Surgery for evaluation of recurrent pregnancy loss.

      Study Population:

      We will include a study population that is representative of the ethnic and racial diversity
      of women who receive care at BWH. We will not enroll post-menopausal women, men or children
      because recurrent pregnancy loss specifically affects women of child-bearing potential. We do
      not plan to enroll pregnant women because we are specifically focused on women with recurrent
      pregnancy loss presenting for assisted reproductive therapy.

      Retrospective Cohort:

      For our retrospective analysis we will include 800 consecutive women at least 18 years old
      but not greater than 40 years old with a chief complaint of recurrent pregnancy loss referred
      to the BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery and 200 consecutive patients
      referred to Dr. Piazza's Cardiovascular Medicine clinic for evaluation of thrombophilia as a
      cause of recurrent pregnancy loss. This will provide a total of 1000 patients for the
      retrospective cohort analysis.

      Study Inclusion Criteria

        1. Age 18-40 years

        2. 2 or more pregnancy losses (including chemical pregnancies but not ectopic pregnancy)

        3. Evaluated at the BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery or the Watkins
           Cardiovascular Clinic

      Study Exclusion Criteria

        1. Infertility due to uterine factors (such as Asherman's Syndrome)

        2. Known translocation carrier

        3. Prior venous thromboembolism on anticoagulation

        4. Abnormal uterine cavity on hysterosalpingogram/hysteroscopy

      Prospective Cohort:

      For the 18-month prospective cohort analysis, we will enroll consecutive patients evaluated
      at the BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery for recurrent pregnancy loss.

      Study Inclusion Criteria

        1. Age 18-40 years

        2. 2 or more pregnancy losses (including chemical pregnancies but not ectopic pregnancy)

        3. Evaluated at the BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery

      Study Exclusion Criteria

        1. Infertility due to uterine factors (such as Asherman's Syndrome)

        2. Known translocation carrier

        3. Prior venous thromboembolism on anticoagulation

        4. Abnormal uterine cavity on hysterosalpingogram/hysteroscopy

      Study Procedures:

      From the EPIC Electronic Health Record (EHR), we will record demographic characteristics,
      comorbid conditions, details about the presentation of infertility, pregnancy losses, and
      prior assisted reproductive treatments, thrombophilia panel results, treatments, and
      outcomes, including successful pregnancies and deliveries. We will calculate the prevalence
      of thrombophilia in patients referred to BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery
      for evaluation of recurrent pregnancy loss. We will describe the outcomes of patients
      receiving prophylactic low-dose anticoagulation, including bleeding, thrombotic events, and
      live births. We will perform multivariable regression analyses to answer additional key
      questions of predictors of thrombophilia as a cause of recurrent pregnancy loss and
      successful treatment of infertility due to thrombophilia.

      The proposed retrospective and prospective cohort analysis will provide information about the
      standard of care at BWH for patients with recurrent pregnancy loss who may have
      thrombophilia. The registry will not change the standard of care for diagnosis and treatment
      of the patients at BWH in any way. The registry will not mandate any testing or treatments.
      There will be no required study visits, follow-up, or subject or provider contact.

      Data Analysis Plan:

      We will describe the results of patients receiving prophylactic anticoagulation, including
      frequency of bleeding and thrombotic events. We will calculate the prevalence of
      thrombophilia in patients referred to BWH Center for Infertility and Reproductive Surgery for
      evaluation of recurrent pregnancy loss. We will perform multivariable regression analyses to
      answer additional key questions of predictors of thrombophilia as a cause of recurrent
      pregnancy loss, chemical pregnancy after assisted reproductive therapy, and successful
      treatment of infertility due to thrombophilia.
    
  