
    
      Introduction:

      Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) including stroke is the first leading cause of death worldwide.
      It was estimated 17.9 million people died from CVDs in 2016, representing 31 percentage of
      all global deaths. Of these deaths, 85 percentage are due to heart attack and stroke. Over 75
      percentage of CVD deaths take place in low- and middle-income countries. Besides, stroke is
      one of the leading causes of severe long-term disability. Stroke is the second cause of
      Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) globally after ischemic heart disease. Stroke is the
      second of DALYs in the developing countries and the third cause to DALYs in the developed
      countries.

      A stroke affecting one of the family members is a stressful event or shock for all family
      members; especially the primary family caregiver. The concept of stroke is usually attached
      to chronic functional, cognitive and behavioral changes. These changes require daily
      assistance for the stroke patients in performing Activities of Daily Livings (ADLs) and
      Instrumental Activities of Daily Livings (IADLs). A family caregiver is committed to assist
      the stroke patient to perform these activities.

      Caregiving for a stroke survivor creates imbalance and strain between the personal life of
      the family caregiver and the provision of the caregiving role. Caregiving for stroke
      survivors conveys physical, psychological, social and financial burdens upon the family
      caregiver. In addition, the feeling of burden among family caregivers of stroke survivors
      interferes with the rehabilitation and quality of life of the stroke survivors and increases
      the risk of mortality.

      Since stroke is a sudden condition that forces the family to provide care for their loved
      person without preparedness, it brings out multiple challenges to which the family caregivers
      must adapt without compromising their own life. So, the interventions are directed to prepare
      the family caregivers adequately to be able to perform their caring role and at the same time
      to reduce the burden of care and to maintain their quality of life.

      However, the effectiveness of the interventions to reduce the family caregivers' burden and
      other negative outcomes is debatable. The statement for healthcare professionals from the
      American Heart Association and American Stroke Association stated that the reasons for varied
      results are related to multiple methodological problems. It was recommended that future
      researches have to focus on a tailored intervention based on the needs of family caregivers.
      Besides, it was recommended that the multidimensional interventions involving
      psychoeducation, skill-building, and peer support are the most effective way to relieve the
      family caregivers' burden and other negative outcomes.

      Based on the results of the systematic literature review of the studies that aimed to
      identify the prevalence and incidence of stroke in Egypt, the mean and median crude
      prevalence rates were 721.6/100,000 and 655/100,000 respectively. Also, the mean and median
      crude incidence rates were 187/100,000 and 180.5/100,000 respectively. Regarding the burden
      levels among the family caregivers, 60 percent of them experiencing severe burden, 24
      percentage of them experiencing moderate burden and 16 percentage of them experiencing mild
      burden.

      Stroke survivors immediately discharged from acute hospitals to their homes after the
      treatment of the acute signs and symptoms. In other words, the families take the
      responsibility to care for their family member diagnosed with a stroke. This situation
      exposes the family caregiver at a heightened risk of burden. Especially, there are no
      specialized nursing homes and there are no home-visiting programs. Family members are rarely
      provided with sufficient information or training to be equipped to provide home care for
      stroke survivors. This study aims to develop a tailored multidimensional intervention and to
      evaluate its effect on the care burden among family caregivers of stroke survivors. There are
      no similar studies provided to family caregivers of stroke survivors in Egypt.

      Aim of the study:

      The proposed study aims to evaluate the effect of a tailored multidimensional intervention on
      the care burden among family caregivers of stroke survivors.

      Objectives:

      By providing a tailored multidimensional intervention to the family caregivers, the following
      objectives will be achieved.

      Primary objective:

      o Relieve the care burden among family caregivers of stroke survivors

      Secondary objectives:

        -  Meet the perceived needs of family caregivers

        -  Enhance the coping strategies among family caregivers of stroke survivors

        -  Improve Quality of Life among family caregivers of stroke survivors

      Hypotheses:

      The family caregivers of stroke survivors who will receive the tailored multidimensional
      intervention will have a less care burden when they will be compared to the family caregivers
      allocated in the control group.

      Study design:

      This study will be open-label, two-arm Randomized Control Trial (RCT)

      Study participants:

      The study participants are the family caregivers of stroke survivors. The family caregiver is
      the primary person who regularly provides care for a stroke survivor. The family caregiver
      may be a son, a daughter, a parent, a spouse, or other relatives.

      Sample size:

      The sample was calculated based on a similar study which demonstrated a difference in the
      care burden among the family caregivers (Zarit Burden Interview). The total sample size is 84
      family caregivers. It was calculated considering a confidence level of 0.95, a statistical
      power of 0.90, a minimum effect size of 0.72. 30 percentage of sample size will be recruited
      additional to the sample size to compensate drop out, so the sample size will be raised to
      110 participants. There will be a fair division between the two groups. The sample size was
      estimated using G power software 3.1.9.4.

      Recruitment and randomization:

      Basically, the proposed study is a community-based study. Firstly, the researcher will
      communicate with the physicians at the outpatient clinics and rehabilitation clinics. The
      researcher will explain to the physicians the aim and the nature of the study and will give
      them copies of the research proposal. Secondly, the physicians will talk to the family
      caregivers of the stroke survivors about the proposed study. If the family caregivers
      accepted to participate in the study, the physicians will give them the contact of the
      researcher and they will ask the family caregivers for permission to allow the researcher to
      contact them. After that, the researcher will meet the family caregivers and the stroke
      survivors to explain to them the purpose and nature of the study. If they accepted to
      participate in the study, written informed consent will be obtained from the participants.
      The study participants will be informed all data will be used for research only and they have
      the right to withdraw from the study at any time.

      After the confirmation of the availability of inclusion criteria among the study participants
      and obtaining informed consent, the allocation of the participants in the Intervention Group
      (IG) or in the Control Group (CG) will be through 1:1 open-label randomization. Participants
      will be randomized into one of the two groups after the stratification of the stroke
      survivors by the dependency level (Modified Rankin scale III or IV or V) and by dementia
      (Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) ≤20 or more than 20). Randomization will be performed
      by a trained research assistant (randomized allocation center) who is not involved in the
      intervention or the evaluation. The research assistant will inform the researcher which
      participants are assigned to the IG and which patients are CG.

        -  Initial baseline home visit An initial baseline home visit to both the intervention and
           control group will be conducted to collect the baseline data. The baseline data will
           include the demographic characteristics of the family, the family caregivers, the stroke
           survivors, and the home preparation. It will include also, the general health condition
           of the family caregiver, the stroke survivors' general health condition, post-stroke
           complications, and the provided health care services. Besides, baseline data of the
           primary and secondary outcomes. All baseline data will be collected before the
           intervention during baseline home visit through self-administered questionnaires and
           face to face interviews with the participants. After that, tailored plans will be
           designed based on the needs of the participants.

        -  Period of intervention and method of delivery (6 months) The principal investigator will
           collaborate with other researchers who are academic staff and trained nurses to assist
           in the conduction of the study. All researchers and nurses will be trained by the
           principal investigator.

             -  First 3 months:

                3 home visits, 3 telephone interventions, and 1 peer support session will be
                conducted within the first 3 months. Each home visit will last 120 minutes, and
                each telephone intervention will last 30-40 minutes. The peer support session will
                last 90 minutes. The home visits and telephone interventions will be conducted
                biweekly alternatively.

             -  Second 3 months:

                3 telephone follow up will be conducted within the second 3 months. One telephone
                follows up will be conducted every month. Each telephone session will last 30-40
                minutes.

      Ethical issues and consent:

      A primary approval will be granted from the Ethical Research Committee, written consent will
      be obtained from the family caregivers and the stroke survivors after explaining the purpose,
      nature, benefits, and risks of the study. The study subjects will be informed all data will
      be used for research only and they have the right to withdraw from the study at any time.

      Data analysis:

      To ensure comparability between the intervention group and the control group, all baseline
      data will be analyzed.

      Quantitative variables will be expressed as means and standard deviations. For the
      qualitative variables, absolute and relative frequencies will be presented. T-test, the
      Mann-Whitney U test, Pearson's chi-square test or Fisher's exact test and ANOVA and ANCOVA
      according to normality will be used to compare the groups. One of the three different
      imputation methods, namely, Baseline Observation Carried Forward (BOCF) or Last Observation
      Carried Forward (LOCF) or Worst Observation Carried Forward (WOCF) will be used to account
      for the missing data from the participants who discontinued the study, to evaluate the
      changes in the primary and secondary outcomes. The significance level will be set at ≤ 0.05.
      The Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) version 21.0 will be used for analysis.
    
  