
    
      Epidemiological and clinical studies consistently show that approximately 2-8% of all
      premenopausal women suffer from premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD) - a serious pattern of
      distressing symptoms beginning at the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle and terminating
      shortly after the onset of menses. The most common psychological symptoms reported by women
      with PMDD are mood lability and irritability, and to a lesser extent a depressed mood or
      diminished interest and pleasure. In contrast to the milder premenstrual syndrome (PMS), PMDD
      is a severe mental disorder which can in some cases even trigger suicidal thoughts and
      attempts. Sadly, many women do not respond to currently available pharmacological treatments,
      while others suffer from their side effects throughout the month.

      The proposed study aims to examine the clinical effectiveness of a novel therapeutic approach
      for treating emotional instability in PMDD. The investigators plan to use a clinical model of
      weekly brain-guided training (i.e. NeuroFeedBack, NF) to gain better self control of affect
      and its regulation. Feedback will be based on modulating pre-frontal EEG Alpha waves, a
      technique shown in prior studies to have a therapeutic effect in affective symptoms; however
      the brain circuitry which underlies such effects is largely unknown. By using simultaneous
      fMRI and EEG the investigators intend to unveil the neural correlates of response to such
      treatment and to provide new markers for clinical trajectory in PMDD.

      Prospectively diagnosed PMDD women will be randomly assigned to either a real or sham EEG-NF
      protocol. During the training, patients will be instructed to "Think Positively" in order to
      actively manipulate brain areas that are related to positive experiences, while viewing a
      stream of various faces with different expressions. Following each facial image, feedback
      based on the alpha asymmetry score will be given to the patient regarding their ability to
      generate positive thoughts during the stream of faces. However, only the women within study
      group will receive accurate feedback. To obtain a neural and hormonal profile, patients will
      undergo simultaneous EEG-fMRI testing before and after training, and blood samples of hormone
      levels will be gathered. Comprehensive psychiatric and psychological assessment will be
      performed as an outcome measure.

      The investigators hypothesize that the NF protocol will enhance affective stability, thus
      improving daily functioning and quality of life among PMDD patients, without the need for
      pharmacological agents, intrusive techniques or time consuming interventions. Moreover, this
      treatment method is individually tailored to the needs and symptoms of the patient and can be
      used periodically rather than continuously. The patient remains in control throughout the
      procedure, and can potentially learn to use this technique on a continuous basis, beyond the
      scope of the clinical trial.
    
  