
    
      Isthmocele is a growing concern as a cause of abnormal uterine bleeding, especially post
      menstrual bleeding which may be present in up to 82% of these cases There is no universal
      standard definition of isthmocele but most of the authors agree that isthmocele as a
      myometrial discontinuity in the myometrium of the anterior uterine wall of >2mm at the site
      of a cesarean scar in non-pregnant women.

      Treatment should be offered only to the symptomatic patient. Surgery, by hysteroscopy,
      laparoscopy, laparotomy, or vaginal routes, is the most common treatment of choice even in
      the small defect Surgery is not without complications and many women reject it as a treatment
      option so it is reasonable to look for medical methods of management.

      The pathogenesis of AUB following the development of isthmocele remains unexplained. Oral
      contraceptive pills might represent a valid option due to a regulatory effect on the
      endometrium. Several authors describe the effectiveness of oral contraceptives in reducing
      bleeding disorders correlated to isthmocele.

      Another theory of AUB following the development of isthmocele is that menstrual blood can be
      collected in the defect so that it seeps slowly over the days following menstruation. This
      mechanism is added by impaired uterine contractility at the scar area.

      Misoprostol is a synthetic analog of prostaglandin E1, which increases myometrial
      contractions so it can be used for various other indications in obstetrics and gynecology the
      aim is to examine two different methods of medical treatment in cases of symptomatic
      isthmocele; first regulatory effect on the endometrium (Oral contraceptive pills) and second
      contraction of myometrium (misotac)

      Patient and methods:

      Women with a previous cesarean section who presented with postmenstrual spotting, and in whom
      sonohysterography had shown a isthmocele were eligible. A isthmocele was defined as an
      indentation in the anterior uterine wall at the site of the caesarean scar with at least 2 mm
      depth, measured during sonohysterography.

      Postmenstrual spotting needed to be present for at least three consecutive months after the
      last cesarean section. Postmenstrual spotting was defined as two or more days of brownish
      discharge at the end of menstrual bleeding when the total period of menstrual bleeding
      exceeds 7 days

      Exclusion criteria included any organic condition that will be the cause of that bleeding;
      Pregnancy, (suspected) malignancies, use of any hormonal contraceptives, fibroid, infection
      in the genital tract, etc.

      Randomization After written informed consent was given, women were randomly allocated to
      either medical treatment by oral contraceptive or to medical treatment by misotac.
    
  