
    
      Mopeia is a district in the Zambezia Province. Mopeia borders the district of Morrumbala to
      the North, the district of Chinde and the province of Sofala to the South, the districts of
      Nicoadala and Inhassunge in the East and the Provinces of Sofala and Tete in the West. It has
      an area of 7671 km2. The projected population for 2016 is 162.188 individuals with 31.927
      (19.7%) under five years of age (National Institute of Statistics, Mozambique). There are
      three administrative posts, eleven localities and 224 villages (Bairros) and approximately
      34.603 households. There are 12 health facilities (PMI-AIRS Mozambique, unpublished data).
      There is little socio-economic data available from Mopeia.

      The malaria burden is high in Zambezia with a parasite prevalence of 54% in under-fives [19].
      The parasite prevalence in children 1-15 years of age in Mopeia is 47.8% (38.7%-57.1%) [20].
      The mean rapid diagnostic test (RDT) positivity rate during a recent enhanced surveillance
      exercise at health facilities was 62.8% (range 50-72%) [21]. The same data suggest high
      incidence at health facilities, showing 470 cases per 1000 children during the same period
      (June-Nov 2014). Mopeia recently received 175.297 LLINs in 2013 and IRS with pyrethroids in
      2014 [22]. Residents of Mopeia will receive new LLINs in early 2017.

      Data from February 2015 in the neighbouring districts of Mocuba and Morrumbala show
      Pyrethroid resistance in the local Anopheles gambiae s.l. population [23]. Further north, in
      the district of Milange, tested Anopheles gambiae s.l. remain susceptible to pyrethroids
      [23]. See table 2 below for further details. Mopeia has been selected to receive IRS because
      of its high malaria transmission intensity, the presence of LLINs in the district, and the
      aforementioned regional indications of reduced pyrethroid susceptibility in the target vector
      population, and the existence of IRS infrastructure and capacity from previous campaigns.

      The villages selected for spraying will receive IRS with Actellic according to standard
      operating and consent procedures [24] in addition to existing LLINs. Non IRS areas will have
      existing LLINs, but will not receive IRS. In late 2017 (year two), IRS will be repeated using
      the same village selection and insecticide. Additionally in 2017, the whole district will be
      subject to universal LLIN distribution.

      Individuals enrolled in the cohort were recruited independent of their household acceptance
      or refusal of spray. IRS status will be confirmed with questionnaires during the monthly
      active cohort visits and during the cross-sectional surveys, including questions about wall
      replastering/painting and net usage (SSPs COST 001, 002 and 003). Additional information will
      be obtained through cone bioassays.

      The standard of malaria care at community and health center will remain unchanged throughout
      the study and stock levels of malaria commodities will be ensured.

      This study of IRS implementation in Mozambique will provide detailed information of the
      impact and cost-effectiveness of adding IRS with an extended release formulation of the
      organophosphate insecticide pirimiphos-methyl (Actellic®300CS) in a high transmission area
      with high LLIN coverage. This information will be disseminated to the NMCP as well as to
      local and international stakeholders and decision makers to inform policy recommendations and
      choices regarding the combination of vector control strategies.

      A simplified census was conducted in June-July 2016 to obtain the total number of children
      five years of age and under per household and village. A randomization ceremony for the
      intervention took place to randomly assign the villages to receive IRS or maintain their
      current status. Participants in both IRS and non-IRS areas were randomly chosen and consented
      to participate in cohorts to be followed prospectively. The total population disaggregated in
      under five years of age and above five in each village in the district will be used as a
      denominator for the passive case detection component of the study. Each house was
      geopositioned during the census visit as part of the household enumeration for spraying. This
      information can assist in defining the cluster size, core and buffer areas. Each household
      will receive a unique permanent ID. This is an interventional study with IRS serving as the
      research intervention.

      To determine the incidence by active case detection, a cohort of children five years of age
      and under will be followed monthly from the core zone of each cluster. During each visit the
      care taker will answer a short questionnaire regarding health, net usage and health-related
      expenditure. The temperature of each recruited child will be recorded and an RDT performed.
      If the child has a positive RDT, irrespective of accompanying clinical symptoms he/she will
      receive treatment according to the national guidelines.

      At health facility level, a separate facility-based team will ensure the collection of the
      household location (village) of each malaria case to determine the incidence in the different
      study clusters by passive case detection. Joint work with the community health workers
      (Agentes Polivantes Elementares [APEs]) will also strengthen quality of their data and they
      will be asked to include information on the location (village) of each malaria case they
      diagnose/treat.

      Costing data will be prospectively collected using standardized data collection tools to
      determine the cost of interventions (IRS and LLIN distribution) and of care-seeking.

      Cross-sectional studies will be carried out at the peak of transmission season in 2017, 2018,
      and 2019. There is a potential for the monthly visits for active case detection to have an
      influence on household behavior and expenditure. Additional data on house expenditure will be
      collected during the cross-sectionals to assess societal costs of malaria care that is
      independent from study visits.

      Entomological data including mosquito densities, sporozoite rates, resistance status and
      indoor/outdoor biting ratios will be sampled from IRS and non-IRS villages throughout the
      study following standard PMI procedures.
    
  