
    
      There is not only significant morbidity associated with patients with SCD, but also costs
      associated with the numerous hospitalizations. Small studies have been unable to show clear
      benefit of the use of low dose anticoagulation in SCD due to limited sample size or the
      inclusion of very specific populations. However, studies have shown a decrease in the level
      of elevated prothrombotic markers with anticoagulation, and one study using full dose
      anticoagulation in patients with a generally milder form of SCD (with high protective
      hemoglobin) showed more rapid decrease in clinical pain with use of anticoagulation,
      suggesting a possible benefit of such therapy. Due to the paucity of data to support
      therapeutic dose LMWH in the more severe forms of SCD seen in the United States, we have
      chosen prophylactic dose anticoagulation. This study proposal attempts to critically avoid
      admissions by reducing daily pain scores and pain crisis as an outpatient by use of a novel
      oral anticoagulant.

      The development of novel anticoagulants such as oral direct factor Xa (FXa) inhibitors allows
      the realistic use of daily prophylactic dosing as an outpatient. Past studies as detailed
      earlier have been limited by attempts to use subcutaneous injections or frequent, close
      monitoring for acenocoumarol treatment, both which are not ideal for chronic daily use.
      Furthermore, the use of global assays such calibrated automated thrombography (CAT) have
      shown further details about thrombin generation in a population which is hypercoagulable at
      baseline.

      This is a double blind, parallel group, placebo controlled feasibility study with an
      enrollment target of 25 patients (12 per arm). All subjects that meet inclusion criteria as
      an outpatient, following a 1 month observation, will be randomized to receive an oral
      prophylactic dose factor Xa inhibitor (Apixaban 2.5mg po bid) or placebo for 6 months.
      Subjects will return for a 30 day (+/- 5 days) follow-up visit after the End of Treatment
      (EOT) visit. Initial randomization will occur by computerized randomization technique by the
      investigational drug services (IDS) at Duke University Medical Center.
    
  