
    
      Fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) is a common, chronic musculoskeletal disorder and a growing cause
      of disability and increased health care utilization. Current treatment focuses largely on
      pharmacological interventions, which are often ineffective at improving symptoms and
      functional status. Recent research suggests that disease self-management can be efficacious
      in the short-term at reducing symptom severity and improving function in persons with FMS.
      The most common forms of FMS self-management are coping skills training
      (behavioral/education) and exercise. Limited in number, most FMS self-management studies
      examine the short-term effects of one form or the other, with most using the coping skills
      training approach. Little data exist to examine the long-term effects of these interventions,
      the potential additive effect of combining coping skills training with a comprehensive, group
      exercise program or an approach for promoting long-term compliance of these interventions.
      The objective of this proposal is to identify the optimal approach to FMS self-management.
      The study is a randomized, controlled trial comparing coping skills training (the Arthritis
      Foundation Fibromyalgia Self-Help Course (FSHC)) with two exercise programs - cardiovascular
      and flexibility training with and without strength training - and a combination (the FSHC
      plus the strength training exercise program). Each intervention period will last 16 weeks and
      include group sessions led by trained personnel. Subjects will be followed for 6 months after
      completing the intervention to evaluate the short-term effect of each program. At 6 months,
      subjects will be randomized into two groups-one group will receive a 4 week refresher course
      of their original intervention every 6 months and the other group will receive no further
      intervention. Long-term follow up will be for 24 months after completing the 16 week
      intervention period. Subjects will include 200 women (four groups of 50), 25 to 65 years old
      with a confirmed diagnosis of FMS. Participants will undergo blinded assessment at the Beth
      Israel Deaconess Medical Center's GCRC at five time points-baseline, completion of the
      16-week intervention and 6, 12 and 24 month follow up. We will assess health and functional
      status (FIQ, SF36), symptom severity (FIQ, SF36, Beck scales), self-efficacy (Arthritis
      Self-Efficacy Scale), fitness (muscle strength, cardiovascular fitness, flexibility) and
      health care utilization (direct and indirect costs). The study will improve treatment
      outcomes for persons with FMS by identifying the optimal self-management program.
    
  