
    
      Dysmenorrhea, also known in the public realm as the dreaded painful period, is a common
      condition plaguing millions of women. The familiar symptoms of dysmenorrhea include but are
      not limited to muscle cramping of the lower abdominal muscles, mood swings, breast
      tenderness, and heavy flow just to name a few. These common complaints can range from a minor
      annoyance to debilitating. The allopathic model of medicine has offered up several solutions
      to this problem most women face during their reproductive phase of life. However, even with
      these options for menstrual discomfort relief, the problem still remains in overwhelming
      numbers. The rationale of this study is to possibly provide another safer and more effective
      treatment using protocols of chiropractic medicine.

      According to Merck, dysmenorrhea is simplified as pelvic pain during menses. This condition
      can also be broken down into two forms-primary dysmenorrhea and secondary dysmenorrhea.
      Primary dysmenorrhea tends to begin in adolescence with the onset of menses. This form is
      attributed to histological and hormonal changes to the female reproductive system. The
      symptoms tend to subside with age and pregnancy. Secondary dysmenorrhea is seen to develop in
      the adult female and is linked to structural anomalies of the pelvic region. Although both of
      these cause discomfort to several women, the main focus of this study is on treatment of
      primary dysmenorrhea as treatment of the secondary form involves addressing the underlying
      structural dysfunction causing the symptoms. This is out of the scope of this study.

      Medical treatment of dysmenorrhea involves a few different facets. The first approach is to
      treat the symptoms of dysmenorrhea with the use of analgesics which is usually the most
      popular and convenient option. These medications are over-the-counter and are often effective
      treatment in mild cases. Another option commonly pursued in the medical realm is addressing
      the hormonal imbalances involved in symptomatology. This is done by prescribing the use of
      low dose oral contraceptives. This treatment is popular as it provides a convenient
      preventative measure for pregnancy in addition to symptom relief in some cases. Surgery, an
      extreme and last resort, involves anywhere from partial to a complete hysterectomy. With
      partial hysterectomies, there is a higher risk that symptoms will still be present following
      surgery. However, following a full hysterectomy the patient is subject to the adverse effects
      of post menopause including but not limited to increased bone loss.

      Although effective in the treatment of dysmenorrhea, the medical options can produce adverse
      effects on the body. Chiropractic treatment offers a mode of care with limited risks and many
      benefits to the patient. It is the goal of this study to aid in the support of this
      statement. It has been documented that spinal manipulation using Flexion-Distraction
      technique combined with Manual Trigger Point therapy has positive results with short-term
      relief of symptomatology and disability related to chronic pelvic pain syndrome, which is
      defined as noncyclic pain in the pelvis lasting longer than three months. Although this
      condition is separate from dysmenorrhea it can provide some insight into symptomatology
      affecting this region. The Toftness system has also demonstrated significant improvement in
      subjects suffering from primary dysmenorrhea when compared to those subjects receiving sham
      adjustments. Gauntt demonstrated the benefits of Logan Basic Technique and Soft Tissue
      Manipulation in decreasing the symptoms of painful periods. The combination of these
      treatments establishes "great promise" in intervention of dysmenorrhea. The goal of this new
      study is to build on Gauntt's work by possibly duplicating these results. This study also
      aims to explore the efficacy of utilizing auxiliary abdominal contacts in addition to the
      Logan Basic Protocols.

      Logan Basic Methods of adjusting addresses the correction of the base of the spine, the
      sacrum. By contacting the sacrotuberous ligament on the side of the anteriorly and inferiorly
      misaligned sacrum, the doctor corrects the said misalignment to help restore proper function
      to the affected sacroiliac joint. Furthermore, correction of the foundation of the spine,
      according to Logan Basic Methods, restores optimum function to the entire spine. To increase
      the efficacy of this procedure, known as the apex contact, one can also utilize auxiliary
      contacts. Auxiliary contacts are administered during the apex contact. Specifically,
      auxiliary abdominal contacts address hollow organ spasms. This may be beneficial in
      addressing the uterine muscle spasms commonly associated with menses.

      Logan Basic encompasses a low force adjusting protocol which can be helpful in treatment of
      all types of patients. This technique is essentially safe for everyone with no known
      contraindications. However, with any adjusting technique there are adverse reactions to
      treatment, although usually minor. Patients can experience increased perspiration with their
      first few adjustments. Following adjustments, the patient can experience pain associated with
      muscle soreness, which can be treated with the use of cold compresses for twenty minutes on
      then twenty minutes off for the first 48 hours after treatment. Muscle soreness usually
      subsides within a day or two and its occurrence decreases with subsequent treatments. Some
      patients may experience a toxic reaction to treatment that is described as nausea and/or
      vomiting. This occurs in individuals with increased exposure to drugs and/or a poor diet.
      However, it is believed that though this reaction has occurred, these patients were in need
      of this intervention to eliminate toxins from the body.

      For this study, a menstrual distress questionnaire will be utilized to objectively analyze
      subjective complaints of subjects in this study. This method of analyzing symptoms has been
      used in past studies including Snyder's study on the Toftness system and dysmenorrhea as well
      as in Gauntt's study on Logan Basic, Soft Tissue Manipulation, and dysmenorrhea. Moos
      provides an overview of the utilization of this questionnaire. It has been shown to be quite
      useful in studies with menstrual distress.

      Through the exploration of Logan Basic Methods and auxiliary abdominal contacts in the
      treatment of dysmenorrhea, it is the hope of the investigators to provide some insight into
      this common condition affecting and disabling women. This investigation aims to build on
      previous studies showing the efficacy of chiropractic care in the treatment of menstrual
      distress. Through investigation of primary dysmenorrhea, this study can hopefully assist in
      opening the scientific community as well as the females of the current society to safer
      options in treatment of this common condition.
    
  