
    
      This study initially started in June 2011(IND 122211). The original Aim 1 was completed and
      showed lean and obese groups did not differ in endothelial dependent dilation (EDD) and
      exercise dilation responses. The original Aim 2 was contingent upon there being a difference
      between lean and obese groups in Aim 1 and therefore was not pursued.

      The investigators now plan to continue this study by assessing 2 additional aims that are
      consistent with the original purpose of the study and are discussed below:

      The growing population of obese adults is predicted to create a large public health burden in
      the next few decades. Obese humans also exhibit reduced exercise capacity and lower muscle
      blood flow. The overall goal of this research program is to investigate the obesity-related
      changes in microvascular function contributing to impaired muscle blood flow. This proposal
      seeks to directly test vascular control in human skeletal muscle resistance arteries in
      exercising humans. The investigators propose to study younger obese adults, without
      confounding effects of age, metabolic syndrome, or diabetes-before the negative effects of
      obesity can exert their full negative impact. The general hypothesis is that endothelium
      dependent dilation (EDD) and functional (exercise) vasodilation is impaired via shift away
      from nitric oxide bioavailability and a shift toward increased reliance on potassium (K+)
      mediated vasodilation.

      Primary objective To determine whether role of K+ mediated vasodilation differs between lean
      and obese adults.

      Aims Aim 1: To test the hypothesis that obesity induces an endothelial phenotype change that
      creates an environment for both EDD and exercise dysfunction. The investigators propose that
      obesity alters endothelial enzymes, which help explain the mechanistic changes in
      vasodilation.

      Aim 2: To test the hypothesis that obesity elicits altered endothelial-dependent (EDD) and
      functional vasodilation due to altered functional potassium channel signaling. The
      investigators propose that potassium (K+) channel function accounts for unexplained
      differences in EDD and functional vasodilation. More specifically, the investigators
      hypothesize that inhibition of K+ mediated hyperpolarization (Inward Rectifying K+
      channels-KIR) will identify differential vasodilator mechanisms between lean and obese
      adults.

      Study Design and Overview of Procedures This study is designed to test cardiovascular control
      in clinically healthy humans. There will be 2 separate, scientifically distinct experimental
      trials that will be conducted in lean and obese subject: 1) EDD or 2) Rapid Onset Vasodilator
      (ROV), which studies the immediate increase in blood flow at the onset of exercise.

      Common procedures between protocols: After screening to determine eligibility, subjects visit
      the lab for either EDD or Rapid Onset Vasodilator (ROV) study visit. All pre-screening and
      pre-visit procedures will be identical. A physician will place a brachial arterial catheter
      in the non-dominant arm for local drug infusion. Changes in blood flow will be quantified by
      Doppler ultrasound at the brachial artery. Monitoring of subject hemodynamics (Heart Rate,
      Blood Pressure, blood oxygen) is identical.

      EDD experiments: EDD agonists are drugs than cause vasodilation to increase blood flow
      temporarily. The investigators will use 4 different agonists to test EDD function from
      several perspectives. After control EDD agonist infusions, subjects will repeat EDD agonists
      under conditions of K+ channel inhibition, and again under K+ channels plus nitric oxide and
      prostaglandin inhibition. This last phase of the study is aimed at testing acute
      compensatory/redundant vasodilator mechanisms. These trials will involve infusion of
      endothelial agonists, with and without inhibition of specific vasodilatory mechanisms.
      Agonists include: ATP, Bradykinin (BK), Isoproterenol (ISO), and Acetylcholine (Ach), will be
      infused 3 times each (order randomized). Agonists will be infused under the following
      conditions: 1) Alone (control) 2) in combination with Barium Chloride (BaCl2) 3) in
      combination with BaCl2, L-N-monomethyl Arginine Acetate (L-NMMA), and Ketorolac. EDD agonists
      each cause a temporary increase in forearm blood flow, which returns to baseline within
      minutes after infusion has stopped. Antagonists (BaCl2, L-NMMA and ketorolac) will likely
      reduce EDD responses to agonists, and may also reduce resting forearm blood flow or increase
      blood pressure (e.g. L-NMMA may decrease forearm blood flow 30-50% an increase BP 5-10 mmHg).
      The entire EDD study visit will be ~5 hours (1 hour setup and 4 hours experimental
      procedures). The EDD protocol is further described here:

      Drugs (IND approval) are used to test basic science vascular function & associated mechanisms
      in healthy volunteers. Drugs not used to improve a health condition.

      Drugs: acetylcholine, isoproterenol, bradykinin, adenosine triphosphate, barium chloride,
      L-N-monomethyl Arginine Acetate, ketorolac.

        1. 5 minute saline infusion along with 2 minutes of ATP infusion,

        2. 10 minute washout,

        3. 5 minutes of saline solution along with 2 minutes of BK infusion,

        4. 10 minute washout,

        5. 5 minutes of saline solution along with 2 minutes of ISO infusion,

        6. 10 minute washout,

        7. 5 minutes of saline infusion along with 2 minutes of ACh infusion,

        8. 10 minute washout,

        9. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion and 2 minute of ATP infusion,

       10. 10 minute washout,

       11. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of ACh infusion,

       12. 10 minute washout,

       13. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of ISO infusion,

       14. 10 minute washout,

       15. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of BK infusion,

       16. 10 minute washout,

       17. 10 minute L-NMMA and ketorolac infusion (continuous infusion throughout remainder of
           protocol) along with 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion, and 2 minutes of ACh infusion,

       18. 10 minute washout,

       19. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of ISO infusion,

       20. 10 minute washout,

       21. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of ATP infusion,

       22. 10 minute washout,

       23. 5 minutes of BaCl2 infusion along with 2 minutes of BK infusion.

      ROV experiments: After control single forearm muscle contractions, subjects will repeat
      single contractions under conditions of K+ channel inhibition, and again under K+ channel
      plus nitric oxide and prostaglandin inhibition. This last phase of the study is aimed at
      testing acute compensatory/redundant vasodilator mechanisms. This trial consists of three
      sets of 6 singular muscle contractions (three at 30%, three at 60% of maximal effort), each
      contraction lasting less than 3 seconds with ~90s rest in between. These single contractions
      evoke a robust (100-600% increase) and rapid (3-6 heart beats post contraction) increase in
      blood flow that returns to normal typically in about 30 seconds. This rapid and robust
      response is why these single muscle contractions are termed "Rapid Onset Vasodilation". 3
      minutes of rest before each trial will allow for baseline measurements and loading of
      inhibitors of K+ mediated vasodilation. During this 3 min, subjects will perform a single
      contraction at 15, 30, and 45s of the 3-min loading/resting period to facilitate delivery of
      the drug to the active tissues (this adds an additional 18 contractions. The first
      experimental set of single contractions will be completed without drugs (saline control).
      Next, an ATP infusion (no exercise) will also be used to test the pharmacological efficacy of
      subsequent inhibitor (BaCl2). The first ATP infusion will be performed without other drugs.
      Following this, a second set of single contractions will be conducted with infusion of BaCl2.
      This is then followed by a second ATP infusion to determine the efficacy of BaCl2. The final
      set of single contractions will start and be performed with simultaneous infusion of all
      three inhibitors (BaCl2, L-NMMA, and Ketorolac). This last phase of the study is aimed at
      testing acute compensatory/redundant vasodilator mechanisms. ROV (exercise) studies will be
      ~4 hours (1 hour set up and 3 hours experimental procedures). The ROV protocol is further
      described here:

      Drugs: adenosine triphosphate, barium chloride, L-N-monomethyl Arginine Acetate, ketorolac

        1. 3 muscle contractions during 3 minute saline infusion followed by 3 additional muscle
           contractions,

        2. Repeat 3 muscle contractions during 3 minute saline infusion followed by 3 additional
           muscle contractions ,

        3. 10 minute washout,

        4. Two minutes of ATP infusion,

        5. 10 minute washout,

        6. 3 muscle contractions during 3 minute BaCl2 infusion followed by 3 additional muscle
           contractions,

        7. 3 muscle contractions during 3 minute BaCl2 infusion followed by 3 additional muscle
           contractions,

        8. 10 minute washout,

        9. Infusion of BaCl2 (3 minutes) and ATP (2 minutes),

       10. 10 minute washout,

       11. 3 muscle contractions during Infusion of BaCl2 (3 minutes) and L-NMMA and ketorolac
           infusion (5 minutes) followed by 3 additional muscle contractions,

       12. L-NMMA and ketorolac will be infused throughout remainder of protocol at a lower dosage

       13. 3 muscle contractions during Infusion of BaCl2 (3 minutes) and L-NMMA and ketorolac (5
           minutes) followed by 3 additional muscle contractions.

      Aim 3: To test the hypothesis that obesity induces an endothelial phenotype change that
      creates an environment for both EDD and exercise dysfunction. We propose that obesity alters
      endothelial enzymes which help explain the mechanistic changes in vasodilation.

      Aim 4: To test the hypothesis that obesity elicits altered EDD and functional vasodilation
      due to altered functional potassium channel signaling. We propose that K+ channel function
      accounts for unexplained differences in EDD and functional vasodilation. More specifically,
      we hypothesize that inhibition of K+-mediated hyperpolarization (via inward rectifying K+
      channels (KIR)) will identify differential vasodilator mechanisms between lean and obese
      adults.
    
  