
    
      Due to medical progress and an aging population, the number of patients and caregivers who
      face the profound existential challenges of advanced incurable cancer is constantly growing.
      Clinically significant existential distress may result from a fear of suffering and perceived
      lack of control, fear and uncertainty about the end of life, feelings of burdensomeness or
      insufficiency, grief about missed opportunities, and profound loneliness. Such distress may
      have a unique and independent contribution to health care outcomes at the end of life.
      Despite an increasing interest in existential and palliative care interventions that discuss
      such issues openly, a lack of systematic quantitative data on existential distress and
      specific support needs hampers clinicians to consequently detect and address existential
      needs. This longitudinal study aims to 1) systematically investigate the frequency,
      longitudinal trajectory and predictive impact of existential distress on patient- and
      caregiver-relevant end-of-life outcomes and 2) determine patients' and caregivers' specific
      need for and utilization of psychosocial support with respect to existential concerns.

      Adult patients diagnosed with advanced cancer and caregivers will be consecutively recruited
      from outpatient and inpatient treatment facilities of the Univer-sity Cancer Center Hamburg
      and affiliated clinics. Existential distress, end-of-life outcomes, and mental disorders in
      1,000 participants (500 patients, 500 care-givers) will be assessed using self-report
      questionnaires at five points of assessment over a period of 12 months and diagnostic
      interviews (at baseline, after six months). To determine the prevalence of existential
      distress, mental disorders and palliative care outcomes descriptive statistics will be
      calculated. Descriptive analyses will also be used to examine the need for and utilization of
      psychosocial support. To investigate the predictive impact of existential distress and
      patient- and caregiver-relevant end-of-life outcomes multiple linear and logistic regression
      will be conducted. To analyze longitudinal trajectory of existential distress growth mixture
      models will be used.

      Shaping a clear and systematic knowledge about frequent and persistent existential concerns
      that are most relevant to the risk for unfavorable end-of-life outcomes, results will
      significantly contribute to the recognition and manage-ment of existential distress and
      provide a valuable basis for the development of targeted interventions.
    
  