
    
      Malnutrition is a pathological condition of the body caused by a deficiency of essential
      nutrients. The main feature is protein deficiency, which is caused by disruption of protein
      and energy balance and needs in the body. According to available data, 30-60% of patients are
      undernourished at hospital admission. The significance of the perioperative nutrition has
      already been studied in the 1930s. The outcomes of published studies demonstrated that
      patients that patients with basic nutrient deficiencies have a higher frequency of
      postoperative complications and have a significantly longer recovery period.

      In 1992, a randomized clinical trial "Peri-operative nutritional support" showed that 85% of
      hospitalized seniors have malnutrition. The study demonstrated the need for nutritional
      training to prevent complications and clearly showed a relationship between malnutrition and
      reconvalescence length and mortality rate. In 2004, another large randomized trial
      ("Randomized clinical trial of the effects of preoperative and post operative oral
      nutritional supplements on clinical course and cost of care") confirmed the relationship
      between malnutrition and the incidence of all perioperative complications. Several other
      studies, which have been realized within the last decade, confirmed the positive effect of
      good nutritional condition on postoperative morbidity and mortality.

      To the best of the investigator's knowledge, all clinical trials dealing with the issue of
      preoperative nutrition (published up to now) were primarily focused on the research of the
      relationship between malnutrition and the frequency of postoperative complications.

      The main aim of the this prospective clinical trial is to evaluate the loss of muscle mass
      and strength of the patient, the self-sufficiency and the possibility of returning to normal
      activities, in relation to pre-operatively served nutritional supplements in patients
      undergoing elective surgery for colorectal cancer.
    
  