
    
      Double Blinded Randomized controlled study of Conventional Laparoscopic Appendectomy Vs
      Transumbilical Single Incision Laparoscopic Appendicectomy

      Introduction:

      Laparoscopic appendicectomy is widely practiced in HA hospital nowadays with shorter hospital
      stay and less wound complications. Most of the time, three small wounds of less than 10mm
      will be adequate enough for the completion of the surgery with minimal pain.

      Recently, the concept of Natural Orifice Transluminal Endoscopic Surgery (N.O.T.E.S) led to
      the attention of single incision laparoscopic surgery (SILS) again in the surgical
      community[1,2,3] is not a new idea. The first SILS for cholecystectomy was reported in 1997
      by Navarra et al. However, the close proximity of the instruments, limitation in
      triangulation during dissection and suboptimal exposure of the surgical field has made this
      approach unpopular in last decade. Because the concept of N.O.T.E.S and the newly designed
      access port, surgeons are now focused again on SILS. The Chinese University of Hong Kong has
      recently release their preliminary results on the use of SILS on appendicectomy with
      satisfactory results in terms of lesser post-operative pain and less prominent scar. However,
      it was a cases series with limited number of patients. In order to test the advantages of
      SILS on the management of patients with acute appendicitis, a double blinded randomized
      clinical trial is conducted.

      Statistical Analysis:

      The primary outcome that the trial to evaluate is operative time, post-operative pain and
      wound infection rate. The working alternative hypothesis is that there will be significant
      differences in umbilical wound infection rate between Conventional Laparoscopic Appendectomy
      and Transumbilical Single Incision Laparoscopic Appendicectomy.

      At least 80 patients (40 cases in each group) is needed to demonstrate a 25% difference in
      umbilical wound infection rate at a statistical significance level of P> 0.05 and power of
      80%. All analyses and comparisons between the two groups were performed on an
      intention-to-treat basis.

      The Student t-test, Mann-Whitney U test, the Chi-square test and Fisher exact test where
      appropriate were used to compare the result between groups. All calculations were performed
      by the software SPSS for Window version 15.0 (SPSS, Inc, USA). P <0.05 was considered as
      statistical significant.

      Detailed Description:

      This study seeks to examine the ability of single incision laparoscopic appendicectomy to
      reduce the post-operative pain and increase cosmetic outcome at the expense of longer
      operation time and at higher cost. Patients will be randomized preoperatively by a computer
      generated random allocation to either receive conventional laparoscopic appendicectomy or to
      have transumbilical single incision laparoscopic appendicectomy.

      Control group:

      Patients will undergo conventional laparoscopic appendicectomy. A 10-mm subumbilical port
      will be inserted by open method. Two 5-mm working ports will be inserted under laparoscopic
      view at patient's left lower quadrant and suprapubic area. Umbilical fascia will be closed by
      PDS-1 J-shape needle.

      Local anaesthetic agent , Marcain 0.5% should be infiltrated into the fascial layers as well
      as the skin layers with dosage up to 20ml. All skin wound will be approximated with 3-0 nylon
      interrupted stitches and covered with non-transparent dressings.

      Compare group:

      Patients will undergo transumbilical single incision laparoscopic appendicectomy. A single
      incision is made on umbilicus within the margin of umbilical skin ring. Peritoneal cavity is
      entered by open method and the fascia layer can be extended up to 2.5cm in length. A single
      incision laparoscopic device (Olympus) will be inserted. Conventional laparoscopic
      instruments will be used. Umbilical fascia will be closed by PDS-1 J-shape needle. Marcain
      0.5% should be infiltrated into the fascial layers as well as the skin layers with dosage up
      to 20ml. The umbilicus is reconstructed by interrupted 3-0 nylon by tacking the skin onto the
      fascia layers.

      Three non-transparent dressings will be placed as if conventional laparoscopic appendicectomy
      has been done.

      Randomization:

      Randomization is performed before consent for surgery. Patients are randomly assigned by
      means of sealed envelopes containing computer-generated random numbers into the following
      groups:

        1. Control group (conventional laparoscopic appendicectomy)

        2. Compare group (single port laparoscopic appendicectomy)
    
  