
    
      Adolescence is a period characterized by a multitude of changes at the biopsychosocial level,
      all of which also implies many challenges. If the diagnosis or the presence of a chronic
      disease or condition (CD) is added, the adjustment of the adolescent to this period become
      even more difficult.

      The World Health Organization (WHO) (2017) defines chronic diseases (CD) as "long-lasting and
      usually slow-progressing diseases". Among the main child-juvenile CDs are the allergic, the
      endocrine; in particular, Diabetes Mellitus Type 1 (DM1) and Short stature (SS), and
      respiratory, such as bronchial asthma (BA).

      Chronic pediatric disease is a medical condition that affects both the patient and the family
      caregiver. Chronic disease is characterized by unforeseeable changes in the course of the
      disease, a reduction in physical capacity, changes in appearance, a prolonged dependence on
      medical specialists, continuous treatments and the need for assistance.

      The presence of CD in adolescence is a risk factor for developing a psychological disorder.
      The most common psychopathology in childhood-juvenile CD is emotional, particularly anxiety
      symptoms, followed by depression symptoms, being possible the development of an anxiety
      disorder or of a major depression.

      When someone is diagnosed with a chronic disease, the family as a whole is affected by the
      stressors associated with the disease and the side effects of treatment, being inevitable the
      alteration of the whole family system, especially in cases where the patient is a infant or
      adolescent. In addition, it is necessary to underline that studies indicate that most of the
      care of adolescent patients generally is undertaken by one specific member of the family,
      usually called the main caregiver. The stress due to the care tasks has been associated with
      anxiety and depression symptoms, often causing emotional disturbances in the caregivers,
      associating the above with greater emotional symptomatology in adolescents and worse control
      of their disease.

      That's why more studies like the one proposed are needed to study more deeply the protective
      factors of psychological and physical health during the course of chronic disease at this
      stage of life, both in the adolescent patients as well as in their family.

      The main aim of this research is to study the psychosocial factors, adjustment to the disease
      and improvement of psychological well-being in the adolescent population with chronic
      disease. In order to do this, the investigators are going to analyse the main characteristics
      (psychological, family related and adjustment to disease) in the adolescent population with
      endocrinological problems (short stature and diabetes mellitus type 1), respiratory (asthma)
      and allergenic problems. These characteristics will also be analysed in the family of the
      adolescent patients. The personal adaptation profiles and families features that favor the
      psychological and physical health in these patients and their family caregivers will be also
      identified. In addition, the investigators also propose as an aim the development and
      implementation of an assessment and intervention program (in a pilot sample) that provides
      socio-emotional education in adolescent patients with chronic disease and their family
      caregivers.
    
  