
    
      PURPOSE OF STUDY

      To characterize the microbiome of the female reproductive tract and gastrointestinal tract as
      well as the male reproductive tract in patients and partners undergoing IVF and determine if
      there are any associations with pregnancy outcomes.

      The Clinical Problem

      The microbiome of the reproductive tract and its association with reproductive outcomes is a
      topic of evolving interest. Alterations in the vaginal microbiome have been linked to
      obstetric complications including miscarriage and preterm birth. More recent data have
      emerged linking the vaginal microbiome to assisted reproductive technology (ART) outcomes. A
      prospective observational study consisting of 30 patients who had swabs collected at various
      time points during the in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) cycle for sequencing
      of the 16S ribosomal RNA gene concluded that the species diversity of the vaginal microbiome
      distinguished women who had a live birth from those who did not with increased diversity
      being associated with poorer outcomes; however, the patient population was heterogeneous and
      small.

      Limited information is available regarding the microbiome of the upper genital tract and its
      association with reproductive outcomes, particularly in the setting of ART. Studies done
      solely for the purpose of characterizing the upper genital tract microbiome have relied on
      hysterectomy specimens to assess colonization, thus precluding evaluation of any association
      with reproductive outcomes. Perhaps the first study to investigate the association between
      the microbiome of the upper reproductive tract and ART outcomes utilized culture-based
      technology on embryo transfer catheter tips. However, this study utilized culture-based
      technology, with only four major bacteria were reported. Subsequent studies have highlighted
      the limitations of culture-based technology, namely that it is reliant upon successful
      culture, often resulting in an underestimate of the diversity of organisms.

      As sequencing-based technology has gained popularity and limitations of culture-based
      technology have become more evident, there has been an increased interest in using sequencing
      to characterize the microbiome. One recent study utilized next-generation sequencing (NGS)
      based technology on embryo transfer catheter tips to evaluate the bacteria specific 16S
      ribosomal gene for characterization of the upper genital tract microbiome in patients
      undergoing embryo transfer. Although it served as proof of concept for this method of
      characterizing the microbiome, the limited sample size did not permit any conclusions to be
      drawn regarding its association with reproductive outcomes. A subsequent study utilizing
      sequence-based technology examined endometrial fluid and vaginal aspirate samples in 35 women
      in the cycle prior to IVF and found that the presence of non-Lactobacillus-dominated
      microbiota in the endometrium was associated with significant decreases in implantation,
      ongoing pregnancy and live birth.

      Although there is some data linking reproductive health and the microbiome of the female
      reproductive tract, less information exists regarding its association with the microbiome of
      the male reproductive tract. One cross-sectional study examining the microbial colonization
      of semen demonstrated an association with semen parameters. Another study which examined
      vaginal and seminal cultures on 951 couples undergoing IVF found that positive bacterial
      cultures from both the vagina and semen decreased clinical pregnancy rate and increased
      miscarriage rate more than vaginal infection alone. The microbiome of the male reproductive
      tract warrants further investigation in this setting.

      The gastrointestinal tract microbiome plays a major role in human health and disease, with
      many documented associations to disease states such as obesity, diabetes, and
      gastrointestinal disorders. Recent data suggests that alterations in gastrointestinal tract
      microbiota are associated with preterm labor. The urinary tract microbiome has been similarly
      studied and linked to multiple disease states such as urinary incontinence and chronic
      prostatitis.

      To date, there are no published studies that examine the association of the gastrointestinal
      tract microbiome or urinary microbiota with pregnancy outcomes following IVF.

      The human microbiome is thought to modulate the immune system and the presence of systemic
      inflammation. There is a growing interest in the association of chronic systemic inflammation
      and reproductive disorders. A number of biomarkers that reflect chronic systemic inflammation
      have been identified. Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is one such biomarker that has documented
      associations with PCOS, endometriosis, and infertility. Such biomarkers have not yet been
      studied in association with pregnancy outcomes following IVF.

      The objective of this research is to perform a large-scale prospective observational study
      seeking to characterize the microbiome of the female reproductive tract (both upper and
      lower) at different time points in patients undergoing IVF. Furthermore, we plan to examine
      the female gastrointestinal tract microbiome, female urinary microbiota, and the microbiome
      of the male reproductive tract by collecting targeted specimens during patients' treatment
      cycles. Lastly, we will evaluate female and male serum for biomarkers of inflammation. We aim
      to identify any associations with pregnancy outcomes that may serve as a basis for a
      subsequent interventional study.

      RESEARCH PROPOSAL

      A. Location of Study:

      Reproductive Medicine Associates of New Jersey

      B. Study Population:

      All patients initiating an autologous IVF cycle at our center will be reviewed for inclusion.
      Up to 1000 patients will be enrolled.

      Major Inclusion Criteria: The following are major inclusion criteria:

        1. Patients initiating an autologous IVF cycle

        2. Patient age 18-45; partner age 18-60

        3. Partner planning to provide fresh semen sample on day of oocyte retrieval

        4. Patients planning to undergo preimplantation genetic screening (PGS) of embryos with
           single embryo transfer (SET)

      Major Exclusion Criteria: The following are exclusion criteria:

        1. > 1 prior failed IVF cycle

        2. Third party reproduction

        3. Planning to bank embryos

        4. Partner using cryo sperm or surgical sperm on day of retrieval

        5. Male or female partner antibiotic use within 1 month of IVF cycle start

        6. Mullerian anomalies, excluding arcuate uterus

        7. Submucosal fibroids

        8. History of uterine surgery, excluding polypectomy, D&C, and Cesarean section

        9. Communicating hydrosalpinx without plans for surgical correction prior to embryo
           transfer

      C. Study Procedures:

      Experimental Design

      The proposed study is a prospective observational study which seeks to characterize the
      microbiome of the female reproductive tract at various time points during an IVF cycle and
      determine if there are any differences in the microbiome with respect to pregnancy outcomes.
      In addition, samples will be collected to evaluate the microbiome of the female
      gastrointestinal tract, female urinary microbiota, the male reproductive tract and biomarkers
      of systemic inflammation.

      Study Related Clinical Procedures and Analyses

      All patients initiating an autologous IVF cycle at our center will be reviewed for inclusion.
      Patients who meet study criteria will be contacted for possible enrollment. Once enrolled,
      patients and partners will be consented to participate in the study. They will proceed with
      treatment according to routine protocol and specimens will be collected for evaluation of the
      microbiome at designated time points.

      The only study-related procedures that deviate from routine care will be the collection of
      specimens to be used for characterization of the microbiome and systemic inflammation at
      several time points throughout their care:

        -  Female

             -  During the fresh IVF cycle: An additional tube of blood will be collected from the
                female partner at the time of a routine blood draw for cycle monitoring.

             -  Day of oocyte retrieval: A mid-stream urine sample will be provided by the female
                partner on the morning of oocyte retrieval. Cervical, vaginal, buccal and rectal
                swabs will be collected from the patient while under sedation just prior to the
                oocyte retrieval procedure.

             -  During the FET cycle: An additional tube of blood will be collected from the female
                partner at the time of a routine blood draw for cycle monitoring.

             -  Mid-proliferative scan during the first FET cycle: After a minimum of 8 days of
                estrogen exposure, a second set of cervical and vaginal swabs will be collected
                immediately prior to the patient's scheduled ultrasound.

             -  Day of FET: When the patient presents for embryo transfer, a third set of cervical
                and vaginal swabs will be collected immediately prior to performing the embryo
                transfer. In addition, the most distal 5 mm portion of the transfer catheter will
                be collected after the embryo has been transferred.

        -  Male

             -  During the fresh IVF cycle: One tube of blood will be drawn from the male partner.

             -  Day of oocyte retrieval: A swab will be collected from the fresh semen specimen
                provided by the partner prior to any processing.

      Blood will be allowed to clot prior to centrifugation. The specimens will be aliquoted and
      transferred to a -80°C for storage. They will subsequently be thawed as needed to analyze
      biomarkers of systemic inflammation. Remaining aliquots will be stored for potential future
      studies.

      All other specimens will undergo cell lysis, DNA purification, and next-generation sequencing
      of the bacteria specific 16S ribosome gene according to previously published protocols.

      Cycle outcomes will be recorded according to routine practice.

      D. Risk/Safety Information:

      The main risks of the blood draws are discomfort, bleeding, and bruising. All attempts will
      be made to coordinate collection of study blood with routine blood draws performed as part of
      the patient's clinical care. The main risk of vaginal/cervical swab collection is discomfort.
      Collection of the buccal and rectal swabs will be done under anesthesia at the time of the
      oocyte retrieval and therefore does not carry this risk. Collection of the mid-stream urine
      sample will be done when the patient empties her bladder prior to oocyte retrieval and does
      not pose any additional risks. Collection of the semen specimen does not involve any
      additional risk as the partner is providing a specimen as part of the treatment plan and the
      swab is collected after provision of the specimen. Collection of the transfer catheter tip
      does not involve any additional risk as it is performed after the embryo transfer is complete
      and does not directly involve the patient.

      E. Data Management:

      Statistical evaluation of the results

      The microbiome at the various time points will be compared for patients with an ongoing
      pregnancy (as defined by presence of a fetal heartbeat at time of discharge) and those
      without. To characterize the diversity of samples, two alpha diversity metrics will be
      utilized: the Shannon diversity index (SDI) and chao1.

      Study Length Timeline - 25 months

        1. Time to recruit the study population - 12 months

        2. Timeline for each individual participating in the study, from enrollment to delivery (if
           pregnant) - 10 months

        3. Statistical analysis and manuscript preparation - 3 months
    
  