
    
      Actual standard of care. Orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT) represents the optimal
      solution for the cure of end-stage heart failure, but it is burdened by numerous comorbidity.
      The main cause of morbidity and mortality in these patients is related to Transplant coronary
      artery disease (TCAD), that affects at least fifth percent of transplanted at five years of
      transplantation. TCAD is a purely immunological phenomen, emphasized by non-immunological
      factors, favoring oxidative stress, like dyslipidemia, smoking, hypertension, diabetes.(1-3)
      Many anatomic-pathological studies showed cellular infiltration with predominance of T-cell,
      mainly in the neointima and in adventizia. TCAD often resulted without angor because of
      denervation of the heart after transplantation (4-6). The managment and the treatment of TCAD
      are somewhat complex, because of accelerated vasal infiltration. Furthermore in multivessel
      disease a surgery revascularisation presented an elevated surgery risk.

      Limits and complications of actual standard of care. In the first era of angioplasty
      percutaneous therapy was considered like palliation in this kind of coronary lesions , but
      with the beginning of BMS and DES era the outcomes of these patients considerably improved.
      However TCAD's lesions showed a rate of restenosis greater than classic atherosclerotic
      plaques(7). There is also a disagreement of results between implantation of DES or BMS,
      because some studies showed a superiority of the DES group, others didn't show any
      significant difference(8-9).

      Potential improvements of standard of care. In this retrospective study an interesting point
      of research would be point out if the risk of restenosis was reduced with a particular kind
      of medicated stent for local effect of polymers, currently used. The general pharmacological
      effect of sirolimus was known like inhibitor of cell-T proliferation and then it could reduce
      vessel cellular infiltration, acting as a local immunosuppressant(10-12).

      For this argument evidence is discordant, although the problem is getting relevant due to the
      prolonged survival of these patients and the augmented number of transplantation. These
      patients are often young and have an elevated general risk for iatrogenic immunosuppressed
      state. Therefore with this retrospective study we propose to understand the
      physio-pathological mechanisms of TCAD and also what actual therapy results the best .
    
  