
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the response rate in patients with small cell lung cancer treated with SN-38
           liposome that is dosed according to a UGT1A1-specific genotype.

        -  Determine the toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine, preliminarily, overall and progression-free survival of patients treated with
           this drug.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this drug.

        -  Correlate UGT1A1-specific haplotypes with toxicity of this drug in these patients.

        -  Correlate UGT1A1-specific haplotypes with outcomes of patients treated with this drug.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to length of time
      since prior treatment (previously untreated disease OR chemosensitive disease and ≥ 3 months
      since prior treatment vs refractory disease OR chemoresistant disease and < 3 months since
      prior treatment).

      Patients receive SN-38 liposome IV over 90 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days
      for 2 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients
      achieving a complete or partial response or patients with stable disease (SD) who were
      previously treated before study enrollment receive up to 4 additional courses of treatment.
      Patients with CNS-only disease progression receive whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT). After
      completion of WBRT, these patients also receive up to 4 additional courses of treatment.
      Patients with disease progression to sites other than the CNS or patients with SD who were
      previously untreated before study enrollment are removed from the study.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before each treatment course, and then annually for
      3 years.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year and then
      every 6 months for 2 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 73 patients (40 for stratum I and 33 for stratum II) will be
      accrued for this study within 16-19 months.
    
  