
    
      Objective:

      Cushing Disease (CD) describes the state of hypercortisolemia secondary to cortisol producing
      pituitary adenomas. The rarity of the disease (2-5 new cases per million, 1 out of 10 in
      children) and the subtle initial findings result in prolonged undiagnosed hypercortisolemia,
      that increases the risk for significant complications, including obesity, height
      deceleration, hyperlipidemia, hyperglycemia, hypertension, osteoporosis, immunodeficiency,
      and others. Although hypercortisolemia usually resolves after successful resection of the
      pituitary adenoma, the reversal of the abovementioned complications and the long-term effects
      of the previous prolonged exposure of the body to supraphysiologic levels of cortisol have
      not been clarified, especially when hypercortisolemia occurs during childhood.

      Previous studies have addressed the possible complications after resolution of
      hypercortisolemia, but most of them refer to adult patients. Amongst the described
      complications, suppression of the pituitary hormones, such as the growth and thyroid hormone
      axes, and persistent increase of the body mass index (BMI) and abnormal fat distribution,
      have been described in limited number of pediatric patients followed for a few years after
      cure. Other complications, such as components of the metabolic syndrome or cardiovascular
      dysfunction, have not been extensively studied in children. Furthermore, equally important
      are the long-term effects of glucocorticoids on other aspects of health. For example, it has
      been previously described that the neurocognitive function of children with CD declines the
      first year after treatment. This can potentially result in impaired quality of life, lower
      education level, and lower job and life satisfaction in the future; however, the long-term
      neurocognitive sequelae of Cushing syndrome (CS) diagnosed in childhood have not been
      studied.

      This study aims to provide novel insight on the long-term effects of hypercortisolemia on the
      developing child, their underlying pathogenetic mechanisms, their evolution over time, and
      the risk factors for developing them. This will assist in designing methods to closely
      monitor or prevent them in the future. Certain results of this study could potentially apply
      to children with iatrogenic CS, which is much more common due to the widespread use of
      pharmacologic doses of glucocorticoids in malignancies, autoimmune and atopic disorders.

      Study population:

      The study population will consist of patients that were previously successfully treated for
      CD before the age of 21 years. We aim to identify these patients through review of our
      current protocol 97-CH-0076 on "Clinical and genetic investigation of pituitary and
      hypothalamic tumors", which has been recruiting patients since 1997. We will also accept
      patients who have been diagnosed and successfully treated for pediatric CD at outside
      institutions after reviewing the medical records and confirming their diagnosis. The patients
      must not be hypercortisolemic at the time of their recruitment. Family members (any age) of
      patients with a family history of pituitary tumors and who will agree to participate in the
      DNA/linkage analysis study.

      Design:

      We will evaluate patients at specific intervals after cure at 5 (+/-1), 10 (+/-1), 15 (+/-1)
      and 20 (+/-1) years after documented resolution of hypercortisolemia.

      The study will include an online survey offered to all patients, as well as an on-site short
      visit for those willing to travel to NIH.

      The online survey will include questionnaires on assessment of various aspects of health:
      Current medical diagnoses, Medication use, History of endocrine disorders, Fertility, Quality
      of life, Behavioral and emotional symptomology, and Socioeconomic and Demographic
      information. The survey will be developed and distributed with the help of CTDB and will be
      sent with secure email to all the patients and/or their parents (for patients who are <18yo
      at the time of evaluation) after consent and eligibility have been confirmed.

      The short on-site visit at NIH will be offered to all the patients willing to travel. Blood
      tests, imaging studies (MRI of the carotids, MRI pituitary/brain, DXA scan), and
      neurocognitive screening and patient reported outcome questionnaires will be performed.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary outcome measure of the study is the difference of the Body Mass Index (BMI)
      z-score of the patients previously treated for pediatric CD compared to the general
      population, as calculated by data derived from the NHANES study.

      The secondary outcomes will be to describe the prevalence of other endocrine and
      non-endocrine abnormalities after successful treatment of CD in childhood, including: growth
      hormone, thyroid, gonadal, adrenal function; bone mineral density; glucose metabolism; lipid
      profile; cardiovascular abnormalities; immunologic changes; coagulation function; psychiatric
      diseases, behavioral symptomology; neurocognitive function; and quality of life.
    
  