
    
      The study evaluates if short-term treatment with calcimimetics may be used for patients with
      PHPT as a relevant guide in the decision of when to choose parathyroid surgery, by predicting
      the outcome of surgical treatment.

      120 ± 2 patients with primary hyperparathyroidism scheduled for parathyroid surgery will be
      included in the study after informed consent and will receive study medication with
      cinacalcet, Mimpara® 30 mgx1 for four weeks. In case of persistent hypercalcemia after two
      weeks of treatment with Mimpara® 30 mgx1, the dosage of Mimpara® will be increased to 60 mg
      daily. During the study drug treatment period, the patients will be followed closely at least
      once a week with clinical monitoring and control of serum ionized calcium, given the risk of
      side effects and hypocalcemia. If the concentration of ionized calcium in serum will decrease
      to a subnormal level (<1.15 mmol/l), the Mimpara® treatment will be discontinued temporarily
      and only reinserted in a lower dose (30 mg x 1) if the concentration of ionized calcium
      raises over 1.33 mmol/l. The size of the cohort has been decided after power estimations
      based on the results in study part A. Both groups will go through the test panel of
      self-rating scales described above at four occasions (Figure).

      The Outcome to be registered are the changes from baseline to the end of the study medication
      period compared to the changes postoperatively, thus the changes between the Visit 2 to Visit
      6 and the changes between Visit 2 and Visit 7 and Visit 8 respektively.

      Assessments and Procedures Visit 1: Clinical examination (general condition, neck, blood
      pressure, cor et pulm). Screening of patients with primary hyperparathyroidism scheduled for
      parathyroid surgery. Patient that fulfills inclusion and exclusion criteria will be asked to
      participate in the study.

      Visit 2: Informed consent is signed. Test panel of self rating scales (Quality of Life
      Questionnaire-Core 30 (QLQ-C30), Positive States of Mind (PSOM )and Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression scale (HAD), cognitive test (Montreal cognitive assessment (MoCA-Test)) and muscle
      strength (Timed stand test). Blood samples are drawn within 2 weeks before and analyzed for:
      parathyroid hormone (p-PTH), s-ionized calcium, p-total calcium, p-albumin, p-creatinine,
      p-phosphate, s-25-OH-D-vitamin and p-TSH. Initiation of treatment with Mimpara® 30 mg x 1.
      Clinical examination (general condition, blood pressure). For fertile women, a pregnancy test
      is demanded before enrollment.

      Visit 3: Week 1 (± 2 days); blood samples for analysis of ionized calcium. History of
      symptoms related to hypocalcemia (paresthesias, cramps, muscle fatigue). Clinical examination
      when indicated (general condition, blood pressure).

      Visit 4: Week 2 (± 2 days); blood samples for analysis of ionized calcium. History as above.
      Mimpara® continued, If the ionized calcium level is >1.33 mmol/l: increase of dosage of
      Mimpara® to 30 mg x 2.

      Visit 5: Week 3 (± 2 days); blood samples for analysis of ionized calcium. History as above.
      Mimpara® treatment completed.

      Visit 6 (3): Week 4 (± 2 weeks in study B); Test panel of self rating scales (QLQ-C30, PSOM
      and HAD), cognitive test (MoCA-Test) and muscle strength (Timed stand test). Blood samples
      are drawn and analyzed for: plasma (p)-PTH, serum(s)-ionized serum calcium, p-total calcium,
      p-albumin, p-creatinine, p-phosphate.

      Visit 7 (4): Postoperative follow up, 6 (± 1 week) post surgery; Test panel of self rating
      scales (QLQ-C30, PSOM and HAD), cognitive test (MoCA-Test) and muscle strength (Timed stand
      test). Blood samples are drawn and analyzed for plasma p-PTH, s-ionized calcium, p-total
      calcium, p-albumin, p-creatinine, p-phosphate, s-25-OH-D-vitamin and p-TSH.

      Visit 8 (5): Postoperatively, 6 months post surgery (± 3 weeks); Test panel of self rating
      scales (QLQ-C30, PSOM and HAD), cognitive test (MoCA-Test) and muscle strength (Timed stand
      test). Blood samples are drawn and analyzed for plasma (p)-PTH, s-ionized calcium, p-total
      calcium, p-albumin, p-creatinine, p-phosphate, s-25-OH-D-vitamin and p-TSH.
    
  