
    
      Patients with glaucoma requiring tube shunt surgery, with or without simultaneous cataract
      surgery, will be enrolled in this prospective randomized controlled study at ten sites across
      Canada and the United States (to be determined). Patients with highly advanced glaucoma at
      high risk of fixation loss, neovascular glaucoma, chronic uveitis, marked corneal disease,
      sulfa allergy, renal disease or any contraindication to diamox use will be excluded.

      Patients scheduled for Ahmed glaucoma valve surgery, with or without cataract surgery, will
      be randomized using a stratified central block randomization approach to the treatment group
      or control group. Those scheduled for combined cataract and tube shunt will be randomized
      separately from those receiving tube shunt alone. Surgeons will be masked to the
      postoperative treatment or control group at the time of surgery since randomization will
      occur when the patient is one-week postoperative Those in the treatment group would receive
      short-term prophylactic aqueous suppression for the first 3 postoperative months to maintain
      intraocular pressure (IOP) between 7 and 10mmHg. The control group would not receive
      prophylactic aqueous suppression, but would be treated using a similar protocol as the
      treatment group in the event that an Hyperencapsulation phase (HEP) endpoint is met.

      Prophylactic aqueous suppression in the study group would only be given for the 1st 3 months
      postoperatively. At the 3 month visit, aqueous suppression will be stopped. The primary
      outcome measure is washout IOP at 4 months postoperative. Washout IOP will be checked one
      month after discontinuation (earlier if needed i.e., advanced glaucoma patients).

      Beyond 3 months, aqueous suppressants would be used at the clinician's discretion based on
      IOP.

      At the conclusion of the study, the 4-month postoperative washout IOP, the incidence of HEP,
      the 12-month IOP, the 13-month washout IOP, and medication requirement would be compared
      between the treatment and control arms.
    
  