
    
      As part of the in vitro fertilization (IVF) process, eggs are removed from the ovaries and
      are inseminated (mixed) or injected with sperm. In order for fertilization to occur, the
      sperm cells must be separated from the semen before introducing them to the eggs. Currently,
      sperm are isolated from the semen using a series of wash steps in a centrifuge (device to
      spin and concentrate the sperm). This requires processing at high speeds in order to separate
      motile sperm from the other parts of the semen. Although it is common practice, it is
      possible that this method of processing the semen may cause damage to the sperm cells.

      Alternatively, a microfluidics chamber can be used to choose the best sperm. A microfluidics
      chamber is a small device in which the unwashed sperm can be placed at one end. Sperm that
      are moving forward will swim through the chamber and come out the other end. Dead sperm are
      left behind and the sperm with the best motility (how normally they move forward) and normal
      morphology (how the sperm looks) will make it to the other end of the chamber. These sperm
      can then be chosen for injection into the egg. This device is FDA-approved for this purpose
      and is commercially available and is currently routinely used in the IVF lab utilized by the
      investigators as well as most labs in the country.

      Some small initial studies showed that a higher number of embryos with higher quality were
      made with sperm selected from a microfluidics chamber. In another recent study, the chances
      of creating an embryo with a normal number of chromosomes (structures that carry genetic
      information) was also slightly higher if a microfluidics chamber was used to process the
      sperm. This might be because sperm that have the highest motility and normal morphology may
      also be more likely to be genetically normal. However, there are no good-quality studies
      looking at the rates of embryos with normal chromosomes created from using a microfluidics
      chamber to process sperm.

      The purpose of this research study is to determine whether using a microfluidics chamber to
      process sperm for injection into eggs increases the rates of embryos with normal chromosomes.
      At the time of egg retrieval, participants will have their eggs randomized (like the flip of
      a coin) into two groups. Half of the eggs will be injected with sperm processed using
      gradient centrifugation, the standard method. The other half of the eggs will be injected
      with sperm processed using a microfluidics chamber. The goal is to determine the rate of
      embryos with normal chromosomes in each group. Other goals include looking at how many
      embryos develop to good quality blastocysts and are biopsied and how many patients get
      pregnant after embryo transfer.
    
  