
    
      Antitumor effect of pemetrexed is already proven lung cancer, pleural mesothelioma,
      peritoneal mesothelioma and has been used as a standard therapeutic agent. In addition, this
      drug does not have severe side effects, pemetrexed is thought to be an important option for
      patients with poor performance status or elderly patients. Pemetrexed has been studied in
      colorectal cancer, Zhang et al have demonstrated that pemetrexed combined with gefitinib has
      a significantly synergistic effect on colorectal cancer cells (17). In two phase II studies
      in which patients received pemetrexed as first-line treatment for metastatic disease,
      objective response rates were 15 - 17 %. These trials were conducted prior to supplementation
      with folic acid and vitamin B12, which markedly decreased the frequency of hematologic
      toxicities of pemetrexed; routine supplementation is now included in all clinical trials of
      the agent (18).

      Erlotinib (tarceva) is oral epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor
      (TKI). Erlotinib showed the effect in the maintanence therapy (combined with bevacizumab) in
      colorector cancer. Also, erolitinib had the effect in biliary tract cancer and pancreatic
      cancer. Our previous phase III trial for tarceva puls GEMOX (gemcitabine plus oxaliplatin)
      reported that adding to tarceva to GEMOX had more useful in the specific subgroup with EFGR
      overexpressed patients.

      The aim of present study is to assess treatment efficacy and side effects of pemetrexed plus
      tarceva on EGFR overexpressed patients with refractory colorectal cancer and no treatment
      option whose performance status is relatively preserved.

      <Pre-medication for Alimta> D-7 ~ Folic acid 1mg QD PO D-7 ~ Vitamin B12 1mg/9weeks IM D-1,
      D1, D2 Dexamethasone 4mg BID PO

      <Treatment> D1 Alimta 500mg/m2 + NS 100ml IV infusion for 10mins Every 3weeks
    
  