
    
      Study Design: A block randomised design of 3 groups of resistance-exercise trained (RET) men

      Participants: 24 young, healthy, resistance exercise trained, males aged 18 - 35 years.

      Recovery drinks; CONTROL - an isonitrogenous, non-essential amino acid solution; PROTEIN - a
      milk-based whey protein concentrate (WPC), WPC-80; HYDROLYSATE - a hydrolysed derivative of
      WPC-80.

      Day 1, Pre-screening consisting of:

        -  medical history and examination by a clinician

        -  blood sample to be evaluated for health-related contraindications

        -  body composition measurement by dual energy x-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to determine
           whole body and segmental lean tissue mass;

        -  exercise training log (6 month recall);

        -  dietary consultation;

        -  habitual physical activity level assessed by European Physical Activity Questionaire
           (EPAQ)-2

      Day 2 - 8: Participants will be "free-living" during this time. Participants will record
      dietary intake under the guidance of a qualified dietitian and sports nutritionist.

      Day 9 and 10: Participants will complete two familiarisation sessions to the resistance
      exercise and muscle function testing procedures.

      A single blood sample (5ml) will be drawn following o/n fast on each day. On day 2
      participants will drink a metered dose of deuterated water (around 200ml) containing
      deuterium. A saliva sample will be taken before and after consuming this bolus.

      Day 11-17. During this experimental phase diet is prescribed and provided. The diet is based
      on habitual food intake standardized to body mass.

      Day 11: O/n fasted blood, saliva and 1st micro-biopsy of muscle obtained; Muscle function
      measured prior to and upon completion of a prescribed bout of resistance exercise training
      (RET); The recovery drink (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) is ingested; 3 hours following
      completion of RET a 2nd micro-biopsy of muscle is obtained.

      Day 12: O/n fasted blood and saliva is obtained Muscle function measured and recovery drink
      (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) consumed.

      Day 13: O/n fasted blood and saliva is obtained Muscle function measured followed by the 2nd
      RET bout and recovery drink (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) consumed.

      Day 14: O/n fasted blood and saliva is obtained Muscle function measured and recovery drink
      (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) consumed.

      Day 15: O/n fasted blood and saliva is obtained Muscle function measured followed by the 3rd
      RET bout and recovery drink (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) consumed.

      Day 16 O/n fasted blood, saliva and 3rd micro-biopsy of muscle obtained Muscle function
      measured and recovery drink (0.33 g protein/kg body mass) consumed.

      Day 17: O/n fasted blood and saliva is obtained Muscle function measured
    
  