
    
      Aim: To test the possible neuroprotective effect of early high-dose erythropoietin alpha
      after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA). Safety, pharmacokinetics and an estimation of
      potential risks benefits of EPO treatment were evaluated. Methodology: An open labelled,
      pilot, matched control study. Following resuscitation with mild hypothermia with after OHCA,
      participants received a first dose of EPO-alpha followed by four additional injections within
      48 hours (40 000 IU intravenously each injection). Plasma Epo-alpha levels were measured at
      different time points. Outcome and adverse events were assessed up to day 28 and were
      compared with those of matched-paired controls Pilot, open-labelled, matched controls study
      performed between Nov 2003 and May 2004. As the first step, the effect of high-dose Epo-alpha
      for 20 consecutive patients with OHCA who had been successfully resuscitated by the emergency
      medical service was studied. The participants received the first dose of Epo-alpha as soon as
      possible after stable ROSC, followed by an additional injection every 12h during the first 48
      hours ICU admission (40 000 IU intravenously each injection). Collected data included
      demographics, clinical characteristics, biological features, treatment and outcome. Severity
      was assessed by the Simplified Acute Physiologic Score 2 (SAPS2). Mortality and neurological
      outcome were recorded at day 28. All unexpected events were assessed in order to detect
      potential side effects of High-dose Epo administration. As the second step, the outcomes
      observed among the prospective Epo-treated patients were compared to the cohort with outcomes
      observed among case-matched historical controls. Two matched controls were selected for each
      Epo-treated patient. Neurological assessment was performed on admission and each day between
      days 1 and 7, and at days 14, 21 and 28. Blood samples were drawn daily from day 1 to day 7
      and weekly from day 7 to day 28. For the pharmacokinetics blood samples were drawn just
      before and at 2h, 4h, 6h, 8h, 10h, 12h, 24h, 36h, 48h, 72h, 78h, 84h, and 96 h after the
      first administration of Epo-alpha.

      Intravenous Epo-alpha: First dose as soon as possible after stable return of spontaneous
      circulation (ROSC), followed by an additional injection every 12 hours during the first 48
      hours. (40 000 IU at each injection)
    
  