
    
      Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), characterized by inattention, hyperactivity
      and impulsivity, is an early onset, highly heritable, clinically heterogeneous, long-term
      impairing disorder with tremendous impact on individuals, families, and societies. It affects
      5-10% of school-aged children worldwide (7.5% in Taiwan) and 2-4% of adults.
      Neuropsychological deficits related to executive functions, state regulation, and delay
      aversion show heritability, replicated association with ADHD, and familial-genetic overlap
      with ADHD, are suitable for biomarkers for ADHD. Despite the abundance of molecular genetic
      studies on ADHD, the genetic etiologies of ADHD have been non-conclusive, and there is
      limited information about the expressions, endophenotypes, and genetic variants for ADHD in
      Chinese population. This polite study, a family-based parental control association study,
      aims to identify the genetic markers for ADHD using the dichotomous categorization of
      affected and non-affected, quantitative phenotypes (symptoms dimension and severity of ADHD)
      and endophenotype (neuropsychological measures) as well.

      Specific Aims:

        1. to determine the components of ADHD and neuropsychological deficit with the greatest
           familial recurrence risks;

        2. to replicate studies with positive genetic findings from literature by performing
           candidate gene analysis such as DRD4, DAT1, DRD5, HTR1B, SNPA-25, 5-HTT, DBH, CHRNA4,
           CHRNA7 etc;

        3. to identify the potential genetic variants using haplotype tag SNPs for the following
           candidate genes, CHRNA4 and CHRNA7 and any updated genetic findings.

      We will recruit 200 probands with ADHD, aged 7-18, and their parents (n = 400) and siblings
      (n= 150) in three years (50, 100, and 50 families with ADHD in the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd year,
      respectively). The measures include (1) interviews for psychopathology (K-SADS-E) and social
      functioning (SAICA), (2) self-administered questionnaires to measures ADHD symptoms
      (CPRS-R:S, CTRS-R:S, SNAP-IV and Adult ADHD rating scale) and comorbid conditions (ASRI and
      CBCL), and (3) Neuropsychological tests: WISC-III, CPT, CANTAB, and Time Perception Tasks.
      The DNA will be collected and analyzed. The transmission/disequilibrium test (TDT) and
      quantitative TDT will be used in data analysis.

      We anticipate the establishment of clinical, neuropsychological, and genetic database of 200
      ADHD families, completion of the screening of several candidate genes, and identification of
      potential genetic variants for ADHD, and determination of their association with ADHD
      diagnosis and symptoms and its endophenotype in a Taiwanese sample. The long-term objectives
      are to identify the behavioral phenotypes and endophenotypes that are close to the biological
      expression of genes underlying ADHD. The findings of different approaches to identify the
      genetic etiologies for ADHD in this pilot study should help us to determine the most
      promising approach for future molecular genetic study on ADHD.
    
  