
    
      PURPOSE The purpose of this study is to compare the clinical outcomes and parental
      satisfaction of treating pediatric Type I supracondylar fractures with a long arm soft cast
      and no clinical or radiographic follow-up versus standard treatment in a long arm cast with
      clinical follow-up.

      HYPOTHESIS We propose that with clear instructions given to parents in the form of a clinical
      consultation at soft cast application and written instructions, a Type I supracondylar
      fracture can be managed with no significant change in pain, without formal in-person clinic
      consultation, that the treatment will proceed without any negative consequences and the
      treatment will be met with high parent satisfaction.

      JUSTIFICATION The limiting of unnecessary patient visits, X-rays and interactions has taken
      on a new importance with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Any research that can limit
      unnecessary risk to our patients, parents and families in terms of contacts should be
      considered and implemented now more than ever.

      OBJECTIVES Our objective is to determine whether Type I supracondylar fractures can be
      managed safely and effectively without clinical and radiographic follow-up x-rays.

      With the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been an increased need to minimize patient interactions
      for the safety of patients and healthcare workers alike. Typically, these fractures can be
      managed with minimal intervention. A cast is applied primarily to alleviate pain and the
      child is required to return to the hospital to have the cast removed.

      A soft cast provides adequate immobilization of the fracture but can be removed at home by
      parents. If this can be shown to provide equivalent pain relief and a similar safety profile
      then there will be clear benefits at this time in limiting in-person visits and thus
      potential COVID-19 contacts. In a non-COVID-19 period, there will also be secondary health
      economic benefits by reducing out-patient follow-up visits.

      If our study proves there are no negative consequences then this treatment regime could be
      simply and rapidly implemented at centers around the world. Additionally if successful it
      could also be potentially applied to the management of other undisplaced and stable
      fractures, which would have a considerable impact on the interactions and unnecessary
      contacts.

      RESEARCH DESIGN This study is a prospective multicenter randomized control trial evaluating
      patients treated with a consistent protocol assessing clinical effectiveness, safety and
      parental satisfaction with the management of Type I supracondylar fractures with a period of
      casting and no in-person clinical or radiographic follow-up compared to cast and routine
      follow-up (standard current practice).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS All baseline and relevant center and demographic information will be
      summarized between trial arms via appropriate summary statistics (medians and IQRs for
      continuous variables and counts for categorical variables).

      The primary outcome and any other continuous outcomes will be assessed with a mixed effects
      model with a random intercept for study center, and a single covariate for treatment group.
      The coefficient from this model represents the estimated mean difference between groups and
      will be reported with a 95% confidence interval. Binary outcomes such as unplanned return to
      hospital will be analyzed similarly with mixed effects logistic regression and odds ratios
      and 95% confidence intervals will be reported.

      As the objective is to show that no follow up is not inferior to standard of care, we
      prespecify a 20% margin of difference as clinically equivalent for the primary outcome of
      difference in the pain scale between groups (i.e. 2 points on 10-point scale). Therefore, if
      the lower bound of the 95% confidence interval from the mixed effects model lies above 20% of
      the mean, we will treat this as confirmation of non-inferiority. If the entire interval lies
      within +/- 20% this will be taken as equivalence.

      Effect modification of the comparability in the primary outcome between groups will be
      assessed by including interaction terms with relevant baseline risk factors. Sensitivity
      analyses will be based on the inclusion of patient and center level covariates thought to
      impact the primary outcomes and multiple imputation for missing outcomes due to possible
      differential follow up between groups.

      Analyses will be conducted using R statistical software, and a significance level of 0.05
      will be used for all analyses. A formal statistical analysis plan will be finalized by all
      investigators prior to.
    
  