
    
      Assessment of vital signs is an essential part of any clinical assessment and is undertaken
      regularly on patients accessing healthcare services. The accuracy of these measurements is of
      vital importance as decisions regarding the urgency of medical review and subsequent
      management are often influenced by these measures.

      The measurement of vital signs as part of normal medical care requires a level of medical /
      nursing skill or patient training. Observations can be altered by stress or anxiety making
      the results less representative of the patient's clinical state. This is particularly
      recognised in the measurement of blood pressure but stress can also alter heart and
      respiratory rate.

      Regular community and/or home monitoring of vital signs is useful in older populations and
      those with long-term conditions; standard of care methods can be labour intensive for health
      care providers, leading to greater financial burdens for health services.

      Lifelight® First is software which allows non-invasive, non-contact measurement of these
      observations. It can be used on a tablet (e.g. Apple® iPad®) that possesses an integral
      camera. The use of computer technology is now commonplace in society so the general public
      are likely to be accepting of this as a non-threatening method of measurement, thus reducing
      the impact of anxiety on the results. Lifelight® First therefore has potential application
      within various areas of the health care system, it could also be useful in settings where
      direct access to health care is limited or as a part of a telemedicine service.

      This study has been designed to evaluate the safety and performance of Lifelight® First, an
      investigational medical device. The data will be used to support the CE marking of the
      Lifelight® First device. The study design has been based upon the guidance in ISO standards
      and also within published scientific literature. Ultimately the data points to be obtained
      and methodology will be required to follow this guidance in order to obtain the CE mark.
    
  