
    
      Standing and walking are almost always completed in unison with other cognitive tasks such as
      talking, reading or making decisions. The ability to perform this important type of "dual
      tasking" is critical to daily activities and dependent upon one's capacity to effectively
      activate appropriate brain networks that include the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex
      (dlPFC). Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a safe, noninvasive technology
      that can selectively modulate brain excitability (i.e., the likelihood of activation) by
      passing low-level currents between electrodes placed upon the scalp. The investigators have
      demonstrated through a series of studies that a single, 20-minute exposure of tDCS targeting
      the left dlPFC-administered via two large sponge electrodes-reduces dual task costs to
      metrics of standing postural control and gait, when tested immediately following stimulation.
      Still, the investigators and others have also observed relatively high between-subject
      variability in the effects of this 'traditional' bipolar form of tDCS. The investigators
      contend that this variability in effectiveness arises in part from relatively diffuse and
      unspecific current flow when using large sponge electrodes, in combination with individual
      variability in head and brain anatomy that significantly alters current flow and the
      generated electric field in the target brain region. In this project, the investigators will
      apply recent advances in tDCS modeling and administration to 1) model the electric fields
      generated by traditional tDCS in older adults using their individual structural brain MRIs,
      and 2) develop personalized tDCS-delivered via an array of eight small gel electrodes-by
      using optimization algorithms to determine electrode placement and current parameters needed
      to generate desired electrical field with the brain region of interest.

      The Specific Aim is to examine the immediate after-effects of personalized tDCS, traditional
      tDCS, and sham stimulation on dual task standing and walking in older adults. The study
      population will be older men and women without overt disease or illness, yet with poor
      baseline dual task performance defined as a dual task cost (i.e., reduction) to gait speed of
      at least 20% induced by simultaneously performing a serial subtraction task when walking.

      The investigators hypothesize that across participants, the effect of traditional tDCS on
      dual task standing and walking performance will correlate with a specific component of the
      electric field generated over the left dlPFC target. The investigators also hypothesize that
      personalized tDCS will induce A) greater effects on dual task standing and walking
      performance as compared to traditional tDCS and sham stimulation, and B) these effects will
      be more consistent across individuals as compared to traditional tDCS. This project will
      provide important insights into tDCS "dosage" that will enable the investigators and many
      other researchers to better understand, control, and optimize this form of noninvasive brain
      stimulation to individual head and brain anatomy. It is also expected to demonstrate that
      personalized tDCS, as compared to the traditional approach, significantly improves the size
      and consistency of observed benefits to dual task standing and walking in vulnerable older
      adults.
    
  