
    
      Background:

        -  Adrenal neoplasms are common and are incidentally discovered in 4-10% of abdominal
           imaging studies.

        -  The majority of adrenal incidentalomas are cortical adenoma.

        -  Many patients with nonfunctioning adrenal incidentalomas undergo adrenalectomy to
           exclude a cancer diagnosis.

        -  There are no reliable clinical, radiographic or laboratory studies that accurately
           distinguish between localized benign and malignant adrenal neoplasm.

        -  This protocol is designed to determine the feasibility and accuracy of using novel
           molecular markers of malignant adrenal neoplasm in fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsy
           and surgically resected samples.

      Objectives:

        -  Primary Objectives:

             -  To evaluate the feasibility of molecular testing in adrenal neoplasm FNA biopsy
                samples.

             -  To determine the accuracy of novel diagnostic molecular markers in clinical adrenal
                FNA biopsy and surgically resected samples.

        -  Secondary Objectives:

             -  To analyze the gene expression level relative to disease-free survival and overall
                survival in patients with adrenocortical carcinoma

      Eligibility:

        -  An individual with an adrenal neoplasm greater than 2cm in size

        -  Age greater than or equal to 18 years

        -  Adults must be able to understand and sign the informed consent document

      Design:

        -  Prospective observational study.

        -  Demographic, clinical, laboratory and pathologic data will be collected for each patient
           participant. Data will be securely stored in a computerized database.

        -  Patients will have biochemical testing to determine if their adrenal neoplasm is
           functioning or nonfunctioning.

        -  After their initial on-study evaluation, patients who are found to have a nonfunctioning
           adrenal tumor with a low risk of malignancy will be re-screened every year for 5 years
           with non-invasive imaging studies.

        -  Treatment of patients with an adrenal neoplasm will be performed based on standard
           clinical practice.

        -  Projected accrual will be 50 patients per year for a total of 10 years. Thus, we
           anticipate accruing 500 patients on this protocol.
    
  