
    
      This study included 29 patients, which were recruited consecutively at our pigmented skin
      lesion clinic at the Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Graz, Austria. A total of
      30 benign nevi were imaged; 10 dermoscopically reticular, 10 globular and 10 homogeneous nevi
      were selected. Lesions were selected for the presence of a uniform dermoscopic pattern. A
      biopsy of one nevus of each group was performed due to cosmetic purposes on patient's
      request.

      Each nevus was imaged with a confocal scanning laser microscope (Vivascope 1000, Lucid Inc,
      Henrietta, NY). Technical details of the confocal scanning microscope have been described
      elsewhere. The adaptor ring of the laser microscope was applied to the skin and centered on
      the lesion. A standardized evaluation was performed; CSLM imaging of the lesion centre was
      started stepwise (approximately 20µm per step) beginning from stratum corneum to the
      papillary dermis with a field of view of 475 x 350 µm for a single image (´stack´ image).
      Each image corresponds to a horizontal section at a selected depth with a resolution of
      640x480 pixels and 255 colors (grey scale). An automated stepper was used to obtain a grid of
      16 contiguous horizontal images of the basal layer, constructing a montage image with a
      1.9x1.4mm field of view (´block´ image). Since selected nevi showed a uniform pigmentation
      pattern throughout the whole lesion, a correlation between clinical, dermoscopic and confocal
      images could be guaranteed. One nevus of each group was consecutively biopsied and assessed
      with conventional histopathologic examination after sectioning and staining with hematoxylin
      and eosin (H&E).

      Cytomorphologic and architectural features of each nevus were evaluated during assessment of
      confocal images and distinct characteristics for each group of nevi were determined and
      correlated with dermoscopy and, if available, with histopathology. The diagnostic
      applicability of CSLM in the differentiation between reticular, globular and homogeneous nevi
      based on these features was assessed by two independent observers.
    
  