
    
      Non-metastatic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) recur in ~20% of cases within 5 years
      after radical surgery. Current postoperative follow-up protocols, being schematic and at best
      based on risk of recurrence scores, are sub-optimal for early detection of recurrences which
      could potentially be available for curative management. Blood and urine collected
      glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) are promising novel class of biomarkers from which a new diagnostic
      test based on so called GAG scores has been developed. GAG scores have accurately
      distinguished localized/locally-advanced and advanced RCC from healthy subjects.

      AUR87A features an adaptive design. The primary endpoint analysis is conducted when 30 events
      (i.e. recurrences) are reached - expected at 140 patients with a minimum follow-up of 12
      months (cohort 1). An interim analysis at 15 events is conducted to verify whether the
      sensitivity and specificity estimates are in line with the study assumptions. In case of
      futility, the GAG scores formulations and/or cut-offs are optimized based on data from cohort
      1. The primary endpoints are then validated on a second independent cohort, powered depending
      on the results from cohort 1. This second cohort is estimated in 140 patients (cohort 2). In
      case of non-futility, cohort 2 may be used as external validation.

      AUR87A will prospectively enroll an estimated 280 non-metastatic ccRCC patients curatively
      treated with surgery (partial or radical nephrectomy). Patients are followed-up
      longitudinally using GAG scores in blood and urine every 3 months after surgery, alongside
      the current standard follow-up protocol, i.e. imaging, as reference standard.

      The hypothesis of AUR87A is that postoperative increase of the GAG scores, so called "GAG
      recurrence ", can predict or detect recurrence at an earlier time-point compared to the
      reference standard, referred to as "radiological recurrence", and thereby improve the
      clinical utility of current follow-up protocols.
    
  