
    
      Skeletal muscle disuse is an important contributing factor to physical disability. Disuse is
      more frequent in the elderly and they are more susceptible to its debilitating effects
      because of their diminished physiological reserve. Despite these facts, the mechanisms
      whereby disuse promotes skeletal muscle contractile dysfunction in this population remain
      largely undetermined. Therefore, the investigators will systematically test for modifications
      of single skeletal muscle fiber structure and function that underlie contractile dysfunction.
      Elderly individuals characterized by chronic muscle disuse (patients with knee
      osteoarthritis) will be compared to carefully-matched controls with no clinical evidence of
      knee osteoarthritis and normal activity levels. Thereafter, elderly with chronic disuse will
      undergo an exercise intervention to remediate muscle disuse. The investigators hypothesize
      that muscle disuse impairs contractile function, in part, through alterations in myosin
      kinetics, myofilament protein content and the mechanical properties of the myofilament
      lattice and that exercise rehabilitation will counteract these deficits. The investigators
      will specifically examine the effect of disuse on mechanical, kinetic and structural
      properties and molecular composition of single muscle fibers in cases and controls, as well
      as determine how increasing muscle use in elderly with chronic disuse via exercise training
      affects muscle fiber mechanical, kinetic and structural properties and molecular composition.
      These translational studies will provide the first comprehensive evaluation of the cellular
      and molecular mechanisms through which muscle disuse alters skeletal muscle structure and
      contractile function in elderly humans. This knowledge can assist in the development and
      refinement of preventative and corrective therapies for disability by tailoring these
      approaches to address specific molecular defects.
    
  