
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare the overall survival of patients with chemotherapy-naïve stage IIIB or IV or
           recurrent non-small cell lung cancer treated with paclitaxel poliglumex and carboplatin
           vs paclitaxel and carboplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the progression-free survival of women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the disease control in women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the clinical benefit in women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the response rate in women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life of women treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the safety and tolerability in women treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients are stratified according to age (≥ 60 vs < 60 years old), geographical location
      (United States of America, Canada, or Australia vs the rest of the world), extent of disease
      (independent of brain metastases, i.e., brain metastases are not considered in determining
      extent of disease) (intrathoracic disease only vs extrathoracic disease), and ECOG
      performance status (0 or 1 vs 2). Patients will be randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel poliglumex IV over 10 minutes followed by carboplatin
           IV over 30 minutes on day 1.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours followed by carboplatin IV over 30
           minutes on day 1.

      In both arms, treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before each course, and at the completion of study
      treatment by the Pain Assessment Patient Questionnaire, the Pulmonary Symptom Index, and the
      Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy- Lung Cancer Subscale (FACT-LCS) (only in countries
      in which a validated translation is currently available).

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed at least monthly.
    
  