
    
      NIV is a form of ventilatory support which is popular overall in the world. The patient
      interface most commonly used in the course of NIV is by far the nasal or oronasal mask. The
      main complication of the use of the mask is the development of decubitus, sometimes so severe
      and painful as to force a suspension of NIV. The decubitus is mainly located at the nasal
      bridge, as at this level the skin thin and placed directly on the bone. According to Meduri
      et al.(Chest 1996) the duration of NIV, age, type of respiratory failure, the pressure used
      for ventilation and the level of albumin did not influence the development of necrosis.

      Severe skin injury with ulceration and necrosis occurs in approximately 10% of patients
      receiving NIV trained in services. In the multicenter evaluation of a new face mask dedicated
      to the NIV (Gregoretti et al, Intens Care Med 2002) describes the development of NIV-induced
      decubitus in 100% of the control group treated with masks "traditional", with an average
      grade of 2.79 on a scale of Assessment Standard ranging from 1 (erythema) to 4 (necrosis).

      The strategy of prevention and treatment commonly adopted is the application of appropriately
      shaped hydrocolloids. However, the data relating to the use of protective systems for the
      prevention of NIV-induced decubitus are limited and controversial. In a first pilot study
      (Callaghan et al,Professional Nurse 1998, the authors compared the protective efficacy of two
      types of "dressing" (Granuflex, Spenco Dermal and 10 patients, 10 patients) vs a
      non-randomized control group (10 patients): 30 patients in total . In this work, which
      presents a problem of inter-observer variability, the "Granuflex group" (or Duoderm) showed a
      greater protective effect (3 vs. 7 lesions in "Spenco Dermal group" vs 9 lesions in the
      control group). Recently, in a larger study, Weng (Intensive Crit Care Nurs 2008) compared
      the efficacy of two devices (Tegaderm and tegasorb) vs. a control group in 90 patients (30
      per group) undergoing NIV. The rate of lesions was significantly lower in the treated groups
      (53% Tegaderm; Tegasorb 40%) than in the control group (96.7%), with no significant
      difference between the two interventional arms on both the incidence and the timing of onset
      of injury.

      Therefore, given the limited data currently available regarding both the effectiveness and
      the choice of a protective device and in consideration of the continuous expansion of NIV in
      the acute setting, in our opinion it's seems to us justified to perform a controlled study
      comparing different types of devices in terms of skin protection during NIV.
    
  