
    
      This is a reprospective, observational cohort study including incident strokes from January
      1, 2011 to December 31, 2012 and followed up in December 31, 2016. Statistical approaches are
      used to analyze survival outcomes. It is a longitudinal study of a population-based cohort of
      all registered cases of a first episode of stroke that occurred in Catalonia (Spain).
      Demographic Patterns and Epidemic Characteristics. Life expectancy at birth is 81.34 years
      globally, 78.26 years for men and 84.74 years for women.

      Case Definition The definition of stroke corresponds to that set by the World Health
      Organization.

      Patients were included by using the automated operation of the database of patients with a
      diagnosis code of stroke (I60-I69).

      The inclusion criteria were: age ≥ 15 up to ≤ 90; a diagnosis of stroke explicitly recorded
      in their medical record at any of the registration systems in the health centers; it should
      be a first stroke episode, and relevant episode information should be available in clinical
      records: (a) outpatient clinic, (b) hospital clinic, or (c) access to medical/sociosanitary
      reports.

      The variables on which information was collected were grouped as follows: sociodemographic;
      clinics: type (ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke) and event date (day/month/year); NIHSS score
      on admission; whether or not there was thrombolytic therapy; duration of hospital stay;
      hospital discharge destination (home, higher-level acute hospital, long-term care hospital,
      death and date thereof); pre- and poststroke functional autonomy [the Barthel score was
      classified as follows: <20 (total dependence), 20-35 (severe dependence), 40-55 (moderate
      dependence), ≥ 60 (mild dependence), or 100 (independence) registered for preepisode and for
      discharge in the medical history of the patient, the hospital, or the primary care center];
      functional status of the patient at discharge: death, home-autonomous, home address
      caregiver, referral to another acute hospital, or convalescent center (temporary or long-term
      stay), and vital status (alive/dead) of the patient, specifying the date (day/month/year) of
      death, if any.

      Statistical Analysis Computerized statistical analysis was undertaken with the following: (1)
      descriptive basic statistics and standard deviation of key variables stratified by age and
      sex and (2) differences in functional outcome and its evolution before and after the episode
      determined the possible effects on mortality and different residual deficits categorized with
      the statistical Cox regression model. Mortality should be interpreted as overall mortality
      and cause-specific, no stroke. Patients who died during hospitalization or within the 1st
      month are considered 'immediate death'. During follow-up the deceased are described as
      'subsequent mortality'.
    
  