
    
      STUDY BACKGROUND INFORMATION AND RATIONALE

      Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD):

      With an estimated global prevalence of 25% among adults, NAFLD is now the commonest chronic
      liver disease; its progressive form, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), has been estimated
      to affect 1.5%-6.5% of the population with associated increased risk of cirrhosis,
      hepatocellular carcinoma and liver-specific mortality. Considering the key association of fat
      accumulation within the liver, in particular diacyl glycerols, to the generation of whole
      body insulin resistance and development of type 2 diabetes, NAFLD has been considered a
      pre-diabetic state. NAFLD has been associated with excess risk of non-fatal and fatal
      cardiovascular events independently of established co-morbidities including type 2 diabetes,
      dyslipidemia and obesity. Individuals of South Asian ethnicity have significantly higher
      rates of NAFLD, abdominal obesity and cardiovascular disease than whites and ethnicity is a
      risk factor for NAFLD independent of diabetes, BMI, hypertension and hypercholesterolemia.

      NAFLD problem in India:

      Consistent with the global trend, the health and economic burdens of metabolic syndrome and
      NAFLD have risen in India. In 2011, India had 63 million individuals with type 2 diabetes and
      by 2030, that number is predicted to be a staggering 90 million. Insulin resistance (IR) has
      also been shown to be more prevalent in Indians compared with other ethnic groups and this
      has been correlated with NAFLD regardless of adiposity. Despite these links, there are a
      number of key differences between Indian NAFLD patients and those in the West: mean BMI is
      significantly lower in Indians and there is also a lower prevalence of hypertension, diabetes
      and metabolic syndrome in non-cirrhotic NAFLD patients.

      Dietary influences on NAFLD:

      Diet may be one of the key environmental factors that accounts for ethnic variation in
      susceptibility to NAFLD. However, there is currently a lack of research into specific dietary
      factors influencing susceptibility to NAFLD, in particular, with regards to macronutrients,
      and there are few evidence-based dietary interventions, beyond energy restriction to induce
      weight loss. Considering the effectiveness of a modest increase in protein content and a
      reduction in the glycaemic index (GI) in maintaining weight loss, we investigated the effects
      of a low GI diet on the liver and demonstrated that it did not increase liver fat content
      whereas an increase was seen with an isoenergetic high GI diet controlled for macronutrient
      content.

      Diet has been found to influence the gut microbiome variably across human societies. Fibre
      encompassing a range of characteristics, is one of the fundamental components linking diet,
      the gut microbiome and fatty acid metabolism. The benefits of dietary fibre include improved
      glucose homeostasis and insulin sensitivity. Dietary fibres are at least partly fermented in
      the caecum and large intestine by the colonic microbiota resulting in some cases an increased
      production of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) which regulate the balance between fatty acid
      synthesis, fatty acid oxidation and lipolysis in the body. The net result is a reduction in
      free fatty acid concentrations in plasma and a decrease in body weight. Dietary fibre overall
      is associated with greater gut microbiome diversity and we have recently shown that it is
      also associated with lower long-term weight gain.
    
  