
    
      Background:

      Several small molecule poly-(ADP)-ribose polymerase inhibitors (PARPi) have been approved by
      the FDA for multiple cancers with homologous recombination (HR) deficiencies. Despite their
      measurable initial benefit, PARPi resistance is a major problem in the clinic. There are no
      established standards for care of patients who have disease progression after PARPi.

      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is an aggressive cancer with poor prognosis. Despite being
      chemo-sensitive initially, the tumors are invariably chemo-resistant at recurrence. Currently
      available therapies for patients who have disease progression after chemotherapy yield
      limited benefit, and most patients die within months of relapse.

      In preclinical studies, ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein (ATR) inhibition can
      overcome PARPi/chemotherapy-resistance in tumors with restored HR or restored fork
      protection. However, combinations of DNA damage response inhibitors and chemotherapy may be
      challenging in clinic due to overlapping toxicities, specifically myelosuppression.

      To mitigate some of the overlapping toxicities relating to myelosuppression, we have proposed
      a strategy that incorporates tumor targeted DNA-damaging chemotherapy delivery (using
      approaches such as antibody drug conjugates) and dose scheduling of ATR inhibitors.

      Sacituzumab govitecan is an antibody-drug conjugate, comprising a topoisomerase-I inhibiting
      camptothecin, SN-38, linked to a humanized antibody targeting trophoblastic cell-surface
      antigen 2 (Trop-2), and is FDA approved as Trodelvy (Trademark) for triple-negative breast
      cancer patients who have received at least two prior therapies for metastatic disease.

      Berzosertib is a potent and selective kinase inhibitor of ATR in phase I and II clinical
      trials as a single agent and in combination with chemotherapy, radiation and other anticancer
      agents.

      We hypothesize that a combination of berzosertib with sacituzumab govitecan will provide an
      effective therapeutic option for patients with PARPi resistant tumors and
      chemotherapy-resistant SCLCs.

      Primary objectives:

      Phase I: To identify the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) of sacituzumab govitecan in combination
      with berzosertib.

      Phase II HRD cohort: To assess the efficacy with respect to objective response rate (ORR) of
      the combination of sacituzumab govitecan and berzosertib in previously treated participants
      with HRD.

      Phase II SCLC cohort: To assess the efficacy with respect to ORR of the combination of
      sacituzumab govitecan and berzosertib in previously treated participants with SCLC.

      Eligibility:

      All phases: Subjects must be greater than or equal to 18 years of age and have a performance
      status (ECOG) less than or equal to 2.

      Phase I: Adult participants with advanced solid tumors with progression on at least one prior
      chemotherapy.

      Phase II HRD cohort: Known HRD cancer and documented evidence of germline or somatic BRCA
      mutation or other HRD germline mutation, or tumor is HRD positive; progressive disease while
      taking a PARPi as a previous therapy or within 6 months of completing PARPi therapy.

      Phase II SCLC cohort: Recurrent SCLC after at least one prior platinum-based therapy.

      Design:

      This is a Phase I/II, open label clinical trial identifying the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      of sacituzumab govitecan in combination with berzosertib in a phase I trial, and assessing
      the efficacy with respect to clinical response rate of a combination of sacituzumab govitecan
      and berzosertib as treatment of subjects with recurrent SCLC and HRD positive tumors in a
      phase II trial. The accrual ceiling will be set to 70 for this study.

      Participants will receive sacituzumab govitecan on days 1 and 8 and berzosertib on days 2 and
      9, administered every 21 days (1 cycle), until disease progression or development of
      intolerable side effects.

      Blood, hair follicles, and tumor will be collected at various time points to support the
      exploratory objectives.

      The Phase I will follow a 3+3 design: dose will be escalated in cohorts of 3-6 participants
      each with the individual dose of berzosertib and sacituzumab govitecan increased in
      successive dose levels.

      The phase II HRD cohort and phase II SCLC cohort will be conducted using a Simon two-stage
      Minimax design in order to rule out an unacceptably low 5% response rate (p0=0.05) for HRD
      and 10% (p=0.10) response rate for SCLC in favor of a targeted response rate of 20% (p1=0.20)
      and 30% (p1=0.30), respectively.
    
  