
    
      Upon arrival the subject will be given a questionnaire that will collect demographic
      information and determine whether they meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the study.
      If the subjects meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria for the study, they will be given an
      informed consent form for participation and photography.

      Prior to performing the swing test reflective markers will be placed on specific anatomical
      landmarks of the subject.

      An investigator will demonstrate how to perform the Swing test. The subject will then be
      instructed to step onto a six inch box and asked to swing one leg forwards and backwards
      mimicking their running stride. After ten practice repetitions, ten repetitions will be
      recorded by the Vicon Motion Analysis System and 2 video cameras capturing different views.
      The subject will then step off the box and the reflective markers will be removed.

      After the swing test, the subject will undergo a series of common musculoskeletal examination
      tests. The following examination tests will be performed in a random order.

      The first musculoskeletal examination test is hip extension range of motion (ROM) that will
      be measured using a goniometer. The subject will lie on their stomach and the investigator
      will take the subjects hip into extension and measure their full motion.

      The second examination tests is the Thomas test to determine the muscle length for rectus
      femoris muscle and iliotibial band. The subject will be instructed to sit on the edge of the
      bed and lower to supine while bringing one knee to chest. The investigator will assess the
      subject's lower extremity position to determine the length of the rectus femoris muscle and
      the iliotibial band.

      The third examination test is hip strength measurements of internal rotation, external
      rotation, and abduction which will be measured using a handheld dynamometer. The subject will
      be placed on their back and their hip strength will be measured using the dynamometer. The
      subject will then be placed on their side where further hip strength will be assessed.

      The fourth examination tests is the navicular drop test. In a seated position, a mark will be
      placed on the patient's navicular tubercle, which is a landmark on the inside of the foot. An
      index card will be placed next to the middle of the subjects foot and the height of the
      navicular will be marked on that index card. The subject will be instructed to stand up and
      the navicular height will be marked again on the index card. The difference in height between
      sitting and standing will be calculated.

      The fifth examination test is the sorensen test to determine the endurance of the back
      muscles. The subject will be instructed to lie prone with their trunk off the treatment
      table. The subject will have arms crossed at chest, and will be instructed to maintain upper
      body horizontal the floor. Time will be recorded during the test and the tests will stop when
      the subject cannot maintain horizontal or 240 seconds is reached.

      Three to five licensed physical therapists of varying levels of experience will be asked to
      watch the video recordings of the subject performing the swing test and rate their
      performance using a scoring system. Therapists who will be rating the Swing test will not
      have access to any data other than the videos.
    
  