
    
      An improved method of spinal visualization is important because the examination and treatment
      of people with diagnoses such as scoliosis, spinal instability, and painful cervical spine
      and lumbar disorders depend on good spinal imaging. A system that would allow
      three-dimensional analysis of the spine in a moving person without the risk and limitations
      of radiation would greatly enhance the research and interventions needed to improve our
      understanding of spine position and movement. Moreover, it is extremely important for
      physicians, physical therapists, athletic trainers, coaches, and movement scientists to rely
      on accurate yet reliable devices for measuring the spine during activity and research.

      The objective of this study is to develop a novel automated, nondestructive 3-D laser imaging
      system for cervical spine motion analysis. The imaging system is based on shadow Moirý
      interferometry and finger pattern analysis. The proposed technique would be superior to
      existing methods such as radiography because of its potential to allow 3-D visualization and
      its elimination of patient exposure to radiation. These two attributes would make a laser
      system a safer and more effective tool.

      We hypothesize that the laser-based system will surpass conventional motion analysis systems
      such as video motion analysis systems, inclinometers, flexible rulers, goniometers, and
      posture grids in accuracy, reliability, and validity of measurements of spinal motion and
      position.

      The technique possesses several advantages with respect to simplicity, versatility and
      suitability for operation in different environments. The sensitivity of the measurement can
      be adjusted based on the nature of the object under investigation. This makes the technique
      suitable for a wide variety of applications. The benefits of these basic studies will include
      assisting physician and other allied health practitioners to more effectively detect and
      diagnose painful spinal disorders. This ultimately should enhance the treatment and
      management of spinal disorders.

      We plan to test the device on 134 people whom we will recruit from Northern Illinois
      University and the surrounding community. Thirty-four study participants (25%) will be
      patients seeking medical, chiropractic, or physical therapy intervention for complaints of
      neck pain from the Northern Illinois University Health Service and Northern Illinois area
      medical, chiropractic, and physical therapy facilities. The rest of the participants will
      have no complaints of neck pain.
    
  