
    
      Cancer patients often experience anemia due to the disease itself, chemotherapy, or both.
      Quality of life is also affected, due in part to the fatigue associated with anemia. Previous
      studies with epoetin alfa have suggested that achieving a higher hemoglobin level may improve
      quality of life and help patients live longer. This is a randomized, double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, multicenter study to assess the effect of treatment with epoetin alfa in
      reducing or preventing anemia and transfusions in patients receiving non-platinum
      chemotherapy for non-myeloid cancers. The study also aims to determine whether changes in
      erythropoietin and hemoglobin levels after 2 weeks, serum ferritin (iron) levels after 2
      weeks and changes in hemoglobin and developing red blood cells after either 2 or 4 weeks
      predict responsiveness to epoetin alfa. There will be 2 treatment groups: one group will
      receive subcutaneous epoetin alfa injections 3 times per week (starting at 150 units per
      kilogram, adjusted if needed to a maximum of 300 units per kilogram) and the other group will
      receive an equal volume of matching subcutaneous placebo. Treatment is to continue for 12 to
      24 weeks (3 to 6 chemotherapy cycles), plus 4 weeks post-chemotherapy. Patients in the study
      will be observed a year after the study ends for survival data. The primary measure of
      effectiveness will be determined by the number of patients who are transfused, depending on
      primary tumor type (solid or blood) and level of hemoglobin (above or below 10.5 grams per
      deciliter). Additional measures of effectiveness include the change in hemoglobin,
      hematocrit, and developing red blood cells from the start of the study until study
      completion, and the change in quality of life. Safety evaluations (incidence and severity of
      adverse events, laboratory tests, vital signs and physical examinations) will be performed
      throughout the study. The hypothesis of the study is that epoetin alfa will be superior to
      placebo in reducing the need for transfusions and in improving anemia and quality of life.
      150 units per kilogram of epoetin alfa (or placebo) 3 times weekly subcutaneously for 4
      weeks, then continuing this dose or 300 units per kilogram, depending on developing red blood
      cell counts and/or hemoglobin. Study duration is 12 to 24 weeks (3 to 6 cycles) plus 4 weeks
      post-chemotherapy.
    
  