
    
      A. Specific Aims The proposed research will explore a new method of promoting brain
      reorganization and recovery of function in children with hemiplegia. Evidence shows that
      although the brain has remarkable reorganization after neural insult, some changes are
      maladaptive and leave the individual with additional loss of function. In the adult, motor
      neurons in the ipsilesional (stroke) hemisphere that have survived the stroke can undergo a
      loss of excitability. Interhemispheric (transcallosal) inhibition is imposed on these neurons
      from the contralesional (non-stroke) hemisphere. In both the adult and the child, evidence
      suggests that increased ipsilateral projections from the contralesional hemisphere to the
      paretic hand, likely due to compensatory behaviors, actually compound the disability. We
      postulate that the effectiveness of paretic limb activity training can be enhanced when
      combined with electrophysiologic intervention that suppresses activity in the contralesional
      motor neurons. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a potent and
      noninvasive way to influence the excitability of the brain. rTMS, at low frequencies,
      depresses neural function. By stimulating the contralesional motor cortex at low frequency,
      thereby depressing its interhemispheric inhibition of the ipsilesional motor cortex, a net
      excitatory effect (disinhibition) is induced upon the ipsilesional motor cortex. Preceding
      the low-frequency rTMS with priming rTMS (see below) has been shown to increase the magnitude
      of the after-effect. We have recently demonstrated the safety of single treatments of 6-Hz
      primed low-frequency rTMS in adults with stroke and we are currently engaged in an adult NIH
      R01-funded study exploring the effectiveness, mechanism and safety of serial treatments of
      rTMS combined with motor learning training. Failure to address the large gap in pediatric
      brain reorganization only perpetuates the use of conservative but likely suboptimal treatment
      strategies. Our long-term goal is to restore excitability to surviving but dormant motor
      neurons in the lesioned hemisphere of children with hemiplegia and thereby promote higher
      motor recovery. To achieve this goal, our objective is to combine the effects of 6-Hz primed
      low-frequency rTMS with a current form of motor learning training, constraint induced therapy
      (CIT), to achieve a synergism that may yield unprecedented brain reorganization and recovery
      of function.

      Specific Aim #1: Examine the safety of five treatments of 6-Hz primed low-frequency rTMS
      alternating with five treatments of CIT in children with hemiplegia.

      Adverse effects will be measured through observation for seizures, continual physician
      screening, evaluation of cognitive function and motor function in the nonparetic hand. The
      working hypothesis is:

      1. Five 6-Hz primed low-frequency rTMS treatments combined with CIT will not produce any
      seizure activity nor any other serious adverse effect.

      Specific Aim #2. Determine the synergistic effect of rTMS combined with CIT on functional
      outcomes in children with hemiplegia.

      Fifteen children with hemiplegia at each of two pediatric medical centers (total N=30) will
      be randomly assigned in equal numbers to one of two groups: rTMSreal/CIT, rTMSsham/CIT. The
      working hypotheses are:

        1. Both groups will show significant improvement in functional outcomes in the paretic hand
           at posttest compared to their pretest.

        2. The rTMSreal/CIT group will show significantly greater improvement in function in the
           paretic hand compared to the rTMSsham/CIT group.

      Specific Aim #3: Explore the brain reorganization associated with 6-Hz primed low-frequency
      rTMS combined with CIT.

      Treatment-induced brain reorganization in the ipsilesional hemisphere will be explored with
      evoked cortical excitability, using TMS for paired-pulse testing and cortical silent period
      testing, as well as with voluntary cortical recruitment using functional magnetic resonance
      imaging (fMRI). The working hypotheses are:

        1. Both groups will show significantly greater responses with TMS testing and fMRI testing
           at posttest compared to their pretest.

        2. The rTMSreal/CIT group will show significantly greater changes compared to the
           rTMSsham/CIT group.

      This research is innovative in that it combines a unique form of noninvasive brain
      stimulation (primed low-frequency rTMS) with behavioral training (CIT) to promote a synergism
      that could achieve higher recovery in pediatric hemiplegia than through either treatment
      alone. The expected outcomes are improved hand function with no adverse effects leading to
      improved quality of life and reduced burden of care across the lifespan of children with
      hemiplegia.
    
  