
    
      In Sub-Saharan Africa, HIV is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in children. Anemia
      frequently complicates pediatric HIV infection and predicts disease progression and
      mortality. Iron requirements and the specific contribution of iron deficiency (ID) to anemia
      in pediatric HIV infection remains uncertain. The fundamental barrier to understanding iron
      nutrition in HIV infection is that sub-clinical inflammation in individuals with HIV
      infection confounds the usual bio-markers used to assess iron status and response to iron
      interventions. A novel iron stable isotope technique developed by ETH Zurich, Switzerland, is
      a promising new tool for better understanding of iron metabolism in HIV infection. In
      contrast to existing conventional bio-markers of iron status, a method based on isotopic
      dilution of whole body iron labeled with stable, non-radioactive isotopes of iron (58Fe,
      57Fe) could directly quantify iron requirements, as well as iron absorption from
      interventions, completely free of bias and confounding by inflammation. This method could
      offer, for the first time, a long-term quantitative measure of iron balance and absorption
      from iron interventions and provide reliable data on which to base nutrition recommendations
      for HIV infection.

      The objective is to compare HIV infected children to uninfected children: 1) Quantify iron
      absorption from iron fortified maize porridge, lipid-based food supplements and oral iron
      supplements; 2) Quantify the daily iron requirement.

      The study participants will be recruited from the South African Stellenbosch
      University/Tygerberg Children's Hospital long-term antiretroviral therapy (ART) cohort of
      perinatally HIV infected children and uninfected controls from the same communities, matched
      by age and gender. As a secondary outcome, we want to investigate the effect of iron
      supplementation on the gut microbiome.

      In study 1, using a randomized cross-over design and stable isotope labeled single meal/doses
      the investigators will: a) quantify the impairment of dietary iron absorption in HIV
      infected, iron deficient children compared to HIV uninfected, iron deficient controls using a
      labeled iron fortified maize meal, a lipid-based nutritional supplement (LNS) and an oral
      iron supplement; and b) administer sufficient iron isotope label (57Fe) to allow
      equilibration and follow up of isotopic composition in the blood for two years (isotope
      dilution technique). At the end of Study 1, all iron deficient children will be iron replete
      prior to entering Study 2. In study 1, in parallel, a group of HIV infected and uninfected,
      iron sufficient children will be given orally 12 mg 57Fe as ferrous sulfate (FeSO4).

      In study 2, the investigators will apply the principle of long-term isotope dilution to
      quantify the daily iron requirement in both the HIV infected and uninfected children, and the
      difference in iron requirements.

      The overall goal is to provide optimized recommendations on dietary iron requirements and
      iron treatment regimens in HIV infected children, in order to reduce ID and anemia, improve
      their health and well-being, their long-term prognosis and quality of life.
    
  