
    
      Dietary inorganic nitrate is a nutritional intervention, considered to be an exercise
      enhancer due to its capacity to increase Nitric Oxide (NO) bioavailability. Increasing NO
      bioavailability has been associated with improved mitochondrial respiration, muscle tissue
      perfusion and contractile function which may lead to improved exercise capacity. The amount
      of research investigating the effects of beet root juice supplementation (which contains a
      high concentration of inorganic nitrate) on exercise responses has increased dramatically in
      the last 10 years-with over 150 studies in the literature. To date there are only 7 studies
      looking at exercise responses following inorganic nitrate supplementation specifically in
      females. Given the physiological differences between males and females studies looking into
      sex-differences and the specific sex-response are warranted.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate whether dietary nitrate supplementation has
      different effects on muscle contractile function in males and females. We will assess muscle
      function during an isokinetic protocol where subjects will have to produce maximum efforts at
      three different torque development speeds (i.e. 180, 270 and 360). This will be followed with
      a fatigue protocol which will consist of intermittent voluntary contractions at 60% of their
      maximal voluntary contraction until exhaustion provided by research in the Sport Medicine -
      Kinesiology department. Thus, we will be able to distinguish the effect of dietary nitrate on
      contractile function and its capacity to delay fatigue in a sex-specific manner.

      The hypothesis of this study is that there will be a group difference between males and
      females for change in peak power and time to exhaustion after consuming dietary nitrate (in
      the form of concentrated beetroot juice) for 5 days.

      In order to test this hypothesis, we will recruit 24 healthy recreationally active
      individuals (12 females + 12 males) in a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, cross
      over design.

      Specific Aim 1: Determine the sex-differences of the effect of dietary nitrate
      supplementation on peak power. We hypothesize that the males will have larger improvement in
      peak power following dietary nitrate.

      Specific Aim 2: Determine the sex-differences of the effect of dietary nitrate on fatigue
      during an intermittent isometric fatigue protocol. We hypothesize that the females will have
      a greater improvement in fatigue resistance than males.

      Specific Aim 3: Determine the sex-differences of the effect of dietary nitrate on oxygen
      consumption during sub maximal exercise.
    
  