
    
      Together, diabetes and cardiovascular disease cost the U.S. economy a staggering $557.6
      billion annually and are the leading chronic diseases of African Americans. Maintaining a
      healthy body weight by being physically active and eating a healthy diet are the best means
      of reducing cardio-metabolic risk factors. Despite decades of behavioral research, however,
      lifestyle interventions targeting activity and diet have made little progress in effecting
      widespread and enduring health behavior changes in the populations most at risk for
      developing these conditions. Addressing the role of habits, defined as behavior patterns
      operating below conscious awareness that are acquired through context-dependent repetition,
      would significantly improve the effectiveness of lifestyle interventions. Most simply, habits
      develop when repetition of a behavior (e.g., walking for 10 minutes) occurs in connection
      with a stable situational cue that supports the behavior (e.g., while on a lunch break). Once
      established, habits are cued by the characteristics of a specified recurring situation rather
      than by intentions. Recent research suggests that habit development may prevent relapse and
      aid maintenance of behavior changes beyond the duration of the intervention because the
      performance of habitual behaviors is less vulnerable to changes in motivation, mood, or
      extraneous circumstances. Emerging evidence also suggests that habit-development strategies
      are (a) effective across a range of behaviors (e.g., dental flossing, physical activity, and
      dietary behaviors); (b) effective in low doses; and (c) deliverable via multiple formats
      (e.g., paper or electronic). Such strategies could therefore be feasibly implemented in a
      range of settings to target the development of healthful physical activity and dietary
      habits. Nonetheless, these concepts and methods have yet to be fully tested to determine
      their feasibility as a treatment modality for promoting healthful lifestyle behavior changes.

      The long-term goal of the larger research project of which this is a part is to disseminate
      an affordable and effective intervention adaptable to a variety of healthcare settings for
      fostering healthful physical activity and dietary habits, thereby reducing the burden of
      related chronic diseases on affected individuals and society. The short-term objective of the
      proposed research is to test the feasibility of a habit-focused intervention in a sample of
      80 African American adults ages 40 and older with metabolic syndrome (MetS). The overarching
      hypothesis is that a habit-focused approach will be feasible to implement and acceptable to
      intervention recipients. Rooted in habit theory and informed by the
      information-motivation-behavioral (IBM) model, the brief 8-week intervention consists of one
      face-to-face consultation, four bi-weekly individual tele-coaching sessions, and the use of
      ambulatory momentary assessments (via a smartphone application) to support the development of
      healthy dietary intake and physical activity habits and improve key health outcomes. The two
      specific aims of the study are:

        1. To evaluate intervention feasibility and acceptability. Determine if the intervention
           used in the proposed project is feasible. By tracking time, effort, costs, adherence to
           recommendations, participant recruitment and retention rates, and intervention
           satisfaction, it is expected that we will obtain data that both support the feasibility
           of the intervention and help improve it for a subsequent study.

        2. To estimate intervention effect sizes for the primary outcome measures of habit
           development and for the secondary outcome measures of blood pressure, BMI, and waist
           circumference. Habit development and anthropometry will be measured using the four-item
           Self-Reported Behavioral Automaticity Index (Gardner et al., 2012) biweekly during the
           active intervention, weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8.
    
  