
    
      Participants will be recruited from those attending dTMS clinics around the world
      (i.e.,naturalistic study design), and consenting individuals (in person consent done in the
      clinic on paper) will be given a random user code. This code will be specific for their
      version of the app, and the only link between their signature and the code will remain at the
      site for auditing purposes. Participants will undergo treatment as usual of dTMS and will use
      GGDE twice a day. Participants will be asked to complete demographic and clinical
      questionnaires via the GGDE app, and relevant clinical questionnaires will be re-administered
      following treatment and during FU. The initial and all following dTMS sessions will involve
      patients going through the stimulation procedure (The operator will record stimulation
      variables such as individual patient's intensity of stimulation and coil location into GGDE)
      followed by 5 min of GGDE use. The patient will indicate which statements (in that session)
      were most relevant and challenging to them, which will be followed by a pre-prepared
      psycho-education paragraph about the specific maladaptive belief addressed by the app that
      day. The patient will then be prompted to use the app one more time at home during the same
      day. Patient will continue similar use during FU, with two GGDE usage each day. The
      naturalistic design will allow the accumulation of large quantities of data in a short period
      of time, aiming to optimize GGDE using machine learning. Importantly, GGDE will allow the
      random allocation of users to different GGDE modules of the app (i.e., similar app versions
      with changes in specific parameters related to different depressive traits). One out of the
      ten modules used in this trial will include neutral (placebo) stimuli requiring the user to
      respond to plus/minus signs rather than MDD relevant statements.
    
  