
    
      Definition of obstructive sleep apnea:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a breathing disorder that is characterized by episodes of
      complete or partial cessation of respiration during sleep, associated with upper airway
      collapse, oxygen desaturation and sleep fragmentation. The index commonly used to assess
      sleep disordered breathing (SDB) is the respiratory disturbance index (RDI), defined as the
      average number of respiratory disturbances (obstructive apneas, hypopneas, and respiratory
      event-related arousals [RERAs]) per hour. According to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid
      Services criteria for the positive diagnosis and treatment of obstructive sleep apnea, a
      positive test for OSA is established if the RDI ≥ 15 events per hour.

      Obstructive sleep apnea and cognition:

      Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a condition frequently implicated in cognitive disturbances.
      These cognitive deficits are common : for example, in a meta-analysis of individuals with
      OSA, information processing speed was reduced in as many as 75% of individuals compared with
      norm-referenced data. In addition to its negative impact on cognition, OSA is associated with
      health conditions such as hypertension, metabolic disturbances (including impaired glucose
      tolerance, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia) and heightening risk of heart disease, stroke
      and mortality, conditions also increased in persons living with HIV. Individuals suffering
      from OSA report an increase in daytime sleepiness, mood changes and decline in quality of
      life. OSA also portends economic and societal impact through lost productivity at work and
      motor vehicle accidents.The presence of OSA is therefore important to detect in those living
      with HIV as it is a potentially treatable contributors to cognitive disturbances in HIV.

      Obstructive sleep apnea and HIV:

      General population estimates of moderate to severe sleep-disordered breathing depend on
      criteria used and vary widely, from 6-13% of individuals, to up to 23% of women and 50% of
      men using modern criteria. This prevalence is increased in the HIV population. Based on data
      from the Multicenter AIDS Cohort Study (MACS, N=1896) and Women's Interagency HIV Study
      (WIHS, N=1976), HIV-infected individuals are more likely to be diagnosed with OSA than
      HIV-uninfected individuals when confounders such as age and body mass index were accounted
      for (Prevalence Ratio (PR) 1.42; p=0.01 and PR 2.10; p=0.002, respectively). HIV-infected
      individuals have many risk factors for OSA including a high rate of obesity: >60% of
      HIV-infected women in the WIHS and >40% of HIV-infected men and MACS.

      Traditional risk factors associated with OSA include advanced age, male gender, large neck
      circumference, obesity and hypertension. However, these traditional clinical indicators of
      OSA may be less salient in the presence of HIV infection. In a large observational study,
      those with HIV and OSA were more likely to be younger, have lower body-mass-indexes and were
      less likely to have hypertension than those without HIV infection. As a result of this
      different risk profile, the presence of OSA in HIV+ individuals was more often undiagnosed,
      underscoring the need for a higher index of suspicion in the presence of HIV infection.

      Treatment of obstructive sleep apnea and its impact on cognition:

      Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) is the recommended treatment of choice for OSA. A
      CPAP device includes a pump which delivers air via a mask covering the nose or mouth while a
      person in sleeping. The flow of air generates positive pressure, which opens the airways,
      preventing soft tissue collapse.

      CPAP has established efficacy in improving cognition. A meta-review involving review articles
      meeting pre-determined strict criteria, concluded that CPAP use improved executive function,
      long-term verbal and visual memory, attention/vigilance and global cognitive functioning.
      Another meta-analysis also found that individuals with OSA demonstrated medium to very large
      impairments executive dysfunction, independent of age and disease severity, which showed
      small to moderate improvements following CPAP treatment. In the context of Alzheimer's
      disease, Ancoli-Israel et al. conducted a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled trial to
      determine whether CPAP use resulted in improvements in neuropsychological test scores.
      Although the study was underpowered to make definitive conclusions about improvements within
      specific cognitive constructs, exploratory post hoc examination of score changes suggested
      that CPAP use by individuals with OSA yielded some benefits; these included improvements in
      episodic verbal learning and memory and some aspects of executive functioning such as
      cognitive flexibility and mental processing speed.

      Although CPAP has been associated with improvements in cognitive functioning in the general
      population, its effectiveness in improving cognition in HIV+ individuals has never been
      previously tested. Given that the cognitive disturbances in this population are
      multi-factorial, determining whether treatment of OSA in this population improves cognition
      is key in improving the clinical management of HIV+ individuals, both for its negative impact
      on cognition but also more generally for their health.

      Obstructive sleep apnea in the cohort "Understanding and Optimizing Brain Health Now".

      Cohort participants (N=840) are studied prospectively over a 27-month period with visits
      every 9 months. Patients complete a computer-based evaluation of cognitive ability, the
      B-CAM, as well as questionnaires on socio-demographic characteristics, symptom status,
      functional status, health perception and quality of life. Given the high prevalence of OSA
      reported in the population, participants complete questions that, combined with other values
      already documented, support the scoring of two screening questionnaires for OSA, the Berlin
      and the STOP-Bang. Selected cohort members at the Montreal sites who screen positive for the
      presence of OSA will be invited to participate in the study.

      This study is part of a larger project based upon a cohort multiple randomized controlled
      design. Within a fully characterized cohort (N=840) which is followed over time, people
      meeting the specific criteria for one or more interventions (here CPAP) are identified and a
      sample is randomly selected to receive the intervention; the remaining eligible persons who
      do not receive the intervention serve as controls. This design, when operationalized for one
      intervention, yields three cohorts: (i) the intervention cohort comprising all those
      approached who agreed to enter; (ii) the refuser cohort comprising all those approached who
      declined entry; and (iii) control cohort comprising eligible persons who were not approached,
      and hence were not given the opportunity to accept or decline. For the CPAP intervention, the
      duration of the study is 4-7 months.

      Eligible patients will be identified among the Montreal participants (N=500) in the
      "Understanding and Optimizing Brain Health Now" cohort study who have screened positive for
      the possible presence of sleep apnea on either the Berlin or the STOP-Bang and experience
      some cognitive difficulties as measured by the B-CAM (≤ 29).

      Participants will undergo a polysomnography and will be evaluated by a sleep specialist who
      will confirm the presence of sleep apnea and eligibility for CPAP treatment. Eligible
      participants will be referred to VitalAire for initiation of treatment, following a standard
      protocol for use in the home. CPAP treatment will continue until the next visit for the main
      study, between 4-7 months based on the timing of the evaluations, after which the OSA study
      will end.
    
  