
    
      Gemcitabine-based chemo¬therapy remains the cornerstone for treatment of locally advanced or
      metastatic pancreatic cancer. Other novel chemotherapeutic combinations have been
      investigated in clinical trials, but the overall conclusions are that these agents have
      failed to improve outcomes. Our hypothesis is that nodal and hematologic micrometastasis make
      pancreas cancer a systemic problem at the time of surgery. Waiting the traditional six weeks
      to begin adjuvant therapy allows this very aggressive cancer to metastasize while the patient
      is waiting to begin therapy. This leads to the increased incidence of locoregional recurrence
      and poor prognosis. We believe that laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy for cancer allows
      quicker recovery and significantly reduces the chances of postoperative wound breakdown. This
      will shorten the wait time required to begin adjuvant therapy to one week after surgery
      thereby combating the micrometastasis unseen at the time of surgery. Prognosis for patients
      with pancreatic cancer will therefore improve along with decreasing the incidence of
      locoregional recurrence.

      Methods: We will perform a prospective, non-randomized phase II study with patients
      undergoing laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy for pancreatic adenocarcinoma at Johns Hopkins
      Hospital. Gemcitabine will be given as a single-agent chemotherapy regimen one week following
      laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy according to the protocol designed by our medical
      oncologist. Six cycles of gemcitabine will be given. The patients will be followed in the
      medical oncology clinic weekly. Our Primary outcome variable will be all cause postoperative
      morbidity. Our sample size will be small (6-10 patients) as this is a Phase II study. Early
      termination rules include development of prohibitive toxicity or death. Our endpoints are an
      improvement in overall survival, quality of life, progression free survival, or disease free
      survival. Exclusion criteria will include patients with T4 or M1 disease, R2 resection
      margin, preoperative therapy, or if adjuvant therapy status was unknown.
    
  