
    
      Women tend to develop heart disease approximately 10-15 years later than men, with a
      prevalence rate similar between sexes after women turn 55 years of age. Unfortunately, women
      have been under represented in cardiovascular disease (CVD) research, leading to the
      development of screening tools that are not able to adequately identify women at risk.
      Current methods of CVD risk in women in the clinical setting (Framingham Risk Score)
      underestimate this risk as compared to men. Thus, it appears that current screening tools are
      not sensitive to women's cardiovascular health, which may result in a missed diagnosis of CVD
      risk.

      Efforts to prevent CVD focus on traditional risk factors (e.g. age, sex, smoking, cholesterol
      and blood pressure), which do estimate 10-year risk for heart attacks. However, this approach
      does not determine how well the cardiovascular system is functioning for individuals. A
      better approach may be the addition of non-invasive procedures to detect early stages of CVD
      for individual patients, which are not yet available in the primary care setting.

      This project builds off of Dr. Duhamel's previous work looking at novel prognostic CVD
      testing in women, which successfully recruited 1030 women into "The Assessment of Large and
      Small Artery Elasticity for the Early Detection of Cardiovascular Disease trial (see
      ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02863211)" trial in a 20 month period ending May 2017. Data
      from that research was presented at the 2018 Canadian Women's Heart Health Summit and
      identified that the addition of frailty assessments to health screening has the potential to
      identify women with elevated CVD risk. We are taking that knowledge forward and have
      developed this new trial to include additional frailty measurement approaches to determine if
      their addition further enhances CVD risk screening.

      If this new research demonstrates that the proposed CVD risk screening approach is superior
      to the Framingham Risk Score (FRS) at identifying individuals who have early markers of
      cardiovascular disease, individuals with elevated CVD risk may be empowered to participate in
      interventions known to restore cardiovascular health.

      Trial Objectives and Purpose

      The main objective of this study is to test the ability of novel CVD prognostic tools to
      identify women at risk for future CVD. We plan to establish a cardiovascular health screening
      program at the St. Boniface Hospital and to test the efficacy of these tests for predicting
      adverse cardiovascular outcomes amongst a cohort of 1000 Manitoban women aged 55 years and
      older in the 5-year period after screening.

      A second purpose of this project is to identify novel CVD biomarkers that may indicate a
      person is at risk for cardiovascular disease. Therefore, we plan to ask participants for
      permission to collect and store a sample of both their blood and stool for future research.

      We are recruiting exclusively women for our study for several reasons. Women are often
      under-represented in cardiovascular clinical trials, which is an issue because their clinical
      presentation and prognosis of cardiovascular disease is different, as compared to men. For
      example, the assortment of traditional risk factors under estimate the risk of experiencing
      an adverse cardiovascular event in women, as compared to men. This is an issue because the
      standard method to predict future adverse cardiac events utilizes the traditional risk
      factors. Moreover, women who suffer a heart attack are more likely to die, have a second
      heart attack, develop heart failure, or consequentially suffer sudden cardiac death, as
      compared to men. Thus, it is important to develop new strategies to increase the predictive
      value of cardiovascular screening methods.

      Recruitment of Subjects

      We will recruit by convenience sample, 1000 Manitoban women 55 years of age and older with no
      previous history of CVD using print, online and media advertisements around the University of
      Manitoba and the Winnipeg Regional Health Authority during hosted events. Potential study
      participants interested in participating will contact the research coordinator in person, by
      email, or via telephone. The research coordinator will briefly describe the study and assess
      potential participants for eligibility in the study. Specifically, participants will be asked
      via telephone if they have been previously hospitalized for ischemic heart disease, acute
      myocardial infarction, stroke/transient ischemic attack, percutaneous coronary intervention,
      coronary artery bypass surgery, congestive heart failure, or peripheral artery disease
      previously).

      They will then be invited to attend two testing appointments: one at the Active Living Centre
      at the University of Manitoba and then one at the Asper Clinical Research Institute
      approximately one week later. Written informed consent will be obtained after describing the
      nature of the study before enrolment. Sufficient time will be allowed for potential
      participants to provide their consent. The procedures for conducting informed consent will be
      documented in the study records and a copy of the signed consent will be given to the
      participants enrolled in the study.

      Trial Design

      A prospective, observational clinical trial design will be utilized to determine if the use
      of novel CVD prognostic tools identifies individuals that are at high risk for experiencing
      an adverse cardiovascular event in the 5-year period after screening.

      Women that respond to the advertisements will be recruited to participate in the study. Each
      participant will complete the WARM Hearts protocol. A blood sample (15 ml) will also be taken
      to measure cholesterol, blood sugar, and novel blood-based biomarkers, such as epigenetic and
      genetic markers of cardiovascular disease risk. Stool samples will be collected in order to
      characterize the gut microbiome.

      We plan to utilize each individual's Personal Health Information Number (PHIN) to follow the
      study participants and to determine if they experienced an adverse cardiovascular outcome
      using the Manitoba Centre for Health Policy Population Health Research Data Repository. The
      repository contains anonymized information, which is linkable across files through a
      fictitious number assigned to the records. We have defined adverse cardiovascular outcomes as
      hospitalization or death due to ischemic heart disease, acute myocardial infarction, stroke,
      transient ischemic attack, peripheral artery disease, percutaneous coronary intervention,
      coronary artery bypass surgery, congestive heart failure, prescription of cardiac medication,
      or new onset hypertension. This information will be assessed using information from the
      Manitoba Centre for Health Policy Population Health Research Data Repository and will be used
      to compare adverse cardiovascular events with the novel CVD screening tools to determine if
      they predicted which individuals were at moderate to high risk of an adverse cardiovascular
      event over the 5-year period after screening. All participants will be asked if they are
      willing to participate in future research studies. If they are, they may be contacted in
      regard to potential participation in additional studies conducted by the Duhamel lab group.

      Study Procedures

      After enrolment, patients will be asked to attend two visits approximately one week apart.
      Each appointment visit will last approximately 90 minutes and will comprise of the following:

        -  Demographic information

        -  Medical history

        -  Cognitive impairment

        -  Body composition, as characterized by bioelectrical impedance analysis and measurement
           of waist circumference

        -  Body mass index

        -  Grip strength

        -  Gait speed

        -  Fried frailty phenotype (self-reported exhaustion, unintentional weight loss, and
           Physical activity levels)

        -  Physical functioning as assessed by the Senior's Fitness Test

        -  Heart rate variability at rest and in response to six minutes of walking, with aerobic
           intensity assessed by accelerometer.

        -  A series of self-report questionnaires to characterize:

             1. Established cardiovascular risk factors

             2. Reproductive health (menstrual history, contraception use, pregnancy history,
                menopause status, hormone therapy use)

             3. Daily physical activity levels

             4. Quality of life

             5. Self-esteem

             6. Gender roles, relations and identity

             7. Sleep quality

             8. Nutrition intake

             9. Self-compassion

            10. Health anxiety

            11. Depression symptoms

        -  Blood sampling to measure cholesterol, blood glucose, and other markers of
           cardiovascular disease, such as but not limited to immune cell characterization

        -  Non-invasive measures of arterial stiffness

        -  Resting blood pressure

        -  Blood pressure in response to 3 minutes of moderate exercise

        -  Objectively assessed physical activity levels as measured by an accelerometer worn for
           approximately one week

        -  Stool sample collection to characterize gut microbiome
    
  