
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the feasibility of expanding ex vivo autologous T cells and infusing these
           cells after high-dose chemotherapy and autologous peripheral blood stem cell rescue in
           patients with multiple myeloma.

        -  Determine the response rate and progression-free survival of patients who receive
           anti-CD3/anti-CD28 expanded autologous T cells on either day 14 or day 100
           post-transplantation.

        -  Compare response and survival rates of these patients to historical controls.

        -  Determine the optimal schedule for pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) to induce an
           anti-pneumococcal immune response post-transplantation in these patients.

        -  Determine whether "vaccine education" of antigen-presenting cells (APCs) in the stem
           cell graft results in an earlier and/or enhanced immune response than with a graft
           containing "non-educated" APCs in these patients.

        -  Determine whether an infusion of T cells presensitized to the PCV and expanded ex vivo
           contributes to the anti-pneumococcal immune response in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study.

      Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV over 12 hours on day 1 and filgrastim (G-CSF)
      subcutaneously (SC) daily beginning on day 2. Patients undergo leukapheresis to collect
      mononuclear cells for autologous T cells (ATCs) and peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs). ATCs
      are generated by ex vivo expansion for 8-14 days and selection for CD3+/CD28+ cells.

      Patients then receive high-dose therapy comprising carmustine IV over 2 hours on day -2 and
      melphalan IV over 20 minutes on day -1 or melphalan IV alone on days -2 and -1 (or day -1
      only). Autologous PBSCs are reinfused on day 0. Patients also receive G-CSF SC beginning on
      day 1 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients who choose to receive pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV) are randomized to 1 of 4
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive PCV intramuscularly prior to transplantation (10-14 days before
           lymphocyte collection) and post-transplantation (1 and 3 months) plus costimulated ATCs
           IV over 20-60 minutes around day 12-14 post-transplantation.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive PCV as in arm I but receive ATCs around day 100
           post-transplantation.

        -  Arm III: Patients receive PCV post-transplantation only (at 1 and 3 months) plus ATCs as
           in arm I.

        -  Arm IV: Patients receive PCV as in arm III and ATCs as in arm II. Patients who choose
           not to receive the PCV receive ATCs on about day 12-14 after PBSC transplantation.

      All patients are offered standard pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine at 12 months.

      Patients are followed twice weekly until day 60, weekly for 4 months, monthly for 6 months,
      and then every 3 months thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 16-46 patients will be accrued for this study within 14 months.
    
  