
    
      The experimental design for this study is as follows:

        1. Couples with male partners who will be undergoing a TESA procedure secondary to elevated
           DNA fragmentation (>25% DFI) as part of their routine IVF treatment will be contacted
           for possible study participation.

        2. Informed consent will be obtained

        3. The primary investigator will be notified of the couple's participation.

        4. The male partner will cryopreserve an ejaculated semen sample if there is no
           cryopreserved ejaculated specimen in inventory. The male partner will undergo a surgical
           sperm retrieval (TESA) and the specimen will be frozen per routine.

        5. Serum will be collected from the male partner and preserved for future analysis.

        6. The cryopreserved pre-TESA ejaculate and TESA specimen will be thawed on the day of
           oocyte retrieval per protocol. After oocyte retrieval, oocytes will be analyzed per
           routine and assessed for maturity. The oocytes will be divided into two groups per
           embryologist discretion. One group will be labeled 'A' and the other will be labeled B.'
           A random letter generator will create a list of 'A' and 'B's which will be placed in
           sequentially numbered, sealed envelopes. The envelopes will be opened in sequence
           according to patient enrollment. The first envelope opened by the embryologist will
           reveal the letter of the oocyte group that will be inseminated with testicular sperm.
           The other group will be inseminated with the frozen/ thawed ejaculated sperm. Therefore,
           half of the oocytes will be inseminated using intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI)
           with testicular sperm and the other half will be inseminated via ICSI with ejaculated
           sperm. If there are an odd number of oocytes, the extra oocyte will always belong to
           group A for simplicity.

        7. If fertilized, the group of zygotes created using testicular sperm will take the group
           letter that corresponded to the testicular sperm. This will also be true of the zygotes
           using ejaculated sperm. Both groups of zygotes will be cultured to the blastocyst stage
           with culture conditions per standard laboratory procedures.

        8. Fertilization and blastulation rates of the two groups will be recorded for each
           patient.

        9. Each blastocyst will be biopsied for comprehensive chromosome screening (CCS) in routine
           fashion. Once comprehensive chromosomal screening results are available, if at least one
           euploid embryo is available, patients will undergo a single embryo transfer in a
           subsequent menstrual cycle.

       10. Frozen embryo transfer cycles will be performed using either a programmed cycle
           (exogenous estradiol with subsequent progesterone) or a natural cycle to prepare the
           endometrium for embryo transfer.

       11. If at least one euploid embryo is available from each group, a second randomization will
           occur at the time of embryo selection. The embryologist selecting the embryo for
           transfer will open a second sealed envelope, which contains the letter of the group from
           which the embryo for transfer should reside. The best quality embryo (per embryologist
           discretion) from the group corresponding to the letter in this envelope will be selected
           for transfer. The embryologist selecting the embryo will be blinded as to which group of
           embryos was created with ejaculated versus testicular sperm. The group from which the
           embryo selected for transfer was derived will be recorded.

       12. Both the patient and the physician performing the embryo transfer will be blinded with
           regard to the group from which the embryo selected for transfer derived.

       13. Pregnancy testing and follow up will proceed as per routine.

       14. Approximately 8 weeks post-transfer, each participant will be assigned a cycle outcome
           (i.e., no pregnancy, miscarriage, ongoing pregnancy). At that time, the study
           participants can be notified of whether the sperm utilized for ICSI was derived from
           testicular sperm or ejaculated sperm. This information could be shared via telephone or
           in-person.
    
  