
    
      All treatment stages were performed by an experienced pediatric dentist (E.O). When
      necessary, patients were administered topical anesthesia with 2% Xylocaine® DENTAL, followed
      by local anesthesia with epinephrine 1: 100.000 (lidocaine HCl and epinephrine Injection,
      DENTSPLY Pharmaceutical, USA). Access to the proximal surfaces was provided with high-speed
      diamond bur (FD.D.801, Frank Dental) under an air-water coolant.The proximal cavity was
      opened at the occlusal level. Soft carious dentine was cleaned with a round low-speed steel
      burs (SS.1A, Frank Dental). Bevelling was not applied to the cavity. Restorations were placed
      under isolation with cotton rolls and saliva ejector. Ca(OH)2 cavity liner material (Hydrocal
      LC, Medicept Dental, India) was used as base material ıf the distance from the pulp was not
      safe. A metal matrix band (Matrix band, Hahnenkratt, Königsbach-Stein, Germany) with a
      universal matrix system (Tofflemire, Hahnenkratt, Königsbach-Stein, Germany) and wooden
      wedges (TDV, No 1) was applied to the tooth. ClearfilTM SE Bond was applied to the cavity
      according to the manufacturer's instructions. For the polymerization, a LED curing light
      (Eliapar Freelight, 3M ESPE Dental Products, America) with a light power density of 600
      mW/cm2 was used. According to the manufacturer's instructions, A2 composite resin (Kerr
      Herculite Classic) and two different compomer materials (Dyract/XP and R&D Series NOVA) were
      applied to the teeth with the incremental technique, each increment being light-polymerized
      for 20 s with a LED curing light. Occlusal interferences were checked with carbon paper
      (Accufilm II, Parkell, USA) and corrected using superﬁne diamond burs (Diatech, Heerbrugg,
      Switzerland) and polishers (Polydentia). During the preparation, if the pulp tissue was
      exposed, the treatment was performed and the teeth excluded from the study.

      In the clinical evaluation, the patients were followed up for a total of 24 months. The
      restorations were evaluated by an experienced pediatric dentist (E.O) according to modified
      United States Public Health Service (USPHS) Ryge criteria in terms of anatomic form, marginal
      discoloration, marginal integrity, surface texture, secondary caries, color match and
      retention.In scoring the restorations; Alpha (A), Bravo (B) and Charlie (C) scores were used.
      A and B scores were clinically acceptable/successful, C scores were unacceptable/unsuccessful
      restorative treatment. The evaluations were carried out with a mirror and explorer. At
      pre-treatment and follow-ups, dental caries experience was assessed by dft (decayed filled
      primary teeth) index. For ethical reasons, before the treatment, the existing caries of each
      patient were restored and topical fluoride was applied. Oral hygiene education was given to
      all patients and their parents. If a patient needs any treatment at the follow-up visits, the
      procedure will be performed by dentist.
    
  