
    
      Significance of Research Question/Purpose:

      A kidney transplant biopsy is the gold standard for making a diagnosis at the time of graft
      dysfunction. However, there are risks associated with a transplant biopsy (e.g., hematuria,
      clots within the collecting system, bleeding, hematoma within the kidney, urine leak, and
      rarely AKI and/or graft loss). Recently, a blood test has been developed which distinguishes
      donor and recipient circulating cf-DNA. Using this methodology, circulating cf-DNA is
      amplified, then using a panel of markers, 2 DNA peaks can be observed - a high peak for the
      recipient DNA and a very low peak for the donor (importantly, this is not genetic testing;
      only high and low peaks are identified). When cf-DNA is measured at the time of a kidney
      biopsy for graft dysfunction, an elevated donor cf-DNA level - compared to that seen in a
      cohort without inflammation - can be seen in recipients with an acute rejection (AR) episode.
      Data, to date, suggests that if >1% of cf-DNA is donor derived, there is likely graft
      inflammation.

      Currently, there are ongoing studies to determine if sequential measurement of cf-DNA in the
      same recipient will show elevated donor cf-DNA levels earlier than a serum creatinine rise,
      thus potentially allowing earlier detection and treatment of AR episodes.

      Serum creatinine level is used as a marker for successful treatment of an acute rejection
      episode. However, creatinine level is an insensitive marker of response to treatment of both
      cellular and antibody mediated rejection. Studies in which biopsies are done at the end of
      "presumed" successful rejection treatment show that some patients whose creatinine level
      returned to baseline have ongoing inflammation. Unless additional anti-rejection treatment is
      given, this incomplete treatment leads to increased risk for donor-specific antibody
      formation and graft failure.

      As a consequence, the investigators (the U of MN Kidney Transplant Program) are now doing
      routine "exit" biopsies for patients treated for acute rejection episodes and whose serum
      creatinine level returns to baseline. The investigators have always done biopsies in patients
      whose creatinine level did not return to baseline. The "exit" biopsy is done at ~6 weeks
      after completion of rejection treatment. If the exit biopsy shows ongoing inflammation,
      additional rejection treatment is considered.

      It would be ideal to have a noninvasive marker for successful rejection treatment. The
      objective of this study is to determine whether cell-free DNA (cf-DNA) measurement can be
      used as a biomarker for successful treatment of an acute rejection (AR) episode after kidney
      transplantation.

      The addition of cf-DNA testing would have two potential benefits:

        1. Serum creatinine may return to baseline (pre-rejection level), but ongoing allograft
           injury may be occurring as creatinine is an insensitive marker of subtle allograft
           dysfunction. This inflammation is known to create antigenic presentation that results in
           DSA production which is major cause of long-term allograft loss

        2. Serum creatinine may not return to baseline as there is irreparable allograft loss or
           intensification of CNI dosing. This would result in a biopsy that does not change
           management, but would put the patient through an unnecessary and potentially harmful
           procedure. If a non-invasive marker decreases with treatment and correlates with
           complete resolution of rejection episode, this would be useful for monitoring purposes.

      Preliminary Data:

        1. The University of MN Transplant Program participated in the original studies showing an
           association between cf-DNA and acute rejection. The investigators have experience with
           the methodology and with working with the company that does the cf-DNA assay

        2. Since starting to do exit biopsies the investigators, like others, have found that some
           patients with presumed successful rejection treatment have evidence of ongoing
           inflammation seen in the biopsy.
    
  