
    
      Population study will be recruited at the Clinical Department of Internal Medicine and
      Specialistics, Department of Advanced Clinical and Surgical Sciences belonging to University
      of Campania "Luigi Vanvitelli". This study will be performed according to the principles
      outlined in the Helsinki Declaration. Subcutaneous adipose tissues located in the surgical
      incision will be withdrawn without the use of surgical devices in order to avoid the
      degradation of the biological sample from 50 obese subjects (25 obese subjects with Type 2
      Diabetes vs 25 obese subjects without Type 2 Diabetes) undergoing bariatric surgery. As
      controls (n=50) we will recruit subcutaneous adipose tissues from patients without a clinical
      history of cardiovascular or dysmetabolic diseases undergoing to surgery for stress inguinal
      hernia. Clinical and demographic characteristics of the study population will be available
      from datasets generated by physicians.

      From tissue samples the genomic DNA and the total RNA will be extracted. Genomic DNA will be
      extracted by using DNeasy Blood & Tissue kit (QIAGEN), according to manufacturer protocol.
      Pooled DNA samples consisting of equal quantities of DNA (2 µg) from cases and controls will
      be shipped to Genomix4Life Genomics and Bioinformatics Service, to perform a global DNA
      methylation analysis. For this aim, it will be used the Human Methylation 27K BeadChip
      platform by using Bisulfite conversion technology (BBRS-Seq). Total RNA will be extracted
      from tissues using RNeasy Mini Kit (QIAGEN) according to manufacturer protocol. The cDNA
      library preparation will be performed starting from 4 ug of total RNA by using Illumina
      TruSeq Libraries and then sequenced at high coverage on the Illumina HiSeq 2500 NGS platform.
      Nucleic acid concentrations and quality control from Genomix4Life will be assessed by using
      Nanodrop spectrophotometer (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and Qubit assay (Thermo Fisher
      Scientific) and TapeStation 4200 (Agilent). The weighted human DNA methylation PPI network
      (WMPN) will be construct to obtain a obesity interactome in both subgroups (obese and obese
      with T2D vs controls) based on differentially methylated genes in order to identify putative
      useful diagnostic biomarkers. The TargetScan algorithm , by searching the conserved seed
      pairing regions in the 3' untraslated regions (UTR) of genes based on whole genome alignment,
      will be used to robustly predict miRNA-target gene pairs from the same study population.
    
  