
    
      TB is the most common opportunistic infection and a leading cause of death among people
      living with HIV (PLHIV). Early ART and IPT have been shown to reduce TB incidence, morbidity,
      and mortality among PLHIV, including those with high CD4 counts, and are recommended by the
      World Health Organization (WHO) as core strategies to reduce the burden of TB among PLHIV.
      Basotho migrant miners, who travel between their homes in Lesotho and work in South African
      mines, and their families are at elevated risk of HIV and TB, however, their testing,
      engagement, and retention in care and treatment are suboptimal. Implementation science
      research is urgently needed to determine an effective strategy for improving early detection
      of HIV and early initiation of ART and IPT among migrant miners and their families.

      The PROMISE study is a mixed-methods implementation science study that will evaluate a
      miner-friendly intervention strategy to implement early ART and concurrent IPT for PLHIV. The
      study will assess the effectiveness, feasibility, and acceptability of integrated TB/HIV
      services for migrant miners and their family members provided in miner-friendly service
      venues (MF).

      A prospective cohort study design will be used to evaluate the effectiveness of
      family-focused, integrated TB/HIV services for Basotho migrant miners and family members
      provided six days per week in miner-friendly service venues, compared to public sector health
      facilities (PS), which will deliver usual integrated care for the management of TB and HIV.
      All participants will be assessed at the time of HIV testing (baseline), and at months 3, 6,
      and 9.

      Through implementing and measuring this enhanced TB/HIV service delivery model for miners and
      their families, study findings will have important implications on programs and policies
      broadly for PEPFAR, and specifically in Lesotho, for the organization and delivery of
      integrated TB/HIV services to migrant miners and their families. Findings will inform the
      development of more tailored interventions to promote HIV diagnosis, early ART, and IPT among
      miners with HIV, with possible implications for other types of mobile populations; enhance
      scientific awareness about the unique challenges facing miners in the context of their
      migration and high TB/HIV co-morbidity; and guide future efforts to develop differentiated
      service delivery models and integrated HIV/TB services in populations with a high prevalence
      of HIV and TB.
    
  