
    
      Despite concerted efforts, high risk drinking remains a significant problem on college
      campuses. Further, the transition into college is an identified critical period in which
      risky drinking patterns are often established and serious negative consequences occur.
      Colleges commonly employ Normative Re-Education (NR), a promising intervention approach
      focused on correcting over-estimated peer drinking norms, to reduce alcohol risk in
      first-year students. However, the most cost-effective and scalable NR intervention strategy,
      web-based personalized normative feedback (PNF), has yielded only modest reductions in
      drinking. Several issues have been identified that may explain these relatively small
      effects. For example, students often question the credibility of the normative data, the
      content fails to capture students' attention, and heavy drinkers often react to feedback
      defensively. These issues are not surprising as, unlike social media and digital gaming
      applications that capture and sustain young adults' attention, web-based PNF formats lack the
      sophisticated digital graphics, social interactivity, and other dynamic features to which
      students have become accustomed. Further, colleges often make participation mandatory or
      offer incentives to enroll students in current interventions, likely a detriment to student
      motivation and thus intervention effectiveness. CampusGANDR (Gamified Alcohol Norm Discovery
      and Re-education) addresses these issues by delivering alcohol PNF within a fun, gamified
      smartphone app that tests first-year students' perceptions of college life and classmates'
      attitudes and behaviors on a weekly basis across the first semester of college. Integrating
      features from popular social media platforms and evidence-based digital game mechanics (e.g.,
      co-presence, a wager-based system of points, and chance-based uncertainty), CampusGANDR also
      features enhanced PNF and includes several novel features informed by longstanding cognitive
      and social psychological theories.

      Based on extensive pilot work, the current proposal seeks to: 1) evaluate the efficacy of
      CampusGANDR in a large-scale multi-site randomized controlled trial (RCT); 2) identify the
      optimal dosage of alcohol feedback to deliver within CampusGANDR for correcting norms and
      reducing alcohol use among students who differ in alcohol use (non-drinkers, light to
      moderate drinkers, and heavy drinkers); 3) examine person-level moderators of intervention
      efficacy; and 4) evaluate CampusGANDR engagement and the sustainability of play among
      students who use the app but aren't recruited into the evaluation study (RCT).

      At two distinctly different campuses (Loyola Marymount University and the University of
      Houston) 3 consecutive cohorts of first-year students will be invited to download the
      CampusGANDR app to test their perceptions of campus life compete against their classmates.
      Then, among students already playing CampusGANDR, a balanced sub-sample of 1,800
      non-drinking, light/moderate drinking, and heavy drinking students (300 students per site per
      year) will be invited to take part in an evaluation study (RCT). Study participants will play
      CampusGANDR over the initial 12 weeks of the fall semester and complete 4 surveys assessing
      their alcohol use, social media use, health behaviors, mental health, and adjustment to
      college. Study participants will be discretely randomized to receive alcohol feedback 0%,
      33%, or 67% of weekly CampusGANDR rounds through a backend manipulation of chance elements.
      Students not meeting study eligibility criteria and those not electing to take part in the
      evaluation study will still take part in CampusGANDR. The dosage of alcohol feedback among
      these non-RCT players receive will be determined at random and their app usage data will be
      employed to assess app engagement and sustainability of play in the absence of study
      incentives. This project aims to culminate in a highly engaging, scalable, cutting-edge
      native smartphone app (IOS, Android) able to dynamically tailor the dosage of alcohol
      feedback delivered based on students' alcohol experience at the point of matriculation.
    
  