
    
      The use of intravitreal injections of corticosteroid (triamcinolone acetonide) appears to be
      a promising treatment for a variety of ocular diseases associated with inflammation. To date,
      the only drug available, "Kenalog-40 Injection" produced by Bristol Myers Squibb, has not
      been formulated for intraocular use.

      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the long-term safety and potential efficacy of novel
      intravitreal injections of a preservative-free formulation of triamcinolone acetonide
      (TAC-PF) at two dosage levels (4 mg and 8 mg) compared to anterior sub-tenon injections of
      TAC-PF at 20 mg.

      The study will be a masked, randomized Phase I study that will enroll 120 participants with
      one of the following diseases: age-related macular degeneration (AMD), diabetic macular edema
      (DME), central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO), branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO), or any
      other retinal disease with associated macular edema. At least 21 participants will be
      enrolled in the four designated disease strata: AMD, DME, CRVO, and BRVO. The remaining 36
      participants may have one of these diseases or may be enrolled with another retinal disease.
      Within each disease strata, at least seven participants will be randomized to each dosing
      group. The participants will be randomly assigned to one of the three treatment groups.
      Depending on a participant's response, injections may be repeated at 3-month intervals.
      Participants will be followed until the last enrolled participant completes 3 years of
      follow-up.

      The primary outcome will be an assessment of post-injection intraocular toxicity-related
      events during the 3-year follow-up, including cataract formation, development of glaucoma,
      and any adverse event preventing retreatment. The secondary outcomes will be an improvement
      in best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) and decreases in retinal thickening and area of
      leakage, from baseline to year 1.
    
  