
    
      At the Department of Urology, NTUH, we have established a largest Chinese AS/WW cohort, which
      were prospectively collected since 2013. There were already 280 AS and 100 WW patients. Most
      AS patients have undergone serial prostate re-biopsies every 1 to 2 years, which is actually
      our cutting edge in the field. 87 men had at least twice biopsies at our hospital (mean
      interval 15 months). 26 of them showed pathological progression (Group As) who have been
      treated aggressively. The other 61 men had no progression even after multiple biopsies (Group
      Bs). So, we may compare the genetic changes in each subject in Group A to reveal genetic
      changes responsible for progression. We can also compare baseline expressions between Group A
      and B to predict progression. We also can correlate genetic alterations in Group A with
      cancer phenotypes and short-term post-treatment outcomes.

      Here are the four Specific Aims:

      Aim-1. To investigate the role of known genes or pathways in mediating progression from low
      risk to higher risk by using serial biopsy paraffin embedded tissue blocks from our AS
      patients. These known genes/pathways are selected from published reports, which are found to
      be related to progression from low to higher grade PC, such as Ki-67, PTEN loss, and
      chromosome 8 alterations.

      Aim-2. There was only one cDNA microarray gene bank (GSE37199) published in the literature
      (Lancet Oncol. 2012; 13:1114) that was associated with differential expression between AS and
      mCRPC cohorts. We will proceed with the Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) to identify more
      potential genes or pathways that have NOT been specifically demonstrated relating to AS
      progression. These new genes or pathways will then be studied in Aim-1.

      Aim-3. We will perform global cDNA microarray sing non-cancer part of the serial biopsy
      paraffin tissue blocks from our AS cohort, followed by GSEA to reveal differential gene
      expression between Group A and B patients. Hopefully we can identify genes/pathways that are
      related to progression of low risk or latent PC in Taiwanese.

      Aim-4. To conduct multivariate analyses considering not only key genetic alterations but also
      multiple clinicopathological parameters to build up a model predicting progression from low
      to higher risk PC.

      In fact, the only one published study (Lancet Oncol. 2012;13:1114) was to reveal differential
      cDNA expression in blood cells between AS and mCRPC cohorts, but not between progressive and
      non-progressive patients. Therefore, the study design was defective because the obtained
      differential expression may not reflect what really happened in low risk cancer progression.
      To our knowledge, there has been no differential genetic expression study or the GSEA study
      for AS cohort. In addition, we have the largest Taiwanese/Chinese cohort on AS/WW and
      abundant serial biopsy specimens. In summary, our study which focuses on genomic research on
      AS cohort is a new strategy to prevent clinical PC and is of high novelty and clinical
      implications.
    
  