
    
      The public health burden of falls in older persons is substantial. Several lines of evidence
      suggest that vitamin D supplements might reduce the risk of falls, potentially by 25% or more
      in persons with low serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels. However, existing evidence is
      inconsistent and insufficient to guide policy. The trial is a seamless two-stage, Bayesian
      response-adaptive, randomized dose-finding trial designed to select the best dose of vitamin
      D supplementation and to potentially confirm the efficacy of that dose for fall prevention
      and other related outcomes. Participants will be community-dwelling adults, aged 70+ (goal of
      ~40% black, ~60% women), with a baseline serum 25(OH)D level of 10-29 ng/ml, who are at high
      risk for falling.

      In Stage 1 of the adaptive design, participants will be randomly assigned to one of four
      vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) doses: 200 IU/d, 1000 IU/d, 2000 IU/d, or 4000 IU/d, with
      assignment probabilities that will vary as falls are reported. Participants will take their
      assigned pills for two years, or until the study ends, whichever comes first. This stage of
      the design will select the best dose of vitamin D for prevention of falls, or confirm the
      futility of distinguishing any differences among the doses for fall prevention. If a best
      dose is selected, subsequent participants will be randomized in Stage 2 of the trial into the
      comparison (200 IU/d) or best dose group, and all participants (Stage 1 and Stage 2) will
      continue to be followed to potentially confirm efficacy. The investigators anticipate
      enrolling approximately 1,200 participants over the entire length of the project.

      The primary outcome is time to first fall (or death) over two years of therapy. Next in
      importance is the outcome of gait speed. Other outcomes include fall rates, types of falls,
      balance, muscle strength, frailty, Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB) score, 6-minute
      walk time, and physical activity assessed by accelerometry. Falls will be ascertained from
      fall calendars completed daily by participants and from self-report by phone. In-person
      follow-up visits will occur at 3, 12, and 24 months, with telephone visits occurring at 1, 6,
      9, 15, 18, and 21 months after randomization. Subgroups with potential for greater benefit
      from vitamin D supplementation are blacks, those with baseline 25(OH)D of 10-19 ng/ml, and
      those with objective evidence of low physical function.
    
  