
    
      1. Main research questions:

           1.2.1 Community interventions: Can educational and participatory action research
           interventions delivered in the community reduce the inappropriate use of antibiotics?
           1.2.2 Primary healthcare interventions: Can educational and participatory action
           research interventions delivered in primary healthcare reduce prescription of
           antibiotics for patients with acute respiratory infections, outside of the research
           context? 1.2.3 Hospital interventions: Can participatory action research interventions
           delivered in hospitals improve antibiotic stewardship and reduce prescription of
           antibiotics?

        2. OBJECTIVES 2.1 Community interventions: to evaluate the impact of educational and
           participatory action research interventions in communities on the proportion of the
           population reporting antibiotic use in the last month 2.2 Primary healthcare
           interventions: to evaluate the impact of antibiotic stewardship training and
           participatory action research interventions on the proportion of patients with ARI
           prescribed an antibiotic in routine primary health care 2.3 Hospital interventions: to
           evaluate the impact of quality improvement using a participatory action research
           approach on antibiotic stewardship and the proportion of patients receiving antibiotic
           treatment 2.4 Qualitative evaluation: to understand community processes and engagement
           with behaviour change interventions

        3. STUDY DESIGN 3.1 Design 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 Community and primary healthcare interventions:
           The community and primary healthcare interventions will be evaluated together through a
           four-armed cluster-randomised controlled trial design, consisting of 16 communes in each
           arm, with interventions delivered either at the commune health centre, the community, or
           both. The goal of the evaluation is to assess whether or not the community and primary
           healthcare interventions had a measurable impact on knowledge and behaviour. Each of the
           three intervention arms will be done in 16 communes, and the investigators will select a
           further 16 communes as controls, where there will be no intervention activities. At the
           beginning of the project, the investigators will randomly allocate 64 communes to
           receive one of the three interventions or no intervention.

      3.1.3 Hospital interventions: The hospital interventions will use quality improvement using a
      participatory action research approach to improve antibiotic stewardship. These activities
      will be evaluated through a before and after knowledge, attitudes and practice (KAP) survey,
      to assess whether or not the engagement activities had a measurable impact on knowledge and
      behaviour. There are not sufficient hospitals in the area to conduct a cluster randomized
      evaluation, so the investigators will conduct a before and after survey, patient record
      review, and overall antibiotic use data from the Pharmacy Department.

      3.1.4 Qualitative evaluation: The goal of the qualitative evaluation is to understand the
      group processes and community and health-worker engagement with the action groups, how the
      engagement activities affect behaviour, and in what contexts they work better or worse, in
      order to develop a theory of change. The investigators will conduct in-depth interviews and
      participant observation in selected communities, and at each of the participating hospitals,
      during each of the four phases of the meeting cycle, in order to understand decision-making
      processes, as well as influential social and power dynamics in the groups. Participant
      observation is a method used in research where the investigators engage with people and
      document the information: investigators document what people said, what they did, how they
      interacted within a given setting.

      3.2 Study location The target population for both phases will be the general resident
      population of two to three districts in Nam Dinh Province, covering 64 rural communes.
      Investigators at the National Institute for Hygiene and Epidemiology (NIHE), have
      longstanding connections and experience of working with communities in this region and will
      take the lead in developing relationships with Provincial representatives.

      3.3 Communities and study participants Engagement with communities will be run through
      Women's Union and Farmers' Union groups. The Women's Union is a national organisation
      promoting the health and wellbeing of women and families in Vietnam, and has widespread
      coverage and membership at community-level. Women's Union groups are run by paid
      representatives and meet regularly. The Farmers' Union is also a national organisation that
      promotes good farming practices. Farmers' Union groups are also run by paid representatives
      and meet regularly. During the strategy development phase of group activities, groups will be
      encouraged to invite local stakeholders to participate, including community healthcare
      workers, primary healthcare workers, animal healthcare workers, and pharmacists.

      3.4 Commune health centres Commune health centres (CHCs) deliver most primary care services
      and national targeted health programmes to the population, especially in rural and
      mountainous areas including hygiene, vaccinations, antenatal care, safe delivery and health
      education. Screening examination, treatment and referrals for CHC attendees are also
      provided. Regarding coverage of commune health network in Vietnam, 99% of communes have a
      health centre, 70% have a doctor; and 79.3% provide traditional medicine services13.
    
  