
    
      Tata Memorial Hospital, a 629 bed tertiary cancer institute conducts approximately 6000
      surgeries per year. Approximately 4000 (4239 in 2015) patients with suspected breast cancers
      register annually at the hospital and around 2800 breast cancer surgeries are performed every
      year. Very few studies on PMPS in Indian population exist. The investigators therefore, aim
      to identify the incidence of post mastectomy pain syndrome PMPS) in this population. The
      investigators also aim to identify the severity of postmastectomy pain along with its impact
      on daily function and quality of life.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Prospective study over 12 months with follow up until 6th month from enrollment with interim
      analysis in the month of November for presentation of the CoPI's thesis.

      MATERIALS & METHODS:

      Prospective study over a period of 12 months from commencement of study after Institutional
      ethics committee approval, at Tata Memorial hospital and ACTREC. Female patients scheduled
      for undergoing surgery for breast cancer conservative and radical and willing to participate
      will be enrolled in the study after obtaining a written informed consent. Pain scores will be
      assessed using Numerical rating scale [with pain score 1-3 mild, 4 to 6 moderate and 7 and
      above severe]. History of predisposition to recurrent headaches and dysmenorrhea will be
      noted. Details of disease stage, chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy will also be documented
      from the Electronic medical records. Analgesia will be managed by the primary surgical team
      as is currently being done. The analgesia administered to the patient will also be recorded.
      participants noted to have moderate to severe pain despite analgesics prescribed by the
      surgical team will be referred to the acute pain service (APS) for further management.

      Postoperative pain severity both the average & worst pain will be recorded at discharge from
      hospital, 1st, 4th and 6th month after the surgery. The Details of postoperative pain
      analgesic use and effect on daily function will be documented with the help of postal cards
      with questionaires in envelop addressed to the investigators. Study will emphasize on the
      type, severity, the site of pain whether, lateral or anterior chest wall, axilla, ipsilateral
      medial upper arm or back, the type of pain (burning, tingling, shooting, stabbing etc) and
      effects on daily function and quality of life. Details of postoperative hematoma, infection,
      local recurrence will also be recorded from the history, electronic medical records and
      documents of participants. Details of postoperative chemotherapy and radiation will also be
      obtained from patient's notes and the electronic medical record All participants will be
      administered the short form of the Brief Pain inventory [BPI], EORTC QLQ 30, preoperatively,
      at 1 month, 4 months & 6 months after surgery.

      The Brief pain inventory {BPI} (obtained with permission from MD Anderson), which assesses
      the severity of pain and impact of pain on daily functions will be administered to the
      participant in the language familiar to them, preoperatively, at 1 month, 4th and 6th month
      postoperatively. The short form comprises of nine questions related to the severity of pain,
      impact of pain on daily function, location of pain, pain medications and amount of pain
      relief in the past 24 hours or the past week.It has been widely used and validated in several
      languages the world over.

      EORTC QLQ [Quality of life Questionaries ] is an integrated system for assessing quality of
      life [health related ]. This self administered questionnaires incorporates five functional
      scales, physical [PF], role [RF], cognitive [CF], emotional [ef], and social; three symptoms
      scale for fatigue, pain and nausea/vomiting; a global health quality of life scale and
      several single items for financial impact and additional symptoms like diarrhea, appetite
      loss, sleep disturbance. This would help identify the quality of life of the participants and
      its affection.

      If a participant cannot follow up at the said intervals, the pain scores would be obtained
      telephonically and the BPI, EORTC QLQ 30 form in prepaid envelopes would be given to them at
      discharge which they would have to duly fill in and post them to the given address at the
      appropriate intervals. If the next follow up to the hospital coincides with the 4th or 6th
      postoperative month, the participant will visit the pain clinic for an assessment and
      completing the BPI.
    
  