
    
      Material and Methods:

      Ethical approval was granted (Psy11-259, Psy 11-032) and written informed consent was
      obtained from all participants and/or their legal guardian. Patients were screened and
      recruited from the Division of Neurorehabilitation, Department of Clinical Neurosciences,
      University Hospital and University of Geneva, Geneva, Switzerland by a senior consultant
      neurologist (BL). Patients were included if they were hospitalized for stroke rehabilitation,
      were able to undergo psychophysical testing and presented with a facial impairment according
      to the House-Brackmann criteria ≥2 15. They were excluded if they presented with acute pain
      in the oro-facial sphere (nominal question) or an additional neuro-muscular disease.

      For the experiments, an in-depth oral examination was performed and the number of functional
      premolar units (OU) was noted. A premolar tooth with occluding antagonist counts as one OU
      whereas a molar is considered two OU (including third molars). Participants were asked with a
      simple dichotomic question if they perceived a dry mouth.

      Food-hoarding Food-hoarding was assessed with an ordinal Likert scale. Participants were
      asked if they currently "lost" foodstuff in the oral vestibule: Never (score 0), rarely
      (score1), occasionally (score2), frequently (score 3), very frequently (score 4) or always
      (score 5).

      Maximum voluntary bite force Maximum voluntary Bite Force (MBF) was assessed by means of an
      Occlusal Force-Meter GM 10® (Nagano Keiki, Higashimagome, Ohta-ku, Tokyo, Japan), which has
      an 8.6 mm thick bite element. The gauge was placed in-between the first molars and the
      participants were asked to bite three times as hard as possible for about three seconds. The
      MBF was tested independently on the right and left side. For the analysis, the peak MBF of
      each side was noted.

      Maximum voluntary lip force For the lip force measurements an oral screen (Dentaurum " Ulmer
      Modell " maxi, DENTAURUM GmbH&Co.KG, Ispringen, Germany) was connected to a Dynamometer
      (ZP50-N, IMADA, Toyohashi, Japan). It was placed in the anterior oral vestibule and a
      horizontal pulling force was applied whilst the participant tried to withstand the force as
      long as possible. Per size, three peak recordings were averaged for analysis.

      Tactile detection thresholds The tactile detection threshold (TDT) of mechanoreceptors was
      evaluated using psychophysical testing methods. A touch sensation was elicited using von Frey
      filaments (OptiHair, MARSTOCK nerv test, Schriesheim, Germany) 16. This test kit consists of
      11 monofilaments of varying stiffness, which are calibrated to apply defined forces of 0.25 -
      512 mN (±10%). The filaments were pushed vertically for about 1 second to the different test
      sites on each side (ipsi- and contra-lesional in stroke-patients and right- and left side in
      controls). The tests started with a supra-threshold stimulus, which was consecutively lowered
      until the patient did not feel the filament anymore. Following the filament with the lowest
      perceived pressure, the applied force was re-increased until the patient recognized the touch
      again. This procedure was repeated twice in the same session to find the threshold with the
      stair-case-method. The final threshold was calculated from the mean of the three infra- and
      three supra-thresholds. If the patient felt even the lowest stimulus available (0.25mN), the
      infra-threshold was set to 0.125mN.

      Two-point discrimination To determine the patients' tactile spatial resolution, the static
      two-point discrimination threshold (2PD) was investigated 17. The smallest distance between
      two simultaneously presented punctiform stimuli was evaluated using a medical calliper
      (Schieblehre Zürcher Modell, 125mm, Hammacher Instrumente, Germany). The separation between
      the two tips ranged from 0 to 15 mm; the cut-off was set to 15 mm. A staircase method was
      used with descending distances. The participant was asked to indicate whether he/ she sensed
      one or two points and the corresponding distances were noted. The mean between those two
      distances was considered as individual minimum 2PD.

      The 2PD tests sites were the extraoral surface of the lip (approximately half way between
      philtrum and oral commissure) and the dorsum of the tongue opposing the second premolar. For
      TDT, the mucosa of the cheek opposing the second premolar and on the linea alba was used as
      additional test site. Whereas these test sites were evaluated on both sides, the 2PD test was
      additionally applied to the tip of the tongue without side discrimination. For one particular
      analysis all TDT readings per participant were averaged (TDT.global).

      Chewing efficiency Chewing efficiency was assessed with a previously developed and validated
      colour-mixing ability test, or bolus-kneading test, using chewing gum 18. The specimens used
      for this study were developed and produced for the 8020 Promotion Foundation (Japan)
      specifically for assessing masticatory performance in a research setting (Lotte™,Tokyo) and
      to be similar to the originally described method 19. The gum was composed of two individually
      packed beads (pink and azure colour) with similar hardness Shore Scale OO, Ø 2.4 mm, 1.11 N,
      pink beads: mean depth of indentation 0.2±0.01mm, mean Durometer 93.7; azure beads mean depth
      of indentation 0.1±0.02mm, mean Durometer 95.1). The two beads were manually stuck together
      and had a dimension of 18.8x14.2x3.9 mm; they were placed on the participant's tongue. The
      task was to chew the specimen for twenty cycles whilst being monitored by the operator (ED).
      The gum bolus was then retrieved from the oral cavity, placed into a plastic bag, pressed to
      a 1 mm thick wafer and both sides were scanned at 300dpi (Epson Perfection V750 Pro, Seiko
      Epson Corp., Japan).

      The compound images of both sides were then subject to a colourimetric evaluation using the
      custom-built software ViewGum© (dHAL Software, Greece, www.dhal.com).

      The software transposes the images to the HSI colour space and then calculates the hue value
      for each pixel in the pictures of the semi-automatically segmented gum wafers. If the colours
      are not mixed, two well-separated peaks on the hue axis are present which will gradually
      converge with increasing colour mixture. "Hue" is an angle in the HSI colour space, thus the
      circular variance of hue is defined as 1 minus the length of the average vector. ViewGum©
      displays the standard deviation between those colour peaks by taking the square root: SD =
      sqrt (Variance of Hue) 20. For consistency, the term Variance of Hue (VOH) will be used 18;
      it is considered as the measure of chewing performance in the context of this test - with a
      lower VOH indicating a higher the colour mixture and therefore a better chewing efficiency.

      Statistical analysis Normality of all numerical variables was rejected with empirical
      cumulative distribution function and QQ-plots. Therefore, results are reported as median
      values ± standard deviation. The two groups (stroke, controls) were compared with exact
      Wilcoxon-, Mann-Whitney-tests for numerical data and Fisher's exact tests for categorical
      data.

      Numerical and linear regression models were computed to analyse the impact of the
      investigated parameters on VOH. The relationship between a variable and a numerical end-point
      was measured with a Spearman correlation coefficient and a correlation test. In the case of a
      binary variable the end-point was transformed into a categorical variable that separates the
      values below and above the median. Odds Ratios OR and 95% Confidence Intervals (95%CI) were
      calculated to analyse the resulting 2x2 contingency table. All statistical tests were
      performed with R 3.2.2 (R Project for Statistical Computing, Vienna, Austria) by a senior
      bio-statistician.
    
  