
    
      The number of patients with end-stage heart disease requiring the implantation of ventricular
      assist devices (VAD) is steadily increasing. Due to advanced compensatory technological
      developments, VAD support has been established as a recognized therapy concept for the
      long-term care of those affected. Indications include a multi-year bridging therapy (up to 10
      years) and increasingly a destination therapy. The Euromacs Register published the second
      report in 2018 and reported 2,947 registered VAD implantations in 2016 (+257 percent).
      Euromacs further points to a rising trend and demand for the use of VAD systems. In Germany,
      an increase of VAD implantation by 36.6 percent has been reported since 2011. The position
      paper of the German Society of Cardiology (2016) points to the fact that the range of
      indications for VAD implantation for patients with chronic heart disease will continue to
      change. The ISHLT Guideline (International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation),
      published in 2018, calls for psychosocial care and standardized self-management skills for
      patients before, during, and in the long-term after VAD implantation. This is currently being
      implemented inconsistently in terms of structure and quality in German cardiac centers. After
      VAD implantation, patients and their relatives must be able to follow a complex therapeutic
      regimen. They need comprehensive knowledge as well as self-management skills for the safe
      management of everyday life in a domestic setting. These self-management capabilities include
      the so-called device handling (for example dealing with the technical equipment including
      battery replacement and controller monitoring), to perform the wound care of the driveline,
      to carry out anticoagulation measurements and adapted revenues of oral anticoagulant, to take
      further medication, to monitor vital signs (for example blood pressure, temperature) and, in
      the case of symptoms, to take adequate measures to prevent further complications (for example
      prompt information from the heart center on the onset of symptoms). In addition, lifestyle
      changes are an essential part of the success of long-term therapy. This requires a sufficient
      degree of self-management ability and mental stability. In addition, it is important to
      emotionally accept the dependence of a device on the heart, the changed body image, to cope
      with fears of (real potential) malfunctions and complications and to build up a subjective
      quality of life with a constant, visible and tangible companion at heart. The mental health
      of all those affected is considered to be in need of observation, although there is currently
      no reliable prevalence data on mental disorders. In a first survey in 2006, 64% had at least
      one psychologically / psychiatric treatment requiring diagnosis. All this shows, the
      challenges VAD patients have to face are complex. Thus, this study aims to provide
      multi-centered actual analysis of self-management capabilities as well as analyzing
      moderating predictors in VAD patients through standardized PRO prevalence assessment. The
      prevalence survey should be conducted in all outpatients (at least 3 months up to a maximum
      of 3 years at the VAD) in four established German cardiac centers (Freiburg, Berlin, Bad
      Oeynhausen, Leipzig). The study focuses on those involved in outpatient care, as they had to
      integrate the VAD into their daily lives after implantation and are able to report deficits,
      resources and needs on the basis of their experience of self-management. As an assessment
      instrument a standardized PRO measure was chosen to identify self-management skills and
      needs. Secondary PRO measures include health-related quality of life, symptoms of anxiety,
      depression and post-traumatic stress, as well as social support. Relevant complications
      (bleeding, wound infections, thromboembolic neurological events) are taken from the patient
      records. Based on a conservative sample size estimation inclusion of 450 patients is
      envisioned. The expected results may contribute to an improved assessment of the current
      situation in terms of self-management skills and needs for curricular training concepts and
      psychosocial concomitant therapy. Long-term, the study results contribute to improve the
      health care for long-term VAD patients. The study is planned to continue in a second and
      third phase to develop and test a standardized self-management care for VAD patients in
      Germany.
    
  