
    
      Core stabilization is an ability which describes the control of movements in kinetic chain
      during changes in positions at terminal segments . Hodges and Richard examined muscle
      activations during movements and found that some muscles which are responsible from core
      stabilization start to activate before extremity muscles.These results can support the
      hypothesis of movements come from control and stabilization through core. The body or as
      specified lumbopelvic area can contain spine cord and pelvis stabilization at work of active,
      passive and neutral. All these systems are work together for one purpose/Passive system
      contain bonds, vertebrates and invertebrates , neutral system consist nerve and central nerve
      system . In active system there are muscles within tendons ,core muscles can be describe as
      double cylinder and it's the investigator's body's power supply. This double cylinder's front
      consist abdominal muscles and back of it consist paraspinal muscles, above area is diaphragm
      and down is from pelvic and hip muscles.

      Performance of muscles show the capacity of its work done.There are three important subtitles
      to show this performance , force , power and endurance . Especially for professional athletes
      if the performances are not enough or one of them can be not consist it means they effected
      in immortal ways. One of these elements , muscle endurance is the resistance of muscle for
      the stretching for a time and stay constant in this situation and show resistance ability to
      fatigue. This is needed to lot of activities during the day however in sport activities we
      need balance as top level , coordination and improve performance as an element.There is a
      defense which says that improvement of muscle endurance has an importance role for making
      stronger muscles and at the same time it is also be shown as making muscles strong. In order
      to make stronger muscles ACSM (American College of Sports Medicine) suggested to exercise 3
      times a week by making each exercise 2-4 sets . For improvement of force and power we need to
      exercise up to 8-12 sets and for muscle endurance we need 15-20 repeated sets.

      Gymnastics; a multidirectional sport which consist of speed , force , endurance , flexibility
      , agility , power and balance. If you want to be successful and make this sport as a
      professional you need to have suitable physical appearance and an ability. In this situation
      it is important to make core muscles powerful. In recent years the exercises of core
      stabilization has an importance role to prevent or decrease backache and also it is used as a
      concept of therapy for improving physical relevance and performance. It is shown in may
      researches that core stabilization can affect the balance to the specific movements in
      gymnastics as well as core endurance and if it is not enough it affect the performance in bad
      ways and may be increase the risk of injury.

      In literature there are researches which show positive correlations between core
      stabilization and performance. For this reason, gymnastic coaches has to add core
      stabilization in their exercise list. In this care core endurance and performance which is
      related to balance can be directly increase. We seen that there is a lack of strengthening
      core stabilization program in literature. Purpose of this study ; to examine the effect of
      core stabilization program for gymnasts.The work consist amateur 7-9 years old children. The
      individuals has to divided into 3 groups. First group will consist individuals who are not
      interested in any sports and don't do any exercises during 8 weeks. Second group people can
      do gymnastics twice a week but can't do core stabilization exercise. Third group is consist
      people who regularly do gymnastics and also do 30-45 minutes core stabilization exercises as
      well.Gymnastic training is going to be given by a professional coach from Turkish Republic of
      Nothern Cyprus Gymnastic Federation twice a week as one hour. Generally these training
      consist the movements to improve the power and flexibility of individuals plus as a
      professional meaning which consist specific things like ; bridge , glider , eagle , spagat ,
      circle , flick flack and perpendicular stance. It is worked for making strongest protocol
      core stabilization in different source of literatures. As a result they confirm of a progress
      in two weeks as exercising in 8 weeks. This progress consist 30-45 minutes\ day and 3 days\
      week. Before every training they need to have 10 minutes warming exercises. This include 5
      minutes running and 5 minutes stretching of all groups of muscles. All the exercises have to
      be combined with breathing.
    
  