
    
      An essential condition for success in dental implant treatment is the amount and quality of
      bone in the area on which we decide to place the implant after careful diagnosis and
      planning. The posterior area of the upper jaw has anatomical features that make it unique
      compared to other areas, mainly due to the presence of the maxillary sinus. After tooth loss
      there is progressive bone resorption, combined with sinus pneumatization and loss of bone
      height and quality, which greatly hinders the placement of dental implant.

      Sinus lifting procedures are performed routinely to provide the required height of proper and
      stable bone tissue around the dental implants to be inserted. The surgical technique of
      maxillary sinus Schneiderian membrane (MSSM) lifting with immediate/simultaneous installation
      of dental implants, generally results in significant bone formation. The recently reported
      graftless MSSM elevation procedure and the subsequent augmentation of bone have greatly
      changed our perspective of bone neoformation potential. The blood clot formed under the
      lifted MSSM appears to be of critical importance in bone neoformation potential, precluding
      the need for exogenous graft materials In elevation with the rotary technique, the main
      intraoperative complication is perforation of Schneider's membrane, which is observed in
      between 10-35% of all such operations, and which usually occurs in the osteotomy drilling
      phase while preparing the window for access to the sinus With the purpose of reducing the
      risk of perforating Schneider's membrane, vestibule osteotomy using ultrasound has been
      proposed, as this reduces the risk of soft tissue damage and percentage membrane perforation
      to 7%. Some studies in the literature are preliminary descriptions of the technique, while
      others present isolated cases and others in turn report case series - no significant
      differences being observed between the two techniques The selective cutting is the result of
      the limited amplitude. At this amplitude, only mineralized tissue will be cut, because soft
      tissue requires frequencies of greater than 50 kHz. Therefore, the use of piezoelectric
      instruments will reduce the risk of nerve damage. The reduction of overheating is explained
      by the generation of a cavitation effect in the irrigation solution due to the mechanical
      micro-movements at a frequency of approximately 25-30 kHz. This also accounts for reduced
      bleeding, which means better surgical visibility and increased safety.

      Perforation of the Schneiderian membrane doubles the risk for the incidence of sinusitis or
      infection. Therefore, it is of great importance that any perforation should be avoided. The
      use of the piezoelectric device reduces the frequency of membrane perforation among surgeons
      with limited experience. Specific tips can even decrease the risk of accidental or iatrogenic
      perforations.
    
  