
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common form of arthritis, affecting mainly women. Patients
      with OA present pain that usually worsens with weight support and improves with rest, as well
      as morning stiffness and after periods of inactivity.

      Quadriceps weakness was previously associated with functional impairment of OA. Evidence also
      suggests that muscle strength may prevent the progression of existing OA. In fact, positive
      associations were found between increased quadriceps strength and self-efficacy of
      ambulation, reduction of pain and improvement of function, emphasizing the role of muscle
      strengthening in the treatment of knee OA.

      It is estimated that the decline in muscle mass between 40 and 80 years is between 30% and
      50%, with reported losses in functional capacity reaching 3% each year after the age of 60
      years. Therefore, procedures capable of enhancing the effects of exercise on muscle strength
      and function may be beneficial for elderly patients with knee OA.

      The results of our previous studies have shown that with each year of life the patient loses
      strength gain capacity.

      Creatine is a natural amine endogenously synthesized by the liver, kidney and pancreas or
      obtained in the diet from red meat, seafood and dairy products. Creatine plays an important
      role in rapid energy supply, being stored mainly in the skeletal muscles (90%) as
      phosphocreatine, a high energy phosphate involved in the rapid resynthesis of adenosine
      triphosphate during muscle contraction. It has already been demonstrated that the combination
      of resistance training and creatine supplementation is superior to exercise alone in the
      elderly and has proved to be a useful tool in the elderly with knee OA.

      Studies have demonstrated the need for a higher protein intake in the elderly with some
      studies showing greater protein synthesis and improved body composition parameters.

      The investigators believe that an education and physical activity program, used in the
      previous work of the authors that presented improvement of WOMAC, that can be reproduced in
      any basic health care unit, along with supplementation with creatine and branched chain amino
      acids can lead to an improvement functional evaluation of elderly patients with knee OA.
    
  