
    
      A growing body of evidence demonstrates that older patients with cognitive impairment (CI)
      who are hospitalized for the management of their medical illnesses are especially vulnerable
      to hospital acquired complications such as falls, injuries, pressure ulcers, restraints, and
      delirium. These complications contribute to mortality, poorer functional status, limited
      rehabilitation, prolonged length of stay, increased institutionalization, and higher health
      care costs. Evidence suggests that interdisciplinary geriatric inpatient services improve
      care for hospitalized older adults without CI; however, their effectiveness among older
      adults with CI is less clear. One reason may be the ever-quickening pace of care in the
      hospital setting. Thus, matching geriatric evaluation and recommendations to the true pace of
      hospital care may be one mechanism to improve the care of older adults with CI.

      A recent report from the Institute of Medicine suggested that integrating information
      technology (IT) into health care is the best route to improve the overall safety and quality
      of the health care system. The hypothesis of this study is that missed, delayed, post-hoc,
      and incomplete implementation of the geriatric service-based recommendations are significant
      factors explaining the poor outcomes among hospitalized older adults with cognitive
      impairment (CI). Wishard Memorial Hospital's physicians are already using a Computerized
      Decision Support System (CDSS), developed by the Regenstrief Institute, to guide their
      medical services. For this study, the content of this CDSS will be modified to the special
      needs of older adults with CI. A major advantage of such a system is reducing the time to
      implementation of geriatric recommendations with a specific focus on preventing the
      initiation of potentially harmful medications and procedures during the critical first 48
      hours of hospitalization.

      A total of 400 patients with cognitive impairment who have been hospitalized in a medical
      ward will be recruited for this study. Patients will be randomized to receive either standard
      care or the proactive screening program for CI combined with the modified CDSS. The
      electronic medical record for all patients will be reviewed for prescriptions for potentially
      inappropriate medications, urinary catheters, or physical restraints during the first 24
      hours and the entire hospital stay. Medical records will be used to determine the total
      number of hospital acquired complications that may be related to CI; these include falls,
      injuries such as pulling out IV lines or urinary catheters, pressure ulcers, and new-onset
      delirium episodes that developed during hospitalization. Also, the time elapsed between
      screening for CI and the physician ordering a geriatric consultation will be calculated using
      the electronic medical record.
    
  