
    
      The overarching objective of this study is to determine the effectiveness of an
      evidence-based community response project using a case crossover community randomized trial.
      Specifically, the investigators will test the effect of an intervention to reduce substance
      use and related harms among people re- entering the community from rural jails or otherwise
      recently involved in the criminal justice system (out on bond, under warrant for arrest,
      arrested, on pre-trial supervision, probation or parole, court-involved, or under home
      incarceration with digital monitoring). This study will compare people in a health navigation
      intervention with a comparison group of people who will get overdose education. Everyone will
      take part in follow-up surveys for up to 6 months after release. The intervention is a health
      navigation intervention designed to reduce substance use disorder (SUD) and increase
      engagement in the SUD care cascade; reduce vulnerability to HIV, sexually transmitted
      infections (STIs), and HCV and increase engagement in the HIV, STI, and HCV care cascades;
      and reduce vulnerability to overdose deaths among adults who use drugs and are leaving local
      jails or otherwise involved in the criminal justice system. The intervention is based on
      enhancements to START, a CDC-recognized, evidence-based, individual-level intervention
      designed to reduce HIV/STI/HCV risk.

      START core components: (1) Hold pre- and post-release program sessions with clients
      transitioning back to the community from a correctional setting; (2) Use a client-focused
      incremental risk reduction approach; (3) Use assessment & documentation tools to provide
      structure; (4) Hire program staff that are familiar with HIV/STIs/HCV prevention and with the
      specific needs of people being released; (5) Staff /client relationships must be maintained
      post-release; (6) Conduct enrollment and schedule two pre-release program sessions within 60
      days of a client's release that: a. give HIV/STI/HCV information; b. review client's
      HIV/STI/HCV risk; c. identify transitional needs; d. develop a personalized risk reduction
      and transitional plan; e. make facilitated referrals; 7) Schedule four post-release sessions
      to review and update the risk reduction/ transitional plan(s) and provide facilitated
      referrals; (8) Provide condoms at each post-release session; (9) Actively maintain contact
      with clients.

      The investigators will modify START a priori as follows: 1) Though originally designed for
      young men, START has been successfully applied to women leaving correctional settings. The
      investigators will implement START with all genders; 2) START originally targeted
      incarcerated people preparing to leave correction facilities. The investigators will continue
      to target individuals who are incarcerated but also expand the target population to people
      who are involved in other parts of the criminal justice system (e.g., those out on bond,
      under warrant for arrest, arrested, court-involved; those on probation, parole or pre-trial
      supervision; and individuals under home incarceration with digital monitoring [an ankle
      monitoring program]). Individuals who are not incarcerated will be recruited in the
      communities. 3) All intervention sessions will be conducted in the community setting
      (post-release for those recruited in jails). 4) START's post-release sessions primarily
      occurred in homes and community venues, such as restaurants. Staff who will deliver START
      will be stationed primarily within the local department of health (DOH); 5) To enhance
      START's impact on drug use and HIV/HCV-related harms (e.g., drug injection frequency), the
      investigators will integrate the NIDA Standard HIV intervention into START, including rapid
      HIV and HCV antibody testing and counseling. In addition, START interventionists will
      distribute harm reduction supplies at the first intervention session with people who inject
      drugs (PWID). The NIDA Standard has been demonstrated to reduce drug use frequency, high-risk
      injection practices, and sexual risk; 6) START was not designed to reduce overdoses. The
      investigators will integrate an interactive training with animated scenarios and narration on
      preventing, recognizing, and responding effectively to an opioid OD. Participants in the
      intervention group will receive naloxone (not all participants will get naloxone), at their
      first intervention session. Interventionists will encompass OD in risk reduction motivational
      interviewing. 7) To accommodate participants who are not able to visit the study office
      in-person, data collection and intervention sessions will be conducted remotely via phone or
      videoconferencing.

      CARE2HOPE covers the following counties: Rowan, Bath, Morgan, Menifee, Elliott, Lee, Owsley,
      Wolfe, Perry, Letcher, Leslie, Knott. Research staff will recruit participants from a) jails,
      b) Probation, Parole and Pre-Trial Services c) digital jails (i.e. home incarceration with
      digital monitoring programs); d) peer referral; e) existing participants in CARE2HOPE and
      other University of Kentucky studies, including PROUD-R2 (Peer-Based Retention of People Who
      Use Drugs in Rural Research) and SNAP (Social Networks among Appalachian People), who have
      consented to be contacted to learn about future studies; f) harm reduction and social service
      programs serving people who use drugs; and g) community-based organizations serving the 12
      CARE2HOPE counties. Recruitment in jails will involve jails either located in CARE2HOPE
      counties or counties that have contracts with them to incarcerate their residents. The
      intervention sessions and data collection will be delivered by research staff called "Rural
      Health Navigators" or "REHNs". Participants are assigned to one of the two groups by chance
      based on when they are enrolled to the study and when their county is randomly chosen to
      start the project. Counties were originally randomized using a stepped wedge design. The
      counties were then randomized in November 2020, accounting for a new study design. The
      investigators randomized 12 study counties to two groups. In Months 1-6 six counties randomly
      assigned to Group 1 will recruit participants to the intervention, while in the remaining six
      counties (Group 2) the participants will be enrolled into a control condition. In Months
      7-12, Group 1 counties will shift to the control group, and Group 2 counties will receive the
      intervention. In Months 13-18 the investigators will conduct follow-up assessments in all
      counties. The investigators anticipate an average enrollment of 40 participants per county
      per arm, with a total final sample size for the trial of 960 (n=480intervention,
      n=480comparison) . After a county has met its target enrollment in both conditions, the
      intervention and comparison activities will no longer be offered in that county.
    
  