
    
      In Crohn's disease there is inflammation (changes in body tissue which normally happen during
      injury or infection) and or ulceration (open sores) in the intestines.This occurs because the
      immune system (the part of the body that fights off infection) has an abnormal and overactive
      response against the intestine and bowel tissues of the body. Crohn's disease is usually
      treated with medications that either directly decrease inflammation or decrease the general
      activity of the immune system to improve the diarrhea, abdominal pain, and other symptoms of
      Crohn's Disease. Ustekinumab antibodies (natural substances made by your immune system to
      stick to and help remove foreign materials in your body that cause diseases) have been
      created to stick to and block the activity of two of the immune substances thought to cause
      abnormal inflammation of Crohn's disease. Patients who are eligible and who have received
      Remicade, Humira, or Cimzia and failed or been intolerant to one of these drugs will be
      randomized to either active drug (ustekinumab) or placebo. All patients will be randomized
      (like flipping a coin) at week 0 to be in one of 4 groups. At week 0 the study drug will be
      given by IV administration and at weeks 8 and 16 by subcutaneous injection. There will be 11
      study visits in total and the study will continue until week 36. Blood and stool samples will
      be collected and studied, questionnaires to check on how you are doing in terms of your
      disease will be completed, an Electrocardiogram (EKG) obtained, safety evaluations conducted
      and diary cards distributed to be completed during the entire study. One of 4 groups: Grp
      1-placebo, Grp 2-active drug 1mg/kg IV, Grp 3-active drug 3mg/kg IV, Grp 4-active drug 6mg/kg
      IV. Based on the clinical response status at Week 6, patients from Grps 2, 3 and 4 will be
      re-randomized at week 8 to receive either placebo or 90 mg SC at both weeks 8 and 16 and
      patients from Grp 1 will receive placebo at Week 8 and Week 16 or a 270 mg SC injection at
      Week 8 and 90 mg SC at Week 16.
    
  