
    
      This study has been designed to prospectively evaluate the clinical results of a two-hole
      versus four-hole dynamic hip screw in the treatment of intertrochanteric fractures.

      It is estimated that over 27,000 hip fractures occur in Canada each year, at an estimated
      cost of $10,000 per patient per hospitalization. Intertrochanteric hip fractures account for
      approximately half of all hip fractures. While many surgical treatment options exist, the
      accepted standard fixation device for the treatment of both stable and unstable
      intertrochanteric hip fractures is the dynamic hip screw.

      No consensus exists regarding the optimal number of screws required for adequate side plate
      fixation for the treatment of intertrochanteric fractures. The most commonly used device is
      the 135-degree four-hole side plate, however, decreasing the length of the side plate would
      theoretically allow for a smaller incision site, minimal soft-tissue dissection, shortened
      operating time, and reduced operative blood loss. This in turn would reduce post-operative
      pain, blood loss, and length of hospital stay. With the majority of hip fractures occurring
      in the frail, elderly population, a less invasive procedure potentially decreases overall
      patient mortality.

      Biomechanical studies simulating stable and unstable intertrochanteric fractures have
      suggested that fewer screws are adequate for good side plate fixation. Two clinical trials
      have reviewed series of fractures treated with a two-hole DHS and have reported favorable
      results. No prospective randomized study to date, however, has directly compared the clinical
      results of the standard four-hole plate with that of the two-hole plate. We propose a study
      is to evaluate the clinical results of the two-hole versus four-hole plate for the treatment
      of intertrochanteric fractures with a minimum 6-month follow-up.

      This study's aim is to develop clinical outcome data which can be used (a) determine range of
      expected clinical outcomes resulting from current standard management of these injuries, and
      (b) as the basis of reporting on the clinical outcomes of these injuries in the peer-reviewed
      literature.

      Patients over the age of 65 who have sustained an isolated 2-, 3-, and 4-part
      intertrochanteric hip fractures will be included in this study.

      Patients who have Pathological, subtrochanteric, reverse obliquity fractures, multiple
      injuries, and patients whose time to the operating room exceeds 48 hours will be excluded.

      The primary outcome measure to be assessed is mechanical failure of fixation. Secondary
      variables to be assessed during the hospital stay are: length of incision, post-operative
      pain, analgesic use, operative time, and mean hemoglobin drop. Length of hospital stay and
      medical complications will also be assessed.

      They will subsequently be followed at six weeks, 3 months, and six months post-operatively in
      clinic with a physical exam and a pelvis and hip radiograph, and an inquiry will be made as
      to their general medical condition and any significant medical complications since discharge.
      A functional inquiry and quality of life score will be administered pre-operatively and at
      each subsequent clinic visit.
    
  