
    
      A. General Design: This is a phase II, prospective, placebo-controlled randomized controlled
      trial of the efficacy and safety of bupropion in combination with behavioral counseling for
      smoking cessation during pregnancy. Pregnant smokers (N=360) will receive bupropion or
      placebo treatment for 10 weeks, under strict double-blind conditions, with 3 post-treatment
      follow-up sessions: 2 and 6 weeks postpartum (with counseling to prevent relapse or encourage
      a repeat quit attempt) and monitoring of the persistence of treatment effects at 24 weeks
      post-quit date.

      B. Recruitment: We will distribute IRB (Institutional Review Board)-approved brochures and
      posters to recruit pregnant women who smoke and wish to quit smoking through participation in
      the trial. At Penn Medicine sites, we will access the hospitals' EPIC computer programs to
      identify pregnant smokers receiving prenatal care and, working with their obstetrician,
      invite them to consider study participation. We will conduct a brief screening interview over
      the phone or in-person at the participant's obstetrics clinic to assess study eligibility
      criteria. Prospective participants who appear to meet eligibility criteria for the study will
      be scheduled for an in-person Informed Consent and Screening visit.

      C. Screening Visit: Participants will read and sign the informed consent form, after all of
      their questions have been answered. Participants will then be asked to provide the
      researchers with information to determine whether they are eligible to participate in the
      study. On this visit, participants will be interviewed for about an hour. This interview will
      include questions about medical and pregnancy history, and any mood or other symptoms and
      determine the baby's date of delivery. We will also ask about any past or current use of
      alcohol, drugs, and cigarettes.

      D: Baseline Visit: This in-person visit will be completed within 30 days of the screening
      visit and will last approximately 90 minutes. At the visit, we will measure heart rate and
      complete questionnaires by telephone and in person. We will take a blood sample (3 tubes,
      enough to fill 1.5 tablespoons) to be used to conduct genetic testing and to measure the
      body's ability to break down nicotine, which is contained in cigarettes.

      At this visit participants will receive the first of six counseling sessions in the study.
      This first, "pre-quit" counseling session will last 30 minutes and will help to prepare them
      to quit smoking. They will be given study medication at this visit and will be instructed to
      begin taking it the following morning. They will be asked to identify a quit date within a
      week of beginning the study medication. They will start the study medication by taking one
      capsule (150 mg/day or placebo, a harmless, inactive substance) each morning for the first 3
      days and then one capsule each morning and each evening (150 mg twice daily) for the
      remainder of the 10-week study treatment period. At this visit, and at every visit while
      taking the study medication, we will record any side effects that may have been experienced
      from the study medication. We will also ask participants to return all study medication that
      they have not taken and the study medication bottle.

      The day after the Baseline Visit, the participants will begin to receive two daily text
      messages. The first message of the day (in the morning) will provide information on the
      expected development based on the baby's age, accompanied by a reminder to take the study
      medication. The second message of the day (in the evening) will ask the participants whether
      they took all of their study medication that day. They'll be asked to text back indicating
      that they received the message (in the morning) and whether they took the medication that day
      (in the evening). We will ask them which times they would like to receive the text messages
      each day. Although the information that they provide will help us to keep track of their
      participation, the inbox for our texting center is not monitored, so we will direct them to
      call our study staff to speak with them directly, rather than texting them if they have any
      study-related questions.

      Visit C: Quit Date Visit: The scheduled quit date visit will occur approximately one week
      after the baseline visit and will last approximately 45 minutes. During this visit, we will
      measure the participants' heart rate and ask them to blow into an instrument that measures a
      chemical (carbon monoxide) that is in tobacco smoke. The study nurse will collect any
      medication not taken and the study medication bottle. The participants will receive a
      four-week supply of study medication and a study nurse will ask them about any study
      medication side effects that they may have experienced since starting the study. They will
      also be asked to complete some questionnaires and will receive 20 minutes of "quit-day"
      counseling, which will help them to identify things that could cause them to return to
      smoking and to develop a plan to avoid tempting situations.

      Visit D: Week 3: This visit will occur by telephone and will last approximately 25 minutes,
      during which time the participants will be asked to complete questionnaires over the
      telephone. They will be asked about their cigarette use since the last visit and any
      medication side effects they may have experienced. They will also receive 10 minutes of
      counseling by phone to help them avoid smoking or, if they need to, set another quit date to
      try again to quit smoking.

      Visit E: Week 5: This in-person visit will last approximately 30 minutes. The participants
      will be asked to complete some questionnaires and be interviewed about their cigarette use
      since the last visit. We will measure their heart rate and they will be asked to blow into an
      instrument that measures a chemical (carbon monoxide) that is in tobacco smoke. They will be
      asked to provide a blood sample (2 tubes, enough to fill 1 tablespoon) to be used to measure
      the concentration of study medication in the blood. The study nurse will collect any
      medication that the participants have left as well as the study medication bottle. They will
      receive a five-week supply of study medication and a study nurse will ask them about any
      study medication side effects that they may have experienced since starting the study. They
      will also receive 10 minutes of counseling to help they avoid smoking or, if needed, set
      another quit date to try quitting again.

      Visit F: Week 7: This telephone visit will last approximately 15 minutes. The participants
      will be asked to complete some questionnaires. They will also be asked about their cigarette
      use since the last visit and any medication side effects they may have experienced.

      Visit G: Endpoint visit: This in-person visit will last approximately 25 minutes. The
      participants will be asked to complete questionnaires and about their cigarette use since the
      last visit. During the visit we will measure their heart rate and they will be asked to blow
      into an instrument that measures a chemical (carbon monoxide) that is in tobacco smoke. The
      study nurse will collect any medication that they had not taken and the study medication
      bottle. The study nurse will ask them about any study medication side effects that they may
      have experienced since starting the study.

      Visit H: Week 24 after the Quit Date: About six months after the participants started
      treatment, they will be contacted by telephone. During this phone call, a research technician
      will complete several questionnaires with them, similar to those they completed previously.
      Some participants will be asked to come back to the center following this interview to
      provide carbon monoxide breath samples as they did previously. Approximately two weeks prior
      to the phone call we may send a reminder letter that the phone visit is coming up.

      Visits I and J: 2 and 6 weeks after delivery: The last two sessions will be held by telephone
      after the birth of the baby. The participants will be asked to complete several
      questionnaires, similar to those completed previously. They will also receive 10 minutes of
      counseling over the phone.
    
  