
    
      Treatment of moderate to severe Psoriasis (Pso) and Psoriasis-Arthritis (PsA) in Switzerland
      is largely performed with systemic therapies. This includes conventional systemic therapy
      such as fumaric acids, methotrexate, cyclosporin A, retinoids, systemic PUVA, Acitretin and
      biological treatments such as etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab and within a
      pre-registration program ustekinumab. While short- and middle-term efficacy of most systemic
      treatments has been shown in clinical studies (and is incorporated in international
      guidelines), knowledge about long-term outcomes, optimal treatment and effectiveness under
      real-world conditions is still missing. SDNTT, the Swiss registry on the treatment of
      moderate to severe Pso and PsA documents the long-term course of patients being administered
      a defined biologic or conventional systemic drug. Following outcomes are observed:
      Effectiveness on the long-term, of combined/alternating treatments and under comorbidity
      conditions; patient-defined benefits and quality of life, maintenance dosages, prediction of
      response and safety.

      The study evaluates the long-term course of patients with Pso and PsA in systemic treatments.
      A patient will be included at first initiation of the treatment and will remain in the
      registry for 5 years, regardless of subsequent therapy. Nationwide, initially 35 (long-term
      approx. 50-80) dermatologic practices and hospital ambulances with expertise in systemic and
      biologic treatment will consecutively enroll patients. Follow-ups will be every 3 months,
      comprising patient and treatment characteristics, clinical parameters, patient-defined
      benefit, quality of life and adverse events. Standardized questionnaires will be addressed to
      the patient and to the dermatologist 12 times at the dermatologic centres. In interim
      intervals, patients are directly contacted another 9 times by mail.
    
  