
    
      The Study Drug:

      BKM120 is designed to block a protein that is important to the growth and division of cancer
      cells, which may cause the cells to die.

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will be assigned to a dose
      level of BKM120 based on when you join this study. Up to 2 dose levels of BKM120 will be
      tested. Up to six (6) participants will be enrolled at each dose level. The first group of
      participants will receive the lower dose level.

      You will take BKM120 tablets by mouth with a large glass of water every day you are on this
      study. You should take BKM120 about 1 hour after a light breakfast. You should take BKM120 at
      about the same time each day. You need to fast (not eat or drink anything except water) for 2
      hours after you take your BKM120 dose.

      You should swallow the BKM120 tablets whole. The tablets must not be chewed, broken, or
      crushed. If you vomit after taking BKM120, you should not take another tablet that day to
      make up for that dose. If you forget to take BKM120 one morning, call your doctor and ask for
      instructions. Do not take BKM120 after 6pm of the same day or take any extra doses to make up
      for the missed dose.

      If your study doctor feels it is needed or if you have side effects, BKM120 may be stopped
      and then started again at a lower dose or may be stopped completely.

      You will be asked to record in a pill diary each dose you take. You will return the pill
      diary, unused study drug, and pill containers to the clinic staff at the end of each cycle.

      Study Visits:

      On this study, each study cycle will last 28 days. You will have study visits every other
      week (Days 1 and 15) during the first 2 cycles of the study, and then once a month after
      that. The following tests and procedures will be performed at all study visits:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be taking and about any side effects you may
           be having.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests and to check your blood
           sugar. ° You will need to fast for 8 hours before this blood draw.

        -  You will complete the questionnaires about your mood.

      On Day 28 of Cycle 1 and every 3 months after that, you will have a bone marrow aspirate
      and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease. You may have additional bone marrow
      aspirations collected while you are on study if the doctor thinks they are needed.

      Every 4 months, you will have a MUGA scan or an ECHO to check the status of the disease.

      ECGs and chest x-rays may be performed throughout the study to check your heart and lung
      function if the doctor thinks they are needed.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue taking the study drug for as long as 12 cycles if the doctor thinks it is in
      your best interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drug if the disease gets
      worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      After you stop taking BKM120, you will have an end-of-study visit. The following tests and
      procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any drugs you may be currently taking or have taken.

        -  You will complete the questionnaires about your mood.

        -  Blood (about 1 tablespoon) and urine will be collected for routine tests. The blood will
           also be used to check your kidney and liver function and to check your blood sugar. You
           will need to fast for 8 hours before this blood draw.

        -  You will have a MUGA scan or an ECHO to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have a bone marrow aspirate and/or biopsy to check the status of the disease.

      This is an investigational study. BKM120 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It is
      currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 16 patients take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  