
    
      After stroke, individuals are more sedentary than their healthy counterparts, with
      significantly more daily seated time and significantly fewer daily steps with activity levels
      impaired both immediately post- event and 6 months into recovery. Physical inactivity and
      increased sedentary time are linked to increased blood pressure; a cause of both incident and
      recurrent stroke. After stroke, victims suffer from a wide range of complications in terms of
      physical and cognitive abilities. Hypertension reduces cognitive performance in healthy and
      clinical populations, and stroke patients are frequently unable (for either physical or
      psychological reasons) to be physically active enough to reduce blood pressure and maximise
      cognitive improvements.

      Prolonged seated time may also lead to reduced cerebral and peripheral oxygen perfusion. Heel
      raises may have the potential to improve these parameters without being too physically
      demanding on a clinical population. This study will investigate whether prescribed heel
      raises can have an acute and/or chronic effect on peripheral and central blood pressures,
      measures of central systolic loading, peripheral and cerebral oxygen perfusion and cognitive
      performance.

      This study will recruit thirty chronic stroke sufferers from a local stroke groups. Visit
      will take place in the morning in a fasted state.

      In the first visit, participants will undertake five stroop familiarisation tests. Stroop
      tests allow assessment of cognitive function. Demographic measures will be taken and baseline
      pulse wave analysis (PWA [SphygmoCor XCEL]) and pulse wave velocity (PWV) measures will be
      recorded. Heel raises will be demonstrated to the participants and displayed in a diagram.
      Participants will practice this movement before maximum voluntary contractions (MVC) will be
      measured using electromyography.

      On each of the second two visits, participants will rest in a seated position for 20 minutes
      before having PWA, PWV and near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS) measured at baseline to provide
      both peripheral and central blood pressures, arterial stiffness, cerebral and peripheral
      oxygen perfusion. Participants will then either undergo a 180 minute seated protocol or a 180
      minute calf raising protocol (10 calf raises per 10 minutes) After 10, 30, 60, 90, 120, 150
      and 170 minutes in both protocols, PWA, PWV and Stroop test results will be recorded. EMG
      will record muscle activation of the affected medial gastrocnemius during heel raises after
      each 30 minutes. NIRS will continuously record throughout the data collection process.
      Participants will watch a calming TV show (e.g. a David Attenborough documentary) to pass
      time without raising blood pressure. Statistical analysis will determine whether the heel
      raises caused acute alterations in peripheral and central blood pressures, pulse wave
      velocity, cerebral and peripheral blood flow, muscle activation and cognitive performance.

      The control condition of fifteen participants will then return after ten weeks and undertake
      a duplicate of session 1. An experimental condition of fifteen participants will undertake a
      ten week programme involving prescribed heel raises every day. They will then return after
      ten weeks and receive an identical session to their first session, allowing the chronic
      effect of prescribed heel raises to be observed.
    
  