
    
      Critically ill patients with acute kidney injury (AKI) will be included. Urinary indices will
      be obtained immediately after defining AKI, including specific gravity (SG), urine osmolarity
      (Uosm), urine sodium (UNa), fractional excretion of sodium (FENa), and fractional excretion
      of urea (FEurea).

      The patterns of renal function and hemodynamic status serve as the clinical definition of
      pre-renal and renal AKI. Hemodynamic status will be evaluated at inclusion and followed
      during patients' ICU stay. Those who are hemodynamically stable at inclusion are classified
      as renal AKI. Those who are hemodynamically unstable at inclusion are followed until
      hemodynamic stabilization. Those with AKI recovery after hemodynamic stabilization are
      classified as pre-renal AKI. Those without AKI recovery are defined as renal AKI.

      Urinary indices are measured again after hemodynamic stability. One of the investigators
      objectives is to evaluate the diagnostic value of urinary indices using recovery of renal
      function after hemodynamic stabilization as the definition of pre-renal AKI.

      Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) has been proved to be a reliable method of measuring
      left renal blood flow during surgical operation. Decreased renal blood flow measured by TEE
      may serve as an objective definition of pre-renal AKI. The mesurement will be conducted at
      inclusion if the patient is sedated, intubated, and without TEE contraindication. If the
      patient is hemodynamically unstable at inclusion, the measurement will be repeated after
      hemodynamic stabilization. The investigators study also serves the following aims: (1)
      feasibility of measuring renal blood flow by TEE among critically ill patients; (2) the
      correspondence between renal blood flow measured by TEE and clinical definition of pre-renal
      and renal AKI; (3) the diagnostic value of urinary indices in differentiating pre-renal and
      renal AKI, which is judged by renal blood flow measured by TEE.
    
  