
    
      Design

      A prospective interventional non-randomized before-after trial was conducted. Eligible
      patients admitted from 01/02/2009 were consecutively assigned to the control group until the
      predefined sample size was reached. After enrollment and follow-up of control patients had
      been finished, all newly admitted eligible patients were consecutively assigned to the
      interventional group.

      In addition to the before-after study, a sample of eligible patients was collected from March
      2011 to March 2013 (follow-up group) to examine the post-study impact of the ONP.

      Patients

      All adult patients admitted to the 48-bed urological ward in the 1850 bed University
      Hospitals Leuven and treated with elective and regular RC, whether or not for underlying
      cancer, were eligible for inclusion. Three different diversions are performed: an ileal
      conduit, an orthothopic neobladder (N-pouch)12 or a continent cutaneous diversion. The
      surgical procedure was considered regular if the patient returned after the procedure to the
      urological ward and was not transferred to the intensive care unit. If the latter was deemed
      necessary by the treating surgeon, the patient would be subjected to the intensive care
      nutrition protocol. Therefore, only regular RC patients were included.

      Exclusion criteria were transfer to the intensive care unit, preoperative contra-indications
      for EN and discharge to a rehabilitation center. Contra-indications for EN were defined as
      intestinal obstruction, malabsorption, multiple high-output fistula or intestinal ischemia8.
      Uretero-ileal or ileo-ileal anastomoses, resulting from RC, were not considered as a
      contra-indication for EN9,10. Discharge to a rehabilitation center could surpass one of the
      criteria for discharge, i.e. the ability of independent mobilization, and could therefore
      influence the postoperative LOS.

      Care practices other than nutrition management

      Preoperatively, all patients received bowel preparation with a 2 liter osmotic laxative
      (macrogol 3350 100 g, sodiumsulphate 7.5 g, NaCl 2.69 g, KCl 1.02 g, sodium salt of ascorbic
      acid 5.9 g and ascorbic acid 4.7 g). Before incision, a loading dose of 0.05 ml/cm epidural
      analgesics (levobupivacaine 2,5 mg/ml and sufentanil 1 mcg/ml) was administered. During
      surgery, a central venous catheter, a nasogastric or percutaneous gastrostomy tube and
      ureteral stents were inserted. The nasogastric or percutaneous gastrostomy tube was removed
      on the first or second postoperative day after restoration of transit (defined as a residual
      gastric volume of less than 50 ml/24h). Acetaminophen, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs
      and patient-controlled epidural analgesia (PCEA; levobupivacaine 2,5 mg/ml and sufentanil 1
      mcg/ml) were available for postoperative acute pain management. Intraoperative antimicrobial
      prophylaxis consisted of cefazoline and metronidazole. Thromboprophylaxis consisted of
      enoxaparin. Anti-emetics and other prokinetic drugs were not routinely administered but only
      prescribed when needed. All treating surgeons were fully trained at the start of the study.

      After a minimum of 10 days, ureteral stents were removed if the following 3 criteria were
      met: restoration of transit, presence of bowel movements and absence of fever (defined as
      body temperature <38,3 °C). Prophylactic levofloxacin 500 mg once daily was administered
      after stent removal, until the first consultation. Patients were discharged if the following
      4 criteria were fulfilled: 1) removal of all drains and stents, 2) the absence of fever (body
      temperature < 38,3 °C), 3) the ability to tolerate solid food and 4) the ability of
      independent mobilization.

      The abovementioned care practices (anesthesia modalities, surgical techniques, doses of
      narcotics, bowel stimulants and anti-nauseants, and mobilization practices) did not alter
      during the course of the study.

      Nutrition management

      In the control group, PN was initiated immediately after surgery and continued until the
      patient was able to tolerate solid food. PN infusion therapy consisted of Olimel® (Baxter
      S.A., Lessines, Belgium) N7E 1000 ml, 1500 ml or 2000 ml; a parenteral solution with a total
      energy of 1100 kcal/1000 ml and containing polyamino-acids (43.75g/1000 ml), glucose
      (140g/1000ml), lipids (40g/1000ml) and electrolytes. Cernevit® (Baxter S.A., Lessines,
      Belgium), a multivitamin powder for injection, and Addamel® (Fresenius Kabi, Schelle,
      Belgium), a concentrate for injection containing trace elements, were added daily to the PN.
      The amount of PN administered depended on the non-protein requirements, calculated by 30 ±
      10% kcal/kg ideal body weight13. Extra fluids, up to two liter per day, were given
      intravenously, at the discretion of the treating physician.

      In the interventional group, the ONP was implemented (Table 1). Oral intake was increased
      progressively with oral fluids and easily digestible food, independent of bowel movements.
      The corresponding energy content from the meals and oral fluids were calculated. Fortimel
      Jucy®, 200 ml containing 300 kcal, was used as the formulary energy sip. Extra fluids, up to
      two liter per day, were given intravenously, at the discretion of the treating physician.
      Nurses verified daily whether the patient was able to tolerate the ONP. If the patient
      tolerated the ONP well, the oral intake was considered equal in terms of calories as the
      corresponding oral meal in the ONP. From the sixth day, the patient was allowed to eat at
      will. Only if oral intake remained insufficient after 5 days, which was left to the opinion
      of the treating physician, PN could be initiated in this group.

      Data collection

      The following baseline demographic data were retrieved from medical files: patient
      characteristics (gender, age, weight, length, body mass index, age-adjusted Charlson
      comorbidity index14, indication for RC (oncologic or neurogenic) and bladder cancer staging
      (TNM classification15)), surgical aspects (type of urinary diversion, attending surgeon,
      intra-operative blood loss and duration of procedure), postoperative ileus (POI) and day of
      nasogastric tube removal. The age-adjusted Charlson comorbidity index is a method for
      classifying comorbid conditions. As the increase in elderly population and concurrent
      increase in oncologic disease (and thus in bladder cancer) emphasized the importance of
      understanding the interaction between age an comorbid illness on life expectancy, the age
      -adjusted version was used. POI was defined as the inability to tolerate solid food, the need
      to place a nasogastric tube in suction, the need to stop oral intake due to abdominal
      distention (evaluated by the treating clinician), nausea or emesis.

      Endpoints

      The primary endpoint was LOS from surgery to discharge.

      Secondary endpoints were the number of patients with successful implementation of the ONP, as
      well as number of administered PN infusion bags per patient, time to resumption of full diet,
      number of patients with one or more postoperative complications (POC), number of POCs per
      patient, type and severity grade of POCs and the incidence of catheter related bloodstream
      infections (CRBSIs). The implementation of the ONP was considered successful if the protocol
      could be completely applied and no PN was needed. The type and severity of POCs were
      classified using the Clavien-Dindo classification16. POCs were classified into 11 categories
      and stratified by severity. CRBSI, a common PN-related complication6, was defined as
      bacteremia or fungemia in a patient having an intravascular device and more than one positive
      blood culture result obtained from a peripheral vein, clinical manifestations of infection
      (e.g., fever, chills, and/or hypotension) and no apparent other source for blood stream
      infection17.

      Post-study impact

      An additional patient cohort was assembled, using the same inclusion and exclusion criteria
      as described above. The LOS and number of PN infusion bags after surgery were determined and
      compared to the results obtained from the intervention group.

      Analysis of PN associated costs

      The avoided PN cost per patient were calculated. For every group, the total number of PN
      infusion bags was divided by the number of patients and multiplied by € 60, which was the
      average actual cost in euros of one bag of Olimel® in Belgium at the time of the study. This
      resulted in a direct and comparable PN infusion bag related cost per patient per group.

      Statistical analysis and sample size calculation

      Statistical analysis was performed by L-Biostat, Catholic University Leuven, using SPSS
      package (SPSS Statistics 20.0 for Windows). Chi-square and Fisher's Exact tests were used for
      categorical data. The unpaired T-test or the Wilcoxon rank sum test was used for normal and
      non-normal distributed continuous variables respectively. Baseline demographic data and the
      outcome measures were considered statistically significant if p-values were < 0.05. The
      Bonferroni correction was used to account for multiple comparisons (6 secondary outcome
      measures). Therefore, secondary outcome parameters were considered statistically significant
      if p-values were < 0.008. To asses factors influencing LOS, general linear model statistics -
      univariate analysis followed by ANOVA - were carried out.

      Preliminary data from our institution showed that all RC patients receiving PN directly after
      surgery were discharged after a mean of 19.3 ± 5.6 days. We expected to reduce our LOS with 3
      days from 19 to 16 days by implementing the ONP. Assuming that variances for both groups are
      comparable, 88 (2x44) patients were needed, giving at least 80 % power (α=0.05, one-tailed)
      to reject the null hypothesis defined as no difference in postoperative LOS between the two
      groups.

      The study was approved by the hospital's Ethics Committee and registered on clinical
      trials.gov n° NCT01777126. No informed consent was obtained as the introduction of the ONP
      was part of continuous improvement of standard of care in our hospital.
    
  