
    
      All patients who meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria will be randomized into one of two
      treatment groups. Group A patients will be treated with retrograde intramedullary nailing of
      the fracture with supplemental screw fixation of the articular portion of the fracture if
      needed. The Richards supracondylar nail (Smith & Nephew Richards, Memphis, TN, USA) will be
      utilized. Group B patients will have their fracture stabilized with the LISS plates (Synthes
      [USA], Paoli, PA, USA). Supplemental screw fixation of the articular portion of the fracture
      will occur, if needed. Postoperative care will not be any different than the postoperative
      care of any other patient undergoing internal fixation of a complex fracture around the knee
      and based on the patient's overall condition.

      Surgical Protocol: After the anesthesia staff has administered general anesthesia, the
      patient will be positioned on the operating room table as described by the intraoperative
      technique guide or according to the patient's injury and the surgeon's preference. The
      patient will be prepped and draped in the usual and customary manner for orthopaedic
      procedures of the lower extremities. The image intensifier will be available for
      intraoperative fluoroscopy. The manufacturer's surgical technique guide will be used
      intraoperatively for implantation of the LISS device and the supracondylar nail. The surgical
      wound will be closed according to the surgeon's preference. A drainage device may be used if
      indicated. Routine dressings will be applied. In all instances, immediate postoperative
      radiographs will be taken to document adequate reduction and fixation. Neurovascular
      evaluation of the extremity will be performed and documented when the patient emerges from
      the anesthetic. The patient will be discharged from the recovery room to the postoperative
      unit when they have met discharge criteria. Routine postoperative orders will be followed
      until discharge from the hospital.

      Patients will be followed in the orthopaedic clinic at predetermined intervals following
      surgery. The clinic visits will include anterior-posterior and lateral radiographs of the
      affected extremity and a clinical examination. The patient will also complete the SF-36
      (Appendix 1) and a pain scale (Appendix 2). This data will be used to compare the outcomes
      obtained with the two devices. Clinical follow-up will occur at 2, 4, 8, 12, 18, 26, and 52
      weeks following surgery. Radiographs will be obtained at 4, 8, 12, 18, 26, and 52 weeks
      postoperatively. Patients will complete pain scales at 4, 8, 12, 18, 26, and 52 weeks after
      surgery. Clinical outcomes will be evaluated at weeks 12, 26, and 52.
    
  