
    
      Information Session and Surveys We will visit police stations and present an information
      session about Operation Healthy Sleep. The session will take place during work time. During
      this session, we will also provide a short education session aimed to help officers to
      improve their sleep habits and alertness. During the session, we will invite officers to take
      part in Operation Healthy Sleep.

      If the officer agrees to take part, he/she will be asked to provide informed consent, and
      then complete a survey. The survey is comprehensive and includes questions regarding work
      schedules, past medical history, health habits, accidents, quality of life, and mood. The
      survey will also include a screening test to see if they might have a sleeping disorder. The
      total time commitment involved in attending the information/education session and completing
      the survey will be about 1 to 2 hours.

      Officers will be asked to provide email address and other contact information. Officers will
      then receive information on how to link to our monthly web-based nationwide survey. The brief
      monthly surveys include questions regarding work schedules, accidents and injuries, health,
      quality of life, and mood. The survey should take about 10-15 minutes to complete each month.

      Finally, a version of the survey will be completed at the end of each year until the study is
      completed (i.e. at most, two years). These yearly surveys will be completed during regular
      work time.

      During the study, we will be tracking work hours, accidents, and job performance of all
      officers using the police department's computerized and paper records. Data collected through
      this system may be compared with other data we collect from officers directly. Protection of
      officers' confidentiality will be our highest priority.

      Assessment and Treatment of Sleep Disorders After the initial information/education session
      is completed, we will review responses to the survey to check whether officers are at risk of
      having a sleep disorder. If officers are found to be at risk, we will contact them and
      recommend that they undergo assessment and, if necessary, treatment by a physician or sleep
      specialist. We will provide the officer with referrals to local sleep disorders testing and
      treatment centers and physicians. Officers are free to choose another sleep disorders
      specialist or another physician if they prefer.
    
  