
    
      Although diabetes is commonly undiagnosed and many patients have evidence of complications at
      diagnosis, there is no definitive evidence that early detection improves health outcomes. One
      of the critical but uncertain factors is the extent to which screening and subsequent
      treatment reduces cardiovascular risk. Multi-factorial cardiovascular risk reduction in
      people with prevalent diabetes and microalbuminuria results in a halving of heart disease
      risk. However, it is not certain whether this result can be generalised to patients without
      microalbuminuria or those whose disease is screen-detected.

      The ADDITION study is a collaborative randomised controlled trial of a target-driven
      intensive multi-factorial approach to cardiovascular risk reduction in patients with
      screen-detected type 2 diabetes mellitus, aimed at assessing the feasibility of screening in
      a primary care setting and quantifying the cardiovascular benefits and economic and
      psychological costs of screening. The study as a whole will have the power to determine
      whether screening and the intensive multi-factorial intervention results in improved
      cardiovascular outcomes. The ADDITON-Leicester study will contribute to this collaboration,
      but which by itself will demonstrate the feasibility of screening and measure the effect of
      the ADDITION study intervention on modelled cardiovascular risk at 1 year after detection by
      screening in a population at high risk by virtue of having a high proportion of people from
      South Asia (Leicester). The study is also assessing the impact of intensive intervention of
      modelled cardiovascular risk at 1 year.

      People of South Asian origin are at increased risk of having diabetes and of developing heart
      disease. The issues of screening are thus particularly relevant to this population. However,
      all of the populations currently recruited to ADDITION are predominantly Caucasian. The
      ADDITION-Leicester study will assess the feasibility of systematic screening in a South Asian
      population, will quantify the effect of intensive treatment in people with screen detected
      diabetes on modelled cardiovascular risk at 1 year and will assess the economic and
      psychological costs of screening and intensive treatment. This study population will then
      contribute to the ADDITION-Europe study, which as a whole is powered to assess the impact of
      screening and intensive treatment on 5 year cardiovascular outcomes.
    
  