
    
      This is a prospective, open-label, multi-arm exploratory study of pembrolizumab in
      combination with pemetrexed or abemaciclib for the treatment of adult patients with newly
      diagnosed high grade glioma. Patients having a clinically planned surgical procedure (biopsy
      or cytoreduction) for a suspected diagnosis of high grade glioma will be approached for
      participation in this study. Tumor tissue obtained from surgery will be used for histological
      diagnosis and clinical molecular profiling, and excess tumor tissue may be collected for
      potential correlative studies. A small sample of blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) for
      research will also be collected.

      Once a diagnosis of high grade glioma is confirmed, the patient will be allocated to either
      Treatment Arm 1 (pembrolizumab + pemetrexed), or Treatment Arm 2 (pembrolizumab +
      abemaciclib). Treatment will be started approximately 7-42 days following surgery once the
      patient has recovered from surgery. Routine clinical evaluations will be performed prior to
      treatment initiation and throughout treatment as clinically indicated. Radiographic brain
      imaging will be performed approximately 21-42 after treatment initiation and then routinely
      for medical management. Tumor response will be assessed according to immunotherapy Response
      Assessment in Neuro-Oncology (iRANO) Working Group criteria.

      Treatment may continue until the patient experiences unacceptable toxicity or clear disease
      progression. The determination of whether to stop treatment due to disease progression will
      be based on the investigator's evaluation of the patient's clinical and radiographic
      condition, taking into consideration the interpretation of localized inflammatory responses
      that can mimic radiographic features of tumor progress. Patients discontinuing treatment will
      be directed by their treating physician to either receive a different treatment regimen
      (e.g., standard radiation therapy with or without chemotherapy) or undergo a
      clinically-indicated cytoreductive surgery. If another treatment is started, clinical
      evaluations and response assessments will continue as clinically-indicated and blood and CSF
      will be collected after the first month, then every three months.
    
  