
    
      STUDY RATIONALE Dream research, unlike sleep research, has not greatly developed anymore as
      there are few dream research laboratories only and not much systematic dream research is done
      outside the laboratory either(1) although validated methods of collecting and analyzing dream
      reports on the basis of the coding system developed by Calvin S. Hall and Robert Van de
      Castle are readily available.(2) According to Domhoff et al.,(3) the main features of the
      default dream network include the medial prefrontal cortex, the medial temporal lobe, the
      bilateral inferior parietal lobule/temporoparietal junction, and the posterior cingulate
      cortex, with the medial pre- frontal cortex and the posterior cingulate cortex serving as
      major hubs. The dorsal medial subsystem including the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex, the
      temporoparietal junction/anterior inferior parietal lobule, the lateral temporal cortex, and
      temporopolar cortex (the anterior pole of the temporal lobe) is activated by instructions to
      think about the present situation or a present mental state (''present self'').(3) The medial
      temporal subsystem including the ventral medial prefrontal cortex, posterior inferior
      parietal lobule, retrosplenial cortex, parahippocampal cortex, and hippocampal formation is
      activated by thinking about personal situations and decisions in the future (''future
      self'').(3) A lot of what is known about the neuronal function of dreaming comes from lesion
      studies that are well-summarized by Solms.(4) To the best knowledge, investigators are the
      first to prospectively investigate the change of dream content in patients electively
      undergoing surgical resection of brain tissue (i.e. the anterior temporal lobe for temporal
      lobe epilepsy).

      The merits of the current study are the following:

        -  To better understand the dream network (academic significance)

        -  To better consult epilepsy patients with respect to the impact of surgery on dreaming
           (practical significance)

      PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES

      Purpose:

      - To assess the change in dream content in patients following epilepsy surgery compared to a
      control group of patients undergoing general anesthesia.

      Hypothesis:

      - Dream content is markedly changed in patients before and after epilepsy surgery.

      Objective:

      - To quantify dream content in patients before and after epilepsy surgery using the MOST
      RECENT DREAM questionnaire and compare these results to patients undergoing general
      anesthesia (control group).

      STUDY DESIGN AND METHODOLOGY Setting/Design: Prospective observational study on epilepsy
      patients undergoing elective surgical resection of brain tissue (study group: Epilepsy
      surgery=ESx) or depth electrode insertion in general anesthesia (control group=DE).

      Methodology: Patient baseline characteristics are Age (minimum age: 16 years); Date of birth
      (DOB); Sex; Handedness: RH/LH; Education (years); Occupation according to the International
      Standard Classification of Occupation(5); Seizure history (years); Seizure frequency ENGEL
      classification; Antiepileptic drugs; Other medication (antidepressants, dopaminergic agonists
      and antagonists, etc.); Pathology (Ammon's horn sclerosis y/n); Side (right/left); Any
      previous cranial surgery; Other relevant medical history (dementia, depression and other
      psychiatric disorders, Parkinson's, etc.) Questionnaire: MOST RECENT DREAM (STANDARD
      INSTRUMENT (2)

      STUDY PROCEDURES AND SPECIFIC TESTINGS In this observational study, the MOST RECENT DREAM
      questionnaire, a standard validated instrument(2) represents the only study specific testing
      outside of standard care. The questionnaire is handed out to patients to record the most
      recent dreams five times pre- and post-operatively. The length of each dream summary lies in
      between 50 and 300 words. Study participation and the questionnaires will not affect standard
      patient care in any way and carries no additional risks.

      STUDY GROUP:

      Visit 1 (pre-op outpatient clinics or epilepsy monitoring unit) - Study information -
      Informed consent - Hand-out anonymized MOST RECENT DREAM (5x), return by mail before surgery.

      Visit 2 (post-op outpatient clinics at ~1 month) - Hand-out anonymized MOST RECENT DREAM (5x)
      to be completed and returned by mail at 3 months postoperatively - Outcome according to the
      Engel classification Long-term FU at 12 month - Mail anonymized MOST RECENT DREAM (5x),
      return by mail.

      CONTROL GROUP (Diagnostic depth electrodes):

      Visit 1 (pre-op outpatient clinics/epilepsy monitoring unit) Study information - Informed
      consent - Hand-out anonymized MOST RECENT DREAM (5x), return before surgery.

      Visit 2 (post-op epilepsy monitoring unit) Hand-out anonymized MOST RECENT DREAM (5x) to be
      completed and returned by mail at 1 month postoperatively.

      DATA ANALYSIS Major indicators for main content categories in the Hall/Van de Castle
      system(2) are compared before and after the index procedure and results will be presented
      graphically similar to Bentes et al.(6). Data analysis is done using EXCEL spreadsheets
      available from http://www.dreamresearch.net/ and analysis performed as explained at
      http://www2.ucsc.edu/dreams/Info/statistics.html
    
  