
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Pathologic complete response rate (pCR) of dose dense docetaxel in the neoadjuvant
           setting.

      Secondary

        -  Safety and toxic effects of this regimen in these patients.

        -  Tumor response rate (as measured by ultrasound) in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine whether early changes in markers of cell cycle position, proliferation, or
           apoptosis correlate with pathologic complete response rate in these patients.

        -  Determine whether the molecular profile that predicts for chemoresponsiveness also
           predicts for response to radiotherapy (as measured by local recurrence) in these
           patients.

        -  Determine whether tumors that demonstrate the greatest degree of change in protein
           expression patterns from pre- to post-docetaxel treatment will also be those that are
           most sensitive to chemotherapy (as measured by pathologic response rate) in these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, pilot study.

        -  Tissue Collection: Patients undergo tumor core biopsy (6-8 cores) and blood collection
           prior to initiating neoadjuvant docetaxel.

        -  Neoadjuvant docetaxel with hematopoietic support: Patients receive docetaxel IV over 1
           hour on day 1. Patients also receive pegfilgrastim subcutaneously (SC) on day 1 or 2 of
           each course OR filgrastim (G-CSF) or sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC daily beginning between
           day 2-4 of each course and continuing until blood counts recover. Treatment repeats
           every 14 days for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Surgery: Within 4-6 weeks after completion of neoadjuvant docetaxel, patients undergo
           definitive surgery.

      Patients undergo tumor biopsy and blood collection periodically for pharmacokinetic, genetic,
      and molecular biomarker correlative studies. Samples are examined for changes in p21 protein
      expression (and/or p21 phosphorylation) and the protein expression profile.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at least every 6 months for 3
      years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 50 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  