
    
      Acute bronchiolitis is a major cause for hospitalisation in young children during the winter
      season. Human Respiratory Syncytial Virus (RSV) is the most frequently identified virus,
      however with the use of new and highly sensitive molecular amplification methods, the role of
      other viral pathogens in bronchiolitis has been increasingly recognized. Various disease
      severity has been shown for a range of respiratory viruses, and double viral infection is
      relatively common, occurring in about 10-30% of hospitalised patients. There is no consensus,
      however, on the impact of such co-infection on disease severity: Some studies showed more
      severe disease in co-infected children,while others did not.Most hospitals perform routine
      viral testing to identify and isolate RSV-infected infants, with the aim of reducing the risk
      of nosocomial cross-infection of other patients.However, no good evidence is available of how
      effective this approach is in preventing nosocomial cross-infections among admitted patients
      with the clinical diagnosis of bronchiolitis.

      Because of limited isolation facilities, patients with bronchiolitis admitted to our
      pediatric ward initially share a room, pending the results of virological diagnosis. We
      hypothesize that contact isolation measures and maintaining enough distance between the beds
      in a shared room should be sufficient in preventing cross-infection, since the major route of
      transmission of respiratory viruses is by close contact with infected secretions and not by
      small-particle aerosol.

      Objectives The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of cross-infection in
      children hospitalised for bronchiolitis, when patients with RSV share the same room with
      patients with bronchiolitis infected with another virus during the first day of admission.

      Study design The study was conducted at our 30-bed pediatric ward. From December 2011 through
      March 2012, all eligible infants younger than two years of age hospitalised for acute
      bronchiolitis were prospectively enrolled. Bronchiolitis was defined as acute respiratory
      disease, accompanied by coryza, cough, inspiratory crackles and/or expiratory wheezing on
      auscultation. Infants with chronic lung disease, congenital heart disease and Down's syndrome
      were excluded.

      We prospectively collected the following demographic and clinical information, including
      presence and number of room mates, virological diagnosis of the patient and room mates, and
      daily dyspnoea score assessed by an independent researcher, who was unaware of virological
      diagnosis. A nasopharyngeal aspirate was collected for virological diagnosis by direct
      immunochromatographic antigen detection immediately at admission, every fourth day during
      admission, and five to seven days after discharge.All patients with bronchiolitis were
      treated with standard hygienic measures. Medical and nursing personnel wore gowns, gloves and
      masks during patient contact and washed their hands before and after patient contact. Parents
      and visitors were asked to wash hands before leaving the room. On the first day of admission,
      pending the results of the RSV-PCR (polymerase chain reaction), patients shared a two- or
      four-bed room, with beds separated at least 1,5 meter. Cohorting of RSV-infected patients
      commenced as soon as the result of RSV-PCR was known, generally within one day after
      admission.

      Statistical analysis Chi-square test was used to compare categorical data, Mann-Whitney
      U-tests for continuous data because of skewed distributions. Statistical analyses were
      performed using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 19.
    
  