
    
      Treatments based on cognitive-behavioral therapy, including relapse prevention, have become
      standard for smoking cessation in Brazil and many other areas of the world; yet scientific
      advances are still needed.

      Mindfulness-based approaches have more recently begun to be assessed and implemented for
      treatment of addiction. The Mindfulness-Based Relapse Prevention (MBRP) program, which
      integrates mindfulness practice with cognitive therapy approaches, has shown promising
      preliminary results in previous studies.

      The purpose of the current study is to evaluate the effectiveness of the Mindfulness-Based
      Relapse Prevention program as an adjunct in the standard smoking cessation treatment
      instituted by the Ministry of Health in Brazil.

      The study is a randomized clinical trial, with 60 patients diagnosed with nicotine
      dependence. 60 patients will participate in this study receiving treatment (instituted by the
      Ministry of Health in Brazil, through the Instituto Nacional do Câncer - INCA'S standard)
      randomized between two groups: the Experimental Group (EG), which will undergo eight sessions
      of MBRP; and the Control Group (CG) that will undergo eight sessions of the traditional model
      of Relapse Prevention (INCA's standard). This will include patients diagnosed with nicotine
      dependence, who have achieved abstinence. Specific Objetctives: Evaluate the difference in
      the number of patients who continued abstinence of tobacco; Study the effectiveness MBRP in
      preventing lapses and relapses; Evaluate the effect of MBRP on the craving and its
      association with smoking cessation; Evaluate the effect of MBRP in positive and negative
      affects and its association with smoking cessation; To investigate the association of levels
      of mindfulness with smoking cessation; Evaluate the effect of MBRP in depressive symptoms,
      and its possible association with smoking cessation; Evaluate the effect of MBRP in anxiety
      symptoms, and its possible association with smoking cessation. These will be assessed at
      baseline (T0) and four other times: 1 (T1), 3 (T2), 6 (T3) and 12 months (T4) after the
      initiation of the study, besides being subjected to evaluations of regularly planned
      maintenance in the protocol INCA. Screening instruments: Self Report Questionnaire (SRQ-20);
      Questionnaire of Smoking Urges (QSU); Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HAD); Center for
      Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D); Five Facet Mindfulness Questionnaire (FFMQ);
      Smokerlyser (measuring CO); The Fagerstrom Test for Nicotine Dependence (FTND); Positive and
      Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS). For data analysis there will be used Analysis of Variance
      with Repeated Measures and Longitudinal Logistic Regression, in order to evaluate the effect
      of two types of intervention on the evolution of comorbidities and abstinence of patients.
      Context: Ambulatory benchmark to smoking cessation treatment in the city of Juiz de Fora,
      Minas Gerais, Brazil. Participants: • Inclusion: patients with a diagnosis of nicotine
      dependence;• Exclusion: dependence on other substances, psychiatric comorbidities, pregnant
      women. •Groups matched for gender, education level and dependence on tobacco level. This
      initial study will evaluate the feasibility of Mindfulness-Based Relapse Prevention in the
      context of the Brazilian Public Health system as a supplemental treatment on craving and
      smoking cessation.
    
  