
    
      Veterans with PTSD often have substantial interpersonal problems and low perceived social
      support from family, partners, and peers. Interpersonal problems result in poor social
      reintegration, which in turn permeates all aspects of their functioning and is associated
      with greater suicidal ideation. The problems emerge rapidly, with one study showing a
      fourfold increase in rates of self-reported interpersonal conflict within six months of
      returning from deployment. Veterans with PTSD report considerable avoidance in relationships,
      marital stress, intimacy difficulties, and parenting problems. Low social support is a key
      factor related to poor physical health, emotional functioning, and increased mortality risk.
      Given the importance of social relationships in buffering against negative outcomes and
      suicidal ideation for persons with PTSD, there is a strong need for more research and
      treatment development to improve the social functioning of these Veterans. The proposed
      project will focus on evaluating an innovative treatment for improving the social
      relationships and social support among Veterans with PTSD.

      The goal of this project is to evaluate the efficacy of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy to
      Improve Social Support for Veterans with PTSD (ACT-SS), a treatment focused on helping
      Veterans with PTSD to increase social support with family relationships, partners, and peers
      by targeting maladaptive patterns of interpersonal difficulties, feelings of detachment from
      others, irritability, and avoidance of social situations. ACT-SS provides Veterans with PTSD
      with more adaptive coping skills (i.e., acceptance and mindfulness, focus on values-based
      living) to improve social relationships, social support, and help manage PTSD-related
      distress. The investigators' pilot data of ACT-SS indicates that ACT-SS results in improved
      social relationships and reduced PTSD symptoms, with preliminary data showing that ACT-SS
      results in significantly better improvement in social functioning outcomes compared to
      Present-Centered Therapy (PCT).

      The primary aim of this study is to conduct a two-site randomized controlled trial of ACT-SS
      (n=75) vs. PCT (n=75), a common treatment for social support difficulties. Study outcomes
      will include measures of social support, social relationships, quality of life, and PTSD
      symptoms. This proposal, supported by the promising pilot data, represents an important step
      in examining the potential efficacy of ACT-SS, including social functioning and quality of
      life in Veterans with PTSD. If positive, results from this study may provide a new treatment
      approach for improving the social reintegration of Veterans with PTSD.
    
  