
    
      Mozobil (TM) (plerixafor injection, Genzyme/Sanofi) is a Food and Drug Administration
      approved medication to mobilize CD34+ hematopoietic stem cells prior to apheresis and use in
      autologous transplantation in non-Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma when used in
      conjunction with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF). The drug s mechanism of
      action is the specific and reversible inhibition of the chemokine receptor, CXCR4, expressed
      on CD34+ cells and other leukocytes. This inhibition interferes with the binding of stromal
      cell derived factor-1 (SDF-1), which is constitutively expressed on bone marrow stromal cells
      and appears to cause direct and indirect cellular adhesive interactions. Severe congenital
      neutropenia is a rare inherited disorder in which the affected individuals develop chronic or
      cyclical neutropenia with circulating counts below 500 cells/microliter blood. This disorder
      may result from a variety of genetic defects in progenitor- or neutrophil-expressed genes
      such as elastase, CXCR4, G6PC3, etc. Myelokathexis is the abnormal retention of mature
      leukocytes in the bone marrow and is seen in some types of severe chronic neutropenia such as
      warts, hypogammaglobulinemia, infections, and myelokathexis syndrome (WHIMS). WHIMS is a rare
      primary immunodeficiency, which is known to be caused by mutations that enhance CXCR4
      signaling. Our hypothesis is that Mozobil(TM) can be used safely to partially block CXCR4 and
      treat neutropenia resulting from myelokathexis at doses considerably lower than that being
      used for CD34+ cell mobilization. This new treatment could also improve other aspects of the
      disease such as frequent infections, warts, and hypogammaglobulinemia. To test this
      hypothesis, we propose this trial of Mozobil (TM) in adults with WHIMS, examining safety and
      absolute neutrophil count as the primary endpoint. Mozobil (TM) is injected subcutaneously
      and will be injected via syringes (up to 72 months) or via an infusion pump (pilot trial of
      up to 5 subjects for a 12-month period).
    
  