
    
      Patients will be recruited from participating PICU's. There is currently lack of accurate
      data to enable clinicians to predict which of these children die or survive with brain
      injury. This affects clear communication with families as well as decisions to apply critical
      care interventions by clinicians. There is also an important knowledge gap with regards to
      outcome of children who are admitted to pediatric intensive care after a cardiac arrest and
      then survive to discharge.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Patients aged 24 hours up to 16th birthday

        2. Requiring > 1minute cardiopulmonary resuscitation

        3. Admitted to PICU after Out of Hospital Cardiac Arrest or In Hospital Cardiac Arrest

        4. Requiring mechanical ventilation at PICU admission

        5. Surviving to 3 months follow up.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. Cardiac arrest occurring within a PICU or NICU (Neonatal Intensive Care Unit)

        2. Clinical team at participating sites feel inclusion is inappropriate

        3. Parent/ guardian or family member unable to understand the telephone questionnaires for
           outcome assessments in English

      The NEURO-PACK observational study enables the prospective collection of a cohort of children
      after out-of-hospital or in-hospital cardiac arrest. Data will be collected prospectively
      after eligible patients are screened and informed consent has been obtained. Participants and
      their families will be contacted by the Trials office,3 months after the patients cardiac
      arrest to complete a questionnaire over the telephone regarding functional status. Only
      contact information of the parents/guardians will be shared with the central Trials Office
      once informed consent has been obtained so that follow-up assessments can be completed. This
      information will be stored in locked cabinets, in a swipe card Trials Office based in
      Birmingham for five years, in line with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) guidance.

      The information collected from patients and their families will be analyzed and used to help
      construct a clinical prediction tool which will help clinicians to predict which children who
      have had cardiac arrest may survive with minimal brain damage.
    
  