
    
      Functional mitral regurgitation (FMR) is a common heart valve lesion that is observed in
      patients suffering for cardiomyopathies. Timely surgical repair of FMR can reduce volume
      overload and potentially improve cardiac function. Durable surgical techniques for FMR repair
      are lacking. Undersizing mitral annuloplasty (UMA) is the current technique of choice, but
      its durability is quite poor. Thirty five percent of the repairs fail within one year and 58%
      fail within 2 years.

      One of the probable mechanisms causing UMA failure is elevated lateral inter-papillary muscle
      separation (IPMS). The study investigators are interested in understanding if the extent of
      lateral IPMS has a direct impact on the failure rates of UMA at 1 year post surgery.
      Secondly, the investigators are interested in determining if patients with elevated lateral
      IPMS benefit from papillary muscle approximation (PMA) along with UMA.

      The investigators are interested in determining the best way to correct functional mitral
      regurgitation, as there is currently not one technique that is established to better than the
      other. The most common repair technique is called undersizing mitral annuloplasty (UMA), in
      which a prosthetic ring is implanted onto the mitral valve to correct the leakage. Another
      more recent technique is papillary muscle approximation (PMA), in which a suture draws
      together the two muscles that connect the mitral valve to the heart muscle prior to
      performing UMA. In this research study, the study team is investigating whether they can
      identify those patients who will benefit from one repair over another.

      The primary objective of this protocol is to investigate if pre-operative IPMS is predictive
      of FMR severity at 12 months after UMA to repair FMR. Furthermore, whether a cut-off value of
      pre-operative inter-papillary muscle separation can be established to predict patients who
      might have failure of UMA.

      The secondary objective of this protocol is to investigate if adding PMA to UMA is an
      effective technique in reducing recurrence of FMR at 12 months post-procedure.
    
  