
    
      Aortic aneurysms are classified according to the extent and position of the aorta involved:
      thoracic aneurysms (TA), include the ascending or descending aorta within the thoracic
      cavity, thoracic-abdominal aneurysms (TAA), involving the thoracic and abdominal aorta, and
      abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA, involving the abdominal aorta). The outlook for patients
      with the most extensive aneurysms is very poor if treated medically with a 5 year survival of
      20%1. Intervention has been shown to significantly improve survival to greater than 70% over
      5 years 2. However, intervention comes with significant risk, with mortality between 3 and
      40% and paraplegia between 5-20% dependent on the series1-2. Additional risks are of renal
      and pulmonary failure requiring prolonged intensive care unit stays. However, paraplegia
      remains of most concern to doctor and patient. Paraplegia is a consequence of the tenuous
      nature of the spinal cord blood supply originating from the aorta. Interruption of the blood
      supply during aortic repair is responsible for neurological dysfunction. Several adjuncts
      have been developed to reduce this risk including sequential clamping, left-heart bypass,
      evoked potentials, intercostal reattachment and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage- all of
      which are employed at the Liverpool Heart & Chest Hospital. Drainage of spinal fluid and
      reducing intracranial CSF pressure favours blood perfusion of the spine. In order to perform
      CSF drainage a spinal drain is inserted in patients preoperatively. This process is tightly
      regulated through the existing "Spinal Drainage Protocol" produced by the Trust. Issues arise
      in the following scenarios:

        1. A CSF drain cannot be inserted for technical reasons

        2. The CSF is blood stained precluding use

        3. Drainage per hour is outside of the protocol guidelines (>20mls/hr)

        4. Intracranial Pressure (ICP) remains high despite drainage

        5. There is neurological impairment (detection; clinical or Motor Evoked Potentials)
           despite adhering to the protocol.

      A hypothesis has been developed by the team that a drug called acetazolamide may be of use
      when these scenarios are encountered. Acetazolamide (carbonic anhydrase inhibitor) is a
      conventional diuretic but is also a drug used by travellers to counteract mountain sickness
      and one of its effects is to reduce CSF production. A low-dose (250mg orally) of the drug has
      been shown to be effective as a prophylaxis method in acute mountain sickness 3. Its oral
      form has also been utilised to reduce shunt CSF volume in children4. Additionally,
      Acetazolamide has been suggested as a 'first-line treatment' in Idiopathic intracranial
      hypertension 9, 10. To date, we have used this drug intravenously in 7 thoracic-abdominal
      patients, off licence, and had encouraging results (SEE APPENDIX 1) with a reduction of
      intracranial pressure (ICP) in some but not all patients. At the moment however, this drug is
      only licenced (approved by the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA))
      for use in glaucoma, epileptic patients and patients with abnormal fluid retention. We
      hypothesize that the use of acetazolamide post operatively, in the 5 scenarios just
      described, results in the reduction of CSF production and hence ICP. Following from this we
      believe there was a reduced need for vasopressors and improved spinal cord blood perfusion.
      Undoubtedly in some patients this drug has a dramatic effect on CSF production, ICP and the
      need for drainage and vasopressors, all potential beneficial consequences. We do not know
      however whether the drug works in all patients and whether there are consequences from the
      other effects of this drug such as acidosis, hypercapnia or diuresis. In addition, we do not
      know whether the drug is best given preoperatively, as a prophylactic measure, or whether the
      preoperative treatment will improve the response to the intravenous postoperative dose. In
      addition, we do not know whether these measures which intuitively should lower the risk of
      paraplegia, actually translate into a lowering of this complication.

      General hypothesis: Acetazolamide may safely be used as a preoperative prophylactic measure
      (orally), as well as postoperatively (intravenous) as a treatment measure when the spinal
      drain protocol is exceeded, to modify CSF production and reduce the risk of neurological
      impairment as measured biochemically, spectroscopically, electrically and clinically.

      This study cannot be powered to test for a statistical effect on clinically evident
      paraplegia as its frequency in our institution is 5% thus at our current activity of 30 cases
      per year of TAA and ..??… cases of thoracic stents., the study would need to run over 5
      years. The numbers are sufficient to demonstrate a significant change in the relatively
      common end-points noted below. This study therefore serves to prove the utility of
      acetazolamide in modifying factors we consider influential in the development of paraplegia.
      Should this study prove positive we aim to roll out to an international multicentre study to
      test for clinical effectiveness in reducing paraplegia.

      Hypothesis

      Acetazolamide reduces the following clinically relevant end-points:

        1. Intracranial pressure recorded immediately after line insertion, throughout surgery and
           post-operatively (only recordings post-operatively will be treated as an end-point)

        2. Need to drain large quantities of CSF

        3. Incidence of non-clinically evident paraplegia (measured by motor evoked potential only)

        4. Incidence of clinically evident paraplegia

        5. The need for vasopressor drugs

        6. Incidence of non-clinically evident neurological dysfunction (measured by microwave
           technology)

        7. Incidence of non-clinically evident neurological dysfunction (measured by CSF/serum
           biomarkers)

      Research Objective: The randomised trial aims to investigate the inhibitory properties of the
      drug to decrease CSF production and reduce ICP, which would in effect decline paraplegia risk
      induced by elevated ICP.

      Study design: A single-centre, randomized, unblinded, controlled trial comparing
      acetazolamide versus usual practice

      Sample size: n=100 (50 patients per group)

      Power calculation was estimated as follows:

        1. For a reduction of 50% from the control group to the treatment group; We require 32
           patients in each group for a significant difference of 5% (P<0.05) We require 54
           patients in each group for a significant difference of 1% (P<0.01)

        2. For a reduction of 25% from the control group to the treatment group; We require 116
           patients in each group for a significant difference of 5% (P<0.05). We require 192
           patients in each group for a significant difference of 1% (P<0.01

      We chose to recruit a total of 100 patients in the sample size due to the limitations of
      availability sufficient numbers of patients undergoing this type of surgery in a single
      centre.
    
  