
    
      Background:

      Intubation is classified as an aerosol-generating procedure (AGP). Intubation in a confirmed
      COVID-19 patient with a high viral load poses a high risk of exposure to health care workers
      (HCW). To reduce this risk, the HCW and their assistants are advised to don full personnel
      protective equipment (PPE) with a powered air purifying respiratory (PAPR) during intubation.
      In view of this concern, this procedure is highly recommended to be done in a negative
      pressure room to control the spread of aerosolizing particles in the room. A first-pass
      success in intubation is also crucial to minimize the risk of infection to health care
      workers involved.

      Introduction :

      An Aerosol Box (from here on known as Box A) was recently designed by Dr. Lai Hsien Yung from
      Taiwan which adds extra protection to the intubator and the surrounding environment. The
      Aerosol Box is a transparent box made of acrylic or transparent polycarbonate sheet, designed
      with an opening on one side allowing it to fit over the patient's chest and neck, while the
      opposing side has two holes through which the intubator can insert their hands through. It
      was shown that this barrier enclosure during intubation protects the laryngoscopist. A recent
      study simulated a patient with a cough during intubation with and without the Aerosol Box.
      With the box, it was demonstrated that the simulated cough resulted in contamination of only
      the inner surface of the box, the laryngoscopist's gloves and gowned forearms. Examination of
      the laryngoscopist and the room with ultraviolet light after the simulated cough also showed
      no macroscopic contamination outside the box. In contrast, intubation without the box
      demonstrated that the laryngoscopist's gown, gloves, face mask, eye shield, hair, neck, ears,
      and shoes were all contaminated.

      Feedbacks from our colleagues stated that intubation with Box A is slightly difficult and may
      cause delay in intubation. Canelli et al also concluded this observation. The investigators,
      therefore, innovated the design of Box A to facilitate the laryngoscopist, known as the UMMC
      Intubation Box (from here on known as Box B).
    
  