
    
      This study will deploy a mixed-methods convergent parallel design19, using quantitative
      methods as well as qualitative data gathering and analyses. To test the acceptability and
      satisfaction of the care received, interviews with patients and health care team members will
      investigate attitudes and experiences of patients and care providers. To explore the
      effectiveness and efficiency of nurse-led WCC, interviews and chart audits will assess the
      quality of care provided, and costs in terms of time and team resources involved. These two
      methods will occur simultaneously and the results will be integrated and reported together to
      give an overall view of the feasibility of nurse-provided WCC within the Bruyere/Primrose
      FHT.

      Sample: There will be 2 cohorts of participants. The first cohort will consist of the health
      care professionals involved, namely the family physicians and nurses from the
      Bruyere/Primrose FHT who agree to participate and whose patients will be invited to join the
      research study. The second cohort of participants will consist of parents of well children
      who will be asked to have a nurse provide WCC during the pilot project. The eligibility
      criteria will include:

        -  Most responsible provider agrees to appropriateness for inclusion

        -  born at term and from uncomplicated pregnancy and birth

        -  normal physical growth and development to date

        -  no parental post-partum depression

        -  aged between 6 weeks and 4 years of age

        -  due for WCC visits in the study period Recruitment: The appointment schedules and panels
           of participating FHT physicians will be reviewed to identify eligible children due or
           scheduled for a visit. The potential participants will be contacted by phone 1-4 weeks
           prior to their visit, by the research assistant, and have the project explained to them
           with an invitation to participate or continue with their usual care. If a parent agrees,
           verbal informed consent over the phone will be obtained. Consenting patients will be
           offered the nurse intervention on arrival for their scheduled appointment, with the
           option of seeing their family physician afterwards. They will sign an informed consent
           form prior to the visit, which will also ask for interest in participating in follow-up
           interviews.

      Intervention: A proposed work-flow model for nurse-led WCC will be developed, informed by
      both the literature review and competency-mapping exercise as well as with discussions with
      the participating FHT physicians and nurses to ensure feasibility and buy-in. It is very
      likely that the nurses will use the Rourke Baby Record, a standardized and validated template
      for well child visits, endorsed for use by the College of Family Physicians of Canada20, and
      used by many physicians at the Bruyere/Primrose clinics. FHT team members of all disciplines
      will be asked to review the work-flow model during a consultation session to provide
      feedback, buy-in, and validation. The plan will then be tested with a selected cohort of
      infants and children and adjustments will be made according to feedback and previously
      unanticipated issues. The pilot project will then commence and run for a 9-month period to
      allow for multiple visits with the same patients, recall of patients requiring specific WCC
      tasks and possibly alternating visits with the nurse and the family physician. The goal is to
      perform 50 nurse WCC visits within the study period.

      Data collection: To address our secondary research question, semi-structured interviews will
      explore the acceptability of nurse-provided WCC for parents, nurses and physicians at the
      Bruyere/Primrose FHT, focusing on potential facilitators and barriers to the introduction of
      such a model of care. Interviews will be held with the provider cohort before and after the
      intervention phase, and with patients after the nurse WCC visit. Interviews will stopped when
      theme saturation is achieved or 10 providers and 20 patients have been interviewed, which
      ever comes first. The interview guide will be developed by the research team using
      information from the literature review, the competency mapping-exercise and the consultations
      with the FHT members around recruitment and work-flow planning (see Appendix B for potential
      interview questions). To further assess the acceptability and feasibility of nurse led WCC,
      the investigators will compile initial participation rates (percentage of patients contacted
      who accepted the nurse WCC) and continuation rates (percentage of participants who were
      eligible for additional visits and who agree to at another nurse-led WCC visit within the
      study period).

      In order to provide quantitative data about the acceptability of nurse-provided WCC, the
      electronic medical records of participants at the Bruyere/Primrose FHT will be searched for
      quality indicators such as immunization rates, WCC visits attended by eligible patients, the
      use of standard developmental questionnaires (eg. the Nippissing District Developmental
      Screen), the completion of a template like the Rourke Baby Record, the proper documentation
      of growth parameters, the frequency of visits during the study period, and appropriate
      follow-up plans according to the WCC visit findings. Further or different indicators may be
      selected, based on the competency-mapping exercise currently underway. Using the same data
      extraction sheet developed for the participants' chart audit, similar data will be extracted
      from a randomly selected age-matched cohort of control subjects not offered the intervention
      and compared for the nine months before the intervention and during the 9 month study period.

      Analyses: The transcripts of the semi-structured interviews will be anonymized and then read
      by several members of the research team, including the investigators. A coding template will
      be developed based on the literature review and study objectives and may be iteratively
      adapted during the initial interviews to allow for emerging themes. Thematic analysis will be
      used to code the data, at first creating many codes, which will then be grouped and collapsed
      into major themes and sub-themes21. At analysis meetings, the entire research team will
      review the codes, themes and sub-themes to reach consensus about how the data answers the
      question of feasibility and acceptability of nurse-provided WCC. To ensure rigour, these
      themes will be compared to findings from the literature review and chart audit, triangulated
      and then, final conclusions will be drawn22, 23, 24.

      Quantitative data from the chart audit will be analyzed using SPSS 21 and descriptive
      statistics will be generated to compare proportions receiving recommended care across the two
      groups pre- and post-intervention. Our hypothesis is that there will be no difference in the
      appropriate care manoeuvres received between the control group and the intervention group.
      Patient characteristics will be summarized and reported by group. Discrete variables will be
      summarized using frequencies and proportions. Comparisons of discrete variables between
      groups will be made by using Chi-square or Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. As this is a
      pilot project, the investigators do not expect to be powered to detect a significant
      difference in care but these results will be used to triangulate the findings from the
      qualitative data about appropriate care.

      Participation rates will be calculated based on the proportion of invited patients who
      participate in the intervention. Completion rates will be calculated to determine what
      proportion of those who start with nurse-provided WCC continue with the intervention for all
      of their visits during the full duration of the study.

      Results: The quantitative and qualitative results will be integrated and reported together to
      provide a description on the feasibility and acceptability, as well as the efficacy compared
      to usual care of nurse-provided WCC.
    
  