
    
      The current medical literature provides conflicting evidence as to the benefits of operative
      or conservative management of displaced condylar head fractures. Whilst conservative
      treatment has few risks in itself, most of the evidence would suggest that outcomes are not
      quite as good as operative management. Operative treatment has complications that are not
      presented by conservative treatment, such as the risk of infection or facial nerve injury and
      therefore it is important to demonstrate that such treatment has sufficient benefits to merit
      it's consideration, and to properly inform the patients about the benefits and risks of
      treatment. When patients present with these injuries it is currently difficult to provide
      them with good evidence for them to make an informed decision with, as to whether to undergo
      surgery or not. At present the patient is expected to make a decision as to whether to have
      surgery or not based on this limited knowledge, and it is the investigator's experience with
      consulting these patients and the questions they asked that has demonstrated the need for and
      guided the design of the trial focusing on a patient related outcome quality of life measure,
      rather than the common objective measures.#

      The main purpose of undertaking this RCT is to directly compare the results of operative and
      conservative management focusing on an outcome which is determined by the patients perception
      of their function and quality of life rather than purely objective measurements. A randomised
      controlled trial would provide the strongest level of evidence to support future care
      decisions and any patient with a unilateral fracture would be considered for inclusion if
      they can give informed consent and are able to complete the PROM questionnaire at the
      necessary time points. Exclusion criteria are limited, but include bilateral fractures
      because these are less common and the results may not be directly comparable.

      The trial design has been kept simple and adds no significant burden to patients as all
      aspects of care and follow up are the same as the current standard of care apart from the
      completion of the questionnaire, which can be completed relatively quickly during
      participant's clinic appointments. The investigators are experienced surgeons in this field
      and able to fully answer any questions from patients with regards to the trial, and to risks
      and benefits of either treatment option. Neither has any conflict of interest in undertaking
      the trial.

      All trial data will be handled confidentially in line with good governance procedures, and
      will be monitored by appropriate persons from the trial sponsors.
    
  