
    
      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) Outcomes for
      patients with MM who are resistant to proteasome inhibitors (bortezomib) and immunomodulatory
      drugs (lenalidomide, thalidomide) are dramatically poor. The median expected overall survival
      (OS) in these patients is 9 months. New drugs such as pomalidomide or carfilzomib, when used
      in monotherapy, can only offer a median progression free survival (PFS) of 3.8 months and OS
      of 11.9 and 13.4 months, respectively.

      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) remains the most reasonable treatment option,
      apart from palliative care, in patients with refractory or relapsed MM. No other strategy is
      able to offer any chance of cure for a patient at this stage. However, in the context of
      standard myeloablative (MAC) allo-SCT, results are limited in terms of feasibility in the
      larger patients' population who is in need, and by both a relatively high relapse incidence
      (RI) and especially high non-relapse mortality (NRM). Also, in the last decade, the advent of
      reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) allo-SCT and the improvement in supportive care
      management regarding infectious complications allowed a significant reduction of NRM. RIC
      expanded the transplant option to those patients who are ineligible for standard MAC allo-SCT
      either because of age or because of pre-existing comorbid conditions. While NRM is over 40%
      with MAC, relapse incidence remains high with either RIC or MAC. The major reason for
      treatment failure after allo-SCT for MM has become relapse, which is between 38% and 55%.
      Median PFS ranges from 10% to 32%. Thus, strategies to prevent relapse after allo-SCT for MM
      remain an unmet medical need.

      Post-transplant maintenance therapy Consolidation/maintenance post-transplantation for MM has
      demonstrated to not only upgrade but also deepen the response, which translates into improved
      PFS. Studies investigated immunomodulatory drugs, thalidomide or lenalidomide, as maintenance
      therapy after allo-SCT. The observed activation of natural killer and regulatory T cells
      induced by immunomodulatory drugs provides an attractive rationale for its use
      post-transplant. But some concerns are raised by a high rate of graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD) induction. In the prospective HOVON 76 trial, 43% patients stopped lenalidomide
      maintenance because of development of GVHD, 17% patients because of other adverse events, and
      17% patients because of progression. Thus, lenalidomide maintenance after RIC allo-SCT in MM
      patients is not feasible, mainly because of the toxicity and the induction of acute GVHD.

      Daratumumab, a human IgG1 monoclonal antibody that binds CD38-expressing malignant cells with
      high affinity and induces tumor cell death, has recently shown promising results in a phase 2
      trial. Daratumumab was well tolerated, median PFS was 3.7 months and median duration of
      response was 7.4 months in patients who were refractory to both proteasome inhibitors and
      immunomodulatory drugs. Our first pilot experience, based on 3 patients with refractory MM
      suggests that Daratumumab maintenance is feasible. No grade 3-4 toxicities were observed.
      None of the patients experienced GVHD. After a median follow-up of 12 months, none of these
      patients relapsed. Thus, Daratumumab appears to be the ideal candidate to propose
      immunotherapy maintenance and reinforce the post-transplant immunomodulation strategy.

      Prophylactic donor lymphocyte infusions Given that relapsed or refractory patients are at
      very high risk of relapse, prophylactic donor lymphocyte infusion (pDLI) is a promising
      approach to prevent relapse after allo-SCT. pDLI can improve remission status in 54% of the
      patients and result in 5-year PFS of 79%. The incidence and severity of acute GVHD remains
      manageable.

      Type of donor Haploidentical family donors allow finding a quickly available donor for a
      majority of patients. T-cell replete haploidentical allo-SCT has now become feasible with the
      use of post-graft Cyclophosphamide, which reduces the risk of GVHD. In patients with relapsed
      or refractory hematologic malignancies, studies show no significant difference in terms of
      toxicity and outcomes between patients undergoing allo-SCT from a HLA-identical sibling and a
      haploidentical donor. Compared with unrelated donors, the outcomes are improved in
      haploidentical recipients. Thus, for these advanced patients, one should look first for a
      related donor, either matched or haploidentical. Searching for an unrelated donor may delay
      the procedure, with a risk of losing the opportunity for transplantation, and may be
      associated with worse outcomes compared with haploidentical allo-SCT.

      Few studies have reported the outcomes of patients with MM after haploidentical allo-SCT. The
      most encouraging results have been reported with the RIC associating thiotepa, busulfan and
      fludarabine (TBF) in patients with heavily pretreated MM. The median 18-month PFS, OS and NRM
      were 33%, 63% and 10%, respectively.

      The present protocol aims to test, whether an approach using (i) a reduced-toxicity TBF
      followed by a (ii) Daratumumab maintenance and (iii) prophylactic infusion of donor
      lymphocytes (pDLI), will be able to improve progression-free survival of patients with
      refractory or relapsed MM. This trial represents the first prospective protocol aiming to
      test the use of Daratumumab maintenance after HLA-identical or haploidentical allo-SCT in
      patients with MM.

      This is a prospective, multicenter, open, non-randomized Phase II study that will include a
      total number of 38 patients included over a period of 2 years.

      The population of the study is women and men adults (18-70 years) with refractory or relapsed
      multiple myeloma.

      Treatment period will be 12 months Duration of inclusions will be 24 months So, total study
      duration (eg. 12 months after inclusion of last patient)will be 36 months

      Each patient will receive: Daratumumab, 16 mg/kg, once a week for 8 weeks (cycles 1 and 2);
      then every 2 weeks for 16 weeks (cycles 3-6), then every 4 weeks thereafter (cycles 7-12).

      A Patient is only eligible if:

        -  Absolute neutrophil count > 1 G/L

        -  Haemoglobin concentration > 7.5 g/dL

        -  Platelets > 50 G/L

        -  Estimated glomerular filtration rate > 20 mL/min according to CDK-EPI

        -  Is free of grade 2-4 acute GVHD since >30 days

        -  Is free of active infections

      Is an interim analysis planned, if yes, list and specify timing(s): no Final study report
      timing after Last Patient, Last Visit: 3 months Publication submission timing after final
      study report: 3 months

      The primary objective is to demonstrate that PFS at 12 months is higher than 40%. The trial
      would be designed to test the hypothesis P < 20% versus P>40% with one sided type I error
      rate 5% and power 80%. Using a one step A'Hern procedure, 35 patients should be transplanted.
      The analysis will be based on a binomial test comparing the observed 12 months PFS to 40%. In
      all, 38 patients will be included (taking into account that after registration, there is a
      risk of dropout i.e. patients, who will not receive a transplant due to rapidly progressive
      disease, infection or other events occurring after identification of a donor, but before
      start of conditioning).
    
  