
    
      According to randomization policy, patients' will be allocated to two groups each one will
      include 30 subjects: Group I (the study group) in which the investigator will use a
      polypropylene wide pore soft mesh (Bard, USA). Group II (the control group) in which the
      investigator will use the same polypropylene mesh in association with Vicryl mesh
      (Polyglactin 910, VM95, Ethicon, Belgium). The mesh will be prepared by suturing the Vicryl
      and polypropylene mesh together after folding the edges (2 cm each) and its fixation with
      four full thickness corners Vicryl 2/0 stay sutures. Another four sutures anchoring the
      overlapped edges together will be applied at the center of each edge, after that, the mesh
      will be inserted intraperitoneally in an oblong fashion in defects above the point midway
      between the umbilicus and symphysis pubis and in horizontal fashion in defects in the
      hypogastric region with the Vicryl part facing the bowel. U sutures using polypropylene 0
      will be applied through the whole thickness of the anterior abdominal wall in order to anchor
      the four angles of the mesh. Then, the turned over edges of the mesh will be fixed to the
      inner aspect of the abdominal wall using interrupted full thickness U sutures or mesh stapler
      (fascia stapler, Medtronic (covidien), USA) according to availability. The same technique
      will be used in the study group excluding the vicryl mesh. Following mesh fixation, a
      tailored viable part of the sac will be closed over the mesh to separate it from the
      subcutaneous tissue in order to minimize seroma formation. Follow-up data will be recorded in
      a proforma for each patient, noting intraoperative and postoperative complications and
      postoperative hospital-stay. Each patient will be examined by the surgical team in the
      Outpatient Clinic at postoperative days 7, 15, and 30 to assess early complications, and at 3
      months for one year and every 6 months for 2 years, to assess late complications when
      necessary after making the scheduled telephone communication.
    
  