
    
      Within this scientific and clinical context, we hypothesize:

        -  That CP children will be less stable than healthy children (in control situation) and
           that the attentional cost for controlling static posture will be higher.

        -  On the basis of Olivier et al.'s work (2008) showing in adults and children aged 4 to 11
           that postural control is better when attention is oriented toward a video film (i.e.,
           decrease of the attentional demand allocated to the control of static posture), we
           predict that CP children will be more stable in dual task situation with visual or sound
           distractors than when focusing attention on postural control alone.

        -  We also predict that an additional cognitive task (adapted Stroop task), by increasing
           the attentional demand, will induce a deficit of postural control confirming Reilly et
           al.'s results (2008b).

      On the same basis, we will also investigate the attentional cost of locomotion.

      Exploratory study of dynamic equilibrium during locomotion in the same conditions.

      Investigation of posture in the following conditions:

        1. without attentional distractors and without additional cognitive task (control
           condition)

        2. with attentional visual and sound distractors (video film)

        3. with sound attentional distractor alone (sound track of the video film)

        4. with an additional cognitive task (Stroop task adapted for children).

      Considering the goals of this research project, no serious undesirable event is expected to
      occur. However, falls may occur accidentally while rising or descending from the force
      platform, during static posture, or during locomotion. Consequently, in addition to the
      experimenter, a physiotherapist or someone of the medical staff will be present during all
      experimental recordings.

      The environment will be also organized to the secure the experimental room by excluding all
      potentials dangerous or non necessary objects. Whenever necessary, the potentials falls will
      be reported and declared to the health authorities.
    
  