
    
      Knowledge about the patient's own perception of both general health and more hip-related
      issues after experiencing a hip dislocation is lacking (19). Hip surgeons need this
      information in order to incorporate it with other objective aspects, when advising patients
      with their first hip dislocation. Due to the large study population, this study will provide
      solid information of what to expect after a hip dislocation and be the largest study ever
      conducted within this topic. Depending on the results, this study may change the path we
      choose to advise for our patients after single or recurrent dislocations.

      A matched case-control study involving the share of THA patients with at least 1 episode of
      hip dislocation.

      The patients had undergone primary surgery in the 5-year period from 01.01.2010 - 31.12.2014
      and subsequent dislocation was evaluated in a 2-year follow-up period. Given a 3-5%
      approximated incidence of dislocation, 1100-1800 cases will have been identified.

      Patients are subdivided in groups depending on the number of dislocations and one group
      containing THA revisions. In order to be included, a time frame of at least 0,5 year since
      the last episode of dislocation or surgery must have passed.

      A matched control group of patients with primary THA without any event of dislocation are
      located from the original 5-year period of primary surgery. They will be matched with the
      group of patients with dislocation, regarding to:

        1. Age (+/- 5 years)

        2. Gender

        3. Date of surgery and hospital

      The study will be conducted in accordance with the Strengthening the Reporting of
      Observational Studies in Epidemiology (STROBE) guidelines.

      After 01.01.2019, all patients included will be receiving 3 questionnaires (a generic -
      EQ-5D, a hip-specific - HOOS, and an activity scale - UCLA) by e-boks (a mandatory secure
      email system couplet to the patient's CPR number). Some elderly are exempt and will instead
      receive the questionnaires by regular mail and a pre-labeled return envelope is attached.
      Reminders are sent after 2 months.
    
  