
    
      Blood's participants will be examined fasting plasma insulin and glycated albumin (from
      fasting blood) and insulin measured during a standardized 2-h OGTT, DPP-4 enzyme, and GLP-1
      (from standardized 2-h OGTT blood). Then, complete urinalysis test. Participants will be
      randomized to be two groups are group have been intervenced by capsules of A. paniculata or
      group placebo. Each group will be explained about procedure to consume capsules A. paniculata
      or placebo for 14 days, storage procedures, and the way to contact the investigators if
      adverse event happened. The investigators will contact participants to remember the schedule
      to consume capsules A. paniculata, ask whether the side effects or not, and ask the result of
      self monitoring blood glucose every three days by glucose meter have been given.

      Before day 12th, participants will be contacted to come in visit 2nd. In visit 2nd (day 15th)
      will be done anamneses, assessment of compliance, reporting adverse event and side effect,
      physical examination, fasting plasma glucose test, fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, GA and complete
      urinalysis. Then, will be done standardized 2-h OGTT. Two hours later, it will be done plasma
      glucose level, insulin, DPP-4 enzyme, and GLP-1. Participants will be explained that they
      will not receive capsules of A. paniculata for 7 days (day 15th till 21th). This is called
      wash out.

      Participants will be explained about procedures to consume capsule of A. paniculata or
      placebo in day 22th till 35th. Before day 32th, participants will be contacted to come in
      visit 3rd (day 36th). In visit 3rd, will be done anamneses, assessment of compliance,
      reporting adverse event and side effect, physical examination, fasting plasma glucose test,
      fasting insulin, HOMA-IR, GA and complete urinalysis. Then, will be done standardized 2-h
      OGTT. Two hours later, it will be done plasma glucose level, insulin, DPP-4 enzyme, and
      GLP-1.
    
  