
    
      This study is designed as an open randomized clinical trial comparing the efficacy of
      perforators flaps technique (PF) to decrease the healing time, versus secondary intention
      wound healing (SIWH) after skin excision for axillary Hidradenitis suppurativa.

      This study involves 5 centers plastic surgery

      Patients will be randomized by the investigator after inclusion using a Case Report Form
      (e-CRF) CleanWeb, Telemedecin Technologies, S.A.S). Randomization will be stratified on
      center and on laterality (unilateral/bilateral); in case of bilateral axillary HS, side will
      be randomly assigned at the same time than surgery group.

      Centralized blocked randomization according to a 1:1 ratio will be prepared by the Clinical
      Research Unit (URC-EST).

      Primary endpoint

      Healing time defined as :

        1. In SIWH group: time between the excisional surgery and total re-epithelialization
           (100%), treatment of potential wound healing delay related to complications included.

        2. in PF group : time between the excisional surgery and the day of last stiches
           removal(closed incision), treatment of potential delay related to complications included
           .If partial necrosis< 50 %, occurs and is treated by SIWH , the secondary end point will
           be the total re-epithelialization.

      If healing is not attended at the end of follow up, healing duration will be set at 6 months
      in both group

      Secondary endpoints

      To compare between groups:

        -  Recurrence rate during a follow-up of 12 months: new signs of disease in the axilla
           despite surgical treatment and Hurley staging of the involved axilla .

        -  Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand score (DASH) and of the measurement of the
           amplitude of arm abduction using a goniometer : differences between inclusion and M3,
           M6, M12.

        -  Length of stay at the hospital at the discharge

        -  Time from surgery to return to daily activity

        -  Quality of life between inclusion and at M3, M6, M12; with MOS-SF36 / Dermatology Life
           Quality Index (DLQI)/ EQ 5D

        -  Aesthetic outcomes: VAS (1: worst aesthetic result-10 : best aesthetic result) obtained
           after submission of the pre/post-operative pictures of the axillary region to a
           medical/paramedical panel at M12 and patient satisfaction for the aesthetic outcomes at
           M12 with the same scale, Pre/post-operative pictures of the axillary region will be
           submitted to a medical/paramedical panel and measured with the same Visual Analogic
           scale (VAS) aesthetic outcomes 3 Pictures

        -  1 face Arm elevated with the 2 axillae in the frame, 1 of the axillae face, 1 of the
           axillae profil

        -  The day of the surgery or one day before surgery: a picture to determine the size of the
           lesion (arm 90°) and with the size of the defect (Ruler or dimension written on the
           skin) after skin excision.

      VAS patient satisfaction for the aesthetic outcomes

        -  Complication rates during a follow up of 3 months: hematoma, infection, cutaneous
           necrosis

        -  Pain (Visual Analogic Scale): before patient discharge, every 15 days until wound
           healing and at M3 and M6.

        -  Production costs of the new technique perforator flap from the hospital perspective

        -  Total average cost and incremental cost-utility ratio
    
  