
    
      Primary Objectives: To determine the 1 year progression-free survival (PFS) of the
      combination of metformin and gefitinib in patients who harbors EGFR-mutant with previously
      untreated advanced or metastatic pulmonary adenocarcinoma.

      Secondary Objectives:

      A. To evaluate the response to therapy and overall survival of the combination of metformin
      with gefitinib in patients who harbors EGFR-mutant with previously untreated advanced or
      metastatic pulmonary adenocarcinoma.

      B. To acquire preliminary data regarding the effects of metformin on interleukin-6 (IL-6)
      levels in tumor and serum.

      Treatment will be administered on an outpatient basis. Metformin starting at a dose of 500 mg
      twice a day, orally with meals. After one week, increase the dose of metformin to 1000 mg as
      the first dose of the day and 500 mg as the second dose. After another week, increase to 1000
      mg of metformin two times a day. Metformin treatment will be initiated one week before
      beginning gefitinib, if possible, but gefitinib administration will not be delayed for
      metformin loading.

      Gefitinib will be administered 250mg QD continuously. Metformin will be administered
      continuously, beginning one week before beginning gefitinib, if possible, but tyrosine kinase
      inhibitors (TKI) will not be delayed for metformin loading.

      Maintenance Therapy Patients responding to this therapy will be maintained with metformin
      (1000 mg twice daily) and gefitinib.

      Duration of Therapy

      In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse events, treatment may continue until one of
      the following criteria applies:

        1. Disease progression,

        2. Intercurrent illness that prevents further administration of treatment,

        3. Unacceptable adverse events(s),

        4. Patient decides to withdraw from the study, or

        5. General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator.
    
  