
    
      Oral antimicrobial therapy mitigates vascular line associated complications such as
      infection, thrombosis and pain, facilitating early mobilization and discharge and reducing
      healthcare costs. Efficacy and safety of step-down to oral antimicrobial therapy in patients
      with Enterobacteriaceae bacteremia has never been confirmed in a randomized clinical trial.
      The aim of this clinical trial is to evaluate the safety and efficacy of oral step down
      strategy in patients with Gram-negative blood stream infections.

      Eligible subjects will be those age 18 years or more with mono-microbial blood stream
      infection caused by E. coli, Klebsiella species, Enterobacter species, Serratia species,
      Citrobacter species, or Proteus species, who have achieved adequate source control, are
      afebrile and hemodynamically stable for 48 hours or more and have received microbiologically
      active intravenous therapy for 3-5 days. The bloodstream isolate must be susceptible to
      amoxicillin, amoxicillin-clavulanate, fluoroquinolones, oral cephalosporins and/or
      trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and the subject must be able to take oral medication directly
      or through a feeding tube. Exclusions criteria include allergy to all in-vitro active
      antimicrobials which are available in oral formulations, pregnancy, infective endocarditis,
      central nervous system infection, terminal illness with expected survival less than 14 days,
      absolute neutrophil count less than 1.0x109/L and hematopoietic or solid organ
      transplantation within the preceding 90 days.

      The primary endpoint is treatment failure at 90-days, defined as a composite of the death
      from any cause, need for additional antimicrobial therapy with one or more microbiologically
      active agents before complete resolution of signs and symptoms of infection, microbiological
      relapse (same species from any clinical site) and infection-related re-admission.

      Eligible subjects will be randomized using permuted blocks of variable sizes to full
      intravenous antimicrobial therapy course (IV Group) or intravenous followed by step-down to
      oral therapy (PO Group). Randomization will be stratified by urinary versus non-urinary
      source of bacteremia. The primary analysis will include all patients who were randomized and
      received at least one dose of the assigned treatment. The difference in primary outcome rate
      between the intervention and control groups will be presented alongside a 95% confidence
      interval (CI), calculated using the method of Mietennen and Nurminen. If the upper limit of
      the 95% CI for the difference in overall response is below 10%, non-inferiority will be
      concluded.

      A Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) will oversee the trial. An interim analysis will be
      performed after the first 50% of the target sample have completed the 90-day study period.
      DMSB can make a binding recommendation to terminate the study if the results of the interim
      analysis indicate very high likelihood for positive effect or futility.
    
  