
    
      Calcium oxalate stone disease results in billions of dollars in healthcare costs per year,
      creates large economic losses due to decreased work productivity, and produces significant
      pain and suffering in affected individuals impacting quality of life. Almost 9% of the
      population in the United States may now experience a stone event at least once in their
      lifetime and that figure is increasing. Although stone removing treatments have advanced in
      the last few decades with a variety of minimally invasive procedures such as shock wave
      lithotripsy, ureteroscopy and percutaneous nephrolithotomy, our knowledge of how stones form
      and how to prevent them has not kept pace. Approximately 70-80% of the stones formed contain
      oxalate. Oxalate is an end product of metabolism and an ubiquitous element of human diets.
      Small increases in urinary oxalate can increase calcium oxalate crystal formation and thus
      stone disease. Urinary oxalate levels are affected by both dietary and endogenous components,
      complicating the discrimination between the two sources. Multiple epidemiological and
      clinical studies have demonstrated a link between body mass index (BMI) and kidney stone
      disease and also an increased urinary oxalate excretion.

      The interpretation of studies suggesting a link between obesity and the amount of urinary
      oxalate excreted is confounded by the failure in most studies to use diets controlled in
      calcium and oxalate. Adult humans without a history of kidney stones will be placed on
      controlled low oxalate diets to estimate the contribution of endogenous oxalate synthesis to
      the urinary oxalate pool. In addition, oral doses of 13C2-glycolate and 13C6- vitamin C will
      be used to determine their conversions to 13C2-oxalate and provide an index of endogenous
      oxalate production. Body morphometric indices, markers of oxidative stress, and insulin
      resistance will be assessed in these subjects.They will also be evaluated with DXA and MRI to
      define body fat content and distribution.
    
  