
    
      Background

      Alcohol dependence is a major public health problem. Because of its relapsing nature of the
      disorder, alcohol and also drug dependence are now thought to be chronic disorders for many
      patients.Therefore, continuing care has become an important element in the treatment of
      alcohol dependence. Continuing care is referred to as ongoing care after an initial phase of
      intensive care and can be provided in different modalities and formats such as group
      counseling, telephone-based counseling, individual therapy and more. However, many
      substance-dependence patients do not attend any continuing care or abandon attending care to
      early. To approach this problem more flexible continuing care protocols that abstain from the
      traditional face-to-face counseling sessions have been developed to promote better adherence
      an improve disease management over time. Studies on continuing care revealed mixed results
      that depend on the duration of the intervention and the method of delivery services. Longer
      planned intervention and active approaches that bring the intervention to the patients seem
      to be more effective than traditional approaches in the management of addiction. For instance
      studies investigating telephone-based continuing care for patients with alcohol dependence
      have shown to be an effective form of step-dow treatment after a previous stabilisation
      treatment program and provide extended recovery support. Results revealed that
      telephone-based continuing care produced higher rates of abstinence than face-to-face
      standard continuing care, especially patient with low to moderate risk scores benefited
      therefrom. Furthermore, it is a feasible instrument to implement a low-budget follow-up
      system in routine outcome monitoring.

      Objective

      In this study, the investigators want to evaluate the effectiveness of a high- versus
      low-frequency telephone-based and a short message-based continuing care provided for patients
      who have achieved a 12 week in-patient treatment for alcohol dependence. The investigators
      hypothesize that telephone-based continuing care should help the patients to bridge the gap
      of an intensive in-patient treatment to out-patient environment and working life.

      Methods

      320 patients will be recruited through the Clinic Südhang (Bern) and the Forel Clinic
      (Zürich), both specialized clinics for treatment of alcohol dependency. Patients, age 18-65,
      will have attended a 12-week in-patient treatment program for alcohol dependency.
      Participants are divided in 4 groups (high-frequency-, low-frequency-, sms- and control-
      group) by randomization. Patients of the high-frequency and sms group will be contacted 9
      times during the first 6 months while the low-frequency group will be called 2 times and the
      control group will not be contacted. All 4 groups are contacted after 6 months and 12 months.
      The telephone continuing care consists of several cognitive-behavioral therapy components and
      includes monitoring of substance use status and progress towards identified goals,
      identification of current and anticipated high risk situations as well as development and
      rehearsal of improved coping behaviors. Each call lasts approximately 15 minutes.
    
  