
    
      Objective: We study the efficacy of the retractor sponge in laparoscopic colorectal surgery
      to reduce hospital stay in patients operated for a malignancy. Secondary objectives are
      duration of surgery, blood-loss, use of diuretics as volume therapy (during surgery as wells
      as during total hospital stay), postoperative hypoxemia and peri- and postoperative
      complications.

      Study design: Randomized controlled trial, nested within a prospective cohort according to
      the 'cohort multiple randomized controlled trial' (cmRCT) design.

      Study population: Patients with colorectal cancer who undergo laparoscopic surgery, and who
      have given informed consent to be offered experimental interventions within the PICNIC
      project. Patient who require open surgery or patients with benign colorectal diseases are
      excluded for this study.

      Intervention: Intraoperative use of the retractor sponge versus usual care, i.e. the
      Trendelenburg position.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is length of hospital stay. Secondary
      endpoints are duration of surgery, blood-loss, use of diuretics (during surgery as wells as
      during total hospital stay), postoperative hypoxemia and peri- and postoperative surgical,
      pulmonary and cardiac complications.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: The study will be conducted according to the cohort multiple Randomized
      Controlled Trial (cmRCT) design. Within the PICNIC cohort, we will identify all patients who
      are eligible for the experimental intervention (use of the sponge) and who have given
      informed consent to be invited for future experimental interventions. From this sub cohort,
      we will randomly select a group of patients to whom we will offer surgery with use of the
      retractor sponge, which they can accept or decline. Eligible patients from the sub cohort who
      were not randomly selected will undergo standard treatment, i.e. surgery in Trendelenburg
      position. We do not expect adverse events in patients in the intervention arm, besides
      dysfunction of the sponge, after which conversion to standard treatment (Trendelenburg
      position) needs to take place.
    
  