
    
      This is a prospective single arm study of the Cardiogenesis PEARL 8.0 Handpiece Delivery
      System. The PEARL 8.0 Handpiece allows the TMR laser energy to be directed at the heart
      through a small port up to 8 mm in size. The purpose of this study is to demonstrate that the
      30 day mortality rate among patients who receive this device is less than the historical rate
      plus a non-inferiority margin. In a recent study of 34 patients treated with the PEARL 8.0
      device, 3 (8.8%) experienced 30 day mortality. Among 132 patients in the original PMA trial
      treated with the SoloGrip III Handpiece, a similar device delivering identical energy, the 30
      day mortality rate was 5.3% (7/132). In the Post-Approval Study of the SoloGrip III
      Handpiece, 2/72 prospectively enrolled patients died within the first 30 days. Therefore, the
      weighted average of the Pre-market and post-market studies has been calculated (4.4%) and
      will serve as the historical rate.

      This trial will be monitored for success and futility according to a Bayesian adaptive
      design. Based on prior history, we assume patients will be accrued at the rate of
      approximately 1 patient per month and therefore, 30 day mortality will be known for all
      currently enrolled patients at the time each new patient is enrolled.

      The success stopping boundaries for this study are 0/10 and 1/22. Thus, if no deaths are
      observed among the first 10 patients, the study will stop for success. If 1 death is observed
      among the first 10 patients, the study will continue to enroll. If among the first 22
      patients, only 1 death is observed (there are no additional deaths), the study will stop for
      success. At any time, if 2 or more deaths are observed, the study will stop for futility.

      A secondary objective is to assess the effect of channel number on the 30 day mortality rate
      to justify the labeling claims that the risk for early post-operative (30 day) mortality is
      associated with an increased number of channels, and not the function of the operation or
      device.
    
  