
    
      This study is a pragmatic randomized controlled trial to test the effectiveness of
      behavioural activation in bipolar disorder. The pragmatic randomized controlled trial study
      design is a parallel 1:1 allocation comparing behavioural activation plus treatment as usual
      to waitlist control group plus treatment as usual. For this study the investigators will
      adopt the following principals simulating naturalistic real life clinical setting to test the
      study question based on the pragmatic design:

      No restrictive inclusion criteria will be used. Adults with bipolar disorder will be asked to
      participate in this study Clinicians will deliver the BA program to participants randomized
      to receive the intervention The intervention will be an add-on to treatment as usual The
      comparison group will receive treatment as usual that may include medications, CBT and other
      therapies as required and decided by their clinical care The primary outcome is clinically
      relevant (improvement in depressive and manic symptoms)

      Both the intervention and control groups will be assessed as intention to treat analysis with
      no measures to improve adherence to the study intervention or the comparator.

      Patients with a diagnosis of bipolar disorders attending the mood disorders clinic, referred
      for assessment of bipolar disorder at the clinic or referred from community or other hospital
      services to the mood disorders clinic will be approached for participation in the study. In
      addition, family practices in the community will be informed of the study and asked to refer
      directly to the trial. Following initial screening for eligibility, potential participants
      will be asked to provide written informed consent prior to any study related procedures.

      The investigators will employ a parallel group design to evaluate the effects of behavioural
      activation intervention to improve bipolar disorder-related outcomes. Eligible and consenting
      patients will be randomly allocated to the intervention or control arms using a 1:1
      allocation ratio. Allocations will be generated using the computerized system. The
      randomization will use a block randomization system of block sizes of 2, 4 and 6. Allocation
      will be conducted by a research personnel who is not a clinician and will not know the
      participant clinical status to maintain allocation concealment.

      This trial is an open label trial as blinding is not possible for participants (behavioural
      activation intervention) or the clinician administering the intervention.
    
  