
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study cycle is 4 weeks. The length of any study cycle may be extended if you experience
      side effects from the drugs.

      Cilengitide will be given as an intravenous (IV) infusion (into a vein) 2 times a week during
      each 4-week cycle. The infusion will last about 1 hour each time and will be separated by at
      least 72 hours.

      Bevacizumab will be given on as an IV infusion over 90 minutes on Days 1 and 15 of each
      cycle. After several infusions and depending on how you react, the length of time of the
      infusion may decrease.

      If the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest and depending on how you react to
      bevacizumab, the length of the infusion time may be decreased.

      On the days you are scheduled to receive both cilengitide and bevacizumab, you will receive
      cilengitide after the bevacizumab infusion.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of Cycle 1, urine and blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be collected for routine
      tests.

      On Day 15 of Cycle 1, your blood pressure will be measured and blood (about 1 tablespoon)
      will be drawn for routine tests.

      Day 1 of Cycles 2 and beyond:

        -  You will have a physical exam including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will complete the MDASI-BT questionnaire.

        -  Urine and blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease (only at Cycles 2, 4,
           6, 8, and so on.)

      On Day 15 of Cycles 2 and beyond, your blood pressure will be measured.

      End-of-Treatment Visit:

      After your last dose of the study drugs, you will have and end-of-treatment visit and the
      following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam including measurement of your weight and vitals.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will have a neurologic exam.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will complete the MDASI-BT questionnaire.

        -  Urine and blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be collected for routine tests.

        -  You will have a CT or MRI scan to check the status of the disease.

      Length of Treatment:

      You may continue taking the study drugs for as long as the doctor thinks it is in your best
      interest. You will no longer be able to take the study drugs if the disease gets worse, if
      intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over after the long-term follow-up phone calls.

      Long-Term Follow-Up Visit:

      After you have stopped taking the study drugs and completed your end-of-treatment visit, the
      study staff will call you 1 time every 6 months to check on how you are doing. Each phone
      call should last about 5 minutes.

      This is an investigational study. Bevacizumab is FDA approved and commercially available for
      the treatment of recurrent glioblastoma. Cilengitide is not FDA approved or commercially
      available. At this time, the combination of cilengitide and bevacizumab is being used for
      research purposes only.

      Up to 39 participants will take part in this multicenter study. Up to 20 will be enrolled at
      MD Anderson.
    
  