
    
      Balance is crucial for an individual's mobility and independence. Dizziness and imbalance
      symptoms are one of the most common reasons for visits to a doctor and affect up to 30-40% of
      the population by 60 years of age. The healthcare service provision to address vestibular
      pathology remains inadequate and is regarded as low priority. The complexity of balance
      control mechanisms, the lack of medical expertise, and the absence of specialised equipment
      can be contributory factors to the mismanagement of patients suffering balance disorders.
      However, the mean number for patient visits to their Health Care providers required to
      establish a correct diagnosis and start appropriate treatment, both in the US and the UK, is
      4.5. The overall socio-economic impact of balance disorders on the affected individual,
      patient's families as well as the burden on society and the health services is considerable.

      Advances in computer science and artificial intelligence have allowed the development of
      computer systems that support clinical diagnosis or therapeutic and treatment decisions based
      on individualised patient data. However, a review of existing Decision Support Systems used
      in Medicine demonstrated there are not many successful integrated software systems or
      standalone tools that address the early diagnosis and effective management of balance
      disorders.

      All this said, the EMBalance DSS has been developed as a supplementary and supportive tool
      for non-expert physicians faced with the challenge of addressing vestibular disorders.

      The current study will assess the effectiveness of the EMBalance Decision Support System
      (DSS) for diagnosis and management of balance disorders in a feasibility/proof of concept
      study. Patients who present with balance related symptoms (specifically vertigo or dizziness
      exacerbated by head movements) in primary care, will be seen by a non-specialist doctor
      either with or without the support of the DSS, on a ratio 1:1.

      Non-specialist doctors in each participating country are defined as follow:

        -  UK: General Practitioners

        -  Germany: Neurology residents

        -  Belgium & Greece: ENT residents

      Overseeing experts in each participating country are defined as follow:

        -  UK: Consultant in audiovestibular medicine (AVM)

        -  Germany: Neurologist

        -  Belgium & Greece: ENT specialist with >10 years expertise in AVM/Neuro-otology

      It is anticipated 100 participants will be recruited to each of the two treatment groups,
      giving a total of 200 participants across Europe. Each participating site in Greece, Belgium,
      Germany and United Kingdom will recruit 50 patients. Allocation will be performed based on
      randomisation tables that are produced in advance for each centre.

      Statistical data analysis will be performed by the National and Kapodistrian University of
      Athens. The statistical analysis has been developed by the National and Kapodistrian
      University of Athens and reviewed by the Institute of Communication and Computer Science
      (Greece).

      Quality and ethical assurance are supervised by the Trial Steering Committee (TSC) and Trial
      Management Group (TMG)
    
  