
    
      Methylmalonic acidemia (MMA), one of the most common inborn errors of organic acid
      metabolism, is heterogeneous in etiology and clinical manifestations. Affected patients with
      cblA, cblB and mut classes of MMA are medically fragile and can suffer from complications
      such as metabolic stroke or infarction of the basal ganglia, pancreatitis, end stage renal
      failure, growth impairment, osteoporosis, and developmental delay. The frequency of these
      complications and their precipitants remain undefined. Furthermore, current treatment
      protocol outcomes have continued to demonstrate substantial morbidity and mortality in the
      patient population. Increasingly, solid organ transplantation (liver, and/or kidney) has been
      used to treat patients. Disordered transport and intracellular metabolism of vitamin B12
      produces a distinct group of disorders that feature methylmalonic acidemia as well as
      (hyper)homocysteinemia. These conditions are named after the corresponding cellular
      complementation class (cblC, cblD, cblF, cblJ and cblX) and are also heterogenous, clinically
      and biochemically. The genetic disorders underlying cblE and cblG feature an isolated
      impairment of the activity of methionine synthase, a critical enzyme involved in the
      conversion of homocysteine to methionine and these disorders feature (hyper)homocysteinemia.
      Lastly, a group of patients can have increased methylmalonic acid and/or homocysteine in the
      blood or urine caused by variant(s)in recently identified (ACSF3) and unknown genes.

      In this protocol, we will clinically evaluate patients with methylmalonic acidemia and
      cobalamin metabolic defects. Routine inpatient admissions will last up to 4-5 days and
      involve urine collection, blood drawing, ophthalmological examination, radiological
      procedures, MRI/MRS, skin biopsies in some, and developmental testing. In a subset of
      patients who have or will receive renal, hepato- or hepato-renal transplants or have an
      unusual variant or clinical course and have MMA, a lumbar puncture to examine CSF metabolites
      will be performed. In this small group of patients, CSF metabolite monitoring may be used to
      adjust therapy.

      The study objectives will be to further delineate the spectrum of phenotypes and characterize
      the natural history of these enzymopathies, query for genotype/enzymatic/phenotype
      correlations, search for new genetic causes of methylmalonic acidemia and/or homocysteinemia,
      identify new disease biomarkers and define clinical outcome parameters for future clinical
      trials.

      The population will consist of participants previously evaluated at NIH, physician referrals,
      and families directed to the study from clinicaltrials.gov as well as the Organic Acidemia
      Association, Homocystinuria Network America and other national and international support
      groups. Most participants will be evaluated only at the NIH Clinical Center. However, if the
      NIH team decides that a patient under the age of 2 years is a candidate subject for this
      research protocol, that patient may enroll at the Children s National Medical Center (CNMC)
      site, pending approval by Dr Chapman, the Principal Investigator of the CNMC location
      Individuals may also enroll in the tissue collection only part of the study at the UPMC
      Children s Hospital of Pittsburgh or share medical history and clinical data via telemedicine
      visits remotely. Outcome measures will largely be descriptive and encompass correlations
      between clinical, biochemical and molecular parameters.
    
  