
    
      This study is a prospective, randomized, single center, controlled explorative study in the
      parallel-group design to evaluate the difference in clinical outcomes for patients with
      metastatic spine disease treated with a whole versus partial vertebral body contouring
      approach. Thereby two different techniques were evaluated: whole vertebral body (WB) group
      with 10 x 3Gy or partial vertebral body (PB) group with 10x (3-5)Gy. Prior to their enrolment
      into the study, the patients will undergo a staging of the vertebral column in connection
      with their radiation-planning computed tomography (CT) and MRI to measure the myelon
      dimension. After the baseline results have been recorded, the patients will be randomized
      into one of the two groups: PB group RT 10x (3-5) Gy (n = 30) or WB group RT 10 x 3 Gy (n =
      30). The target parameters will be measured and recorded at baseline, at 1 to 2 weeks; and at
      months 2 to 3, 4 to 6 and 7 to 12 after treatment.

      The primary endpoint was the time to pain relief. Secondary endpoints were quality of life
      (QoL), fatigue, pain, overall survival, bone survival, local control, pathological fracture,
      pain-free internal and neurological deficit. The baseline examination shall be carried out on
      the first day of radiotherapy prior to the start of therapy and is scheduled to comprise the
      comprehensive recording of the sociodemographic data, the recording of the current pain
      situation, the quality of life, and the current degree of fatigue. The follow-up examinations
      shall take place at each follow up visit , measuring those parameters recorded at the
      baseline examination. The further follow-up examinations shall correspond to those carried
      out as standard after-care investigations.

      The secondary endpoints such as fatigue and quality of life shall be recorded using validated
      questionnaires (EORTC QLQ FA13 and EORTC QLQ BM22. All patients will also be asked to record
      their pain history using a pain diary (documentation of medication daily during treatment,
      once weekly after the end of treatment, VAS pain scale). Furthermore, the local control was
      assessed by means of CT images taken prior to, three and six months after RT. The pain
      response was documented on the VAS (range 0-10). Complete response (CR) was defined as VAS =
      0 after three and six months, partial response (PR) as an improvement by at least two score
      points after three and six months. Overall survival (OS) was defined as time from initial
      diagnosis until death, bone survival as time from initial diagnosis of spinal bone metastasis
      until death.

      In each case, the treatment plan was designed based on tumor geometry, proximity to the
      spinal cord, and location. The planning tumor volume (PTV) was defined as equal to gross
      tumor volume (GTV). The spinal cord, cauda equina, nerve roots, and bowel were contoured as
      organs at risk (OARs) and critical structures. An inverse treatment planning method along
      with a linear optimization algorithm were employed. The target volume was designated to
      include either the GTV and the entire vertebral body (WB group) or only the GTV (PB group) at
      each spinal level.
    
  