
    
      Lymph nodes are part of the body immune system which are located throughout the body
      including head and neck, armpit, and groin.

      Lymphadenopathy is defined as an abnormality in the size or character of lymph nodes caused
      by the invasion or propagation of either inflammatory or neoplastic cells into the nodes.

      The differentiation of malignant from benign lymph nodes is essential because it predicts the
      patient prognosis and help in the decision making regarding the management plan.

      On ultrasound, gray scale sonography helps to evaluate nodal morphology, whilst color doppler
      is used to assess vascular pattern. The qualitative criteria for malignancy were heterogenous
      hypoechoic cortex, irregular margins, lack of hyperechoic fatty hilum and abnormal blood
      vessels penetrating the lymph nodes capsule.The avascular or hilar patterns were defined as
      LNs with normal vascularity pattern, and the peripheral or mixed (peripheral and hilar)
      pattern as LNs with abnormal vascularity pattern. On B-mode and color doppler ultrasound,
      there is no specific criteria for differentiating metastatic lymph nodes from reactive lymph
      nodes with 100% accuracy.

      Fine-needle aspiration biopsy is the reference standard for differentiating metastatic lymph
      nodes from reactive lymph nodes. However, restrictions of fine-needle aspiration biopsy are
      that it is an invasive procedure, and it is not possible to perform for lymph nodes smaller
      than 5 mm.Therefore, a simple, reliable, and non-invasive imaging modality for
      differentiating malignant lymph nodes is required.

      Ultrasound elastography (UE) is a rather new, non-invasive imaging technique that can be used
      to depict tissue stiffness and elastic properties. Ultrasound elastography (UE) can be
      divided broadly into 2 groups depending on the type of tissue displacement:

        1. Strain elastography (SE): measures tissue displacements along the axis of an applied
           force.Strain elastography provides semi - quantitative scores based on elastographic
           pattern (scores based on percentage of stiff area within the lesion) and strain ratio
           (ratio between the lesion and the background tissue).

        2. Shear wave elastography (SWE): measures a different type of waves that is also produced
           when tissues are mechanically stimulated. Shear wave elastography is also a quantitative
           method of analysis for elasticity images using shear wave speed (m/s) or elastic modulus
           (kPa).

      Ultrasound elastography (UE) is easy, rather cheap, non-invasive, and quick to perform, well
      tolerated by patients, and offers a strong diagnostic power.
    
  