
    
      Thirty participants will be recruited from the staff of Virginia Commonwealth University via
      recruitment fliers distributed through the Staff Senate. Potential participants will be
      informed that participation in the study will require them to work with the research team at
      their computer workstations outside of designated working hours, e.g., before or after work,
      during lunch break, or on a weekend. Potential participants will be reminded that they may
      need to obtain approval from direct supervisors to use university equipment, i.e., their
      computer workstations, during non-working hours. All participants will be asked to complete
      knowledge, self-efficacy, and habit formation survey regarding computer workstation
      ergonomics via REDCap.

      Participants will receive an email with the link to the REDCap surveys.

      Those participants randomly assigned to the control group will complete the OSHA Computer
      Workstations eTool, available at
      (https://www.osha.gov/SLTC/etools/computerworkstations/wkstation_enviro.html). The eTool
      consists of 5 sections: 1) Good Working Positions, 2) Workstation Components, 3) Checklists,
      4) Work Process, and 5) Workstation Environment.

      Those participants who are assigned to the intervention group will be contacted by the
      investigators to schedule face to face visits at their computer workstations. Face to face
      intervention will consist of educating the participant on points of computer workstation
      ergonomics, direct observation of the participant working at her/his workstation, evaluation
      of workstation characteristics, instruction on how to alter workstation features, and
      instruction on best practices for exercise and scheduling of breaks to prevent pain,
      discomfort, and injury.

      All participants will be contacted via email 2 weeks following the interventions to complete
      the post-test knowledge, self-efficacy, and habit formation survey on RedCap.
    
  