
    
      Open prostatectomy is a surgical procedure performed by urologists to excise the prostate.
      This is achieved by a 10-cm vertical incision starting below the umbilicus and reaching the
      pubic area. Patients are hospitalized for 3-4 days: one of the criteria for safe discharge
      includes Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) for pain below 3 at rest. For postoperative pain
      control, patients receive patient-controlled opioid analgesia (PCA) with morphine. The
      average amount of morphine used in the first 24 h varies between 30 and 50 mg. Although this
      technique is widely used, side effects (sedation, ileus, pruritus) are commonly encountered
      with opioid administration. Thus alternative analgesic techniques such as epidural analgesia
      and wound infiltration have been used with some success. However adverse events have also
      been reported with these techniques (lower limb motor block with epidural; infection wound
      infiltration).

      In the last 10 years, a new technique, the transversus abdominis plane (TAP) block, which
      anesthetizes the thoracolumbar nerves (intercostal, subcostal and first lumbar nerves), has
      been described. The thoracolumbar nerves provide sensory innervation to the anterolateral
      abdominal wall. The traditional technique for TAP blocks is performed with a blunt needle in
      the Triangle of Petit. The latter is delineated caudally by the iliac crest, posteriorly by
      the latissimus muscle and anteriorly by the external oblique. Two distinct pops can be felt
      as the needle crosses the fascial extensions of the external oblique and the internal oblique
      muscle, respectively. Thus the second pop usually signifies that the needle tip has reached
      the TAP. Although the traditional technique has been used to provide postoperatively
      analgesia for bowel surgery, hysterectomy and Cesarian Section, the position of the Triangle
      of Petit varies greatly thus making it difficult to palpate in obese patients. In 2007, there
      was a study describing an ultrasound-guided technique for TAP blocks: these authors advocated
      using ultrasonography to locate the TAP along the mid-axillary line above the iliac crest.
      This ultrasound-guided technique has been subsequently used to provide postoperative
      analgesia for laparoscopic cholecystectomy, appendicectomy and Cesarian Section. This
      technique has been shown to spare opioids in the postoperative period therefore facilitating
      an accelerated discharge and superior pain relief.

      In our institution, the TAP block, either as a single shot or as a continuous catheter
      infusion, is used for abdominal and urological surgery when epidural blockade is not
      feasible.
    
  