
    
      This is a prospective, single-centred, open-labeled, randomized clinical trial conducted in
      ,University Kebangsaan Malaysia Medical Centre (UKMMC). This is also a Quasi-experimental
      study and all patients from Endocrine, Nephrology and Ophthalmology Clinic in UKM Medical
      Centre from November 2019 till November 2021 will be involved in this study. Patients who
      fulfill the inclusion criteria will be included in this study. All eligible subjects will be
      asked to sign an informed consent.

      Participants will be randomized into two groups, diabetic patient with proteinuria and
      diabetic patient without proteinuria. Participants will be interviewed on demographic data
      (age, gender, race, blood pressure, Body Mass Index) will be taken. Urine sample and
      peripheral blood (2-3ml) is collected from patients in sterile container (EDTA tube) and will
      be sent for urine albumin creatinine ratio (ACR) and HbA1c test. The eye with best fundal and
      signal view on OCT-A will be chosen or if both eyes similar, right eye will be chosen.
      Pre-treatment tests fundus photo and OCT-A measurement will be taken at eye clinic after
      dilating the pupils with 1% tropicamide and 2.5% phenylephrine hydrochloride. Fundus
      examination is taken using a digital mydriatic retinal camera (Topcon Retinal Camera TRC-50DX
      (type 1A), Tokyo Japan. OCT-A measurement is taken by using Cirrus HD-OCT, 2016 Carl Zeiss
      Meditec.

      Then Tab.empagliflozin 25mg once daily for 28 days will be given to both group of patients
      proteinuric and non proteinuric diabetic CKD. After 28 days, post-treatment tests of fundus
      examination and OCT-A measurement will be taken at eye clinic.

      The statistical data analysis will be performed using statistical package for Social Science,
      version 22.0 (SPSS, Inc. Chicago III USA) for IOS. The OCT-A parameters studied (FAZ size,
      vessel density and perfusion density) will be used as main response variables. All variables
      will be defined by method of descriptive statistics. The analysis of quantitative variables
      includes a calculation of mean and standard deviation. T test will be performed to test the
      significant between the 2 groups. Correlation will be measured with Pearson correlation
      coefficient. A p <0.05 will be considered as statistically significant.
    
  