
    
      Aim of the study The objective of the present study is to conduct a pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) on a wilderness program versus an attention-control activity in
      adolescent and young adult cancer survivors. We will examine the feasibility of performing a
      RCT, in preparation for a larger RCT with adolescent and young adult cancer survivors, as
      well as to investigate individuals' experience and safety of the wilderness program. To the
      best of our knowledge, we are preparing the first RCT that will be undertaken to investigate
      the impact of a wilderness program in adolescent and young adult cancer survivors.

      It is hypothesized that the wilderness program is a highly appreciated and safe health
      promotion intervention that may substantially benefit adolescent and young adult cancer
      survivors, and that results of the proposed pilot study warrant further research with
      adequate power to test for effectiveness in a larger RCT.

      RCT - Intake (Contact 1)

      Young cancer survivors who are interested in participating will contact the researchers of
      this study at Mid Sweden University via email or phone. The researchers will provide
      information about the study, both verbally and written in an information letter to be sent by
      post or email. The following tasks will be carried out at the intake interview:

        -  Screening of inclusion and exclusion criteria,

        -  Explanation/information about the study and informed consent procedures,

        -  Explanation/information about the interventions and the randomisation procedure,

        -  Check participants' willingness to be randomized, ask if they have a strong preference
           for either intervention, and ask about their expectations of the interventions,

        -  Sending the information letter and informed consent forms, including a postage-paid
           return envelope.

      Randomisation (Contact 2)

      Written informed consent from the participants will be obtained prior to randomisation. One
      of the researchers of this study will also sign the informed consent form. After the signed
      informed consent form has been received, young cancer survivors will be randomised for
      participation in the study. All data of each randomized participant in the study will be
      documented in a Case Report Form (CRF) that will be developed for this study. Participants
      will be contacted by telephone and the following tasks will be carried out:

        -  Inform participants about the outcome of the randomisation procedure,

        -  Collect demographic data (DD), medical history (MH), medication use (MU), concomitant
           medication/therapies, dietary and lifestyle measures,

        -  Instructions for using the step counter, one week before the start of intervention: All
           participants that are randomized in the study will be send a step counter, to be used in
           the week before the intervention,

        -  Sending the step counter and instructions for use to participants,

        -  Instruction for measurements and timelines during the study.

      Intervention (Visit 1) All participants will travel for the intervention (8 days in total) to
      Sundsvall, Sweden. At Day 1 of the intervention (Baseline, T=0), participants will perform
      physical performance/fitness tests at Mid Sweden University under supervision of a test
      leader from the Sweden Winter Sports Research Centre (Östersund, Sweden). After the tests,
      participants in the intervention group will be transported to the wilderness site at Höga
      Kusten, Västernorrland, Sweden. Participants will be provided with outdoor clothes, backpack,
      tent, sleeping pads and sleeping bag. All other necessary outdoor equipment will be made
      available through the facilitators. Participants in the control group will be transported to
      a Wellness Center in Västernorrland. Before leaving for home, a plan for activities in the
      three-month home program will be discussed with participants in the wilderness program group.

      Three-months at home (Contact 3 and 4)

      Participants in both groups will be followed during a 3-month period after the one-week
      intervention. During this period, participants will be contacted by a facilitator via
      telephone or other media after one month (Contact 3) and two months (Contact 4). The
      following tasks will be carried out:

        -  Documentation of concomitant medication/therapy use, dietary and lifestyle measures,

        -  Documentation of adverse events that may have occurred,

        -  Filling in the IPAQ,

        -  Results of the step counter during the week before Contact 3 and 4,

        -  Adherence and transference of participants to the agreed and planned activities at home
           (wilderness program group only).

      Intervention (Visit 2; Re-visit) After three months, participants will return to Mid Sweden
      University for follow up measures (T=2), as well as for two additional nights outdoor at Höga
      Kusten to re-connect (intervention group) or two holiday nights at the Wellness canter
      (Control group).

      One year follow-up One year after start of the intervention (T=3), participants in both
      groups will be contacted to fill in online self-reported questionnaires. Concomitant
      medications/therapies, dietary and lifestyle measures will be documented as well as a recent
      one-week measurement of step counts.

      Sample size No sample size calculation is needed for a pilot RCT.

      Randomization Participants will be randomized according to a randomization list as generated
      by the Random Allocation Software Program using a random block size of 2 in order to
      guarantee a balanced allocation. The two interventions (wilderness therapy versus
      attention-control are assigned to intervention A and intervention B and upon intake
      participants will receive a screening number ranging from 01 to 100. Participants who drop
      out of the study before being randomized will keep their screening number without receiving
      an intervention. On enrolment in the study, participants that are randomized receive an
      intervention number (01-110). The study numbers are sequentially allocated to the
      participants in the order of inclusion in the randomized intervention period. Each
      participant will receive only that intervention which is labeled with the study number
      allocated to him/her. Participants will be stratified according to age group (16-22 and
      23-30) and gender (male/female) in order to achieve equal distribution among the two groups.
      Per stratification, separate randomization lists will be generated.

      Statistics Regular descriptive statistics will be calculated with regard to demographical and
      categorical data and mean scores and standard deviations of the numerical variables will be
      calculated using SPSS (version 25.0). As a first step, preliminary mean differences between,
      and within groups (over time changes) will be calculated using students t-test, related
      samples t-test, and R-ANOVA analysis. As a second step, the Aickin separation test will be
      applied to the domains of the MMQL and other outcome measures to determine whether there are
      indications of differences, even if obtained p-values are non-significant. If indications of
      differences are identified with the Aickin separation test it provides information whether a
      further larger RCT is warranted. The Aickin separation test is used for early phase trials to
      determine whether the data are 1) in the hypothesized direction, 2) counter to the
      hypothesized direction or 3) equivocal. Results in the hypothesized direction warrant further
      research with adequate power to test for effectiveness.
    
  