
    
      Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) is a group of congenital retinal degenerations affecting over
      100,000 individuals in the US, characterized by nightblindness, gradual loss of peripheral
      vision, and eventually total vision loss. Despite surgical and medical efforts it has not
      been possible to slow down, let alone reverse, the process of photoreceptor degeneration in
      RP. However, a recent patient-initiated pilot study demonstrated that RP patients may respond
      to a nutrition supplement (lutein) with a modest, but statistically significant gain in
      visual acuity and central visual field area; demonstration of these effects relied critically
      on frequent home vision tests using a letter chart on the screen of a personal computer and a
      wall chart to measure the central visual field. Supporting the reliability of the data was a
      highly significant correlation between eye color and vision changes; eye color has earlier
      been shown to influence macular pigment changes following lutein supplementation.

      At this state, a study of long-term lutein benefits would be costly and, without
      placebo-controlled pilot data, premature. We are proposing to prepare for a long-term
      clinical trial through an exploratory study, investigating the effects of lutein and creating
      PC-based home vision tests. In the initial 6 months of the study, we will develop and adapt
      standard clinical vision tests for use on a personal computer, and recruit two study groups:
      1) 42 RP patients to study the effects of lutein on vision, using placebo and 20 dosages in a
      randomized, double-masked crossover design (Latin Square, 2x16 weeks), testing for possible
      adverse effects through serum hepatic panels every 4-6 weeks, and measuring compliance
      through baseline and end-value serum carotenoid tests and frequent macular pigment density
      tests; 2) 31 other volunteers (10 normally signed, 21 RP patients) who, along with the first
      group, will monitor their vision every 1-2 weeks at home using the PC-based tests. Results
      will be validated against those obtained with standards tests during multiple visits to our
      center.

      The results and tools produced by this study will enable a long-term lutein supplementation
      trial with vision as its principal outcome measure, and the study can serve as a model for
      other supplement trials. Moreover, by virtue of the PC-based home vision tests developed as
      part of this study, such future trials may, under proper safeguards, enroll remote
      participants who would download test software, perform frequent outcome tests at home, submit
      test results via e-mail, and be examined periodically by local physicians to detect potential
      adverse effects.
    
  