
    
      Investigators of the Atlanta VA Center for Visual and Neurocognitive Rehabilitation (CVNR)
      find a very high prevalence of blinding diseases in the aging Veteran population. There are
      few treatments for the disorders that threaten our Veterans' eyesight. The work proposed here
      is the first step in determining whether exercise can be used by aging Veterans as an
      inexpensive and self-controlled therapy for vision loss. In order to translate exercise
      therapy for vision into the clinic, the investigators need to identify biomarkers that can be
      used to predict visual benefits.

      Though human and animal studies show that aerobic exercise is beneficial to specific central
      and peripheral nervous system functions, effects on the retina and vision were unknown until
      the investigators recently discovered that treadmill exercise directly protects retinal
      neurons in mice undergoing light-induced retinal degeneration (LIRD). The investigators found
      that exercise increased levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) a blood protein in
      the blood, brain and eyes, whereas treatment of mice with a BDNF inhibitor prevented the
      protective effects of exercise.

      For this study, the investigators will assess visual outcomes and serum biomarkers (e.g,
      BDNF) in 60 subjects age 18-89 before, during, and after aerobic exercise. Subjects currently
      enrolled in a 12-week study (under IRB 56726) examining the effects of aerobic exercise on
      cognition will have visual testing (ERG, visual acuity, contrast sensitivity, and OCT) and
      blood collection prior to, during and after the standardized 12-week aerobic exercise regimen
      to determine whether circulating biomarker levels and visual outcomes are correlated and
      whether biomarker levels are altered as predicted in animal studies.

      This study will determine whether biomarker changes predict sight-saving benefits of
      exercise. As opposed to surgery or pharmacological treatments, exercise programs provide a
      means for Veterans to exert some control over their visual disease progression and will
      increase their overall health.
    
  