
    
      BACKGROUND OVERVIEW: Hypofractionation has several potential advantages over conventional
      radiation. First, the biological equivalent dose to the tumor is higher with
      hypofractionation than it is with conventional radiation. In between radiation treatments
      there is repair of the radiation damaged cancer cells (on a cell survival curve this region
      of repair is referred to as the "shoulder" of the curve). Some cell lines are better at
      repair than others. Sarcoma is often referred to as a "radioresistant" tumor, which means
      that sarcoma cell lines have a larger capacity for radiation repair than do other cell lines.
      A treatment that can deliver a high dose in fewer fractions can potentially overcome some of
      this repair. There is a concept in radiation known as "biologically equivalent dose" (BED)
      which states that a higher dose per fraction results in more tumor kill than a lower dose per
      fraction. For example, radiation delivered to a total of 60 Gy in three 20 Gy fractions is
      the equivalent of 150 Gy in 2 Gy fractions.

      BACKGROUND RATIONALE: It is important to conduct this study because hypofractionation not
      only decreases treatment package time and cost of care, but it also potentially improves
      patient convenience and quality of life and could impact radiologic and pathologic variables
      in a positive way by leading to more tumor cell kill. This could potentially change the
      paradigm of the current management of STS of the extremity and chest-wall.

      HYPOTHESIS: Preoperative hypofractionated radiation therapy for localized soft tissue
      sarcomas (STS) will result in local control and toxicity similar to conventional
      fractionation with less cost, more patient convenience and decreased overall treatment time.

      TREATMENT: Image-guided radiation therapy is mandatory. PREOPERATIVE: (1) Either 3D conformal
      radiotherapy or intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT). (2) A prescription dose of 35
      Gy in 5 fractions given every other day with at least 48 hours in between each fraction will
      be prescribed to cover 95% of the planning target volume. TREATMENT SCHEDULE: Treatments will
      have a minimum of a 48-hour interfraction interval. Treatments will be completed over 20 days
      maximum.
    
  