
    
      Patients are being offered admission to this study to test the side effects of an
      investigational treatment prepared from special immune cells (T cells) specific for melanoma.
      A T-cell is a type of lymphocyte. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell that protect
      people from viral infections; help other cells fight bacterial and fungal infections; produce
      antibodies; fight cancers; and coordinate the activities of other cells in the immune system.
      These special immune cells will be taken from a sample of the patient's tumor tissue that
      will be surgically removed from their body and grown in the laboratory. They will then given
      back to the patient in their veins. These cells are called tumor infiltrating lymphocytes
      (TIL). We wish to study the side effects of TIL when they are given with two chemotherapy
      drugs to temporarily decrease the patient's own immune cells and a drug called Interleukin-2
      (IL-2). The two chemotherapy drugs called fludarabine and cytoxan are used to greatly reduce
      the number of normal lymphocytes circulating in the patient's body, called lymphodepletion,
      so that there will be more "space" for the cancer fighting lymphocytes (T-cells) that will be
      infused in their veins. We wish to find out how often these cells can shrink or slow the
      growth of the patient's melanoma. We also wish to find out the effects of lymphodepletion
      followed by TIL and high dose IL-2 on the patient's immune system. The lymphodepletion
      followed by TIL and high dose IL-2 is experimental, and has not been proven to help treat
      melanoma.

      The IL-2 has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of
      metastatic melanoma that cannot be surgically removed. The chemotherapy drugs cytoxan and
      fludarabine used for lymphodepletion have been approved by the FDA, but not for the treatment
      of metastatic melanoma.

      The combination of lymphodepletion followed by TIL and high dose IL-2 is not FDA approved but
      the FDA is permitting its use in this study.
    
  