
    
      Accurate spatial delineation and biologic characterization of tumors within the prostate
      gland by non-invasive means, such as MR imaging, stands to impact the spectrum of prostate
      cancer care. At present there are no imaging techniques that can accurately delineate tumor
      extent. With dynamic contrast enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI), signal intensity can be plotted over
      time for various regions of interest within the prostate, and reflect physiological
      parameters such as tissue perfusion, blood flow, vascular density and vascular permeability.
      Preliminary studies suggest that malignant tumors demonstrate a more rapid and intense uptake
      of contrast, as well as a more rapid washout compared with the normal peripheral zone.
      However, histopathologic confirmation of these findings has been limited.

      This study strives to establish a correlation between K(trans) calculated from DCE-MRI data
      and the corresponding tissue histopathology. This will be achieved by acquiring needle
      biopsies with the APT-MRI (Access to Prostate Tissue under MRI-guidance) system in accurate
      spatial and temporal reference to DCE-MR images. The study will accrue 80 patients over a
      2-year period with the primary analysis relating K(trans) to the probability of malignancy
      using Generalized Estimating Equations.

      Patients who have undergone a TRUS-guided biopsy for suspected prostate cancer or patients
      with a pathological diagnosis of prostate cancer will be potential candidates for enrollment.
      Prior to the procedure, blood will be drawn and urine collected to measure PSA level and for
      protein profiling. Patients will then undergo endorectal coil MR imaging of the prostate
      gland, including conventional anatomic imaging and dynamic-contrast-enhanced MRI. During MR
      imaging, 4 to 10 needle biopsy cores of the prostate will be obtained using a trans-rectal
      needle guide system (APT-MRI). The ability to obtain prostate biopsy cores from all prostatic
      subzones and sites of interest will be documented, as will the overall procedure time and
      acute toxicities associated with the procedure. Histopathology and laboratory results of
      needle core biopsies will be compared to corresponding DCE-MRI measurements, prior
      TRUS-biopsy results, and/or prostatectomy specimens. This procedure may be repeated at a
      later time through the patient's course of observation, therapy, or follow up.

      This is not a therapeutic trial. Patients admitted to this protocol will only be admitted to
      other protocols of experimental treatments if they also specifically meet the eligibility
      criteria for those protocols. Patients may derive benefit from the MRI-guided biopsy, which
      will be stated in the protocol consent document.
    
  