
    
      Insulin is a primary regulator of blood glucose concentrations. A subnormal response to
      circulating insulin levels at target tissues leads to a decrease in insulin-mediated glucose
      uptake. Insulin resistance is associated with normal to high insulin levels and is often
      accompanied by dyslipidemia, a disruption in lipid metabolism resulting in increased
      triglycerides and low-density lipoprotein levels as well as decreased high-density
      lipoprotein levels in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. In the early stages of insulin
      resistance, a compensatory mechanism of increased insulin secretion by the pancreas maintains
      normal to near-normal glucose levels. Once the pancreas fails to maintain the increased
      insulin output, overt type 2 diabetes mellitus occurs.

      Insulin also plays an important role in the metabolism of fat and proteins and exerts its
      influence at the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor level. Peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor -alpha receptors are expressed predominantly in skeletal
      muscle, adipose tissue, heart, liver, kidney, gut, macrophages, and vascular tissue, and play
      a key role in energy storage, glucose homeostasis, and vascular biology. Thus, as insulin
      activates peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha receptors, this results in the
      cellular uptake of glucose. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor receptors are
      ligand-activated transcription elements that regulate gene expression necessary for
      metabolism. For this reason, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors play a pivotal role
      in glucose homeostasis, adipocyte differentiation, and lipid storage. The genes predominantly
      targeted by transcription activity of activated peroxisome proliferator-activated
      receptor-alpha receptors are those that mediate fatty acid uptake, fatty acid oxidation, and
      lipoprotein metabolism. As such, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonists
      have their greatest effect on lipid metabolism and vascular biology.

      TAK-559 is a novel oxyiminoalkanoic acid under investigation for use as an oral agent in the
      treatment of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. TAK-559 has partial peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor-alpha agonist activity, potent peroxisome
      proliferator-activated receptor-alpha activity, and modest peroxisome proliferator-activated
      receptor-gamma activity at high concentrations in nonclinical models.

      This study was designed to evaluate the safety and glycemic control of TAK-559 in patients
      with type 2 diabetes mellitus taking metformin for whom monotherapy with an oral
      anti-diabetic had been insufficient.
    
  