
    
      National and international asthma treatment guidelines recommend ICS as the initial
      controller therapy for people with asthma who are in need of daily treatment with a
      controller medication. If treatment with low to moderate doses of ICS is not sufficient to
      gain and maintain asthma control, current guidelines recommend adding a second controller
      medication rather than increasing the dose of ICS. Current options for the second medication
      include a long-acting beta-agonist, a leukotriene modifier, or theophylline. It is possible
      that other medications, not yet tested, could fill the role of the second controller
      medication. Tiotropium bromide is a medication that is used to treat chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD). It works by relaxing and opening the air passages to the lungs to
      make breathing easier. For people with asthma, the addition of tiotropium bromide may be a
      good option as a second controller medication. The purpose of this study is to determine if
      combining tiotropium bromide with a low dose of ICS is more effective than doubling the dose
      of ICS in people with moderately severe asthma. This study will also examine whether the
      addition of tiotropium bromide to low dose ICS is as effective as the addition of a
      long-acting beta-agonist at maintaining asthma control.

      This study will begin with a 4-week run-in period during which participants will be monitored
      while they use an inhaler containing a low dose of ICS medication. Next, participants will be
      assigned to take part in either the TALC study or the Best Adjustment Strategy for Asthma in
      Long Term (BASALT) study, which is a separate Asthma Clinical Research Network (ACRN) study.

      All TALC participants will then undergo three 16-week treatment periods, which will include
      the following:

        -  tiotropium bromide inhalation powder 18 mcg once daily (Tio) plus beclomethasone
           dipropionate 80 mcg twice daily (1xICS)

        -  salmeterol xinafoate inhalation powder 50 mcg twice daily (LABA) plus beclomethasone
           dipropionate 80 mcg twice daily (1xICS)

        -  beclomethasone dipropionate 160 mcg twice daily (2xICS)

      The order in which the three treatment periods will occur will be randomly assigned for each
      participant. Each of the three 16-week treatment periods will consist of 14 weeks of
      treatment followed by a 2-week washout period, in which participants will receive a single
      does of ICS. Study visits will occur at baseline and Weeks 2 and 4 of the 4-week run-in
      period, and at Weeks 4, 9, 14, and 16 of each 16-week treatment period. Spirometry tests to
      measure lung function will occur at each study visit and exhaled nitric oxide testing and
      questionnaires to assess asthma control and symptoms will occur at most visits. During study
      visits at Week 4 of the run-in period and Week 14 of each treatment period, lung function
      measurements, sputum collection, questionnaires to assess asthma quality-of-life, and
      measurements of sleep and daytime alertness will all occur. Participants will also record
      asthma symptoms, peak flow measurements, and medication usage in a daily diary.
    
  