
    
      Methods

        1. Defining complex patient ventilator interactions The Investigators defined "Complex
           Patient-Ventilator Interactions" (CP-VI) as the presence alone or in combination of a
           change in the respiratory rate of more than 50%, and/or the occurrence of any kind of
           asynchronies

        2. Data acquisition and data analysis Paw and Flow signals will continuously recorded
           throughout patient's stay in the Intensive Care Unit (UCI) using BetterCare® system
           (Better Care®, Barcelona, Spain). BetterCare uses drivers specifically designed to
           interact with the output signal of mechanical ventilators and bedside monitors rather
           than directly with patients. Recorded signals are synchronized and stored for further
           analysis. MATLAB (The MathWorks, Inc., vR2018b, Natick, MA, USA) will be used to perform
           the signal processing, data analysis and visual assessment.

        3. Study Population The Investigators will obtain data from an prospectively constructed
           database from a connectivity platform (Better Care®) to interoperate signals from
           different ventilators and monitors and subsequently compute algorithms to diagnose
           patient-ventilator asynchronies (ClinicalTrial.gov, NCT03451461). All of those patients
           corresponding to a self-extubation event previously recorded will be recruited for the
           characterization and validation process, in order to guarantee at patient-ventilator
           interactions and episodes when they fight the ventilator. Also, patients in whom an
           spontaneous breathing trial previous to an attempt to librate him/her from the
           ventilator will be recruited in order to obtain signals of Paw and Flow. Clinical and
           demographic data will obtained from the medical chart. The institutional review board
           approved the protocol and waived informed consent because the study was
           non-interventional, posed no added risk to patients, and did not interfere with usual
           care.

        4. Visual validation of CP-VI Three researchers will visually review the Flow and Paw
           recordings of events. The segments duration will selected based on previous studies
           where asynchronous clusters are evaluated. The dataset will be previously selected by an
           expert in mechanical ventilation ensuring balance by ventilation modes (grouped by
           Pressure Support Ventilation (PSV) and Assist-Control Ventilation modes) and equal
           distribution of CP-VI presence or absence. The controlled modes included volume
           assist-control ventilation (VACV) and pressure assist-control ventilation (PACV). Flow
           and Paw tracings will be randomly ordered in MATLAB prior to visual analysis to ensure
           blinding of the scorers. Scorers will be provided with written description of CP-VI
           characteristics before visual analysis, as a reference. On base of CP-VI definition
           previously described, each researcher will score for the presence or absence of CP-VI
           events, without time limitation. The visual assessment will considered as the gold
           standard.

        5. Entropy Entropy is a non-linear measure that allows assessing the randomness of a series
           of data. Entropy calculation requires three parameters: the embedding dimension, m (a
           positive integer); the tolerance value or similarity criterion, r (a positive real
           number); and the total length, N, of the analysed series.

        6. Automatic CP-VI detection An automated algorithm for CP-VI detection based on Entropy
           tool will be implemented.

        7. Statistical analysis Fleiss's kappa coefficient will be used as reliability of agreement
           among raters for visual assessment. The automated algorithm for CP-VI detection will be
           applied over the entropy series derived from the same Flow and Paw. The performance of
           the automated algorithm will be evaluated on base of sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp),
           positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV, respectively), accuracy (ACC) and
           Matthews correlation coefficient (MCC).

        8. Selection of m, r and N In entropy studies, an important step is to determine the
           optimal settings to robust extract the randomness of a series of data. Therefore, an
           optimization procedure of m, r and N will performed to properly estimate CP-VI.
    
  