
    
      Research Plan Participants will be recruited from those presenting at Shands University of
      Florida (UF) hospital emergency room within the early hours after symptom onset, during which
      time a blood draw will be taken. Either in the emergency room, intensive care unit, or
      general hospital ward, a member of the study team will obtain informed consent for study
      participation within 24 hours of the first blood draw. The study team will provide the
      participant or legally authorized representative (LAR) with the consent form to read and will
      explain the study to the participant or LAR using the consent form as a guide. Time will be
      given to allow the participant or LAR to read the consent form and any questions will be
      answered. If the participant or LAR agrees to participate, then the study team member will
      have the participant sign the consent form and a copy of the signed form will be given for
      participants' records.

      Study procedure: Information will be collected from medical records to determine the type and
      severity of stroke that the participant had and the time of stroke onset. Three 10cc samples
      of blood will be drawn from 90 participants with stroke (45 with ischemic stroke and 45 with
      hemorrhagic stroke). Samples of blood will also be drawn from 45 controls and 45 patients
      with stroke mimics, clinical symptoms that could be stroke but are determined to be due to
      another cause (e.g. transient ischemic attack). The first 10cc will be drawn within 18 hours
      of stroke onset and the second will be drawn 72 hours following stroke onset. The third will
      be obtained at the UF Neurology outpatient clinic 2-8 weeks after stroke. The first blood
      sample will be drawn during the initial evaluation in the ER prior to obtaining informed
      consent. This is due to the hectic ER environment and the need for the participant or LAR to
      be making serious medical decisions during this initial evaluation; factors which make this a
      non-ideal time to perform the informed consent process. The blood sample will then be stored
      using only the de-identified participant number for identification. Once the participant's
      condition has stabilized and no other serious medical decisions are being made, a study team
      member will approach the participant or LAR for the informed consent process as described
      above.

      If the informed consent is obtained within 24 hours of obtaining the first blood sample then
      the participant will be enrolled in the study, the stored blood sample will be kept for
      further processing, the second and third blood samples will be drawn as previously described
      and testing for the aforementioned panel of biomarkers will be performed on the blood
      samples. If the participant or LAR declines to participate in the study or if informed
      consent is not obtained within 24 hours of the obtaining the first blood sample: 1) the
      stored blood sample will not be used for any purpose, 2) the stored blood sample will be
      completely destroyed within 24 hours of knowledge that the participant will not participate
      in the study and 3) no further blood samples will be obtained. Finally, participant's will be
      asked to complete a brief (less than 5 minute) phone survey 3 months after stroke to assess
      long-term stroke disability.
    
  