
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the disease-free and overall survival of women with completely resected stage I
           or II breast cancer adjuvantly treated with fluorouracil, epirubicin, and
           cyclophosphamide (FEC) or epirubicin followed by cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and
           fluorouracil (EPI-CMF) versus FEC followed by sequential docetaxel.

        -  Compare the acute toxicity of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare the quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, estrogen receptor status (positive vs negative), and nodal status.
      Within 8 weeks after definitive surgery, patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 standard adjuvant chemotherapy regimens.

             -  Regimen A: Patients receive fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide (FEC) IV
                on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 8 courses.

             -  Regimen B: Patients receive epirubicin IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks
                for 4 courses. Patients then receive cyclophosphamide orally on days 1-14 or IV on
                days 1 and 8 and methotrexate IV and fluorouracil IV on days 1 and 8 (CMF).
                Treatment with CMF repeats every 4 weeks for 4 courses.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive 4 courses of adjuvant chemotherapy with FEC as in arm I,
           regimen A. Patients then receive sequential docetaxel IV over 1 hour once every 3 weeks
           for 4 courses.

      Beginning within 4 weeks after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, patients who are not
      concurrently enrolled in the Standardization of Breast Radiotherapy (START) trial receive
      localized radiotherapy once daily, 5 days a week, for 3-5 weeks, according to local practice.

      Beginning within 4 weeks after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, patients who are estrogen
      receptor and/or progesterone receptor positive receive oral tamoxifen once daily for at least
      5 years.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, before course 5, at 3-4 weeks after course 8, and
      then at 9, 12, 18, and 24 months after initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months thereafter.

      Peer Reviewed and Funded or Endorsed by Cancer Research UK

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 3,340 patients (1,670 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 2 years.
    
  