
    
      A primary care based cross-sectional study will be conducted to investigate HRQoL in adult
      patients with chronic diseases in Flanders (Belgium).

      An a priori sample size of minimum 1000 participants was targeted. For addressing the
      research aims, multiple linear regression models will be conducted assessing several main
      determinants, such as multimorbidity and SES, associated to HRQoL as main outcome parameter.
      These models should allow for controlling the effect of main confounders, in particular sex,
      age, educational level, body mass index and smoking, and for including interaction terms with
      psychosocial variables. A sample size calculation showed that the minimum required sample for
      a multiple regression study including 10 predictors with a medium anticipated effect size was
      118, given a desired statistical power level of 80% and a probability level of 5% (Cohen et
      al., 2003). However, for accurately estimating population parameters in observational
      studies, it has been recommended that the ideal sample size should preferably be at least 300
      [19]. Because this study has three clusters of disease groups, stratified analyses require a
      sample size of 900 participants. Also, a 10% increase was added to cover for missing
      variables. This sample size is also expected to widely cover clinically relevant differences
      between a number of chronic disease subgroups. Based on the conclusions of a systematic
      review by Norman et al. (2003), the clinical relevant difference will be set at a half
      standard deviation which appears to be the threshold of discrimination for changes in HRQoL
      for chronic diseases. A statistical power of 80% and a significance level of 0.05 will be
      taken into account. Conclusively, per group, information on 76 patients is needed 1) to
      assess the HRQoL (based on SF-36) in each patients group with a 5% precision and 2) to allow
      for comparisons across groups. Hence, a total sample of 1000 patients is required.

      Patient recruitment will be organized through general practitioners (GP) and community health
      centers across Flanders (Belgium). First, a number of GP practices located across urban and
      rural regions willing to participate in this study will be identified through a convenience
      sample based on their contact with a LOK group (Local Quality Group). This is a group of
      colleagues, doctors or pharmacists-biologists, who share and critically assess their medical
      practices (peer review) in order to improve the quality of care. GPs willingness to cooperate
      in the study will be asked at the LOK group meeting. In this meeting, the researchers will
      briefly present the study. Afterwards, interested GPs will be visited by the researchers at
      their practice with more detailed information about the study and they will receive the paper
      questionnaires. GPs will be asked to identify patients within their practice after validation
      of the eligibility criteria. GPs will explain briefly the purposes of the study to the
      patients and invite them to participate through voluntary response sample.

      A paper-based questionnaire, including informed consent, will be distributed to the
      participant by the GP at consultation. The questionnaire will be filled in by the patient at
      home. Afterwards, the patient can return the questionnaire to the researchers for free via a
      prepaid envelope or the questionnaire can be given back to the GP at later consultation. The
      questionnaire will take 30 minutes to gather patient information and research outcomes. The
      GPs will receive in advance detailed information by the researcher to ensure the aim of the
      study and the data collection process are understood. Due to practical restrictions, home
      visits for fulfilling the questionnaires was not achievable in this study.

      Descriptive statistics will be reported in order to describe the sample of the study
      participants. Means, standard deviations, median, and percentages for the continuous
      variables and frequency tables for categorical variables will be displayed. Socio-demographic
      differences between study participants will be tested with the appropriate test.

      Exploratory data analysis will be performed both for the continuous variables as well as the
      categorical variables. T-tests and one-way analysis of variance will be reported to compare
      groups when normal distribution is applicable. Non-parametric tests will be used when
      variables are not normally distributed. A p-value of 0.05 will be considered as statistically
      significant. Furthermore, multiple linear regression models will be conducted assessing
      several main determinants, such as multimorbidity and SES, associated to HRQoL as main
      outcome parameter. Furthermore, the study results will be validated against the HRQoL data
      collected in the Health Interview Survey with the aim to predict future HRQoL burden.
    
  