
    
      The QBECO-CD-02 trial in subjects with moderate to severe Crohn's disease (CD) is intended to
      build on past experience with QBECO SSI and further establish the safety and efficacy of
      QBECO SSI for the induction of clinical and/or endoscopic response and remission.

      i. Overall Design:

      Phase II, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in subjects with moderate to
      severe Crohn's disease to establish the safety and efficacy of QBECO SSI for the induction
      and maintenance of clinical and/or endoscopic response and remission. The study will be
      conducted in three stages; a Lead-in, Main Induction and Main Maintenance . The first 20
      patients will be enrolled in the Lead-in study, at selected study centers. Subsequent
      patients will be enrolled in the Main study. The Lead-in component will be an open-label
      study to evaluate endoscopic healing endpoints. The Main Induction study will be randomized
      and placebo-controlled. Participants meeting response criteria following the Main Induction
      study will be eligible to continue into the Main Maintenance study, remaining on their
      initially randomized treatment. Participants not meeting response criteria will complete
      their follow-up and study involvement at the end of the Main Induction.

      Primary Endpoints will be evaluated at various times throughout each stage of the study. In
      the Lead-In study, primary endpoints will be measured at Week 16 and 26 for determination of
      the induction duration and again at Week 52 as initial data on maintenance. In the Main
      Induction, the primary endpoints will be assessed when the last subject completes the
      induction period, either Week 16 or Week 26 depending on the finding of the Lead-In. In the
      Main Maintenance, the primary endpoints will be measured at Week 52. Safety Assessments will
      be carried out throughout the study and at the Week 56 visits for all subjects completing the
      study.

      The study will be run at approximately 50 study centers in Canada, the United States of
      America and Eastern Europe.

      ii. Number of Participants:

      20 participants will be enrolled in the Lead-In study. No Lead-In study participants will be
      enrolled in the Main Induction or Maintenance component of the study.

      150 participants will be randomized to the Main Induction study, resulting in an estimated
      total of 70 subjects proceeding to the Main Maintenance component of the study.

      iii. Intervention Groups and Duration:

      Approximately 170 adult subjects (N=170) with moderate to severe CD, 20 patients in the
      Lead-In study and 150 patients in the Main study, stratified by prior anti-TNFα inhibitor/
      biologic therapy use. Patients will be randomized 2:1, active drug:placebo, and will receive
      52 weeks of QBECO SSI treatment or placebo.

      iv. Objectives and Endpoints:

      Lead-In:

        1. Primary

             1. To determine whether Week 26 provides superior endoscopic healing outcomes compared
                to Week 16

             2. To evaluate the incidence of adverse events (safety & tolerability) as measured by
                frequency and severity of adverse events.

        2. Secondary

             1. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on endoscopic remission at the end of 52 weeks
                of treatment

             2. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on clinical remission, as measured by
                abdominal pain and soft-stool frequency, at the end of the induction period

      Main:

        -  Induction:

             1. Primary

                  1. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on clinical remission, as measured by
                     abdominal pain and soft-stool frequency, at the end of the induction period

                  2. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on endoscopic remission at the end of the
                     induction period

                  3. To evaluate the incidence of adverse events (safety and tolerability) as
                     measured by frequency and severity of adverse events.

             2. Secondary

                  1. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on abdominal pain score at the end of the
                     induction period (i.e., change from baseline)

                  2. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on soft-stool score at the end of the
                     induction period (i.e., change from baseline)

                  3. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on endoscopic response at the end of the
                     induction period

                  4. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn's
                     Disease (SES-CD) scores at the end of the induction period as defined by
                     SES-CD reduction by ≥25% and ≥75% and change from baseline

                  5. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on histological activity at the end of
                     induction period as defined by 25%, 50% and 75% reduction in global colonic
                     Global Histologic Disease Activity Score (GHAS) and Robarts Histological Index
                     (RHI)

                  6. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on simultaneous clinical and endoscopic
                     remission at the end of the induction period

        -  Maintenance:

             1. Primary

                  1. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on clinical remission, as measured by
                     abdominal pain and soft-stool frequency, at the end of the maintenance period

                  2. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on endoscopic remission at the end of the
                     maintenance period

                  3. To determine the safety and tolerability of QBECO SSI treatment, as measured
                     by safety laboratory assessments, vital signs, frequency and severity of
                     adverse events and physical examinations.

             2. Secondary

                  1. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on clinical remission and endoscopic
                     remission among subjects who were in clinical or endoscopic remission at the
                     end of induction.

                  2. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on abdominal pain score at the end of
                     maintenance period (i.e., change from baseline)

                  3. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on soft-stool score at the end of
                     maintenance period (i.e., change from baseline)To determine the effect of
                     QBECO SSI on endoscopic response at the end of the maintenance period

                  4. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on SES-CD scores at the end of the
                     maintenance period as defined by SES-CD reduction by ≥25% and ≥75% and change
                     from BL

                  5. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on histological activity of CD patients
                     at the end of the maintenance period as defined by 25%, 50% and 75% reduction
                     in global colonic GHAS and RHI

                  6. To determine the effect of QBECO SSI on simultaneous clinical and endoscopic
                     remission at the end of the maintenance period
    
  