
    
      The study will be conducted as a randomised, double blind, placebo-controlled trial. This is
      a single center trial. The experimental design and procedure will be performed in accordance
      to the CONSORT guidelines. Patients will be assessed for eligibility, and selected based on
      the inclusion and exclusion criteria. Once eligible, informed consent will be obtained for
      every patient, and those in agreement to the participation of the trial will be randomly
      provided with pre-assigned sealed envelopes containing either tamsulosin or placebo, for
      which patient and investigators will be blinded to. Patients will then consume either oral
      tamsulosin 0.4mg or placebo daily for 5 days prior to elective surgery. A baseline postural
      blood pressure measurement will be taken before and after the 1st dose, and patients will be
      informed to look out for symptoms of hypersensitivity reactions and orthostatic hypotension,
      and to cease consumption should they develop. Prior to surgery, the patients will require to
      report to the study team if they had finished all 5 drug doses. Patients who develop
      intercurrent illnesses or have urgent matters at hand that would require their surgery to be
      postponed will receive another 5 drug doses that is to be consumed prior the their next
      scheduled surgical date. During the surgery, a maximum dose of 0.1mg/kg of morphine can be
      given to patients. No ilioinguinal block will be performed for patients, but local anesthesia
      10mls 0.5% Bupivacaine will be infiltrated into the wound sites. The patients will then be
      monitored in the 23 hour short stay ward, during which the patient's wound site, scrotum,
      pain levels and ability to pass urine will be assessed prior to being discharged. All
      patients will be provided with a maintenance drip post operatively. Patients will also be
      placed on paracetamol 1g 6 hourly strictly and tramadol 50mg 8 hourly as per required.
      Alternative analgesia will be provided should patients have existing allergies to these drug
      classes.

      Patients will be assessed for presence of voiding difficulty 6 hours post operatively, and
      patients who complain of voiding difficulty or inability to pass urine within 6 hours post
      operatively will be defined to have POUR, while a bladder scan will be performed will be
      performed . Patients with existing bladder volume of more than 400mls will be catheterised,
      while those with less than 400mls will be followed up with subsequent 2 hourly bladder scans,
      and catheterised should their bladder volume be beyond 400mls. Once discharged, patients will
      receive a phone call at 24 hours post discharge and scheduled to return for a follow up
      appointment 1 weeks later in the clinic where urinary symptoms will once again be assessed in
      both settings. The end points of incidence of POUR/catheterisation, length and cost of
      hospitalisation, rates of same day discharge, and patient satisfaction in both arms will be
      recorded and analysed. Patients will be analysed via an intention to treat basis, and
      patients who defaulted treatment (did not receive full 5 doses of medicine), did not turn up
      for surgery or lost to subsequent follow up post operatively will be taken into account, and
      reported and analysed accordingly.
    
  