
    
      This multicenter study uses a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel-group
      design. A screening period (SCR) running up to 10 weeks before randomization will be used to
      assess subject eligibility followed by 104 weeks of treatment.

      At BSL approximately 990 subjects whose eligibility is confirmed will be randomized to one of
      four treatment groups in 2:2:2:3 ratio:

        -  Group 1 - secukinumab 150 mg s.c. without loading regimen

        -  Group 2 - secukinumab 150 mg s.c. with loading dose regimen

        -  Group 3 - secukinumab 300 mg s.c. with loading dose regimen

        -  Group 4 - Placebo s.c. NOTE: Group 4 is split into 2 treatment arms, detailed
           description below. At randomization, subjects will be stratified on the basis of
           previous anti-TNF therapy as TNFα inhibitor naïve (TNF-naïve) or TNFα inhibitor
           inadequate responders (TNF-IR).

      At each study treatment visit, one (for secukinumab 150 mg) or two (for secukinumab 300 mg)
      s.c. injections in the form of PFS will be administered, since secukinumab is available in
      1.0 mL (150 mg) PFSs. Placebo to secukinumab is also available in 1.0 mL to match the active
      drug.

      At Week 16, subjects who have been randomized to secukinumab groups at BSL (Groups 1-3) will
      be classified as either responders (≥20% improvement from BSL in both tender joint count
      (TJC) and swollen joint counts (SJC)) or non-responders (<20% improvement from BSL TJC or
      SJC), however they will continue on the same treatment irrespective of their response status.

      At Week 16, subjects who have been randomized to placebo at BSL (Group 4) will be classified
      as either responders (≥20% improvement from BSL in both TJC and SJC) or non-responders (<20%
      improvement from BSL TJC or SJC):

        -  Subjects who are non-responders will receive either secukinumab 150 mg or 300 mg s.c.
           every 4 weeks starting at Week 16 (as dictated by treatment sequence assigned to these
           subjects at BSL).

        -  Subjects who are responders will continue to receive placebo every 4 weeks. Starting
           Week 24, these subjects will receive either secukinumab 150 mg s.c. or 300 mg s.c. every
           4 weeks starting at Week 24 (as dictated by treatment sequence assigned to these
           subjects at BSL).

      At Week 24, the assessments to address the primary objective will be performed. As described
      above, subjects who are still receiving placebo s.c. injection will receive either
      secukinumab 150 mg s.c. or 300 mg s.c. every 4 weeks starting at Week 24 (as dictated by
      treatment sequence assigned to these subjects at BSL).

      At week 52, based on Investigator's decision, the subjects on a 150 mg dose whose signs and
      symptoms do not show satisfactory response have the possibility to be allocated to
      secukinumab 300 mg s.c.

      After the Week 52 database lock and analyses have been completed, site personnel and subjects
      will be unblinded to the original randomized treatment (sequence) assignment at
      randomization. In addition, treatment will be given open-label in order to eliminate the
      placebo injection. The subject will continue to receive the same active dose of secukinumab
      as open-label treatment administered until Week 100.
    
  