
    
      The use of concomitant cisplatin-based chemo-radiation for cervical cancer has improved
      survival of locally advanced cervical cancer patients and has become the standard of care. A
      meta-analysis revealed that the addition of concurrent chemotherapy to radiation increased
      the 5-year overall survival rate by 6% (HR 0.81: 60 vs 66%), and 5-year disease-free survival
      rate by 8%, though there is still considerable need for improvement as most patients who
      relapse are incurable. The unmet need is particularly higher in patients that are at high
      risk of recurrence. The main negative prognostic factors are higher FIGO stage as well as the
      presence of positive lymph nodes. Current studies are evaluating role of adjuvant
      chemotherapy following chemo-radiation in locally advanced disease and will possibly improve
      survival by reducing risk of distant metastases, however at the cost of excessive toxicity.

      PARP inhibitors have shown considerable clinical benefit especially in platinum-sensitive
      relapsed ovarian cancer. Several PARP inhibitors have been evaluated in other gynaecological
      malignancies and three PARP inhibitors (olaparib, rucaparib & niraparib) are approved by
      European Medicines Agency and Food & Drug Administration for treatment or as maintenance
      therapy in ovarian cancer. Human papillomavirus causes oxidative stress that may result in
      DNA single-strand breaks. In cervical cancer PARP-1 expression/activity may be up-regulated
      in response to the ongoing oxidative stress (HPV and inflammation), and this may promote
      progression. This may create a vicious circle of inflammation, PARP activation, NAD+
      consumption, adenosine triphosphate consumption, necrosis, and inflammation. PARPi may limit
      the role of PARP-1 in promoting inflammation and oxidative stress. There is theoretical
      plausibility that PARPi may have a role in the treatment of cervical carcinoma.

      This phase II randomized placebo-controlled double-blind study will evaluate the efficacy and
      safety of rucaparib as adjuvant treatment for patients with locally advanced cervical cancer
      who are responding to chemo-radiation. This investigator-initiated study will be performed
      within the GCIG/ENGOT collaboration
    
  