
    
      Many physiological systems (bioenergy, immune etc.) involve feedback mechanisms to respond to
      challenges, with increased output or capacity for adaptive change. A similar process is
      plausible for pain modulation where previous successful pain experience and resolution
      suggests a pain modulatory system with adaptive capacity. The proposed research examines how
      a musculoskeletal training program modulates pain response in people with fibromyalgia
      compared to healthy individuals. Previous research suggests that moderate-high level exercise
      is associated with attenuation of pain sensitivity and clinical pain intensity in healthy
      individuals. The proposal seeks to extend findings from previous research and examine how
      repeated exposure and subsequent adaptations to musculoskeletal pain over time influence pain
      modulation (PMC). The first outcome is that people with fibromyalgia (FM) will have PMC
      trainability similar to asymptomatic controls, with the obvious implications for clinical
      application. The second outcome is that FM patients will demonstrate a deficit in PMC
      trainability. This outcome will represent an important diagnostic sign, and guide research to
      additional mechanistic investigation. The third outcome is that impaired or lessened PMC
      trainability is evident in FM patients and this variability can be explored as an individual
      difference with clinical implications. The theoretical fourth potential outcome is
      sensitization in FM patients, however pilot data show that DOMS resolves within the same
      relative time window as controls. Though not hypothesized, the data and design will allow for
      examination of this possibility. One potential conclusion from these projects could be that
      FM arises from an inability to enter a recovery period within which PMC could adapt and
      increase resilience. The proposal will be able to address at least some of the potential for
      this inability to recover.
    
  