
    
      This project will answer the overarching research question "What is the feasibility of
      developing and implementing AVATAR therapy to reduce the power of the eating disorder voice
      in patients with eating disorders?". The aims are: 1) To use a collaborative approach that
      involves patients, carers and clinicians to adapt the AVATAR therapy in psychosis for
      patients with eating disorders. 2) To assess the feasibility of using this therapy in eating
      disorders.

      Aim 1. To use a collaborative approach that involves patients, carers and clinicians to adapt
      the AVATAR therapy in psychosis for patients with eating disorders

      Methods: Two collaborative workshops will be organised with a total of 16 people with lived
      experience of the illness (patients or carers) and 16 clinicians (approximately eight
      people/workshop), to review the contents of AVATAR therapy for eating disorders developed
      based on AVATAR therapy for psychosis. We will describe the structure and content of the
      therapy manual and will encourage the members of the group to provide feedback. The workshop
      will be video recorded. We will revise the therapy manual based on an iterative process of
      feedback and review. Outcome: the outcome will consist of a revised version of the AVATAR
      therapy manual.

      Aim 2. To assess the feasibility of using AVATAR therapy in eating disorders

      General procedure

      Participants will be recruited through online advertisements and flyers placed at South
      London and Maudsley Hospital NHS Trust. They will be able to contact the researchers involved
      in the study by email. The researchers will then send the study information sheet by email
      and will assess eligibility to take part, should the participants wish to take part. Once
      eligibility is confirmed, participants will received a link to Qualtrics. Survey settings
      will eliminate the possibility of missing or repeated data. Participants will freely access
      the survey via a web link on the Internet. The online survey will include completion of the
      baseline questionnaires (described below). At the end of the intervention, and four-week
      follow-up, participants will receive two more links to Qualtrics, to complete the
      end-of-intervention and follow-up questionnaires, respectively. Following completion of the
      baseline questionnaires, participants will be invited to take part in the AVATAR therapy
      (described below), which will be delivered by one of the clinical researchers in the team.
      AVATAR therapy will be delivered remotely using a secure encrypted video-call system which
      will enable the delivery of the therapy in accordance with the clinical manual.

      Design The project will use a non-concurrent multiple baselines single case experimental
      design (SCED) divided into three stages (A1BA2). The first stage (A1) will involve
      participants being randomly allocated to either a two, three or four week-baseline. The
      second will be the intervention phase (B) where participants will receive the AVATAR
      treatment which will last approximately 6 weeks. The third stage (A2) will be a 4-week
      follow-up period after the intervention phase, where participants will also complete a
      qualitative interview. Participants will be randomly allocated to variable baselines using a
      random number generator.

      Sample size justification

      We propose collecting data from 50 individuals. This is supported by scholars who suggest
      numbers ranging from 24 to 50 for feasibility studies.

      AVATAR therapy for eating disorders

      The therapy will be delivered by the members of the research team. In the first session
      (assessment), following a clinical assessment of the role of the eating disorder voice,
      participants will create a computerised representation of the eating disorder voice (avatar)
      on a computer. They will be able to manipulate the facial and voice characteristics of the
      avatar and will be asked to provide examples of the critical eating disorder comments most
      often spoken by the avatar. In the following sessions (6-8 therapy sessions), participants
      will interact with the avatar displayed on the computer screen for 5-10 minutes. The
      therapist will facilitate the dialogue by speaking the avatar's voice as well as their own
      (therapist) voice from a different room. The therapist will have a video link with the
      participant and therefore will be able to monitor the participants' responses to the avatar.
      The participant will be able to press a "stop" button should they want to stop the session.
      The main goal during the interaction with the avatar is for participants to stand up to the
      critical comments made by the avatar and build a sense of power, control and self-awareness
      in the context of the eating disorder voice. The sessions will be conducted remotely, using a
      personal laptop or computer. This will provide patients with the opportunity to practise
      answering back to the eating disorder voice during a meal, a time at which the eating
      disorder voice is loudest. The content of the sessions has been adapted from AVATAR for
      psychosis and is subject to further review as outlined in Research Aim 1.

      Feasibility outcomes

      (1) Recruitment of 80% or more of the targeted sample size in 18 months, (2) Adherence to
      protocol: 80% retention rate at 6-8 weeks (end of therapy), (3) Adherence to AVATAR therapy:
      80% of patients completing at least 5 sessions (based on average attendance of 5 sessions in
      the psychosis trial), (4) Participants' satisfaction with the AVATAR therapy (80% of
      participants reporting a satisfaction rating of 7 or over, on a Likert scale ranging from 0
      "not satisfied at all" to 10 "very satisfied"), (5) Estimation of effect size and standard
      deviation of change in power of the eating disorder voice and eating disorder symptoms. In
      addition to these parameters, we will record any issues related to the technical functioning
      or operation of the intervention.
    
  