
    
      Commercial Motor Vehicle Drivers (CMV Drivers), also known as truck drivers, face many unique
      challenges in their work environment that adversely impact their health, particularly
      obesity. Obesity is significantly related to CMV driver occupational injuries and deaths from
      crashes.1, 2 CMV Driver's challenges include time constraints, limited space inside the
      truck, mostly sedentary job tasks, poor access for parking large trucks, and a
      'moving-workplace' environment. This environment has poor access to inexpensive,
      ready-to-eat, healthy food and places for exercising and showering. These constraints make it
      difficult to form and maintain healthy lifestyle habits. That these influences likely
      contribute to the disproportionately high prevalence of obesity among CMV drivers is
      supported by an increase in obesity among truckers with longer durations of employment.3

      Prior efforts to reduce obesity were not successful for trucking.4-7 However two, short-term
      pilot studies showed promise utilizing motivational interviewing in achieving a 3.5 kg weight
      loss.8, 9 Accordingly, development of interventions is needed to improve CMV driver's health
      and safety through weight loss by helping the truck driver's change his/her response to the
      unique challenges of their work environment.

      Herein, The investigators propose the pilot intervention-exercise (PIE) aspect of the
      Worksite Health, Eating and Exercising for the Long-haul (WHEEL), a behavior-based
      intervention. The PIE WHEEL will assess the feasibility, acceptability and potential safety
      improvements of an exercise intervention on quantifiable outcomes that impact workers
      compensation concerns including musculoskeletal disorders and slips, trips and falls.

      PIE WHEEL will utilize health coaches to deliver an intervention using individual goal
      setting to establish behaviors (exercise only for this pilot study) known to be associated
      with successful weight loss and/or weight loss maintenance and subsequent safety outcomes
      designed to meet the challenges of CMV drivers. The investigators will enroll 15 participants
      for a 6 week exercise intervention.

      SPECIFIC AIMS

        1. Evaluate the feasibility of the PIE WHEEL intervention for CMV drivers will result in
           greater strength comparing baseline with 6 week outcomes.

             1. Determine the extent to which drivers will participate in PIE WHEEL

             2. Determine the extent of change in strength, balance and gait realized by PIE WHEEL
                participation

        2. Evaluate safety events (crashes, near misses, falls) in the week prior to PIE WHEEL and
           the final week of PIE WHEEL a. Solicit driver perceptions of their own safety of ingress
           and egress related to PIE WHEEL participation

      Safety events (crashes and falls) are a meaningful outcomes in the transportation industry.
      Some of the causal factors related to these, including strength, vigilance, cardiovascular
      disease and obesity, may be influences by the PIE WHEEL intervention. This is compounded by
      the high obesity prevalence, which exceeds >65%, among truckers.10, 11 The personal and
      public health threat of obesity-related problems among truckers that includes falls and
      severe injuries are substantial and require intensive intervention efforts to reduce obesity.
      The investigators propose the PIE WHEEL intervention; a behavior based individualized
      exercise intervention utilizing health coaches to direct individual goal setting to address
      this need. This proposal is in direct response to comments from an unfunded R01 intervention
      that proposed both diet and exercise intervention for weight reduction. The assessment of
      feasibility, acceptance, and quantification of changes will further strengthen the R01 at the
      time of resubmission.
    
  