
    
      The investigators will conduct an intervention on the Purdue campus targeting men-only dorm
      wings (living areas). Eight (8) dorm wings will be selected in advance.

      Dorm wings will be randomly assigned to one of four intervention arms: (1) educational
      message with altruistic/personal health benefits emphasized along with a direct
      recommendation to get the vaccine along with immediate access to the vaccine with the
      dormitory (altruistic/personal benefit message with recommendation + in-dorm vaccine), (2)
      educational message with altruistic/personal health benefits emphasized along with
      information on where to go to get the vaccine (altruistic/personal benefit message with
      recommendation + outside-dorm vaccine) and (3) generic informational message about the HPV
      vaccine and immediate access to the vaccine in the dormitory (generic + on-site vaccine), (4)
      generic informational message with information on where to go to get the vaccine (generic +
      outside-dorm vaccine).

      Phase 1 (Initial vaccine dose #1):

      Recruitment of all four intervention arms will be occur at the same time during the dorm
      wing's first mandatory meetings for residents. These mandatory meetings occur throughout the
      campus. Fifty-two (52) residents live on each dorm wing and the first mandatory dorm meeting
      attendance is typically between 75-90% of all residents within the wing (between 47 and 52
      men).

      At the end of the mandatory wing meeting, a male research assistant will provide a brief
      presentation to the young men that describe the HPV vaccine (either altruistic/personal
      benefit message with recommendation or a generic message).

      At the end of the brief presentation, residents will either be directed to the location where
      the HPV vaccine is set-up within the dormitory for immediate immunization (on-site vaccine)
      or provided a printed card that tells them how to get the vaccine on campus through the
      health center(outside-dorm vaccine). The location of the on-site vaccine will be close to the
      dorm wing.

      Eligibility requirements will be determined at the site of the HPV vaccine by student health
      center staff members. These requirements are (over 18-years of age and have not received the
      three-shot series of the HPV vaccine).

      For the on-site vaccine arms, once eligibility has been determined, research assistants will
      hand the young man over to the student health center staff (who will then conduct their
      typical vaccine protocol).

      For those in the outside-dorm vaccine arms, students will go to the health center to receive
      the vaccine.

      Phase 2 (2-month follow-up vaccine dose #2):

      On-site vaccine arms. One week before the student health center staff will return to the
      dormitory for administer the second HPV dose, research assistants will contact participants
      by text and email to remind them of the follow-up. The investigators will also send a text
      message and email the night before. In addition, Resident Assistants will also be provided
      the name of the men in the study to remind participants of the returned visit the night
      before about the visit.

      Outside-dorm vaccine. For those randomized to outside-dorm, research assistants will text and
      email participants one-week before their 2-month follow-up dose is needed. Resident
      Assistants will also be provided the name of the men in the study to remind participants
      about the getting the follow-up shot.

      Phase 3: (6-month follow-up dose #3): The investigators will use the same protocol for the
      6-month follow-up as the investigators use for the 2-month follow-up (reminder one week
      before and the night before using email, text, and resident assistants).
    
  