
    
      Objectives:

      This study aims to

        1. Validate the predictive value of various blood biomarkers, including the panel of
           antibodies against H.pylori and pepsinogen levels, micro RNAs (miRNAs) and blood-based
           protein markers in a prospective cohort study involving 8000 participants who have been
           referred for upper for predicting gastric cancer risk.

        2. Record the number of participants who are diagnosed with gastric cancer, including high
           grade dysplasia, carcinoma in-situ and adenocarcinoma.

        3. Develop a cost-effective screening strategy based on 1 and 2.

      Study Design This is a prospective cohort study involving 8000 subjects who are referred for
      upper GI endoscopy for standard clinical indications. Blood will be drawn from subjects for
      blood tests, including antibodies against H. pylori, pepsinogen levels, specific miRNA
      levels, blood-based protein markers, before undergoing an upper GI endoscopy for clinical
      reasons. Subjects will be monitored for a period of 10 years via verification with the
      National Registry of Diseases Office (NRDO) of Singapore. The correlation between the blood
      test results and findings from the clinical endoscopy or NRDO database verification will be
      analyzed to determine the predictive value.

      Enrolment Patients undergoing upper gastrointestinal endoscopy will be considered for
      enrolment provided they meet the inclusion and exclusion criteria. 8000 subjects will be
      enrolled. The Patient Informed Consent Form will be discussed with the patient. If
      acceptable, the form will be signed by the patient, Principal Investigator and witness if
      applicable. The subject will be assigned initials and a number in the order in which they
      were enrolled. Subjects will also be asked to provide information on demographics, family
      history of gastric cancer, diet, medical history, and lifestyle habits. The data will be
      captured in a comprehensive database.

      Blood Collection 15 mls of blood will be drawn from each subject. Serum, plasma and white
      blood cells will be extracted.

      Analyses

        1. Sera will be assayed for antibodies against H. pylori, Pepsinogen I and II levels to
           derive H. pylori status and pepsinogen index. Participants will be classified into 4
           groups, A, B, C and D, according to H. pylori status and pepsinogen Index. Group A
           includes subjects negative for both H. pylori antibodies and pepsinogen atrophic
           gastritis (PGA). Group B subjects will be negative for PGA and positive for H.pylori
           antibodies. Group C subjects will be positive for both tests. Finally, Group D subjects
           will be positive for PGA and negative for H. pylori antibodies. The incidence rate and
           relative risk of gastric cancer as determined by the findings of subjects' clinical
           gastroscopies or verification with NRDO will be calculated.

        2. Total RNA from serum or plasma will be isolated and the expression levels of miRNAs will
           be determined. The final miRNA expression levels after normalization of both technical
           and biological variations are analyzed with multiple statistical methods to identify
           panels of miRNAs with the highest discriminatory power between healthy and disease
           states. Each participant will be assigned a score based on miRNA expression profile,
           indicating the possibility of having GC. The result will be compared with endoscope and
           histology result which is the gold standard for diagnosis of GC. We will compare the
           performance of our miRNA panel with other serum markers including H. pylori status and
           pepsinogen levels.

        3. Levels of 10 blood-based protein markers (determined from systematic review) will be
           analyzed from sera through ELISAs (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay). Subsequent
           statistical multivariate analysis may be applied to generate a biomarker panel with a
           superior diagnostic performance compared to the conventional blood-based biomarkers for
           gastric cancer.

      Sample Size Calculation In our previous case-control study, 10% of the control group had
      pepsinogen (PG) determined atrophic gastritis, and the odds ratio (95%CI) for the risk of
      developing gastric cancer was 4.02 (2.56-6.30) compared with subjects who had no PG atrophic
      gastritis. A minimum of 47 gastric cancer cases are required to evaluate the PG-H. Pylori
      panel in the prediction of gastric cancer risk (with odds ratio 3.5) at power of 90% and
      p-value <0.05. Based on the estimated gastric cancer prevalence rate among NUH patients of
      the gastroenterology and upper GI surgery clinics of 0.6%, a cohort size of 8000 subjects
      will be needed.

      Statistical Analysis The chi-square test and the t-test will be used to compare the
      distributions of selected demographic, lifestyle and other risk factors between cases and
      controls. The logistic regression method will be used to examine the associations between
      blood markers measured and risk of gastric cancer. Statistical computing will be carried out
      using the SPSS 19. The statistical significance level is set at two-sided P value of 0.05.
    
  