
    
      Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) remains the only currently available treatment
      that can render patients durably molecularly negative, but the associated procedural-related
      morbidity and mortality remain a major deterrent.

      Currently the followings are accepted as reasonable indication for allogeneic SCT for CML:
      failure to 2nd generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor (2GTKI) after imatinib failure, 2GTKI
      frontline failure, or any patients meeting the criteria of failure such as development of
      additional cytogenetic abnormality (ACA), clonal evolution in ph neg clone, development of
      mutation and loss of CCyR as well as any advanced disease stage including accelerated or
      blastic phase. However, insufficient numbers of patients have been transplanted in recent
      years and after TKI therapy, thus necessitating update of this data.

      The EBMT risk score has been used for a decade for the decision making of transplantation in
      the pre-imatinib era. However, it has never been re-evaluated in a larger cohort of CML
      patients treated with TKIs prior to SCT then received alloSCT, thus requiring to be
      reanalysed for its prognostic implication on long-term survival.

      As mentioned above, any update was not reported on the transplant outcomes in the patients
      failed TKI therapy, thus necessitating update of this data. Also, the EBMT risk score2 is
      still of value, but insufficient numbers of patients have been transplanted in recent years
      and after TKI therapy to allow a robust reanalysis.

      This is retrospective study. The medical records will be reviewed retrospectively. The
      treatment outcomes such as complete cytogenetic response (CCyR), major molecular response
      (MMR), molecular response at 4.5 log reduction (MR4.5), treatment failure (TF), progression
      free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) will be estimated using Kaplan-Meier method.
      The CCR will be defined as 0% of Ph+ metaphase cells in the marrow or less than 1% by
      international scale using BCR-ABL1 transcript polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test. The MMR
      is defined as lower than or equal to a 0.1%IS of BCR-ABL1 fusion gene transcripts, and MR4.5
      is defined as 0.0032%IS BCR-ABL1 transcript level, equivalent to a 4.5 log reduction of
      BCR-ABL1 transcript level. Time to treatment failure (TTF) is defined as the interval between
      allogeneic SCT and the occurrence of events that indicated that CML has relapsed including
      primary hematologic resistance, cytogenetic resistance, loss of CCyR, development of ABL
      tyrosine kinase domain mutation, clonal evolution and progression to accelerated phase (AP)
      or blastic crisis (BC). Death is considered as censored for TTF. Time to PFS is defined as
      the interval between transplantation and confirmation of progression to AP or BC or death
      from any cause, while OS was calculated from transplantation until the date of death from any
      cause or of latest follow-up.

      Pre-transplant characteristics and transplant procedure data will be also collected including
      the age, disease stage, diagnosis/transplant date, donor type and gender match. Summary of
      treatment outcomes following previous TKI therapies will be also collected. Post-transplant
      events such as graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) and progression of CML will be also
      collected.

      No study intervention.

      Assessment of Efficacy:

      Cytogenetic responses were categorized as complete (0% Ph+ cells in marrow by conventional
      cytogenetics), partial (1% to 34% Ph+ cells in marrow), or minor (35% to 90% Ph+ cells in
      marrow). A major cytogenetic response (MCyR) was defined as the sum of CCyR and partial
      cytogenetic response (i.e. 0% - 35% Ph+ cells in marrow). Major molecular response (MMR) was
      defined as lower than or equal to a 0.1%IS of BCR-ABL1 fusion gene transcripts, and molecular
      response 4.5 (MR4.5) was defined as 0.0032%IS BCR-ABL1 transcript level, equivalent to a 4.5
      log reduction of BCR-ABL1 transcript level.

      Time to treatment failure (TTF) is defined as the interval between allogeneic SCT and the
      occurrence of events that indicated that CML has relapsed including primary hematologic
      resistance, cytogenetic resistance, loss of CCyR, development of ABL tyrosine kinase domain
      mutation, clonal evolution and progression to accelerated phase (AP) or blastic crisis (BC).
      Death is considered as censored for TTF. Time to PFS is defined as the interval between
      transplantation and confirmation of progression to AP or BC or death from any cause, while OS
      was calculated from transplantation until the date of death from any cause or of latest
      follow-up.

      Statistical analysis:

      The list of CML patients will be utilized for this retrospective study. Study ID, gender,
      disease characteristics at the time of diagnosis, details of treatment, detailed response to
      treatment, resistance or intolerance and long-term outcomes will be retrospectively reviewed.

      Study endpoints will be analyzed with respect to complete cytogenetic response (CCR),
      major/complete molecular response (MMR/CMR), loss of response, resistance, progression to
      advance disease and death. The cumulative incidence of CCR, MMR and CMR will be estimated and
      compared using the approach proposed by Gray (Gray, 1988). Overall survival will be analyzed
      using the Kaplan-Meier method and compared using the log-rank test. Loss of response,
      resistance and failure-free survival will be analyzed using the test for cumulative incidence
      to account for competing risk events. Baseline characteristics, including Sokal score, age,
      gender, disease stage, will be adopted as surrogates for further response, progression free
      and overall survival following transplantation. For the EBMT risk score, age of the patient,
      stage of the disease at transplant, time from diagnosis (<12 months vs > 12months), donor
      type, and donor recipient gender combination will be used for the calculation. The transplant
      outcomes will be compared according to the EBMT risk score.

      P-values of less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. Hazard ratios (HR)
      and 95% confidence intervals (CI) will be estimated with a predetermined reference risk of
      1.0. The EZR software will be used for the statistical analyses.
    
  