
    
      Aim 1. To evaluate the effectiveness of CCRT in improving cognitive performance outcomes in
      Ugandan children with HIV.

      Hypothesis 1a: CCRT can improve short and long-term cognitive outcomes in children with HIV;
      Hypothesis 1b: Improvements in performance associated with CCRT are not solely due to
      increased computer exposure.

      One-hundred and fifty school-age children with HIV in Kayunga District, Uganda, will undergo
      baseline neuropsychological testing using the Kaufman Assessment Battery for Children
      (KABC-2), the computerized Tests of Variables of Attention (TOVA: auditory and visual tests),
      the brief CogState computerized neuropsychological test battery (CogState), and the
      Bruininks-Oseretsky Tests of Motor Proficiency (2nd edition) (BOT-2). Cogstate is designed as
      a neuropsychological screening tool with minimal practice effects and suitable in a repeated
      measures design for monitoring the benefits of treatment on neurocognitive disability11.
      Children then will be randomized to either: CCRT intervention group (Captain's Log active
      rehabilitation), active control group (Captain's Log locked, non-rehabilitation mode), or
      passive control group (no computer intervention). CCRT or computer controls will be presented
      over 24 sessions (~ 45 min) for 8 weeks (3 sessions per week). After the 8-weeks,
      neurocognitive gains will be assessed with CogState and the KABC-2 working memory subscales
      (primary expected outcome measures). The full KABC-2, TOVA, CogState, and BOT-2 will be
      re-administered 3 months after the 8-week assessment. Thus, the full battery will be
      administered at enrollment and at 3-month follow-up, while the most strategic portions of the
      battery will be administered following the 8 weeks CCRT intervention period. The combined
      testing will allow us to assess both the short-term and longer-term neuropsychological
      benefits of CCRT.

      Aim 2. To evaluate the effectiveness of CCRT in reducing psychiatric symptoms in Ugandan
      children with HIV.

      Hypothesis 2: CCRT can reduce short- and long-term psychiatric symptoms in children with HIV.

      Previously in cerebral malaria survivors, we demonstrated a significant reduction in
      short-term symptoms related to anxiety, depression, and somatic complaints as assessed by the
      Achenbach Child Behavior Checklist (CBCL) following CCRT intervention12. In this aim,
      caregiver-reported psychiatric symptoms on the CBCL will be assessed at enrollment, after the
      8-week CCRT intervention period, and 3 months after enrollment. The CBCL assessment will also
      help us gauge the psychosocial benefits of the social attention and enrichment surrounding
      computer exposure in the active control condition, rather than the rehabilitative aspects of
      CCRT per se. This will be evident as we compare the active and passive control groups.

      Aim 3. To evaluate how ARV treatment status and clinical response along with corresponding
      immunological status of the child modifies CCRT neuropsychological performance gains and
      psychiatric symptom reduction; .after controlling for quality of home environment, nutrition,
      and other risk factors of poverty.

      Hypothesis 3: Children virally suppressed on ART treatment with a history of fewer
      opportunistic illnesses and better CD4 counts will have better neuropsychological outcomes in
      response to CCRT training.The moderating effects of HIV progressive encephalopathy on brain
      plasticity can also be monitored by CCRT training progress, measures by the Captain's Log
      Internal Evaluator (CLIE) feature of the CCRT program.
    
  