
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II dose of interferon alfa-2b
      (IFN-α-2b) when administered with recombinant vaccinia-CEA(6D)-TRICOM vaccine, recombinant
      fowlpox-CEA(6D)-TRICOM vaccine, and sargramostim (GM-CSF) in patients with locally advanced
      or metastatic carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA)-expressing carcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the effect of IFN-α-2b on tumor cell expression of CEA and MHC class I antigens
      in patients treated with this regimen.

      II. Determine the immunologic effects of this regimen in these patients. III. Determine any
      objective anti-tumor responses that may occur in response to this regimen in these patients.

      IV. Determine the time to tumor progression in patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of interferon alfa-2b (IFN-α-2b).

      COURSE I: Patients receive recombinant vaccinia-CEA(6D)-TRICOM vaccine subcutaneously (SC) on
      day 1. Patients also receive sargramostim (GM-CSF) SC on days 1-4 and IFN-α-2b* SC on days 9,
      11, and 13.

      COURSES II-IV: Patients receive recombinant fowlpox-CEA(6D)-TRICOM vaccine SC on day 1.
      Patients also receive GM-CSF as in course 1 and IFN-α-2b* SC on days 1, 3, and 5.

      NOTE: *The initial cohort of 6 patients does not receive IFN-α-2b.

      Treatment repeats every 28 days for 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. After 4 courses, patients who do not have progressive disease or
      unacceptable toxicity may receive recombinant fowlpox-CEA (6D)-TRICOM vaccine, GM-CSF, and
      IFN-α-2b every 28 days for 2 more courses and then every 3 months for up to 2 years.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IFN-α-2b until the maximum tolerated dose
      (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 2 of 6
      patients experience dose-limiting toxicity. Six additional patients are treated at the MTD;
      these patients must be HLA-A2 positive.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed monthly for 4 months and then
      every 6-12 months for up to 15 years.
    
  