
    
      3.0 Research Design and Methods This pilot experimental study is designed as a randomized,
      education controlled clinical trial of mindfulness meditation for CLBP. A sample of 80 older
      adults 65 years of age and older will be recruited from a chronic pain clinic, general
      medicine research registry, posted flyers, and newspaper advertisements over an 18-month
      period. Eligibility will be determined by self-report from a checklist reviewed with
      potential participants over the phone. Pre-intervention study participants will be consented
      and study measures obtained. After consent and baseline measures, participants will be
      randomized using a simple randomization process with no stratification using a software
      generated randomization plan. After randomization, participants in the intervention group
      will receive the intervention of eight weekly 90-minute mindfulness meditation sessions.
      Controls will receive an 8-week health education program. Subject evaluation and each program
      will occur at the University of Pittsburgh Center for Research on Health Care (CRHC) which
      has subject examination areas as well as a classroom and a nearby parking structure. Subjects
      will be assessed weekly over the telephone during the intervention or health education
      program with a subset of measures administered at baseline. Immediately post-intervention or
      education program the complete set of measures will be administered again to participants and
      controls. Subjects will be assessed monthly by telephone for five months after completion of
      the MBSR or health education program with the same subset of baseline measures. Six months
      after the intervention is completed, participants will be asked to return to the CRHC and
      complete the entire set of measures a third time and any mindfulness meditation the
      intervention group continues to do at home will be quantified.

      3.2 Procedures

      3.2.2 Entry Phase: All 40 subjects who are included based upon the screening criteria will
      receive identical pre-treatment baseline assessments. Data will be collected and
      interviewer-administered by a trained research assistant at the University of Pittsburgh
      CRHC.

      After successful telephone screening, written informed consent, and baseline examination, all
      eligible research subjects entering this study will be randomized into one of two treatment
      groups; 1) education group (control) or 2) mindfulness meditation (treatment). The
      randomization process will be performed using statistical software with a random-number
      generator to generate a randomization list before the study commences.

      3.2.4 Intervention Phase: Participants will be seen in a group format once a week for 90
      minutes for 8-weeks. All sessions will be led by a facilitator experienced in teaching the
      MBSR program and who has undergone teacher training in at least one intensive (≥ 50 hours)
      MBSR teacher training program conducted by the University of Massachusetts Medical School
      Center for Mindfulness prior to the intervention. All sessions will occur at the University
      of Pittsburgh Center for Research on Health Care (CRHC).

      MBSR Intervention: The intervention is based on the work of Jon Kabat-Zinn at the
      Massachusetts Medical Center. He has adapted Eastern methods of mindfulness meditation to a
      Western audience. Three techniques of mindfulness meditation will be taught. These techniques
      take regular activities like sitting, walking and lying down and transform them into a
      meditation through directed breathing and mindful awareness of thoughts and sensations.

      The techniques used are: 1) the body scan, where in a lying position, the participant is
      guided to place their attention non-judgmentally on each area of the body from the toes to
      the top of the head and directing the breath to each region in turn, 2) sitting practice,
      which is focused attention on breathing while sitting on a chair or cross-legged on the
      floor, 3) walking meditation, which is mindful slow walking with focused attention on body
      sensation and /or breathing (15).

      During the first week participants will be introduced to the principles and practice of
      mindfulness meditation. The homework requirement of daily meditation (six of seven days/week)
      lasting 50 minutes (45 minutes of meditation, 5 minutes to complete a log) will be reviewed.
      Support materials of audiotape or CD recording, daily log and reading materials will be
      handed out. The audiotape or CD recording is a 45 minute recording of the steps in the body
      scan meditation and a 30 minute recording of the sitting meditation that guides participants
      in meditation. The reading materials will be reviewed during the sessions and are not part of
      the homework. The log is described later in this protocol. The body scan technique will be
      taught at the first session. The group will meditate together using the body scan technique
      for 45 minutes at the first and most subsequent sessions. If physical discomfort should arise
      during any meditation participants will be encouraged to change to a more comfortable
      position. There is not a minimum amount of time required to stay in one position.

      During the second and following weeks the sessions will include a general discussion of the
      participants' experience with the meditation method, including problem solving regarding
      obstacles to the meditation practice. Theoretical material related to meditation, relaxation,
      pain and the mind/body connection will be presented at this time. About 30 minutes will be
      spent at each session in these discussions. Also during the second week, quiet sitting
      meditation will be introduced. The group will practice together using the sitting meditation
      technique for 15 minutes during this and at the beginning of subsequent sessions.

      At the fifth week's session, walking meditation will be introduced. Therefore, the structure
      of each session will be one hour (total) of meditation and 30 minutes of discussion.

      Health Education Control Program: A convincing comparison group is essential for subject
      recruitment and retention as well as essential for controlling for key components of the MBSR
      program. Therefore, we will create a comparison group that will control for time, group size
      and facilitator time. We are basing the 8-week health education program on a successful aging
      curriculum that has been used in other trials (80, 81). The health education curriculum will
      involve lectures, group interaction and homework assignments based on the health topics
      discussed. Sessions will include topics such as (a) medications, (b) foot care, (c)
      traveling, and (d) nutrition. Additionally, subjects will be given materials to promote
      participation and retention in the program. For example, participants will receive the
      "passport" to health, available from the Pennsylvania Department of Aging. It is a small
      booklet that seniors fill out with essential health information such as medical problems and
      medications. Filling out the passport will be one of the homework assignments. The health
      education group will receive ongoing staff attention. This person will coordinate and be
      present at all classes. The consistent presence of a class coordinator will control for the
      facilitator contact of the MBSR program. This type of intervention is deemed scientifically
      "inert" (i.e., not affecting the outcomes of interest in this trial). Previous trials such as
      the LIFE-P trial demonstrated an excellent retention rate of 91.5% (82).

      3.3 Data Collection and Statistical Considerations

      3.3.1 Outcome measures: Outcome measures were chosen to reflect our primary aim of
      determining the impact of the MBSR program on physical function and pain. To reflect our
      secondary aim of determining the impact of the MBSR program on the multidimensional aspects
      of chronic pain, comprehensive psychosocial, sleep and appetite measures were decided on.
      Outcome measures were also chosen because of their demonstrated feasibility, reliability, and
      validity in older adults with chronic pain.

      Questionnaires will be administered at baseline, completion of the 8-week program, and
      6-month follow up include 1) measures of physical ability with the SF-36 Physical Function
      Scale (49) , Roland and Morris Disability Questionnaire (51), Short Physical Performance
      Battery (52, 53); 2) measure of pain with the McGill Pain Questionnaire (MPQ), Short Form
      (54) and The Pain Thermometer (51); 3) measures of psychosocial function with the SF-36
      Health Survey (55), Geriatric Depression Scale (57), Chronic Pain Acceptance Questionnaire
      (58), Multidimensional Pain Inventory (60), Catastrophizing Scale of the Cognitive Strategies
      Questionnaire (61), Fear-Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire (62), Chronic Pain Self-Efficacy
      Scale (65), Self-rated heath (SRH) using standardized methods (66, 67); 4) measures of
      mindfulness with the Kentucky Inventory of Mindfulness Skills (68) and Mindful Attention
      Awareness Scale (MAAS) (69, 70); 5) measures of stress with the well-validated Perceived
      Stress Scale (71); 6) measures of sleep with a modified Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (73);
      7) measures of appetite by evaluating pain-related appetite impairment.

      3.3.2 Evaluation of Treatment Outcome:

      Weekly Assessments: To examine the process of change, brief (15 minutes) weekly telephone
      evaluations of major important domains (pain, physical function, psychosocial function,
      sleep) will be conducted. The measures are a subset of the collected baseline measures (see
      D.3.3.1). These data will allow a detailed examination of the temporal association of the
      individual weeks of the 8-week MBSR program with the primary outcomes of pain and physical
      function as well as secondary outcomes of psychosocial function. It will also allow a
      detailed examination of the temporal relationship between time and frequency meditating and
      the primary and secondary outcomes. All measures will be collected weekly over the telephone
      one-two days before the treatment sessions. These measures will be collected by the research
      assistant who will be blinded to randomization assignment. These weekly dependent measures
      will include assessment of pain, physical function, psychosocial function and sleep with 1)
      the SF-36 Physical Function scale, 2) self-reported pain in the past week on a scale of
      0-100, 3) the short-form of the Multidimensional Pain Inventory, 4) subjects' reports of any
      pain medication usage (including OTC) during the previous week (type, dosage, and frequency),
      tracked with diaries, 5) the five item MAAS, 6) the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index; and 7)
      Acute Illness/injury or exacerbation of comorbidity will be assessed with yes/no questions
      and if answered positively, the participant will be asked to describe the event.

      Post-program Evaluation: Within one week of completing the 8-week MBSR or health education
      program, subjects will return to the CRHC and will be evaluated in a manner similar to the
      preprogram evaluation. That is, all measures outlined in D.3.3.1 will be repeated.
      Independent global ratings of improvement on a 5 point scale also will be made by the
      research subjects (83).

      Six-month follow up (FU): Subjects will be interviewed by telephone at monthly intervals
      after the post-program evaluation for 5 months. Brief structured interviews will assess
      subjects' perceptions of improvement since treatment, time and frequency of meditation for
      the treatment group, current pain intensity, physical function, mindfulness and sleep (using
      the same measures collected weekly). In addition, medication use and additional treatment
      seeking will be assessed. At 6 months post-treatment, subjects will be asked to return to the
      CRHC for an evaluation that will be identical to the pre- and post-treatment evaluations.
    
  