
    
      Approximately 2.5 million people in the U.S. are hospitalized each year having sustained
      injuries during a traumatic event. Injured trauma survivors are at high risk for developing
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other related conditions. In addition, many of
      these people experience several physical, financial, social, legal, and medical problems over
      the course of the year following the trauma. Effective interventions to prevent or remedy
      these issues have yet to be developed for individuals who undergo inpatient surgery following
      a traumatic injury and who then continue with outpatient treatment and community
      rehabilitation. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of patient-centered collaborative
      care that combines behavioral therapy and drug therapy as compared to usual care in reducing
      symptoms of PTSD and substance use. The study will also assess the intervention's
      effectiveness in increasing participants' general functioning and satisfaction with their
      care post-injury.

      Participants in this open label study will be randomly assigned to receive either the
      standard care provided to injured trauma survivors or a combination of behavioral therapy and
      drug therapy. Participants assigned to receive the combination therapy may receive one or
      more of the following medications based on their individual needs: fluoxetine; sertraline;
      paroxetine; buspirone; propranolol; trazodone; and any of the benzodiazepines. Participants
      may begin receiving medication immediately or anytime within the 12 months post-injury.
      Behavioral therapy will also be administered on the basis of the participants' individual
      needs and may continue for up to 12 months. Participants will also take part in motivational
      interviews, the first of which will be conducted upon study entry in the hospital ward.
      Subsequent interviews will be conducted over the phone at Months 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12.
      Participants will be required to report to the study site only for the initial baseline
      visit. Outcome measures will include PTSD severity ratings, frequency of substance use, and
      general functioning reports.
    
  