
    
      Suicide is the second leading cause of death among those aged 10-29 years, the 9th leading
      cause of death overall, and there are 4000 completed suicides per year in Canada. Adverse
      childhood experiences, interpersonal stressors and trauma correlate strongly with suicidal
      behaviour and the later development of psychopathology such as depression. For many
      individuals, overwhelming emotions and/or painful negative beliefs stemming from traumatic
      experiences contribute to a desire to escape though suicide or self-harm. Eye Movement
      Desensitization and Reprocessing (EMDR) is an evidence-based therapy for posttraumatic stress
      disorder that desensitizes painful memories, so that reminders in the present no longer
      provoke the overwhelming emotional responses.

      The COVID-19 pandemic has forced a rapid shift from in-person psychotherapy to remotely
      delivered psychotherapy services, both to reduce the spread of COVID-19 as well as to
      maintain access to services. Given this rapid shift to remote delivery and the need for a
      review of evidence, a recent systematic scoping review was undertaken regarding the scope and
      quality of peer reviewed literature on remotely delivered psychotherapeutic digital health
      interventions for military members, veterans and public safety personnel with posttraumatic
      stress injury (Jones et al 2020). This review yielded 38 studies for inclusion, demonstrating
      level 1a evidence for prolonged exposure therapy, cognitive processing therapy, behavioral
      activation and therapeutic exposure in this population. There was evidence that remote
      delivery of these therapies can be as effective as in-person treatment, and also possibly
      reduce stigma and improve access to care. There was limited information about EMDR, despite
      the fact that online EMDR has been widely adopted around the world clinically.

      This project had originally aimed to enroll inpatients in face to face therapy and transition
      them to the outpatient environment. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in shorter
      inpatient length of stay, extremely limited mobility for inpatients on and off the units, and
      shortages of appropriate spaces, making this untenable. There has also been an increase in
      demand for mental health services at the same time as a reduction in availability of
      in-person mental health supports. Furthermore, public health measures have necessitated
      periodic self-isolation, leading to clinic cancellations. For all these reasons, this project
      will deliver EMDR via Zoom videoconferencing, rather than in person.

      This real-world, non-blinded randomized study aims to evaluate the safety and efficacy of
      EMDR for adults (ages 18 to 65) with suicidal ideation. Eighty participants will be
      randomized into one of two groups. Group one will receive EMDR therapy to desensitize and
      reprocess the experiences associated with suicidal thinking. This will be delivered online
      via encrypted Zoom, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Group two will be randomized to "treatment
      as usual" (TAU), which will serve as a control group. TAU will include regular psychiatric
      care. Clinical measures of anxiety, depression, post-traumatic symptoms, emotional
      dysregulation, and suicidal thinking will be compared before and after therapy. The impact on
      emergency room visits, re-hospitalizations and healthcare costs will also be evaluated one
      year after study completion.
    
  