
    
      Study Design

      This study will be conducted at the Burke Rehabilitation Hospital under an IRB protocol.
      Wplan to accrue a total of 76 male and/or female patients (> 65 years) with a diagnosis of
      AMCI/AD dementia that are also amyloid positive by PET scan. Patients will be randomized and
      blinded to either a benfotiamine or placebo group. Because it is unknown whether there will
      be differential responses to treatment according to initial cognitive impairment,
      participants will be stratified according to the median MMSE cut-off score of our historical
      METS population who are > 65 years old and have an MMSE >21.

      In this double-blind study, patients and their caregivers, as well as all physicians,
      clinicians, coordinators and investigators interacting with the patients, will be unaware of
      the treatment assignments. Treatment assignments will be available to the safety-monitoring
      physician, Dr. Michael Reding, who will have no unnecessary subject contact. If necessary,
      the code will be revealed to Dr. Reding by the pharmacist, Dr. Thomas Grandville.

      Each patient will make six visits to the Memory Evaluation and Treatment Service (METS)
      clinic at Burke Rehabilitation Hospital. Information on medication use, vital signs, outcome
      measures, compliance and safety/tolerability will be collected at each time point. The
      screening visit (visit 1) will take place within 30 days prior to baseline visit (visit 2).
      Informed consent/assent will be obtained from each subject or his/her caregiver prior to
      conducting any study related procedures. During the screening visit a review of
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be completed along with the collection of demographic data,
      disease history, and information about prior and concomitant medications. A complete medical
      history, physical examination, neurological examination, including the MMSE, CDR, CSDD and
      vital signs, will be collected. Blood will be drawn to assess blood glucose Patients that are
      diagnosed as likely Alzheimer patients that are not hyperglycemic will then have an amyloid
      PET scan. Only patients with a diagnosis of AD and a positive amyloid scan will be included.
      Prior to baseline (visit 2), FDGPET studies will be completed for each subject. At the
      baseline visit (visit 2) blood will be drawn to determine APOE and thiamine (vitamin B1
      status). At visits 2-6, information on concomitant medications will be updated, vitals will
      be taken, medication compliance will be assessed and the following study measures will be
      administered: Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADASCog), Buschke SRT, Neuropsychological
      Inventory (NPI), Clinical Dementia Rating Scale (CDR) and Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative
      Study-Activities of Daily Living (ADCS-ADLs). The final PET scan will be conducted
      approximately one week prior to the last visit. In addition to safety assessments at time of
      each visit, each patient will receive a call from the clinical coordinator at weeks 2 and 6
      to assess for adverse events.

      The benfotiamine and placebo will be dispensed by the pharmacy at Burke under the direction
      of Thomas Grandville, D. Pharm. The caregiver will administer the drug since patients with
      memory problems may forget to take it on a regular basis. In the placebo group, the active
      compound benfotiamine will be replaced with microcrystalline cellulose. The other components,
      shape and color are identical to the treatment. Caregivers will be instructed to oversee the
      administration of the study medication as prescribed to ensure compliance. A record of the
      number of capsules dispensed, number returned, and actual number taken will be recorded at
      scheduled visits. Each patient will be treated for 12 months.

      The study cognitive measures include: the ADAS-Cog (our primary outcome measure), Alzheimer's
      Disease Cooperative Study-Activities of Daily Living, Neuropsychiatric Inventory, Clinical
      Dementia Rating Scale, Buschke Selective Reminding Test (SRT). is a standard diagnostic tool
      in the assessment of verbal memory. The Biological/Mechanistic Outcome Measures will be
      FDG-PET Scanning Procedures

      Data Analysis Preliminary analyses will be conducted to describe the study sample and to
      confirm the relationship between level of glucose utilization and severity of cognitive
      impairment. For continuous variables (eg cognitive function, glucose utilization), we will
      first examine distributions to assess normality assumptions. We will perform transformations
      as needed to stabilize the variance, and to reduce skewness and kurtosis. We will use means
      (sd) and proportions n (%) to characterize the study sample. T-tests and Chi-square, or
      Wilcoxon rank sum test and Fisher, where appropriate, will be used to assess for any
      differences in patient characteristics according to treatment group. We will use spearman
      correlation coefficients and linear regression, unadjusted and adjusted for covariates, to
      assess the relationship between FDG-PET and MMSE in the whole population as well as in MMSE
      stratified groups to examine the relationship between initial MMSE score and glucose uptake.

      All analyses to test study hypotheses will be run as intention to treat (ITT). Missing
      observations will be addressed by using the method of last observation carried forward
      (LOCF).
    
  