
    
      Purpose. This study will assess the feasibility of using an electronic nose to detect signals
      indicating infection with severe acute respiratory disress syndrome corona virus-2
      )SARS-CoV-2). Five different prototypes of electronic nose will be used that would be
      deployed differently: 1) a patch, 2) clipped to a garment neckline, 3) clipped to a garment
      waistline, 4) resting on a bedside table, and 5) integrated into a facemask. Data will be
      collected over a three day period to determine the quality of the smell-print signals
      collected by the different deployment regimes. Eligibility. Subjects admitted to University
      of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC) with definite or suspected SARS-CoV-2 infection will be
      eligible. Subjects must have access to a smart phone and be well enough to engage in the
      active data collection. The goal is to enroll 30 SARS-CoV-2 infected and 30 uninfected
      individuals. Eligibility of controls will be extended to patients admitted to UNMC with other
      respiratory problems including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) exacerbation,
      pneumonia and congestive heart failure if needed. Adults (19 years and older) are eligible.
      Subjects with allergic reactions to components of the devices will be excluded. Interventions
      and evaluations. Informed consent will be obtained remotely following which an app will be
      downloaded to their phone. A kit will be delivered to the patients room containing the five
      devices. The app will support: instruction on use of the devices, reminders to collect data
      every 2 hours between 08:00 and 20:00, and access to study personnel for support as needed.
      The app will transmit smell prints from the 5 devices to a secure cloud-based database. The
      study coordinator will oversee subject education and deployment of the devices by
      phone/facetime. Subjects will be instructed on use of the devices, which they will
      self-deploy in positions that do not interfere with any medical equipment. The patch,
      clip-ons and bedside sensor will be worn continuously from 08:00 to 20:00. The mask will be
      placed for 5 minutes before each data collection, which will be timed by the phone app. The
      mask can then be removed until the next data collection. Smell-print data will be collected
      for three days. Following this, the devices will be replaced into the kit box and collected
      by the nursing staff. Clinical data will be collected from the electronic health record.
      Follow up. Following completion of the study, subjects will be asked to complete a brief
      questionnaire on the experience and asked about their willingness to be contacted for further
      interviews.
    
  