
    
      The purpose of this study is to evaluate the clinical value of high throughput sequencing of
      infectious pathogens for patients with severe infection, and to establish foundation for high
      throughput sequencing to be the clinical routine infection pathogen examination.

      This study is a diagnostic study, and the sample size is 320 cases. 320 participants from the
      department of hematology and intensive care unit who meet the inclusion criteria are randomly
      divided into the control group and the experimental group with 160 cases in each group. Both
      the participants of the control group and the experimental group undergo routine clinical
      diagnosis methods and treatment. In addition, the participants of the experimental group are
      collected the samples including whole blood, cerebrospinal fluid or alveolar lavage fluid
      required for high throughput sequencing of infectious pathogens during sample collection for
      routine pathogenic examination of infection. For the experimental group participants, the
      clinicians will comprehensively determine the follow-up diagnosis methods and treatment
      according to the clinical routine infection pathogen tests results combining with the results
      of high throughput sequencing of infectious pathogen, while the control group participants
      proceed to undergo follow-up diagnosis methods and treatment according to the results of the
      clinical routine infection pathogen examination. If the results of high throughput sequencing
      of infectious pathogens of the test group are inconsistent with the results of clinical
      routine infection pathogen examination, the follow-up diagnosis and treatment of the
      participants will be based on the results of clinical routine infection pathogen examination
      with priority.

      For sample size assessment, we have predicted the pathogen diagnosis rate of routine clinical
      pathogen detection methods and high-throughput sequencing of infectious pathogens (α=0.05,
      β=0.10 (power=0.9)), considering that the maximum rate of missing cases was 20%, and finally
      got the sample content. And this study will include all subjects selected and randomized into
      a full analysis set under the intent-to-treat principle. After excluding participants with
      insufficient sample, withdrawing from the trial midway, giving up treatment and leaving the
      hospital, or lost to follow-up, the remaining participants will be included in the protocol
      set under the per-protocol principle.

      As for statistical analysis, the pathogen diagnosis rate and the diagnostic accuracy rate
      between the conventional infectious pathogen tests and the high throughput sequencing of
      infectious pathogens will be compared in the experimental group. By gathering statistics of
      consultation hours and cost efficiency, the effect of high throughput sequencing of
      infectious pathogens on the diagnosis and treatment efficiency of the experimental group and
      the control group will be compared, and through these indicators, clinical application value
      for the diagnosis of severe infection patients by high throughput sequencing of infectious
      pathogens can be evaluated.
    
  