
    
      There are two types of patients can be distinguished in this study:

        -  Polycystic ovarian morphology + normal cycle length (up to 35 days). The majority of
           subjects in this group have non-syndromic polycystic ovaries and do not have PCOS. In
           these patients, AMH is only moderately elevated and cyclical follicular development
           occurs under the influence of FSH.

        -  PCOS - Polycystic ovarian morphology + oligomenorrhoea (menstrual periods occurring at
           intervals of greater than 35 days, with only four to nine periods in a year) or
           amenorrhea. In these patients, with often strongly elevated AMH levels and concomitant
           hyperandrogenemia, relative FSH resistance results in arrest of follicular growth at the
           small antral follicular state. Spontaneous selection of a dominant follicle does not
           occur or occurs rarely. A large proportion of follicles are atretic. An important
           proportion of these patients have a BMI higher than 25. These patients generally receive
           the same standard gonadotropin stimulation regimen as the patients of previous group,
           but if the largest follicles have a diameter of less than 8 mm on the third day of
           stimulation, patients receive one or two supplementary days of gonadotropin stimulation.
           Moreover, these patients generally take two-three weeks of OCP before the start of the
           IVM cycle and start stimulation approximately on day five after OCP withdrawal. However,
           since these patients do not have endogenous FSH-driven recruitment of follicles, the
           start of stimulation is rather flexible.

        -  The use of OCP (oral contraceptive pill) before the IVM cycle is obligate. OCP (for
           example Microgynon 30 micrograms) will be administered daily, to clear the atretic
           follicles in the ovary. OCP will be given for between 14 and 21 days (this method allows
           for better programming the cycles and the workload in the embryology lab).

      Before the first IVM cycle (Screening visit): All subjects will undergo a pelvic ultrasound
      scan to evaluate suitability to undergo IVM treatment. Patients will undergo a blood test for
      serology (Hepatitis B, HIV, syphilis) and baseline hormonal profiling (LH, FSH, E2,
      progesterone, AMH, SHBG, Testosterone). Additional analysis of TSH, thyroperoxydase
      antibodies, prolactin. Any concomitant medication taken in the last 3 months prior to the IVM
      attempt should be notified.

      First IVM treatment cycle:

        -  First clinic visit:

             -  All subjects will contact the study nurse on cycle day (cd1) to initiate the first
                Capacitation culture cycle. If cd1 is during the weekend, subjects will contact the
                study nurse on Monday. The subject will attend the clinic on day 1, 2 or 3 of
                menstrual bleeding. An ultrasound scan is performed to rule out the existence of
                ovarian cysts and a blood sample is taken for hormonal assessment (HCG, FSH, LH,
                E2, progesterone). On the evening of cycle day 3 of the first clinic visit,
                flexible Gonadotrophin stimulation will be started to enhance follicular
                development. First dose of HP-hMG 150 IU at 2 PM. Second dose next day of HP-hMG
                150 IU at 2 PM. The subject will return for a pelvic ultrasound scan and a blood
                test (FSH, LH, E2, progesterone) after the two days of HP-hMG 150 IU stimulation
                (i.e. on morning of day 6).

             -  To patients with OCP bleeding: On day one, two, three or four of the withdrawal
                bleeding that occurs after discontinuing the OCP, the subject will attend the
                clinic to undergo a pelvic ultrasound scan and a blood sample is taken for hormonal
                assessment (FSH, LH, E2, progesterone, AMH, total serum testosterone, SHBG). On the
                day of the first clinic visit, flexible HP-hMG stimulation will be started to
                enhance follicular development, at a first daily dose of HP-hMG at 8 P.M. The dose
                will depend on BMI and on the severity of the PCOS phenotype, to allow improved
                control over follicular growth. The subject will return for a pelvic ultrasound
                scan and a blood test (FSH, LH, E2, progesterone) after two days of HP hMG
                stimulation.

        -  Second clinic visit at day 6 (after 2 days of HP-hMG treatment):

             -  If the ultrasound scan shows the presence of a single dominant follicle larger than
                12 mm with the other follicles all less than 10 mm, and the oocyte retrieval (OR)
                will be scheduled two days later, between 8:00 and 9:00 h. It is important to keep
                the OR 42 - 46 hours after the last HP-hMG injection as a fixed timing. If the
                ultrasound scan shows a maximal follicular diameter of less than 8 mm, a final
                injection of HP-hMG will be administered at 2 P.M. and the oocyte retrieval (OR)
                will be scheduled two days later, between 8:00 and 9:00 h. It is important to keep
                the OR 42 - 46 hours after the last HP-hMG injection as a fixed timing.

             -  To patients with OCP bleeding: If the ultrasound scan shows a maximal follicular
                diameter of approx. 9 mm, a final injection of HP-hMG will be administered at 2
                P.M. and the oocyte retrieval (OR) will be scheduled two days later, between 8:00
                and 9:00 h (under general anesthetics - the exact time of OR should be discussed
                with operating nurses and anesthetist). It is important to keep the time of OR
                constant at 42 -46 hours after the last HP-hMG injection.

        -  Third visit - Oocyte retrieval: Oocyte retrieval (OR) will be scheduled between 8:00 and
           10:00 h (under general anesthetics). On the day of OR:

             -  An ultrasound scan of both ovaries and of endometrial lining is recorded.

             -  A blood sample will be obtained for hormonal profiling (LH, FSH, E2, progesterone).

        -  All cumulus-oocyte complexes (COC) retrieved from the patient are cultured in CAPA
           medium for 24 hours.

        -  Following CAPA culture, half of oocytes will be divided randomly (50/50) to the two
           maturation triggers medium.

             -  Group 1: AREG+FSH (regular CAPA-IVM group)

             -  Group 2: FSH+hCG+GH (similar to STD IVM conditions used in IVFMD, HCMC) with no
                AREG added

        -  In vitro oocyte maturation:

             -  Evaluate and register COCs for cumulus mass (CM) and cumulus contact between oocyte
                and cumulus cells. Each time take photographs. Discard fully denuded, degenerated
                oocytes.

             -  Transfer half of the COCs (5-10 at a time) from the Capacitation culture dish to
                the "washing dish" containing "Maturation Medium 1 (CAPA-IVM medium)" by using an
                Eppendorf micropipettes and wash them thoroughly (load pipette tips with 5µl, max.
                10µl). Then transfer COCs to the "IVM dish" with "Maturation Medium 1 (CAPA-IVM
                medium)".

             -  Transfer the second half of the COCs from the Capacitation culture dish to the
                "washing dish" containing "Maturation Medium 2 (STD IVM medium)" and wash them
                thoroughly (load pipette tips with 5µl, max. 10µl). Then transfer COCs to the "IVM
                dish" with "Maturation Medium 2 (STD IVM medium)".

             -  Keep COCs in pools of ~10.

             -  Label the dish appropriately and culture COCs 30-32 hours in an incubator.

        -  Evaluation of maturation (MII, GVBD, GV) will be done at 30 hours. Oocytes which have
           undergone GVBD but with no clear PB will be assessed at 32 hours. Insemination will be
           performed using intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection (3-4 hours after oocyte retrieval or
           maturation check); only matured oocytes will be inseminated.

        -  Fertilization check will be performed under an inverted microscope at 16-18 hours after
           insemination. Embryo evaluation will be performed at 68 ±1 hours after fertilization
           using the Istanbul consensus. Standard Embryo Vitrification protocol used. Embryos will
           be vitrified per stimulation protocol obtained (group 1 -FSH+AREG or group 2 -
           FSH+hCG+GH).

        -  Luteal phase monitoring: (In case transfer is done in fresh or artificial cycle): In all
           patients, a blood sample will be obtained for hormonal profiling (E2, progesterone, HCG)
           on the day of embryo transfer and 10 days after embryo transfer.

        -  Early pregnancy monitoring: To identify a gestational sac, a first ultrasound scan will
           be planned at 7 weeks of gestation (at an hCG level of > 1500 IU/mL). This should enable
           us to calculate implantation rates.

        -  After a first unsuccessful IVM cycle: The clinical and embryological data and results
           related to the first IVM cycle (cumulative fresh and frozen embryo cycles) will be
           discussed, to establish a more patient tailored approach for an eventual second IVM
           cycle. The patient-tailored approach in the second IVM cycle might consist of
           modification of the management of the follicular phase.
    
  