
    
      1. Trial design:

           Randomized clinical trial, parallel groups design with 1:1 allocation ratio.

        2. Method:

           Interventions

           A. Diagnostic procedure:

             -  Clinical examination will be done on the dental clinic using mirror and probe to
                assess the eligibility.

             -  Diagnosis of the cases will be performed according to guidelines of AAPD 2017 for
                treatment of vital pulp therapy in primary teeth.

             -  An individual XCP (Extension Cone Paralleling) index will be prepared for each
                patient by registering the bite to allow consistent comparisons of the radiographs.

             -  Preoperative periapical radiograph and photographs will be taken a baseline record.

           B. Intra operative procedure:

             -  Local anesthesia administration using articaine 4% with epinephrine 1:100000.

             -  Rubber dam application and access cavity preparation will be established using a
                sterile bur.

             -  Coronal pulp tissue will be removed using sharp large spoon excavator.

             -  Working length will be determined using no 15 hand K-file that will be kept 2mm
                short of radiographic apex.

             -  Then, the root canal preparation will be done

                  -  In control group, hand instrumentation will be carried out using hand K-file
                     up to no. 30 K-file using quarter turn and pull motion.

                  -  In intervention group, rotary instrumentation will be preceded by initial hand
                     instrumentation using no. 15 K-file to check the patency. Then, the rotary
                     instrumentation will be done using the Kedo-S rotary files for primary teeth
                     with D1 and E1.

             -  Using EDTA gel as a lubricating paste during canal preparation with rotary files.

             -  Saline irrigation for removal of debris after each file.

             -  Dryness will be done using paper points size 35 and 40.

             -  Root canals will be obturated using calcium hydroxide iodoform paste (Metapex). The
                Metapex syringe willbe inserted into the root canal space, near the apex. The paste
                will be pressed down into the canals and the syringe will be slowly withdrawn.

             -  The access cavity will be sealed using GC Fuji IX capsule.

             -  The immediate postoperative radiograph will be done to reveal optimal filling with
                metapex.

             -  After that, stainless steel crowns will be cemented by Ketac Cem.

           C. Follow up:

           Clinical and radiographic evaluation will be performed at 1week, 3, 6, 9 and 12 months.

           D. Criteria for discontinuing or modifying intervention:

           In case of unsuccessful outcomes of the intervention technique, the case will be managed
           .

        3. Recruitment:

           Recruitment of the patients will be from the outpatient clinic of Pediatric Dentistry
           and Dental Public Health Department, Cairo University. Screening of patients will
           continue until the target population is achieved.

        4. Implementation Co-supervisor; Fatma Korany will assign which participant tooth will be
           included to either control or intervention groups according to the generated random
           sequence.

        5. Masking/blinding:

      The radiographic outcomes assessor will be blinded in this study. 8- Data collection,
      management, and analysis: 9- Data collection methods

      Baseline data will be collected by the operator through a paper-based Case Report custom made
      form (CRF) which will be developed by the research team. It will include the following items:

        1. Patient serial number.

        2. Demographic data.

        3. Patients medical history:

             -  Past medical history.

             -  Any present disease or illness.

             -  Current medication.

             -  Any specific pre-treatment medication.

        4. Past dental history.

        5. Records for current dental condition (intra-oral examination and caries index). The
           custom made CRF will be developed before online registration of the study protocol. CRF
           will be anonymous where patients will be identified by their serial number. The full
           detailed personal data of the patient will be written in a separate sheet having the
           patient's serial number for further contact with patient, this sheet can be only seen by
           the operator and the supervisors. The Co-supervisor; Dr.Fatma Korany, will have the role
           to monitor the process of data collection and check if there is any incomplete CRF.
    
  