
    
      Esophagectomy with gastric pull-up reconstruction is the current preferred operation for
      either benign or malignant esophageal disease requiring resection. One of the major
      complications of an esophagectomy with gastric pull-up reconstruction is esophagus-stomach
      connection (gastric conduit) failure, which carries significant morbidity and mortality. Many
      factors contribute to the development of gastric conduit failure, but relative decreased
      blood flow (ischemia) of the tip of the gastric conduit is believed to be one major factor.
      This is due to the sacrifice of 3 of the 5 gastric blood supplies leaving the tip of the
      conduit to rely on collateral vessels. In an effort to improve perfusion to the gastric
      conduit and to minimize ischemia, the relatively novel approach of ischemic gastric
      preconditioning was devised, but without concrete evidence to show an advantage of a
      reduction in gastric conduit failures.

      Patients meeting eligibility criteria and agree to participation in the study will be
      randomized to either a esophagectomy with (two-stage) or without (one-stage) ischemic gastric
      preconditioning and the incidence of gastric conduit failure will be compared. Those
      randomized to a two-stage procedure will have laparoscopic staging and ischemic gastric
      conditioning and pyloric Botox injection done 7-10 days prior to an esophagectomy and those
      randomized to a one-stage procedure will only have the esophagectomy performed.

      Validated quality of life (QOL) questionnaires will be completed at the preoperative visit as
      well as on the day of discharge and at postoperative follow-up timepoints: 3 weeks, 3 months,
      6 months, 12 months and 24 months. Data collection will be mostly collected through
      electronic medical record review and will include, but is not limited to: demographic data;
      imaging and laboratory values; past medical, surgical and social history; inpatient and
      intraoperative data; and vitals signs. Patients will be assessed for adverse events
      throughout study participation.
    
  