
    
      Fifty hospitalized consecutive patients with clinically suspected MC who meet the
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled to the study.

      During index hospitalization patients will undergo a standard clinical evaluation (physical
      examination, collection of a medical history, blood tests (including troponin, N-terminal-pro
      Brain Natriuretic Peptide (NTproBNP), C-reactive protein (CRP), Suppression of Tumorigenicity
      2 (ST2), Galectin-3), 24-h Holter ECG, echo, coronary angiography, MRI). Women of
      childbearing potential will undergo a pregnancy test prior to radiological examinations.
      After signing the informed consent patients will undergo resting single photon emission
      computed tomography (SPECT) to assess possible myocardial perfusion defects and then cardiac
      FDG-PET/CT. After MRI and FDG-PET/CT tests patients will undergo right ventricular EMB (5-8
      myocardial tissue samples). Blood biomarkers of fibrosis and myocardial necrosis, as well as
      anti-heart autoantibodies will be evaluated at baseline and after 3 months (serum will be
      stored at -80 °C for final evaluation). After 3-months from enrollment follow-up visit will
      be performed with clinical evaluation. All patients will undergo physical examination,
      collection of a medical history, blood tests, 24-h Holter ECG, echo, MRI.

      FDG-PET/CT imaging Resting SPECT will be performed one day before the FDG-PET/CT examination.
      Physiological glucose uptake in the myocardium will be suppressed using dietary preparation
      (low-carbohydrate high-fatty diet). 48 h before the FDG-PET/CT examination, all patients'
      meals will be low-carbohydrate. 24 h before the FDG-PET/CT examination (the "SPECT day"),
      breakfast and dinner (last meal at 4:00 PM) will be high-fat, then fasting (a patient should
      drink only still water) until FDG-PET/CT examination in the next morning (9:00 PM).
      Single-dose heparin will be administered intravenously at a low dose (50 IU/kg) 15 minutes
      before the start of the FDG-PET/CT examination to increase the accuracy of the test.
      Capillary blood glucose level will be measured 20 minutes before the FDG-PET/CT examination.

      Because of radiation, for about 6 h after the scan patients should avoid contact with
      children and pregnant women.
    
  