
    
      This research is being done to compare the results of tests for diagnosing sexually
      transmitted infections (STI) from rectal samples. Specifically, this study will test for
      gonorrhea and Chlamydia from rectal samples and compare the results between standard culture
      and newer technology (nucleic acid amplification testing otherwise know as "NAAT") used to
      detect these infections. Gonorrhea and Chlamydia are STIs (infections you get from having sex
      with someone who is infected). Infections in the rectum may cause symptoms such as rectal
      discharge, itching and/or pain or may be asymptomatic (no symptoms present). Since these
      infections are sexually transmitted, it is important to have accurate tests to diagnose and
      treat these infections to prevent them from being passed onto a sexual partner.

      NAAT has not been Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved for use in diagnosing these
      infections in the rectum. The tests are approved to detect these infections from other sites
      (cervix and urine) and investigators believe that these tests will be very accurate in
      detecting these infections in the rectum as well. This study will validate the use of NAAT in
      rectal samples so that this technology can be used in our research laboratory for future
      studies that involve testing for STIs from the rectum.

      There are times when people have signs of inflammation in the rectum (known as proctitis) and
      an infection or cause is not able to be identified. Investigators believe that this new
      technology (NAAT) may be able to find reasons (different bacteria) for infection that were
      not able to be identified with older testing methods. By participating in this study, one of
      the rectal swabs will also be tested for additional bacteria (called Mycoplasma and
      Trichomonas). Both of these organisms are sexually transmitted and may be important organisms
      in the cause of proctitis.
    
  