
    
      Provision of sufficient iron for brain development in children living in malaria-endemic
      areas while also protecting them from infection is an unachieved public health goal for >10
      years. The 2006 landmark study on malaria-endemic Pemba Island brought the complicated
      relationship between iron and malaria to the world stage by reporting universal prophylactic
      iron supplementation increases the risk of child hospitalization and death. Treating iron
      deficiency in children who have malaria is also an unsolved challenge. In sub-Saharan Africa,
      iron deficiency and malaria coexist, frequently causing a multifactorial anemia that is a
      primary cause of hospitalization and mortality in children <5 y. The current World Health
      Organization standard-of-care regimen of concurrent treatment with antimalarial medication
      and iron therapy has been unsuccessful, with frequent reports of subsequent infection,
      including malaria, persistent iron deficiency, and unresolved anemia.

      One solution to effectively treat coexisting malaria and iron deficiency is to stagger
      interventions, treating malaria first and delaying iron. The inflammatory response against
      malaria induces high levels of the protein hepcidin, which reduces intestinal iron absorption
      and prohibits release of iron from reticulo-endothelial cells. Iron given orally during or
      shortly after a malaria episode is thus not well absorbed or distributed to red blood cells
      or the brain. Moreover, unabsorbed iron in the gut may promote the growth of pathogenic
      bacteria, potentially leading to subsequent infectious morbidity. A pilot study was recently
      completed in Ugandan children with malaria and iron deficiency that used iron stable isotopes
      to test whether iron given 28 days after (delayed group) or concurrently with (immediate
      group) antimalarial treatment was better incorporated into red blood cells (1R03HD074262). It
      was found that delayed iron was incorporated twice as well as immediate iron and that iron
      status at 56 days was similar between groups. An important finding was that children in the
      immediate group had a higher incidence of infections in the 56-day follow-up period. In this
      application, the team proposes a large-scale, randomized clinical trial with 12 months follow
      up powered to capture long-term differences in iron status, morbidity, and neurobehavioral
      development as a function of immediate or delayed iron following treatment for malaria and
      iron deficiency. The gut microbiome will be analyzed to elucidate a mechanism of any
      differences in incidence of infections.

      One long-term goal is to develop safe and effective strategies for managing concurrent
      malaria and iron deficiency in children, with reduction of infections and optimization of
      neurobehavioral development representing successful outcomes. The objective of this
      application is to conduct a placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial to determine
      whether iron therapy begun with vs. 28 days after antimalarial treatment in Ugandan children
      6-48 months with malaria and iron deficiency leads to better iron status, fewer infections,
      and better neurobehavioral development after 12 months. The central hypothesis is that better
      iron incorporation and lower incidence of infectious illness observed with delayed iron in
      our short-term, physiology-focused R03 study will translate into better long-term iron
      status, fewer episodes of infection, and better neurobehavioral outcomes after 12 months. The
      rationale is that this study will determine if staggering antimalarial treatment and iron
      therapy protects against immediate morbidity while also optimizing long-term neurobehavioral
      development. The Specific Aims are:

      Aim 1: Establish the effect of immediate vs. delayed iron treatment on long-term iron status.

      It is hypothesized that delayed iron will result in better iron status 6 and 12 months after
      treatment for malaria due to better initial iron absorption and utilization as compared to
      the immediate iron group.

      Aim 2: Determine the effect of delayed iron treatment on the incidence of infectious illness.

      It is hypothesized that the better absorbed delayed iron will result in fewer infections in
      the 6 and 12 months after treatment for malaria due, in part, to a less pathogenic intestinal
      microbiome profile.

      Aim 3: Establish the effect of delayed iron treatment on neurobehavioral development.

      It is hypothesized that delayed iron will result in better neurobehavioral outcomes (as
      assessed by standardized cognitive and behavioral tests) due to better iron absorption and
      utilization.

      Anticipated Impact: Untreated iron deficiency may protect a child from malaria and other
      infections, but the consequent potentially permanent damage to the developing brain is an
      unacceptable alternative. Establishment of methods to effectively ensure brain iron health
      while protecting the child from infection will promote attainment of full cognitive and
      behavioral development for tens of millions of children worldwide suffering from malaria and
      iron deficiency.
    
  