
    
      For the approximately 5.7 million Americans suffering from bipolar disorder, recurring manic
      and depressive symptoms, psychosis, and a high suicide risk prevent normal functioning and
      normal interpersonal relationships. Bipolar disorder has a high economic cost, as well, both
      because care for those with the disorder is expensive and because those suffering from the
      disorder have difficulty holding jobs. The total cost of bipolar disorder in the United
      States is estimated to be $45 billion. Part of this economic cost comes from poor quality of
      care. Only half of bipolar patients receive adequate outpatient care, and only a third
      receive adequate drug levels and safety monitoring. This can lead to preventable
      hospitalizations, emergency room use, and deaths.

      Often, new results from research can take years or decades to be translated into practice in
      community mental health care. Even then, new methods can be less effective in practice
      because there is inadequate understanding of or technical support for these methods. This
      occurs because research is not presented in enough detail or with enough flexibility to be
      adapted for community settings.

      The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC's) Replicating Effective Programs (REP)
      project is a systematic method of replicating effective behavioral interventions for reducing
      HIV risk. The REP has three components:

        -  Packaging, or adapting, a behavioral treatment so its scientific protocols are in
           nontechnical, user-friendly language

        -  Providing formal training for health care professionals in implementing the package

        -  Supporting the use of the package through technical assistance available to individual
           treatment sites

      The REP framework has been effective in extending the availability of HIV behavioral
      interventions and ensuring proper implementation, but it has never been used for
      non-HIV-related interventions, nor has it been proven that wider availability of these new
      interventions improves patient health and quality of life. This study will examine both of
      these untested areas of the REP framework by packaging a new intervention for bipolar
      disorder, called the Bipolar Care Model (BCM). Research shows the BCM to be effective in
      real-world settings and across different ethnic groups. This study will determine if a
      packaged version of the BCM will be effective across multiple, community-based, mental health
      settings. Success with the packaged version of the BCM will not only make this particular
      treatment more available to mental health care providers, but it will create a model for
      transitioning all research on new behavioral interventions for mental health into effective
      practice.

      This study will last 2 years from its first implementation to the final collection of patient
      data at the participating mental health care sites. The care sites that will participate in
      this study will be randomly assigned to receive either the BCM package, training, and
      technical assistance or the BCM package alone. Adherence to the BCM model and patient
      outcomes at each care site will be measured at baseline and after 6, 12, and 24 months. Also
      at these intervals, patients at each care site will be contacted for a 30-minute survey on
      their treatment. Care sites will be assessed on the following: adherence to the BCM model, as
      assessed through site records; patient clinical outcomes, as assessed through questionnaires
      on bipolar symptoms, functioning, and quality of life; and costs, as assessed through records
      of training hours, technical assistance hours, and hours spent by REP implementers. The total
      cost of developing the intervention according to the REP framework will also be measured.
    
  