
    
      Study Groups and Procedures:

      If you agree to take part in this study, you will receive 4 different breathing therapies:

        -  High-flow oxygen

        -  Low-flow oxygen

        -  High-flow air and

        -  Low-flow air

      The order in which they will be given to you will be randomly assigned (as in a roll of
      dice). You will have an equal chance of being assigned to each group. Neither you nor the
      study staff will know which therapy order you are assigned to. However, if needed for your
      safety, the study staff will be able to find out what you are receiving.

      All 4 breathing therapies should take about 80 minutes total to complete (10 minutes for each
      treatment with a 10 minute break between each treatment). You will receive the air or oxygen
      through small tubes placed in your nose. The respiratory therapist will be there to adjust
      the therapy to your comfort level.

      At the end of each breathing therapy, you will be asked about your shortness of breath and if
      you have any improvement. You will also be asked if you could tell whether you received
      oxygen or air after each therapy.

      After finishing the 4 breathing therapies, you will complete 2 questionnaires about which
      breathing therapy you liked and your thoughts about taking part in the study. These should
      take about 10 minutes total to complete.

      Length of Study:

      You will be taken off study if you no longer wish to take part, or if you need drugs to help
      with shortness of breath during the study. Your participation in the study will be over after
      you complete the questionnaires.

      This is an investigational study. Comparing high-flow air, low-flow air, high-flow oxygen,
      and low-flow oxygen to treat shortness of breath is considered investigational.

      Up to 36 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  