
    
      Total of ~30 study sites are selected for conducting this observational study. Eligible
      patients will be prospectively and consecutively included. Therefore, the clinical practice
      in the selected patients group can represent the "real-world" situation in China, and the
      patient's medical record will be well documented and archived in those hospitals. All data
      defined in the protocol will be collected during the study and entered in the Electric Data
      Capture (EDC), being consistent to the patients' medical records.

      The most important bias of the study is that patients' characteristics will affect the
      treatment duration, efficacy and safety, such as, higher proportion of patients with WHO PS
      2~3 enroll in the study will result in shorter TTD, poorer effectiveness and higher
      toxicities than expected. The ~30 sites are not randomly selected and potential selection
      bias exists. To minimize enrolment bias, the patients who are eligible and consent to
      participate in the current study will be enrolled consecutively as per protocol and without
      personal preference from investigators.

      The self-selection bias may exit for the willingness and non-willingness participants. We'll
      try our best to discuss with the non-willingness participants to make sure the
      consistency/comparative between the willingness and non-willingness participants.

      There could be a certain percentage of patients who would lost to follow up, it is
      unavoidable in clinical study, and is more common in real world study. We can minimize the
      bias by selecting the hospitals with normative and high-quality clinical practice, trying to
      collect the reason of lost to follow up and enhancing patient management during the follow
      up. The above bias is acceptable as this is a "real-world" study. Only descriptive analysis
      will be performed for the primary, secondary and exploratory objectives. No statistical
      comparisons between subgroups will be done.
    
  