
    
      Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) has been the mainstay in the treatment of metastatic
      prostate carcinoma. Despite initial favorable responses, predictable and irreversible
      resistance to ADT will occur in the vast majority of patients, which is defined as
      Castrate-Resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).

      Recently, TAX327 study revealed docetaxel plus prednisolone could not only improve the QOL
      and PSA response but also prolong the survival in CRPC. It has been reasoned that
      discontinuation of ADT in nonorchiectomized patients may have detrimental effect on patients
      with CRPC as discontinuation of ADT can result in renewed release of testosterone and
      possible stimulation of remaining androgen-sensitive elements. When exogenous testosterone
      therapy is administered to patients with symptomatic CRPC, adverse responses can be induced.
      However, the lowest concentration of endogenous androgens that is capable of stimulating
      tumor growth is unknown. Data from animal models of androgen-dependent tumors showed that
      androgen-independent status is usually followed by androgen-insensitivity, which support the
      no need for ADT in CRPC. Contradictory, Dunning rat prostate cancer model cell lines, which
      are androgen-insensitive in vitro and grow slowly in the castrate rat, can grow more rapidly
      in a host with intact testis. In the retrospective observational study of CRPC treated with
      anthracycline, platinum, or ketoconazole, Taylor, et al. showed a modest, but statistically
      significant, survival advantage when ADT is continued. But, Hussain et al. and our team
      reported that there was no obvious advantage of continued ADT in response to cytotoxic
      chemotherapy or survival for in patients with CRPC. In addition, prospective trial conducted
      by Shamash, et al. showed that hormonal sensitivity can be reintroduced by stopping ADT
      during chemotherapy for CRPC. Among 43 patients who restarted androgen blockade after the
      completion of chemotherapy without ADT, 37% of patients had PSA response which was associated
      with survival advantage. Despite the limited and retrospective information available on the
      impact of continued ADT on disease outcome in CRPC when treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy,
      especially docetaxel containing regimen, ADT is frequently advocated to be used continuously.
      Considering little information on the benefit of continued ADT, and cost and side effects of
      ADT, prospective comparative studies are eagerly needed.
    
  