
    
      For each specific aim, the development of new assistive technology BCI access methods will be
      evaluated in one or more experiments using alternating-treatments single-case research design
      (SCRD) with healthy controls and/or participants with SSPI. SCRD is ideal for examining
      small, heterogenous populations such as individuals with SSPI. It allows for detailed
      examination of performance trends and changes over time, and for participant-specific
      modifications to the intervention as part of an iterative design process. Because each
      participant serves as their own control, a sample size of five is sufficient to demonstrate
      and replicate an initial effect. Please see the Statistical Design and Power section for
      additional information about SCRD and data visualization and analysis.

      A total of 60 participants will evaluate the BCI advancements; 45 individuals with SSPI and
      15 healthy controls. Participants with SSPI who currently have a reliable means of
      communication, either using speech and/or an AAC device, will be enrolled. All participants
      will be within the ages of 18-75 years (NIH-defined adults), with an equal number of men and
      women. Healthy controls will be matched for age, gender, and education level. In SCRD
      studies, each participant serves as their own control, so participants will experience all of
      the baseline and intervention conditions included in each individual study, as described
      below. Condition order will be randomized in the alternating-treatments, controlled such that
      each participant completes an equal number of sessions with each intervention, with no more
      than two consecutive sessions with the same intervention. Blinding is not possible as each
      subject must know their condition in an alternating treatment design.

      All study visits with people with SSPI will be conducted in participants' homes by OHSU
      staff. Study visits with healthy controls will take place at the OHSU BCI laboratory. For all
      typing tasks, participants are seated approximately 75cm from an LCD display, set up for the
      BCI-FIT system. Depending on the user's customized BCI-FIT configuration (procedures
      described in SA1.1), one or more of the following control signals will be used in each typing
      session: EEG (ERP, Code or SSVEP, SMR), EOG, eye movements (gaze position or velocity), head
      movements, EMG, or binary switches. The experiments for SA1.4a, SA1.4b, and SA2.2 all involve
      copy-spelling tasks, in which participants will copy five common 5-letter English words of
      approximately equal typing difficulty (according to LM input), and correct mistakes by
      choosing the backspace character when appropriate. Individual signal models will be
      initialized to population models and will be personalized and refined with each acquired
      copy-spelling task data set. The experiment for SA3.4 involves a story-retell task, described
      below in the paragraph about that experiment.

      Experiment 1.4a will test the hypothesis that a customized BCI-FIT configuration based on
      multi-modal input and/or data from the clinical relational database will improve typing
      accuracy on a copy-spelling task compared to a user's existing AAC access method. It will
      include five participants with SSPI in an alternating-treatments SCRD and will concentrate on
      typing accuracy as the primary DV. An initial baseline phase will involve weekly
      copy-spelling sessions with each participant's existing access method. Three or more baseline
      sessions will be conducted until stable performance is observed, then the
      alternating-treatments phase will begin. Treatments consist of two different BCI-FIT
      configurations: 1) a multi-modal configuration that adds a custom control signal (chosen in
      SA1.2) to the participant's existing control signal and 2) a multi-modal configuration chosen
      by a combination of the approaches described in SA1.1 (clinically-supported and performance
      data-supported). In weekly data-collection visits, participants will complete copy-spelling
      sessions with each BCI-FIT configuration, with counterbalanced session order. Participants
      complete at least five sessions with each configuration, more if needed to achieve stable
      performance. Finally, participants will complete five weekly copy-spelling sessions with the
      most successful BCI-FIT configuration alone, to control for potential interaction effects on
      performance resulting from rapidly alternating experience with both configurations.

      In Experiment 1.4b, it is hypothesized that adaptive signal modeling will mitigate the
      effects of changes in user state (e.g., fatigue or medication) on typing accuracy during a
      copy-spelling task with BCI-FIT. This experiment will also include five participants with
      SSPI in an alternating-treatments SCRD with typing accuracy as the primary DV. In this study,
      no baseline is planned, as the comparison of interest is between versions of BCI-FIT with and
      without adaptive signal modeling. Initially, each participant will complete system
      optimization procedures described in SA1.1 and SA1.2 to identify their customized BCI-FIT
      configuration. In the alternating-treatments phase, participants will complete two
      data-collection visits on the same day each week, one in the morning (or whenever the
      participant is typically most alert/attentive) and one in the late afternoon (or at a time of
      day when the participant is typically more fatigued/inattentive). During each visit, the
      participant will attempt two copy-spelling sessions with their customized BCI-FIT
      configuration, once with and once without adaptive signal modeling (with counterbalanced
      condition order). Data will be graphed and analyzed separately (following procedures in the
      Statistical Design and Power section) to evaluate effects on performance with both system
      versions.

      The experiment in SA2.2 will test the hypothesis that either of two methods of adaptive
      querying will improve BCI-FIT typing accuracy for users with mediocre AUC scores. It will
      include five healthy controls and five participants with SSPI, each with an AUC score in the
      range of 70-80%. (Based on pilot testing, adaptive querying is expected to provide the most
      benefit to users with this level of baseline performance.) The experiment will follow an
      alternating-treatments SCRD with a baseline phase. Initially, each participant will complete
      the optimization procedures described in SA1.1 and SA1.2 to identify a customized BCI-FIT
      configuration which will be used throughout the experiment, and to confirm that their AUC
      score falls within the 70-80% range. In the baseline phase, participants will complete weekly
      copy-spelling sessions with BCI-FIT without adaptive querying. After three or more baseline
      sessions, when performance is stable, the alternating-treatments phase will begin, with
      weekly visits, each including two copy-spelling sessions with BCI-FIT using either one of the
      proposed adaptive querying techniques. Condition order will be counterbalanced such that
      conditions occur in random order (with no more than two instances of the same condition in a
      row) and participants will experience each condition an equal number of times (at least five
      times each, until stable performance is achieved).

      The experiment in SA3.4 will use an alternating-treatments SCRD experiment to test the
      hypothesis that language model enhancements, including a combination of partner and
      environmental input and word completion during typing, will improve typing performance with
      BCI-FIT, as measured by ITR during a story-retell task. This experiment will include five
      healthy controls and five participants with SSPI, each paired with a healthy-control partner
      to provide partner input (total enrollment of 10 dyads). Initially, each BCI-FIT user
      participant will complete the optimization procedures described in SA1.1 and SA1.2 to
      identify a customized BCI-FIT configuration which will be used throughout the experiment. A
      baseline phase is unnecessary, as two versions of BCI-FIT are being compared. In each weekly
      data-collection visit, participants will engage in two structured story-retell activities,
      one with and one without the enhanced language model features. Condition order will be
      counterbalanced such that conditions occur in random order (with no more than two instances
      of the same condition in a row) and participants will experience each condition an equal
      number of times (at least five times each, until stable performance is achieved). The
      story-retell activity will involve the participant watching a short video along with a
      communication partner, then using BCI-FIT to answer questions posed by a third person. In one
      condition, the BCI-FIT user participant will use the basic version of BCI-FIT without the
      proposed language model enhancements, and the partner will simply be present, with no means
      of providing language support to the user. In the other condition, the enhanced features will
      be available: the partner will have a companion app on a Bluetooth-connected tablet8,
      allowing them to remotely suggest words to the BCI-FIT language model, and the participant
      will be able to choose to type or complete words suggested both by the communication partner
      and by BCI-FIT based on automatic speech recognition of the questioner's utterances. The
      primary DV in this experiment will be ITR.
    
  