
    
      Cardiovascular disease (CVD) and diabetes are the leading causes of premature (<60 years)
      adult deaths in India with projections indicating an almost 3-fold increase to 18 million
      premature years of life lost by 2030. CVD and diabetes will result in $336.6 billion in lost
      national income in India over the next decade. The major barriers to the control of these
      conditions in India are the low detection rates early in the course of the condition,
      inadequate use of evidence based interventions and low adherence with these interventions.
      After detection of these conditions, the long-term health outcomes of persons affected is
      heavily dependent on adherence with care guidelines and is a major priority.

      Harnessing the potential of Smartphone technology would be a solution for addressing these
      challenges at the community level by improving the quality of care. There are several
      advantages for Smartphone technology that makes it an ideal tool for improving the quality
      care at the government facilities. Smartphones/tablet computers are low-cost, requires less
      investment in infrastructure and are ubiquitous used by the masses.

      Primary health care settings are best suited to address the prevention and management of
      hypertension/diabetes and its risk factors. Given these reasons, the Government of India, is
      planning to scale-up the National Program on prevention and control of cancer, diabetes,
      cardiovascular diseases and stroke (NPCDCS) giving a major thrust to screening, diagnosis and
      management of hypertension and diabetes at community level by starting NCD clinics at the
      Community Health Centres and assigning new roles to the Health Workers at the sub-centers.

      In the above context, the investigators plan to develop a tablet computer application for the
      Medical Officers and Nurse enabling them to deliver high quality care at Community Health
      Centres (CHCs). The tablet computer application will be capable of running clinical risk
      scores for identifying people at high risk of diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and computing
      personalized management plan using evidence-based clinical management guidelines. The
      feasibility and effectiveness of such a novel application is to be formally evaluated in
      order to develop a robust clinical decision support system for the Nurses and Medical
      Officers at the public health facilities.

      In brief, the investigators plan to implement the research project in the 20 CHCs each in 2
      states in India i.e.Haryana and Karnataka. Out of these, 10 CHCs will receive the mWellcare
      interventions. In the intervention arm, the NPCDCS Nurses will register 30 years+ patient
      diagnosed with hypertension and diabetes using tablet computer based Decision Support
      Software (DSS). For the patients identified with hypertension/diabetes or at high risk, the
      software will provide individual tailored management plan that would include treatment plan,
      lifestyle advice and follow up schedule. Thus, Medical Officers at CHCs will be able to
      prescribe a guideline based management plan for these patients with the help of DSS. The
      software will store relevant health parameters of patients at local database (tablet
      computer) and central server that could be accessed during the follow-up visits of the
      patients or whenever required.

      To make meaningful comparison on the impact of the new technology enabled services in
      improving the quality of care of diabetes and hypertension at the CHCs, the investigators
      will collect data from 10 more CHCs that provide routine/usual care to the patients. A
      structured training will be conducted for Medical Officers and Nurse at CHCs (both from the
      intervention & usual care arm) on evidence based management of hypertension and diabetes
      prior to the start of the project.

      The intervention will be carried out for a period of 1 year that would include regular follow
      up. The effect of the intervention will be assessed at six and twelve month comparing the
      blood pressure and blood glucose values of the patients in two groups.

      This project has considerable importance because of the fact that the utility of tablet
      computer based clinical decision support systems in the management of hypertension and
      diabetes at the public health facilities has not been evaluated in developing countries so
      far. If found successful, the technology has the potential to be upscale not only in Haryana
      and Karnataka but across the country in government and private healthcare settings.
    
  