
    
      The current study is a preliminary investigation of whether Biobran has the ability to
      restrict viremia in patients with chronic HCV or not. In addition, we examined the effect of
      Biobran on liver enzymes and inflammation as well as assessing any side effects of Biobran.
      Results show that treatment with Biobran resulted in a significant reduction in the viral
      load, an increase in liver enzymes, and patients reported good health.

      For the randomized trial, we selected 37 patients who had been admitted to El-Kasr El-Aini
      Hospital at Cairo, Egypt. The patients had been diagnosed with genotype 4 HCV infection. The
      study was approved by Cairo University Hospital, Cairo, Egypt and by IRB at Charles Drew
      school of medicine and Science, Los Angeles, CA, USA. The study protocol conformed to the
      ethical guidelines of the 1975 Declaration of Helsinki as reflected in the prior approval by
      Cairo University, El-Kasr El-Aini Hospital, Cairo, Egypt and by the Institutional Review
      Board (IRB) at Cairo University, Egypt and Charles R Drew University (CDU), Los Angeles, CA.,
      USA.

      Thirty-seven patients of both sexes (23 males and 14 females) with HCV (genotype 4), between
      the ages of 15 and 69, participated in the current study. Informed consent was obtained from
      all participants.

      The patients were divided randomly into two groups: the Biobran group and the PEG interferon
      plus ribavirin (control) group . Prior to treatment, clinical characteristics were determined
      for the patients in each group. The clinical characteristics of the HCV patients were
      investigated for hepatitis C, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels, total leucocyte count (TLC),
      Platelet (PLT) count, Hemoglobin (Hb) levels, triglyceride (TG) levels, glycated hemoglobin
      (HbA1c) levels, blood clotting using International Normalized Ratio (INR), creatinine per
      milliliter (Cr/ml), and random blood sugar (RBG).

      Patients in the control group were treated with 180µg of pegylated IFN (Pegasys-Roche)
      subcutaneously weekly for three months. In addition, they were given ribavirin according to
      their body weight (1200 mg for those over 75 kg and 1000 mg for those under 75 kg). The
      Biobran group was treated with Biobran, at a dose of 1g per day, allocated in packets, taken
      orally with meals for the three months duration of the study. Biobran is a denatured
      hemicellulose that is obtained by reacting rice bran hemicellulose with multiple carbohydrate
      hydrolyzing enzymes from Shiitake mushrooms. It is a polysaccharide that contains ß-1,
      3-glucans, and activated hemicellulose. Biobran was kindly provided by Daiwa Pharmaceuticals
      Co. Ltd., Tokyo, Japan.

      The patients were divided randomly into two groups: the Biobran group and the PEG interferon
      plus ribavirin (control) group . Prior to treatment, clinical characteristics were determined
      for the patients in each group. The clinical characteristics of the HCV patients were
      investigated for hepatitis C, alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) levels, total leucocyte count (TLC),
      Platelet (PLT) count, Hemoglobin (Hb) levels, triglyceride (TG) levels, glycated hemoglobin
      (HbA1c) levels, blood clotting using International Normalized Ratio (INR), creatinine per
      milliliter (Cr/ml), and random blood sugar (RBG).

      Viral load levels, toxicity, liver enzymes, and γ-interferon (IFN-γ) levels were examined
      before and three months after treatment. Viral load was examined by quantitative polymerase
      chain reaction (PCR) test using COBAS® TaqMan® Analyzer (Roche Corporation). IFN-γ, AFP, ALT,
      and AST levels were analyzed using specific Elisa Kits, which were performed by Spectrum
      Chemical Manufacturing Corporation, Gardena, CA, USA, and toxicity was assessed by a
      questionnaire, physician observation, and laboratory results.
    
  