
    
      The purpose of this study is to find out the side effects and safety of a combination of the
      CXCR2 antagonist, AZD5069 in combination with the androgen receptor antagonist, enzalutamide
      in patients with metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer and to determine the most
      appropriate dose of this combination. In the Phase I part of this study groups of 3 to 6
      patients will be treated with increasing doses of AZD5069 in combination with a fixed dose of
      enzalutamide (160mg once daily). Once Phase I has been completed the combination with the
      optimum safety and pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic profile will be taken forward to the Phase
      II part of the study. The Phase II part of the study will evaluate the optimized
      dose/schedule identified in Phase I of the study in patients with metastatic castration
      resistant prostate cancer.

      In the Phase I part of the study, the AZD5069 is started first and will be taken twice daily
      as an oral tablet at Cycle 1, Day -14 for 14 days. Two weeks later on Cycle 1 Day 1, patients
      will start taking 160mg enzalutamide once a day in addition to the AZD5069. The starting dose
      of AZD5069 will be 40mg taken orally twice daily with single dose escalations to 80mg, 120mg
      and 160mg taken orally twice daily to determine the MTD to take forward to a Phase II
      reversal of resistance cohort. The Phase II reversal of enzalutamide resistance study will
      explore whether the addition of AZD5069 to enzalutamide reverses resistance to enzalutamide
      alone. In the phase II reversal of enzalutamide resistance study patients will start taking
      the AZD5069 at the dose established in the Phase I safety run in part of the study in
      combination with 160mg of enzalutamide once a day and at the same time from Cycle 1 Day 1
      onwards. Potential patients who previously progressed on enzalutamide (having received at
      least 12 weeks treatment) within 6 months of trial entry (first dose of IMP) will enter the
      Phase II reversal of enzalutamide resistance study immediately. However, those patients who
      progressed on enzalutamide (having received at least 12 weeks treatment) greater than 6
      months before trial entry will first enter the Phase II enzalutamide resistance cohort to
      confirm resistance. Study patients will receive 160mg enzalutamide once a day until disease
      progression. Once enzalutamide resistance is confirmed in these patients, they will be
      eligible to enter the Phase II reversal of enzalutamide resistance cohort.

      Approximately 26 to 49 patients will be entered into this trial, approximately 12 to 24
      patients in the phase I safety run in cohort depending on number of patients required to
      determine RP2D and schedule and between 14 and 25 patients in the phase II reversal of
      enzalutamide resistance cohort (the investigators predict around 50% of these patients will
      enter the phase II enzalutamide resistance run in cohort first).
    
  