
    
      Chronic heart failure is a significant and increasing cause of morbidity and mortality,
      accounting for a current yearly prevalence of 5 million and a 5-year survival near 50% in the
      US. In addition, chronic heart failure is still the fourth cause of hospitalization in the US
      and in Western countries, and it is the leading cause of hospitalization in patients aged
      over 65.

      Newer pharmacological agents and non pharmacological therapeutic tools have been increasingly
      introduced to improve the outcomes in patients with chronic heart failure. In the past two
      decades, several large randomized controlled clinical trials have revolutionized the
      management and prognosis of patients with chronic heart failure. The recommended drug
      treatment for decreasing mortality and morbidity in chronic heart failure is based on
      angiotensin converting enzyme-inhibitors, beta-blockers and aldosterone antagonists (limited
      to most severe patients), as detailed in the latest European Society of Cardiology
      guidelines. The use of digitalis and diuretics still has a role.

      Orally active angiotensin II type I receptor blockers represent a new class of agents that
      offer an alternative method of the renin-angiotensin system blockade. Their effects on
      hemodynamics, neuroendocrine activity and exercise tolerance in patients with chronic heart
      failure can be considered as similar to that exhibited by angiotensin converting enzyme
      -inhibitors, but it still remains to be fully elucidated whether angiotensin II type I
      receptor blockers can offer advantage in efficacy, other than in safety, compared to
      angiotensin converting enzyme -inhibitors.

      Brain Natriuretic Peptide is strongly related to the severity and to the increase of
      cardiovascular events in patients with chronic heart failure. Recent data show that
      angiotensin II receptor blockers can reduce the levels of Brain Natriuretic Peptide, though
      no data is available in patients with preserved left ventricular systolic function.

      Candesartan is a selective angiotensin II type I receptor blocker, and this study will
      evaluate the effects of the maximum tolerated dose of Candesartan added to ongoing standard
      therapy while measuring changes in brain natriuretic peptide biomarker used in the assessment
      of chronic heart failure.
    
  