
    
      -  This is the randomized double blinded clinical trial to compare the efficacy of these
           three drugs in this clinical setting.

        -  A randomized clinical trial was conducted in the Emergency Department (ED) of Pamukkale
           University Medical Faculty Hospital

        -  Study personnel (emergency physicians and nurses) were trained before the study.

        -  When intravenous drugs (Paracetamol, Dexketoprofen and ibuprofen) was being recommended,
           an eligibility checklist was completed by the attending physician.

        -  If there were no exclusion criteria, written informed consent was obtained and baseline
           information, including initial Acute Migraine Attack Headache severity ratings with
           visual analog scale (VAS) were recorded.

        -  The need for identification and enrollment of participants by staff with conflicting
           work pressures resulted in recruitment of a convenience sample of patients.

        -  All patients eligible for the study were randomized to one of three groups:

      First Group: 1000 mg of paracetamol ( perfalgan 10mg/ml solutionBristol- Myers Squibb_UK)
      intravenous (IV) was given 70 patients, Second Group: dexketoprofen 50 mg ( arveles ampoule
      -Ufsa- Istanbul) intravenous (IV) was given 70 patients, third group: 400 mg İbuprofen
      (İntrafen 400 mg vial-Gen-İstanbul) intravenous (IV) was given 70 patients, which determined
      to be applied as a group.

      In addition, intravenous metoclopramide was added to the threatment of patients with acute
      migraine attack headache.

      Drug packs prepared in 150 ml serum physiology were numbered by an independent nurse, who not
      involved in the study.

        -  Drugs were prepared according to the computer-generated random number sequence to assign
           treatment allocations

        -  The allocation list was kept by the emergency nurse. Patients received the
           paracetamol,dexketoprofen,ibuprofen medication schemes according to their random
           allocations.

        -  After enrollment and recording of baseline information, the next numbered study drug
           pack was obtained, and administered intravenously.

        -  Randomization was achieved by using computer software to generate random numbers. During
           the intervention, participants were monitored by an oxygen saturation (SpO2) monitor, an
           automatic sphygmomanometer (blood pressure), and a rhythm monitor (heart rate and
           rhythms)

        -  One researcher blinded to patient allocation observed the whole procedure and recorded
           the acute migraine attack headache scores.

        -  Patients in three groups received three types of medication in a similar manner, thus
           ensuring double blind.
    
  