
    
      This is a randomized, double blind parallel-group study where two different methods for
      postoperative pain relief after total hip arthroplasty, intrathecal morphine (IM) and local
      infiltration analgesia (LIA), will be assessed.

      The study will be conducted at the Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care and the
      Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, at USÖ. A total of 80 patients undergoing total hip
      arthroplasty will be included in the study, 40 patients in group IM and 40 patients in group
      LIA. The patients will be divided into one of the two groups according to computer-generated
      randomization. Study duration per patient will be 6 months.

      Screening on the basis of inclusion and exclusion criteria will take place at the
      preoperative assessment at the outpatients' anesthesia clinic 3 - 6 weeks before the total
      hip arthroplasty. One of the participating investigators will inform the patient, both
      verbally and in writing, about what participation in the study involves. The patient will be
      given time to ask questions and to consider participation in the study.

      If the patient wants to be enrolled in the study, inclusion will take place at the
      preoperative assessment that takes place before the total hip arthroplasty. One of the
      participating Investigators would inform the patient again about what participation in the
      study means. The patient will be given time to ask questions and to consider participation in
      the study. The patient can be enrolled in the study after signing and dating the written
      Informed Preoperative Preparation The patients will be informed in details about the surgery,
      anesthesia, postoperative pain relief and physiotherapy. All patients will be asked to
      complete two health related quality of life questionnaires, SF-36 and EQ5D (appendix 2 and
      3).

      A baseline value for HOOS (appendix 4) and NRS (Numeric Rating Score) will be assessed prior
      to surgery. The patients will also be instructed on how to use the patient controlled
      analgesia (PCA) morphine pump that will serve as post-operative rescue medication in case of
      pain > 3 on the numeric rating scale (NRS) Dalteparin 5000 IU is administered subcutaneously
      once each evening for 10 days, starting the night before surgery for thrombo-prophylaxis.

      Randomisation Randomisation will be made at the USÖ Hospital Pharmacy the day before surgery.
      The patients will be randomized into two groups, 40 patients in Group IM and 40 patients in
      Group LIA, according to computer-generated randomization.

      The study medication/saline will be prepared, blinded and labeled by a pharmacist at the USÖ
      Hospital Pharmacy. The hospital pharmacy will send the double-blinded study medication/saline
      to the operating theater on the day of surgery. This way, double blinding will be ensured
      such that neither the patient nor the anaesthesiologists, the staff attending the surgery,
      the staff concerned with the postoperative care of the patients or the physiotherapist are
      aware of the group to which the patient has been randomized. The study medication/saline will
      be stored in room temperature in the operating theatre and will be given within one hour from
      the time it is received. Study medication/saline for the peri-articular injection on
      postoperative day one will be kept in a refrigerator at the Department of Anesthesiology and
      intensive care until it is to be given.

      Anaesthesia All patients will receive a mixture of midazolam 0.03 mg/kg orally 1 hour before
      planned surgery. Cloxacillin 1g will be given intravenously before surgery and at 8, 16 and
      24 h postoperatively. The operation will be performed using spinal anaesthesia, performed in
      the sitting position, using a 27G spinal needle. All patients will receive bupivacaine plain
      5 mg/ml (17.5 mg = 3.5 ml) injected intrathecally. In addition, patients randomized to Group
      IM will receive morphine special 0.4 mg/ml (0.1 mg =0.25 ml) and patients randomized to Group
      LIA will receive an equivalent amount (= 0.25 ml) of normal saline. Total volume of injectate
      will for each patient be 3.75 ml.

      Surgery and Perioperative Management The surgery will be performed in a standardized way
      according to routine at Örebro University hospital. At the end of surgery, and after the hip
      prosthesis is in place, patients in Group LIA would receive a total volume of 151.5 ml of a
      mixture consisting of: a long-acting local anaesthetic (ropivacaine 2 mg/ml = 150 ml), a
      no-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (ketorolac 30 mg/ml = 1 ml), and epinephrine (1 mg/ml =
      0.5 ml) injected intraarticularly and into the surrounding peri-articular tissues in a
      standardized way. Patients in Group IM would receive a similar volume (151.5 ml) of normal
      saline injected in the same way at similar sites in order to ensure double-blinding of all
      personnel involved in the study.

      A multi-holed catheter (a peri-articular catheter) would be inserted into the tissue planes
      under direct vision in a standardized way before closing the wound and would be connected to
      a bacterial filter under sterile conditions. After the surgery the patient would be
      transferred to the post-anaesthesia care unit (PACU) and thereafter to the orthopaedic ward
      for further management.

      During the first post-operative day, 24 hours after surgery the following solutions will be
      injected peri-articularly via the multi-holed catheter by a nurse who is blinded to the
      injectate:

      Group LIA:

      20 ml of ropivacaine (7.5 mg/ml)

      1 ml ketorolac (30 mg/ml)

      1 ml of epinephrine (0.1 mg/ml)

      Group IM:

      22 ml saline

      Total volume of injectate will for each patient be 22 ml.

      The multi-holed catheter would then be removed and the tip of the catheter sent for culture
      and sensitivity testing. Any evidence of fever or local or systemic infection will be
      recorded.

      Pain Management All patients will receive 1 g paracetamol orally 4 times a day, starting on
      the morning of the operation.

      A patient controlled analgesia (PCA) morphine pump (1 mg bolus dose, 6 min lock-out time)
      would be connected IV in all patients, and will serve as rescue medication in case of pain >
      3 on the numeric rating scale (NRS; 0 = no pain, 10 = worst imaginable pain). The patients
      will be instructed on its use the day before surgery. If pain is < 4 during a 12 h period,
      the PCA-pump will be discontinued and tramadol 50 mg given orally up to 4 times/day as
      necessary as rescue medication for pain management. All patients would receive Paracetamol 1
      g six-hourly as basal analgesic.

      Mobilization and Home discharge The first attempt to mobilization will be made about 30 min
      after the peri-articularly injection of study medication/saline, 24 h after surgery. The
      patient will be asked to stand up and to walk 10 steps. If unsuccessful, another attempt will
      be made to mobilize the patient every 12 h until the patient can walk 10 steps. If the 12 h
      period is after 9 pm, the next attempt would be made on the following morning. Subsequently,
      mobilization will also be quantified using a TUG test (appendix 5) from postoperative day 1
      until discharge

      The patient will be discharged when the discharge criteria are fulfilled:

        -  Mild pain (NRS < 3) sufficiently controlled by oral analgesics

        -  Ability to walk with elbow crutches

        -  Ability to eat and drink without nausea or vomiting

        -  No signs of any surgical complications

      The patient will also be asked to register pain (NRS) and analgesic consumption during the
      first 14 postoperative days and at week 2, 3 and 4. (appendix 6)

      Recordings and Assessments (Flowchart, appendix 7)

      Demographic data:

      Age, gender, height and weight.

      Length of stay at the hospital (LOS):

      The number of postoperative days to home discharge, day 0 = the day of surgery would be
      recorded.

      Home discharge criteria are:

        -  Mild pain (NRS < 3) sufficiently controlled by oral analgesics,

        -  Ability to walk with elbow crutches

        -  The patient can eat and drink without nausea or vomiting

        -  No signs of any surgical complications.

      Pain:

      Pain assessment will be recorded by NRS scale preoperatively and at 1, 4, 8, 12, 24, 36 and
      48 hours postoperative, subsequently every 24 hour until the patient is discharged from
      hospital, on day 14 and 3 and 6 months postoperatively.

      Pain will be assessed both at rest and on motion (after walking 10 steps).

      Analgesic consumption:

      Morphine consumption will be recorded during 0 - 4, 4 - 24 and 24-48 hours postoperatively.

      Oral analgesic consumption will be recorded each day until home discharge. The patients will
      be asked to record their pain and analgesic consumption once each day for 14 days and weekly
      on weeks 2, 3 and 4.

      Surgical outcomes:

      The research nurse or physiotherapist will record the hip extension and flexion every 24 h
      until discharge and after 14 days, 3 and 6 months postoperatively.

      TUG test will be performed från postoperative day 1 until discharge Patient satisfaction
      during the first 24 postoperative hours and after 7 days will be rated according to a
      satisfaction score: 1= poor, 2= satisfactory, 3= good and 4= excellent.

      HOOS will be collected preoperatively, and at 2 weeks, 3 and 6 months postoperatively.

      Health-related questionnaires:

      The SF-36 and EuroQol (EQ-5D) questionnaires will be collected preoperatively and
      postoperatively on day 7 (only EQ-5D), 3 and 6 months.

      The SF-36 is a validated health survey consisting of 36 questions that measure 8 health
      concepts: physical functioning (PF), role limitations due to physical problems (RP), bodily
      pain (BP), general health (GH), vitality (VT), social functioning (SF), role limitations
      secondary to emotional problems (RE) and mental health (MH). Additionally, 2 summary scores
      are available: a standardized physical component (PCS) and a standardized mental component
      (MCS).

      The EuroQol (EQ-5D) is a standardised instrument for use as a measure of health outcome. It
      provides a single index value from 0 to 1 where 0 represents death and 1 represents perfects
      health.
    
  