
    
      The cost of healthcare in the United States has risen precipitously over the last forty
      years. In 2014, healthcare spending surpassed $3 trillion and accounted for 17.5 percent of
      the national gross domestic product. The Institute of Medicine's report "Best Care at Lower
      Cost" estimated that 30 percent, or approximately $900 billion in 2014, of healthcare
      expenditures are wasted. Given this wasted spending, great urgency has been placed on curbing
      the ever-increasing cost of healthcare while simultaneously improving quality and patient
      safety. Despite improvements in mortality associated with cardiovascular disease over the
      last two decades, the cost of cardiovascular care continues to rise and is estimated to be in
      excess of $186 billion by 2023. A number of studies have been performed evaluating the
      cost-effectiveness and appropriate use of routine transthoracic echocardiography;
      nonetheless, there is little evidence that the results of these studies have been translated
      into clinical practice. In order to close the gap between the literature and clinical
      practice, we plan to initiate a combined didactic and data feedback program that will present
      the current literature and in-hospital charges associated with echocardiography to practicing
      clinicians on inpatient cardiology services. We will measure the effect of our intervention
      on average per-patient in-hospital charges as well as usage rates and other clinical
      outcomes.

      Research Design and Methods: The investigators will perform a prospective, controlled cohort
      study period comparing the effect of a combined didactic and data feedback intervention on
      in-hospital charges, usage rates, and clinical outcomes to providers. The investigator's
      intervention will consist of a biweekly email to three house staff-run cardiology services at
      VUMC presenting the in-hospital charges and appropriate use of echocardiography per ACC/AHA
      guidlines. A weekly email will also be sent to the intervention services detailing their
      team's in-hospital charges for echocardiograms during the preceding week. Usage and
      in-hospital charges will be measured using a custom tableau which captures all orders placed
      in the HeoWiz ordering program and the raw master charges. The investigators will utilize a
      pre and post intervention design to study primary and secondary outcomes. The primary outcome
      will be average echocardiography charges per team. The secondary outcomes will be
      echocardiograms performed per team per month, and number of focused echocardiograms performed
      per team per month. Quality of care will be assessed by monitoring 30 day readmission rate,
      and index hospitalization mortality.
    
  