
    
      In the United States, the choice to eat energy-dense foods and engage in sedentary activities
      is attractive and convenient. More than two thirds of adults in the US are either overweight
      or obese, with rural residents experiencing a disproportionally higher prevalence of obesity,
      particularly in the state of Nebraska. Excess body weight carries with it a host of adverse
      conditions: type II diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypertension, some cancers, and early
      mortality. The high prevalence of obesity and its consequences have catalyzed the development
      of many weight management interventions that have been effective in helping individuals
      initiate weight loss and maintain a healthy weight. Despite their demonstrated efficacy, few
      of these programs have been systematically and consistently translated into typical clinical
      practice or community services. This translation is especially scarce in rural communities.

      Programs designed to improve weight loss that target rural communities can be a challenge to
      design and implement, due to the lack of resources available in rural communities to support
      such programs. However, primary care clinics may provide an ideal setting to implement
      effective diet, physical activity, and weight management support. Despite the lack of
      resources, most rural communities have a primary care provider who is trusted by patients to
      provide counseling on healthy behaviors. Furthermore, programs delivered through the private
      sector that engage patients and organizational decision makers, such as primary care
      providers, are hypothesized to be more sustainable.

      Primary care systems may offer a practical and sustainable method of implementing meaningful
      weight management interventions, but few weight management programs are currently available
      that can be readily adopted into rural primary care practice. To address the gap in
      translating programs into practice, the investigators will use the National Cancer Institutes
      (NCI) Putting Public Health Evidence in Action process, which provides steps for defining
      evidence-based programs, assessing resources and need in the community, and ultimately
      choosing an evidence based program for implementation. The investigators will modify the NCI
      process to include, but move beyond, simply considering the magnitude of weight loss as the
      primary factor in the selection process. Additionally, the investigators will address factors
      related to scalability, clinical uptake, and sustainability which are key for the translation
      of evidence-based interventions into practice. The RE-AIM (reach, effectiveness, adoption,
      implementation, and maintenance) framework will be used to consider the impact at the
      individual and organizational levels of the weight management approaches. Reach (i.e., the
      participation rate of individuals from the target population and representativeness of those
      who participate) and effectiveness are the two factors considered to contribute to overall
      impact when translating evidence-based strategies into typical practice. These factors can be
      addressed by developing a system within primary care that provides opportunities for quick
      and representative accrual of participants, provides clinics with an evidence-based program,
      and provides a tracking and evaluating system to determine the potential population health
      impact of the intervention.

      The intent of the proposed project is to increase the capacity of primary care in rural
      Nebraska to translate evidence-based weight management approaches into practice, improve the
      speed of uptake and the likelihood of sustainability, and reach a large and representative
      group of individuals.Effective weight loss programs are available, but the question of how
      best to deliver these interventions to the general public remains. The proposed study will
      help to improve the translation of evidence-based programs into typical clinical practice and
      determine best practices for patient recruitment and referral. This will be done through the
      completion of the following aims:

      Aim 1: Conduct a limited effectiveness and feasibility (including cost) study of the
      IncentaHealth intervention to determine impact on weight loss of 100 overweight and obese
      patients. The proportion of participants who experience a clinically meaningful weight loss
      (i.e., 5% initial body weight) at 6-months and cost per participant achieving this bench
      march will also be reported.

      Aim 2: Test methods to increase intervention reach using a 2X2 randomized recruitment design
      (in-visit referral vs electronic health record screening and mailed referral; active vs
      passive follow-up) within a rural primary care clinic in Nebraska.

      The completion of these aims has the potential to affect the health of rural Nebraskans and
      influence future efforts to translate evidence-based weight management programs into rural
      primary-care practice.
    
  