
    
      1. This study is a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled and multicenter clinical
           trial on type 2 diabetic non-proliferative retinopathy to evaluate the therapeutic
           effect of tang wang prescription.

        2. Through the calculation of sample size, 384 participants with type 2 diabetic
           non-proliferative retinopathy will be recruited for the study, all participants were
           randomly divided into 2 groups, and both of groups would be performed on a basic
           treatment (including diabetes education, diabetes diet, rational control of blood
           glucose (oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin injections to keep all participants keep
           blood glucose stable in the study. If fasting blood glucose fluctuates more than 20%,
           need to find and remove the factors as soon as possible, and adjust the dose and monitor
           change of blood glucose, make it smooth in 4 weeks. Adjusted dose of the drug needs to
           be detailed records in the combined medication table), and oral calcium dobesilate
           treatment), study group take tang wang prescription, take one bag each time and twice on
           day, control group take the same dose of placebo.

        3. The study will last for 48 weeks. Once every four weeks follow-up, color fundus
           photography, fundus fluorescein angiography, and coherent optical tomography were
           performed every six months; ETDRS international visual acuity test was performed every
           months.

        4. Curative effect evaluation criteria:

             -  Main evaluation criteria: the changes of degree of retinal microvascular lesions
                before and after treatment, according to the change of degree of retinal
                microvascular lesions (no, mild non proliferative phase, moderate non proliferative
                phase, severe non proliferative phase, proliferative phase), divided into
                aggravated, unchanged, reduce three conditions. Aggravated was defined as the
                degree of retinal microvascular lesions severity more than grade 1 after treatment;
                unchanged was defined as the degree of retinal microvascular lesions before and
                after treatment did not change; reduce was defined as the degree of retinal
                microvascular lesions reduced more than 1 grade after treatment.

             -  Second evaluation criteria:

                  -  Change of the number of micro hemangioma of diabetic retinopathy before and
                     after treatment;

                  -  Change of the number of microvascular bleeding of diabetic retinopathy before
                     and after treatment;

                  -  Change of the number of microvascular leakage of diabetic retinopathy before
                     and after treatment;

                  -  Degree of change of macular edema of diabetic retinopathy before and after
                     treatment;

                  -  Change of Vision before and after treatment.

        5. Diagnostic and monitoring indicators：blood pressure, fasting blood glucose test (every
           one month); glycated hemoglobin, blood lipids (every three months); Routine eye
           examination and fundus examination, including intraocular pressure, anterior segment,
           lens, vitreous body, and lens, vitreous need describe the conditions of opacity (every
           six months).

        6. The provisions of the combined therapy

             -  All Chinese herbal medicines with the same efficacy as the study drug (including
                Chinese herbal medicines with similar therapeutic and similar efficacy in
                Instructions) were banned during the study period.

             -  All combined therapy and Combined medication(treatment measure or treatment
                medicine of other diseases) should be recorded in the combined medication table.
    
  