
    
      During the past decades, dental implant therapy has developed into a successful treatment
      option for patients confronted with both partial and complete edentulism. Based on the
      literature, the survival rate of dental implants, which is defined that the dental implants
      are still in the mouth after insertion, is around 95% in the 5-year follow-up and around 90%
      in the 10-year follow-up. The success rate of dental implants, which is defined as dental
      implants in function, with good hard and soft tissue physiology and user satisfaction ranges
      from 85.2% to 88.7% in the follow-up of up to 20 years. This indicates that both the success
      rate and survival rate of dental implants is high. However, both survival rates and success
      rates vary across patients with different profiles. The expense of dental implant treatment
      is high and implant placement is a surgical procedure which is invasive and thus risky for
      the patients' health. Once the failure of dental implants occurs, it may cause some severe
      negative consequences for patients. For example, the failure will cause a financial loss for
      patients and a possible shock concerning both mental and physical aspects. To reduce these
      risks it is important and necessary for clinicians to be able to predict the risk of the
      failure of dental implants of individual patients before they undergo dental implant
      treatment.

      Aim:

      The aim of the project is to find out the possible risk factors for failure of dental
      implants and to develop a prediction model for the failure of dental implants at follow-up as
      a tool for clinicians to establish patients individual risk profile.

      Methods:

      The study is a retrospective design. The clinical data of the adult patients who were
      referred to the Department of Oral Implantology and Prosthetic Dentistry, Academic Centre for
      Dentistry Amsterdam (ACTA) for placement of dental implants from September 2009 to September
      2013 are collected retrospectively from the clinical data management system of ACTA in the
      study.

      The potential predictors include five domains: patients' demographic characteristics,
      lifestyle habits, general health, dental health, and implant characteristics. These
      predictors are pre-screened by international experts in dental implantology based their
      clinical knowledge and experience.

      The outcomes included the follow-up time of implants and whether the failure of the implants
      was observed at the follow-up. The follow-up time is defined as the difference in time
      between implant placement and implant failure, or the date of the last follow-up time point
      if the dental implant is in an acceptable state. The failure of implants is defined as the
      presence of peri-implantitis, presence of mobility of implants, or removal of the implants
      for any reasons, for instance, unacceptable performance in aspects of function, tissue
      physiology, esthetics, and patients' satisfaction after placement of suprastructure.

      The Multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis will be used to find out the
      important risk factors and to develop the model. The performance of the model, in aspects of
      calibration and discrimination, is assessed. The clinical added values of the model is
      assessed. Then, the model is transformed into a score chart and a line chart, which is
      easy-to-use to the clinicians for the prediction.
    
  