
    
      The approach and avoidance task (AAT) has turned out as both a promising diagnostic tool as
      well as treatment add-on in psychological science. The AAT constitutes one form of cognitive
      bias modification (CBM), which has been shown to be particularly effective in the field of
      behavioural addictions (Eberl et al., 2013; Wiers, Eberl, Rinck, Becker, & Lindenmeyer,
      2011). The general logic underlying the AAT is to carry out actions that are either
      compatible or incompatible with an individual's action tendencies. For instance, nicotine
      addicted individuals tend to approach tobacco-related stimuli faster than control pictures,
      when they are instructed to react upon the format of a picture and not to its' content. This
      tendency of comparatively faster approaching and slower avoiding tobacco-related content has
      been termed an approach bias nicotine/tobacco. The AAT as a therapeutic tool tries to
      counteract or at least to attenuate approach or avoidance biases by instructing patients to
      carry out approach or avoidance gestures that are in conflict with an individual's acquired
      action tendencies.

      Whereas the general effectiveness of the AAT as a clinical intervention has been demonstrated
      several times, little is known about possible mechanisms that might subserve these effects.
      Therefore, the current study is dedicated to shed some light on one such potential mechanism,
      i.e. the role of the avoidance gesture within the alcohol-AAT.

      As already suggested by the name of the AAT, the avoidance gesture seems to be a key
      ingredient in bringing about therapeutic effects. However, recent empirical evidence has
      brought about some interesting findings, giving rise to an alternative explanation.

      A study by Kühn et al. (2017), contrary to common-held beliefs, indicated that inhibition
      capacity can be trained. Inhibition, in turn, consistently has been linked to psychopathology
      and all kinds of behavioural addictions (Smith, Mattick, Jamadar, & Iredale, 2014). The game
      by Kühn et al. (2017), used to train inhibition, resembled the AAT in several ways, e.g.
      certain stimuli appearing on a treadmill had to be collected by swiping towards oneself and
      others had to be ignored and the objects slowly disappeared. The latter element contrasts
      with the AAT, since the ignored objects don't have to be pushed away. However, it resembles
      the AAT in the sense that in both cases stimuli slowly fade out of the screen and eventually
      disappear. These parallel let to the assumption that a new form of the alcohol AAT training
      might be equally effective in lowering relapse rates among alcoholic patients. More
      precisely, within the newly conceptualized AAT training, patients are instructed to inhibit
      the urge to respond in response to alcohol-related content and to observe the stimuli fading
      out of the screen. In contrast to the classical AAT training, this zooming out of alcoholic
      stimuli is not conditional on the avoidance gesture, i.e. swiping/pushing away the stimulus.

      It is hypothesized that compared to a control group, in which tobacco and control stimuli
      have to be swiped to the left and right, both the classical AAT-and the inhibition group will
      be more successful in stopping or reducing smoking. The intervention includes a training
      period of four weeks. No intergroup differences in terms of smoking cessation and
      tobacco-related approach bias are expected for the classical AAT group and the inhibition
      group after the intervention.

      Furthermore, it will be explored whether inhibition capacity changes as a result of the
      intervention, the assumption being that inhibition capacity increases for both experimental
      groups, whereas no changes are expected for the control group. An interesting question
      concerns the domain-specificity of potential effects. In other words, does inhibition
      capacity improve only for the to be trained domain (i.e. tobacco) or does the general
      inhibition capacity improve, irrespective of the to be trained domain? Predictions on this
      issue are not straightforward, but it is assumed that both the general and domain-specific
      inhibition capacity improve for the experimental groups, when compared to the control group.
      Slightly more pronounced effects are expected for the domain-specific task, since the
      training calls for comparable skills.

      Hypotheses concerning experimental changes in brain structure are hard to make, as, to the
      best of our knowledge, no research has been done on this topic up until now. Therefore,
      whole-brain analyses will be run on all voxels of the brain in order to explore any
      experimental changes both on the within and between subject level.

      The same goes for functional changes in a Stop Signal Task (SST) and a cue reactivity
      paradigm. It will be explored whether the classical AAT group and the inhibition group show
      less reward-related activity in response to addiction-related stimuli than participants in
      the control group. Furthermore, it will be explored whether brain regions commonly associated
      with inhibition capacity show more activity in response to smoking-related stimuli, since
      this has been learned throughout the training period.

      All secondary outcome measures (e.g. smoking-related questionnaires, Beck's Depression
      Inventory, Barratt's Impulsivity Scale, AUDIT) assess whether the experimental manipulations
      lead to a reduction in psychopathological symptoms. Therefore, both experimental groups are
      expected to show post-interventional declines in nicotine-dependence measures and other
      measures associated with dependence, such as mental well-being and impulsivity. In contrast,
      no changes across time are expected for the control group.

      In order to test prior mentioned hypotheses, a randomized controlled trial will be conducted.
      Each of the three groups (inhibition group, classical AAT group, and control group) will
      consist out of 25 mentally healthy participants, who just stopped smoking or just start an
      attempt to quit smoking.

      In total the study consists out of three points of measurement. After the baseline testing,
      which assesses participants' approach bias for tobacco, their tobacco history, tobacco
      consumption within the last months, a multitude of smoking-related questionnaires (see
      secondary outcome measures), the two inhibition tasks, brain structure and brain function,
      participants are provided with a tablet on which the AAT app is installed. The participants
      are asked to train with the app for at least 15 minutes daily within a four-week period.
      Following this training, the second point of measurement will take place. The general
      procedure is identical to the first point of measurement. Another four weeks later, the third
      point of measurement marks the end of the study. Once again, the measures are the same except
      for the fact that no MRI scan is realized on this last occasion, since the study is primarily
      interested in post-interventional brain changes.
    
  