
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare event-free survival of patients with stage III or IV Hodgkin's lymphoma treated
           with bleomycin, etoposide, doxorubicin, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, procarbazine, and
           prednisone vs doxorubicin, bleomycin, vinblastine, and dacarbazine.

        -  Compare complete response, disease-free survival, and overall survival of patients
           treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare quality of life of patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare occurrence of second malignancies in patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      International Prognostic Score (3 vs 4 or more) and participating center. Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (BEACOPP): Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 5 minutes and cyclophosphamide IV
           on day 1; etoposide IV over 30 minutes on days 1-3; oral procarbazine on days 1-7; oral
           prednisone on days 1-14; and vincristine IV and bleomycin IV or intramuscularly (IM) on
           day 8. Patients may receive dexamethasone in place of prednisone. Patients also receive
           filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) beginning on day 9 and continuing until blood
           counts recover or pegfilgrastim SC on day 9 only. Treatment repeats every 22 days for 8
           courses (4 courses escalated dose followed by 4 courses baseline dose) in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (ABVD): Patients receive doxorubicin IV over 5 minutes, bleomycin IV or IM,
           vinblastine IV, and dacarbazine IV over 5-10 minutes on days 1 and 15. Treatment repeats
           every 28 days for 8 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, at the end of therapy, and then annually for 10
      years.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 3 years, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 550 patients (225 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within 5.5 years.
    
  