
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine dose-limiting toxicity, the maximum tolerated dose and recommended phase II
      dose of BGJ398 (pan FGFR kinase inhibitor BGJ398) administered in combination with modified
      (m)FOLFIRINOX (fluorouracil, irinotecan hydrochloride and oxaliplatin) in patients with
      advanced pancreatic and colorectal cancer patients. (Phase Ib)

      II. To determine the 6-month overall survival rate of patients with treatment-naïve
      metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma treated with BGJ398 plus mFOLFIRINOX. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the pharmacokinetic profile of BGJ398, fluorouracil, oxaliplatin, irinotecan
      (irinotecan hydrochloride) and their metabolites when administered in combination and explore
      for drug-drug interactions. (Phase Ib)

      II. To determine the 1-year overall survival rate, response rate, progression free survival
      and cancer antigen (CA)19-9 changes in treatment-naïve metastatic pancreatic cancer patients
      treated with BGJ398 plus mFOLFIRINOX. (Phase II)

      III. To determine the safety and tolerability of BGJ398 in combination with mFOLFIRINOX in
      the study population.

      IV. To explore plasma and tumor biomarkers associated with efficacy to the study combination.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase Ib, dose-escalation study of pan FGFR kinase inhibitor BGJ398
      followed by a phase II study.

      Patients receive oxaliplatin intravenously (IV) over 2 hours, irinotecan hydrochloride IV
      over 90 minutes, and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46 hours on days 1 and 15. Patients
      also receive pan FGFR kinase inhibitor BGJ398 orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 8-28.
      Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 28 days and then every 4
      months for up to 2 years.
    
  