
    
      In recent years, there has been a growing interest in deepening the contribution of small
      airways (with a diameter <2mm) to the clinical expression of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary
      Disease (COPD).

      In patients with stable COPD, SAD severity was found to be progressively increased both with
      the degree of airflow obstruction and with GOLD risk class. Moreover, a correlation between
      SAD and COPD impact measured with the CAT (COPD Assessment Test) was found, being the
      severity of SAD a predictor of the impact of the disease (CAT≥10). A close correlation
      between SAD and both quality of life (measured with the St. George's Respiratory
      Questionnaire) and perceived dyspnea (measured with the modified Medical Research
      Council-mMRC scale) was also found in COPD patients.

      The exact role of SAD as a specific 'pharmacological target' is not yet fully known.
      According to the guidelines, the administration of combination such as Beclomethasone
      dipropionate/Formoterol fumarate (BDP/FF) in extra-fine formulation produced a clinically
      relevant improvement in quality of life (> 4 units in the St. George's Respiratory
      Questionnaire) and in dyspnea. However, it is not yet defined whether exists a correlation
      between symptomatic improvement and SAD and whether an improvement of symptoms can be
      achieved acting pharmacologically on SAD.

      The rationale for this study is based on the hypothesis that an extra-fine formulation of
      BDP/FF, designed to target the entire bronchial three, included the peripheral zone, can
      improve the impact of the disease on the quality of life of COPD patients, acting on SAD. The
      functional indices of SAD used in this study are from the impulse oscillometry system (IOS),
      the standard spirometry and the body plethysmography.

      The primary endpoint of the study was, therefore, an improvement of the impact of the disease
      on quality of daily life (CAT) and of dyspnea (mMRC) after 12th week treatment with an
      extra-fine formulation of BDP/FF in a cohort of COPD patients with severe airway obstruction
      and one moderate exacerbation in a previous year; secondary endpoint was an improvement of
      the SAD at the 12th week in these patients.
    
  