
    
      INCB7839 is an inhibitor of the ADAM (A Disintegrin and Metalloprotease) 10 and 17 proteases.
      Neuronal activity regulates glioma growth through neuroligin-3 (NLGN3). ADAM 10 is the
      protease responsible for NLGN3 release into the tumor microenvironment and represents a
      promising therapeutic target.

      Pre-clinical studies of INCB7839 in patient-derived pediatric high-grade gliomas (GBM and
      DIPG) revealed that INCB7839 inhibits pediatric high- grade glioma growth and improves
      overall survival. In vivo testing also demonstrated that INCB7839 penetrates brain tissue
      sufficient to achieve its pharmacodynamic effect of ADAM10 inhibition. Further pre-clinical
      studies in other animals revealed minimal toxicity, including non-adverse to mild increases
      in serum hepatobiliary enzymes, protein, calcium, cholesterol values, along with minimal
      decreases in RBC mass parameters; all parameters recovered.

      INCB7839 has been evaluated in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials for previously treated
      solid tumors and breast cancer. Of the adverse events (AEs) noted, the majority were
      mild-to-moderate in severity, the most frequent being fatigue, nausea, anorexia, diarrhea,
      emesis, abdominal pain, anemia and constipation. The dose-limiting toxicity for monotherapy
      with INCB7839 in Phase I clinical trials was declared to be deep venous thrombosis (DVT). Out
      of 41 patients, there was a total of 9 thrombotic events including mild superficial
      thrombophlebitis (n=1), DVT (n=4), vena cava thrombosis with renal insufficiency in a patient
      with squamous cell cancer of the head and neck (n=1), atrial thrombosis in patient with
      breast cancer (n=1), and pulmonary embolism in patients with hormone-refractory prostate
      cancer (n=2). Overall, INCB7839 does exhibit a pro-coagulant effect in some adult patients,
      resulting in an increased incidence of DVT, whether used alone or in combination. The
      mechanism of this effect is unknown, and there is no clear relationship between the frequency
      of thrombosis and the dose administered.
    
  