
    
      For all subjects participating in this open-label extension study, the last Extension Phase
      Visit (EPV) of the double-blind study will also be the day of Visit 1 for this study. At this
      visit, the subjects will be asked if they are willing to continue in an open-label extension
      and to receive treatment with Eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) for up to additional 2 years. In
      case marketing authorization (MA) of ESL as monotherapy will be achieved prior to the end of
      2017, the study may be discontinued prematurely within 42 days after achievement of MA.

      For subjects not willing to enter the extension study, IMP from the double-blind study
      (CBZ-CR or ESL) is to be discontinued according to the down-titration scheme in the clinical
      study protocol and commercially available antiepileptic drug (AED) is to be introduced
      according to investigator's discretion.

      In case the subject is willing to enter the extension study, subjects already treated with
      ESL will continue with their last evaluated dose (ESL 800 mg, 1200 mg or 1600 mg QD).

      Subjects previously treated with CBZ-CR will start with ESL 400 mg QD for one week followed
      by up-titration to the ESL target dose which is equivalent to the last evaluated CBZ-CR dose
      level (i.e. CBZ-CR 200 mg BID -> ESL 800 mg QD; CBZ-CR 400 mg BID -> ESL 1200 mg QD; CBZ-CR
      600 mg BID -> ESL 1600 mg QD) in steps of 400 mg dose increase per week.

      All subjects previously treated with CBZ-CR, regardless of their last evaluated dose level,
      will start CBZ-CR down-titration two weeks after first receipt of ESL treatment as part of
      the double-blind study and as outlined in the BIA-2093-311 study protocol.

      In case of new seizures, the ESL dose can be increased to a maximum dose of ESL 1600 mg QD
      [dose level C], depending on the investigator's decision. Any up-titration should be
      performed in weekly steps of 400 mg.

      If according to the investigator's opinion the subject may benefit from a combination
      treatment, an additional commercially available AED as add-on can be introduced at the
      investigator's discretion.

      If deemed necessary by the investigator, e.g. due to occurrence of adverse events, the dose
      of ESL can be reduced according to investigator's discretion, as long as the dose remains in
      the range of 800 mg QD to 1600mg QD.

      In case the subject started with the extension study but is not willing to continue at any
      time, the subject has to be switched to commercially available AEDs to receive the best
      standard of care according to the investigator's discretion. Down-titration of ESL as
      required should be performed in steps of 400 mg decrease per week
    
  