
    
      Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) is a phenomenon where transient non-injurious
      ischemia/ reperfusion episodes applied to an organ away from the heart can protect the
      myocardium from ischemia/reperfusion injury. RIPC has been found to be an attractive strategy
      to reduce myocardial injury and improve outcome in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The
      exact mechanisms of this protection are not yet known, although stimulation of prosurvival
      intracellular kinase responses and inhibition of inflammatory pathways each play a role.

      RIPC can be performed by noninvasive inflation and deflation of a standard blood pressure
      cuff or pneumatic tourniquet on the upper or lower limbs to induce brief ischemia and
      reperfusion, which is the mechanism by which injury in patients undergoing open cardiac
      surgery occurs.

      ANESTHETIC TECHNIQUE All patients will be preoperatively examined and investigated by
      complete blood count, coagulation profile, renal and kidney functions and electrolytes.
      Electrocardiography, chest x ray and echocardiography will be routinely done. Coronary
      angiography and carotid arterial duplex will be requested in patients prepared for coronary
      artery bypass graft (CABG).

      Patient will be premedicated by intramuscular injection of 10mg morphine in the morning of
      the operation. Before induction of anesthesia, a five-lead electrocardiography system will be
      applied to monitor heart rate, rhythm, and ST segments (leads II and V5). A pulse oximeter
      probe will be attached, and a peripheral venous cannula will be placed. For measurement of
      arterial pressure and blood sampling, a 20 G cannula will be inserted into either right or
      left radial artery under local anesthesia. General anesthesia will be induced by fentanyl
      (3-5 μg/kg), propofol titrated according to response, followed by atracurium (0.5 mg/kg).

      Trachea will be intubated, patients will be mechanically ventilated with oxygen in air so as
      to achieve normocarbia. This will be confirmed by radial arterial blood gas analysis. An
      esophageal temperature probe and a Foley catheter will also be placed.

      For drug infusion, a triple-lumen central venous catheter will be inserted via the right
      internal jugular vein.

      Anesthesia will be maintained by inhaled isoflurane, with additional fentanyl injected prior
      to skin incision as well as sternotomy and atracurium infusion for continued muscle
      relaxation.

      During extracorporeal circulation, patients will receive propofol infusion in addition to
      atracurium infusion.

      Before initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), the patients will receive intravenously
      tranexamic acid (2 g) and heparin (300-500 units/kg body weight) to achieve an activated
      clotting time > 400 s. CPB was instituted via an ascending aortic cannula and a two-stage
      right atrial cannula. Before, during, and after CPB (pump blood flow: 2.4 l/min/m2), mean
      arterial pressure was adjusted to exceed 60 mmHg. Cardiac arrest will be induced with cold
      antegrade crystalloid cardioplegia (St Thomas solution) or warm intermittent antegrade blood
      cardioplegia. Lactate-enriched Ringer's solution will be added to the CPB circuit to maintain
      reservoir volume when needed, and packed red blood cells will be added when hemoglobin
      concentration decrease to less than 7 g/dl.

      After rewarming the patient to 37°C and separation from CPB, reversal of heparin by protamine
      sulfate, and sternal closure, the patients will be transferred to the intensive care unit.
    
  