
    
      Peer visitation (PV) provides individuals newly dealing with a particular injury/ illness
      with an opportunity to interact with a peer who has successfully managed a similar condition.
      Interaction with a successful role model can provide credible social support and information,
      increase self-efficacy and teach coping strategies, which in turn can engender hope and
      motivation to engage in treatment and use active coping strategies. In spite of the
      widespread clinical availability of PV programs, the amount and type of training and
      clinical/organizational varies widely, and empirical support for their efficacy is limited.
      The main objective of this project is to test the feasibility of implementing a PV program
      for OEF/OIF veterans with war-related polytrauma.

      The proposed study represented a unique opportunity to evaluate three important aspects of
      peer visitation among OEF/OIF Veterans. Our three hypotheses were: H 1: Veteran Peer Visitors
      (VPVs) who complete the training will demonstrate successful acquisition of efficacy,
      knowledge and skills as measured by: (1) pre- and post-tests administered before and after
      the training; (2) trainer evaluations upon completion of the training, (3) self-evaluation of
      at least two actual peer visits, and (4) evaluation by two individuals who receive peer
      visits. H2: VPVs who complete the study will demonstrate increased self-care, improved mood,
      and increased post-traumatic growth compared to pre-training baseline measures. H 3: Veterans
      who receive a visit from a VPV will endorse improvement in one or more of the following
      areas: stress, self-efficacy, activation, mood, ability to make meaning of their experiences,
      and knowledge of coping options.

      We used a mixed-methods study to evaluate the feasibility of PV training materials developed
      in a previous grant to certify 12-18 Veteran Peer Visitors (VPVs). In a prior project, the
      proposed research team developed the training materials to be tested in this feasibility
      study, including screening tools to identify appropriate candidates for VPV training, an
      Instructor manual and a Veteran PV workbook.

      Two types of participants: Veteran Peer Visitors and Recipients of VPVs were recruited via
      the Polytrauma Network Site in VISN 20 (Seattle). VPVs were nominated by a clinician to
      participate and, if enrolled, will undergo 2-day training and will be required to pass a test
      upon completion of training. Training included a VA Voluntary Services background check, and
      orientation to the VHA and VA privacy policies. VPVs became official VA volunteers. Each
      certified VPV was required to provide 1-5 visits to at least two Veterans. Both VPVs and
      recipients of VPV completed surveys at baseline and upon study completion.
    
  