
    
      With the growing popularity of gambling, there has been an increase in the number of
      individuals with problem gambling. As we learn more about the way we can help problem
      gamblers, there is a great interest developing effective medications for this problem.
      Although there is much to learn about the factors that lead to gambling problems, there is
      some research showing that one of the reasons why gambling may be so rewarding and difficult
      to stop is due to the release of endogenous opioids, a specific brain chemical that is
      associated with the feeling of pleasure. It is possible that medications known to affect the
      opioidergic neurotransmitter system which produces endogenous opioids may be beneficial in
      reducing pathological gambling. One such medication is naltrexone, an opioid antagonist, that
      has been shown to be effective in reducing alcohol consumption and approved for use in the
      treatment of alcohol dependence. This study assessed whether naltrexone might be effective in
      reducing excessive gambling behavior in people who also drink heavily. The efficacy of
      naltrexone was evaluated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Fifty-two
      subjects who had significant problems with both gambling and alcohol received 11 weeks of
      either naltrexone or placebo. Everyone also received 7 weeks of cognitive-behavioral
      counselling to help them reduce or stop drinking and gambling. Changes in alcohol and
      gambling behavior were measured at the beginning of treatment, at the end-of-treatment and 3,
      6 and 12-months after treatment follow-up. The results showed that there were no significant
      differences between those who received placebo versus those who received naltrexone on any
      alcohol or gambling measure (i.e., frequency of drinking/ gambling, amount of drinking/
      gambling, money spent of gambling, urges to drink/ gamble). However, treatment in general was
      effective as everyone, regardless of the treatment they received, were gambling and drinking
      significantly less at the end-of-treatment and during the year follow-up. The conclusion of
      the study was that naltrexone was not an effective treatment for concurrent alcohol use and
      gambling problems.
    
  