
    
      This translational research part is aiming to give more insights in the way radiation injury
      and tumour response develops.

      It involves three parts:

        1. Repetitive FDG-PET-CT scans in order to assess early tumour response monitoring.

        2. Blood sampling before, during and after radiotherapy in order to find predictors for
           normal tissue injury and for tumour response.

        3. Extra staining of tumour biopsies.

      1. FDG-PET-CT scans The FDG-PET-CT scan with i.v. contrast gives information of the tumour
      metabolism and its morphology. The pre-treatment max SUV is prognostic as a high value
      confers a worse prognosis. Our group showed both in vitro and in vivo that a high FDG uptake
      is due to tumour hypoxia. The evolution of the max SUV during radiotherapy may thus be
      predictive for the ultimate tumour response. Therefore, two extra FDG-PET-CT scans will be
      done during radiotherapy for the group of patients receiving long-term radiochemotherapy: one
      at day 7 and one at day 14. This will enable calculation of the max SUV kinetics during
      treatment. Tumour response will be determined by FDG-PET-CT scans 3-5 days after the short-
      course of radiotherapy or 6-8 weeks after the long- term radiochemotherapy.

      2 Blood samples Blood collection and processing before, during and after radiotherapy will be
      done according to the serum protocol. For performing ELISA's blood samples should be
      collected and put in the freezer. The analysis of all blood material will be performed months
      to years after collection and re-analysis with regard to the described protein groups may be
      necessary depending on the outcome.

        1. Before radiotherapy, 10 millilitres of blood will be taken.

        2. At day 7, day 14 and 6-8 weeks after the end of radiotherapy for the long- term
           radiotherapy or 3-5 days after the short - course of radiotherapy,i.e. at the same days
           that the FDG-PET-CT scans will be performed, 10 millilitres serum (EDTA tube) will be
           taken to investigate the evolution of the proteins during and after treatment, for its
           kinetics may be important as predictive factors.

      3 Extra staining of tumour biopsies The tumour biopsies may be stained with markers for
      proliferation (e.g. KI 67), apoptosis (e.g. M30), hypoxia (e.g. HIF, CA 9, Glut 1 and 3) and
      others (e.g. EGFR and EGFRvIII), in order to correlate these measurements with response.
    
  