
    
      Patients are being asked to be in this study because they have extensive disease small cell
      lung cancer. All eligible participants who agree to be in the study will receive both
      abraxane and carboplatin. The researchers want to evaluate the activity and safety of the
      combination of abraxane and carboplatin, and if this combination can help people with
      extensive disease small cell lung cancer.

      Carboplatin is a chemotherapy drug that has been approved by the Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA) to treat ovarian cancer. It is in a class of drugs known as platinum-containing
      compounds. It slows or stops the growth of cancer cells in your body. Carboplatin is not
      approved by the FDA for use in the treatment of small-cell lung cancer, either alone or
      combined with other anti-cancer drugs. However, carboplatin given with paclitaxel is a
      standard or active treatment in patients with small cell lung cancer, non-small cell lung
      cancer, breast cancer, and ovarian cancer. Abraxane is a chemotherapy drug that was approved
      by the FDA to treat metastatic breast cancer after other chemotherapy has already been tried.
      Abraxane is a new preparation of the active ingredient in the chemotherapy drug, paclitaxel.
      In a study done in breast cancer patients, Abraxane was compared to paclitaxel. Abraxane has
      been shown to be more effective than paclitaxel in tumor response and tumor progression, in
      addition to having fewer side effects than paclitaxel. Abraxane was shown to cause less
      damage to a person's white blood cells (the cells that fight infection) and cause fewer
      allergic reactions; however, more patients developed numbness of their hands and feet.

      Carboplatin and Abraxane are intravenous (IV) medications. Patients will begin treatment with
      2 cycles (1 cycle = 21 days) of abraxane and carboplatin. Then there will be a disease
      assessment at cycles 2 and 4. Patients with stable disease, partial response, or complete
      response will get additional cycles. Patients with progressive disease no will be taken off
      the study treatment. A maximum of 6 cycles will be given.
    
  