
    
      Worldwide, coronary artery disease (CAD) is the most frequent cause of death. Over seven
      million people every year die from CAD, accounting for 12.8% of all deaths. Every sixth man
      and every seventh woman in Europe die from myocardial infarction. The in-hospital mortality
      of STEMI patients in the national registries of the European society of cardiology (ESC)
      countries varies between 6% and 14%.

      ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) generally results from intraluminal thrombus
      formation and occlusion of a ruptured or an unstable plaque .

      The main goal of therapy in STEMI is to restore microvascular flow and sustain the myocardial
      perfusion .

      Reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is aimed at achieving prompt
      restoration of myocardial perfusion to maximize preservation of the electrical and mechanical
      integrity of the jeopardized myocardium. Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) has
      increased the rate of successful recanalization of infarct-related arteries (IRAs) to >90% .

      A variety of markers including ECG and coronary angiography have been utilized to assess
      myocardial reperfusion .

      The prolongation of QRS duration,evaluated by a standard 12-lead ECG, is a marker of
      ventricular dysfunction and has been associated with a poor prognosis in STEMI .

      QT-interval parameters are potentially proposed as available non-invasive markers for
      assessing the ventricular homogeneity as well as for predicting electrical instability ,QT
      interval (QTI) is defined as the longest interval from the beginning of the QRS complex to
      the end of the T-wave; QT dispersion (QTd) is defined as the difference between the longest
      and shortest QTI, and reflects electrical activity of the ventricles . .

      The prolongation of the latter parameter is a main predictor for fatal arrhythmia in patients
      with myocardial infarction (MI) .

      The measurement of QTI and QTd parameters are dependent on heart rate and can be corrected by
      the QT correction formulas, which are termed the corrected QTI (QTc) and QTd (QTcd) .

      Myocardial blush grade (MBG) is validated measurement of myocardial perfusion . The MBG is
      used to assess the washout of myocardial blush during angiography. Grade 0 is defined as the
      failure of the contrast to enter the microvasculature. In grade 1 cases, contrast enters
      slowly, but fails to exit the microvasculature. Grade 2 defines delayed entry and exit from
      the microvasculature. Finally, grade 3 indicates normal entry and exit from the
      microvasculature .

      ECG is a necessary, simple, rapid and non invasive tool for the diagnosis of myocardial
      infarction and evaluation of myocardial reperfusion that still to be investigated . QT
      dispersion is a crude and approximate measure of a general abnormality of repolarization; it
      reflects inhomogeneity of ventricular repolarization . This measurement is an attempt to
      distinguish between myocardium that is homogeneous from myocardium that displays
      inhomogeneity, which is accompanied by increased dispersion of the ventricular recovery times
      and prolongation of repolarization
    
  