
    
      Velopharyngeal dysfunction (VPD) results from failure of the airway to close and separate the
      oropharynx and nasopharynx during speech, eating and drinking as a result of insufficiency of
      the velum (soft palate) (1). VPD leads to a number of symptoms including difficulty with
      articulation, nasal regurgitation and excess nasal air emissions. VPD can often be treated
      through speech language therapy alone, however when refractory to this treatment surgical
      correction of problematic anatomy is indicated (2). The current surgery of choice at this
      center is a pedicled, posterior wall pharyngeal flap. During this procedure a small flap
      comprised of mucosa, submucosa and superior pharyngeal constrictor muscle is pedicled via
      surgical dissection and attached anteriorly to the inadequate soft palate. This creates an
      incomplete midline obstruction at the level of the velum allowing for a dynamic valve which
      can be closed through the medial constriction of the pharyngeal muscles during speech and
      eating/drinking. While this surgery has a high success rate there can be a high degree of
      post operative pain and sub-optimal lateral wall motion (2). It is hypothesized that the
      suboptimal lateral wall motion post-operatively is due to intentional segmentation of the
      superior constrictor muscle during the operation. Due to the necessary de-innervation of the
      pedicled pharyngeal flap there is evidence that the muscle atrophies and the bulk it
      initially adds to the flap is lost over time. Despite this, patients typically have good
      long-term outcomes with a pharyngeal flap (3,4). For these reasons it has been postulated
      that a successful surgery could be carried out using a pharyngeal flap comprised only of
      mucosa and submucosa, sparing the superior constrictor muscle. By sparing the superior
      constrictor muscle the investigators hope to achieve a decrease in post operative pain,
      complications and improved lateral wall motion while maintaining the effectiveness of the
      flap and symptomatic improvement. This novel surgical approach to treating VPD was shown to
      be effective and safe in animal trial (2). The major concern of the mucosal/submucosal flap
      procedure was that the flap would atrophy and fail without the inclusion of the muscular
      portion. However, results of the animal study comparing the standard pharyngeal flap to the
      experimental flap, indicated that at 12 weeks post-operation, bulk loss in the
      muscosa/submucosa group was not significantly greater than bulk loss in the muscular flap
      group.
    
  