
    
      The appendix is a blind-ended tube connected to the cecum, from which it develops in the
      embryo. The most common diseases of the appendix (in humans) are appendicitis and carcinoid
      tumors. Appendicitis is inflammation of the appendix. Symptoms commonly include right lower
      abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and decreased appetite. However, approximately 40% of
      people do not have these typical symptoms . Appendicitis is caused by a blockage of the
      hollow portion of the appendix. This is most commonly due to a calcified "stone" made of
      feces. Inflamed lymphoid tissue from a viral infection, parasites, gallstone, or tumors may
      also cause the blockage. This blockage leads to increased pressures in the appendix,
      decreased blood flow to the tissues of the appendix, and bacterial growth inside the appendix
      causing inflammation. The combination of inflammation, reduced blood flow to the appendix and
      distention of the appendix causes tissue injury and tissue death. If this process is left
      untreated, the appendix may burst, releasing bacteria into the abdominal cavity, leading to
      increased complications. The surgical procedure for the removal of the appendix is called an
      appendicectomy. Appendicectomy can be performed through open or laparoscopic surgery. The
      surgical procedure for the removal of the appendix is called an appendicectomy .
      Appendicectomy can be performed through open or laparoscopic surgery. When the surgeon uses
      the open approach, he makes an incision in the lower right section of the abdomen. Most
      incisions are less than 3 in (7.6 cm) in length. The surgeon then identifies all of the
      organs in the abdomen and examines them for other disease or abnormalities. The appendix is
      located and brought up into the wounds. The surgeon separates the appendix from all the
      surrounding tissue and its attachment to the cecum, and then removes it. The site where the
      appendix was previously attached, the cecum, is closed and returned to the abdomen The muscle
      layers and then the skin are sewn together . When the surgeon performs a laparoscopic
      appendectomy, four incisions, each about 1 in (2.5 cm) in length, are made. One incision is
      near the umbilicus, or navel, and one is between the umbilicus and the pubis. Two other
      incisions are smaller and are on the right side of the lower abdomen. The surgeon then passes
      a camera and special instruments through these incisions. With the aid of this equipment, the
      surgeon visually examines the abdominal organs and identifies the appendix. The appendix is
      then freed from all of its attachments and removed. The place where the appendix was formerly
      attached, the cecum, is stitched. The appendix is removed through one of the incisions. The
      instruments are removed and then all of the incisions are closed . The primary objective of
      this study was to compare the laparoscopic approach and the conventional technique in the
      treatment of chronic Appendicitis.
    
  