
    
      Stroke is a devastating illness that induces numerous impairments of body function and
      structure, and limitations to activities in all aspects of life, thus imposing multi-faceted
      restrictions on one's participation in daily living. It also has detrimental impacts on one's
      mental health, social relationship, and quality of life. Stroke survivors often face
      challenges arising from the illness and its disabilities, as well as the resulting
      deterioration of occupational functioning. They also suffer from the psycho-spiritual sequels
      of loss in functioning, sense of worthlessness and hopelessness, and fear of relapse, all of
      which could result in mental health distress such as depression, anxiety, stress, isolation,
      and impaired quality of life. Though the risk of stroke increases with age, statistics have
      documented an increasing trend of a younger age of onset. The issues faced by younger and
      pre-elderly stroke survivors (<65 years old) will be even more severe due to longer term of
      survival, problems of resuming their occupations, and lacking of social welfare and resources
      for their pre-elderly age.

      Existing research focuses primarily on older adults stroke survivors; this study is set out
      to contribute to current knowledge of the effectiveness of arts-based rehabilitation on
      younger stroke survivors. Both psychological and physiological outcomes will be examined for
      a comprehensive understanding on the biological, psychological, social, and spiritual changes
      after participating in a non-pharmacological, engaging, safe and enjoyable multi-modal
      expressive arts-based intervention approach of rehabilitation.

      Examination on the relationships among bio-psycho-social-spiritual variables may help
      understand the complex relationships among these factors after stroke and during
      rehabilitation, which will contribute to the development of holistic care for stroke
      survivors.

      This current study will adopt a 2-arm randomized controlled design with treatment-as-usual
      control. Upon screening for inclusion exclusion criteria, baseline data will be collected;
      and eligible participants will be randomized into either an 8-week Expressive Arts-based
      intervention group or Treatment-As-Usual control group. The control group will continue with
      routine rehabilitation service and have the option to participate in the Expressive
      Arts-based Intervention Group upon study completion. Participants will be assessed 3 times at
      baseline (T0), post-intervention (8th week, T1), and 6-month post-intervention (T2). The
      participants will complete the study in about 8 months.
    
  