
    
      Contour deformities of the face requiring soft tissue augmentation often result from
      conditions such as congenital disorders, acquired diseases, and traumatic and developmental
      deformities. Significant contour deformity of face causes both functional as well as
      aesthetic problems for the patient. Conventionally, these problems are treated by allogenic
      fillers, major flap surgery and fat grafting.1 However; different problems are associated
      with above mentioned treatment options. For example, allogenic fillers are foreign material
      that poses not only allergic reactions but also rapid absorption at the site of application.
      Similarly, flap surgery, in the form of pedicled and free flaps, produces considerable donor
      site morbidity. In addition, fine- tuning is impossible with flap, and tissue transferred in
      the form of flap may act as blob.

      Autologous fat grafting has gained pervasive acceptance for the management of contour
      deformities of the face. Fat being an autologous tissue source is considered as an ideal
      soft-tissue filler because it is abundant, readily available, inexpensive, host compatible,
      and can be harvested easily and repeatedly.2 Although the practice of fat grafting is not new
      and it is a safe and natural method of soft-tissue augmentation, the viability and
      reliability of transplanted fat grafts remains poorly studied. One major concern is the lack
      of consistency of final clinical outcome, which often requires multiple fat grafting
      procedures making it expensive. Rate of fat absorption may reach up to 40% to 80%.However,
      previously published data have failed to produce a cohesive algorithm of the required
      components for successful, consistent and durable fat transplantation.3 In order to overcome
      problems associated with fat grafting, other innovative techniques are required.

      The role of fat auto-transplantation in plastic surgery has evolved from a controversial
      technique designed for simple volume augmentation to the foundation for the innovative and
      burgeoning field of regenerative medicine. This is based on the fact that adipose tissue
      contains adipocytes and the stromal vascular fraction (SVF) consisting of multiple cell types
      such as circulating blood cells, fibroblasts, pericytes, endothelial cells, and mesenchymal
      stem cells (MSCs). Adipocytes account for 20 percent or fewer of the total number of cells in
      adipose tissue4whereasthere are only 3% MSCs in SVF of adipose tissue.5 Although this
      percentage is relatively low, this cell type is the main contributor in overall healing
      process. MSCs derived from adipose tissue (AT-MSCs) have high proliferative potential and
      ability to differentiate into mesenchymal (adipose, bone, cartilage) and non-mesenchymal
      (neuron like cells) lineages.6,7,8 AT-MSCs have been shown to enhance angiogenesis, decrease
      apoptosis and modify the local inflammatory response owing to their immunosuppressive and
      immunomodulatory properties.9 Therefore, the current study is designed to evaluate the effect
      of fat grafting and AT-MSCs together on contour deformities of face. By combining traditional
      fat graft with AT-MSCs, tissue viability and therefore the consistency of graft survival may
      be improved. In the current model investigators propose that transferred fat may act as a
      natural scaffold and temporary filler to restore the volume immediately while AT-MSCs will
      start participating in multiple parameters of tissue regeneration. This model supports the
      "host replacement theory" that has been put forward to describe how fat grafts survive after
      they are transplanted.10 Due to problems associated with fat grafting alone, it is desirable
      to solve such issues by using innovating techniques. In the current study investigators
      propose the novel idea of enrichment of conventional fat graft with ex-vivo expanded AT-MSCs
      to enhance the viability of the grafted fat and the reliability of the final outcome of
      surgery. Recent animal studies have suggested that AT-MSCs that have been expanded before
      administration could help preserve grafted fat and improve outcomes.11 Thus rationale of
      current study is to compare the outcome of conventional fat grafting with stem cell enriched
      fat grafting for contour deformities of face. If enrichment of fat graft with AT-MSCs can
      decrease its absorption rate, this innovative strategy can make fat transfer a reliable
      option for soft tissue augmentation. This can definitely improve final clinical outcome at
      lesser cost and reduced donor site morbidity
    
  