
    
      The goal of this study is to determine the efficacy of SNAP-Ed to improve the immediate and
      long-term dietary quality (using the Healthy Eating Index (HEI)), BMI (measured height and
      weight), and food security (using the 18-item US HFSSM) and how the provision of SNAP-Ed with
      the presence of other characteristics can mediate improvement in these outcomes. The
      hypothesis of this study is that dietary quality and food security will improve and BMI will
      remain steady over the short-term, and these improvements will be maintained over a 1-year,
      or "long-term", time frame in participants receiving SNAP-Ed compared to those not receiving
      SNAP-Ed. Results may be used as a basis for changes to the program or policies relevant to
      SNAP-Ed and other nutrition education programs throughout the US.

      NEP educators are considered key personnel because they will have direct contact with study
      participants; however, they will not have any part in data entry, analysis, or dissemination
      of study results. NEP educators, employees of Purdue University Extension, across Indiana
      will help facilitate the study. NEP educators have completed CITI training as a requirement
      for employment through Purdue University Extension. Before recruiting study participants,
      participating NEP educators will attend training sessions facilitated by the co-investigators
      of the study. The training sessions will include instructions on how to interact with
      participants; answer questions related to the study; and protocol for administering surveys,
      measuring height and weight, keeping participant information private, and the use of
      identification numbers. The study goals and hypothesis will not be shared with the NEP
      educators in order to keep their work with the participants as unbiased as possible.

      NEP educators will recruit study participants who are interested in participating in NEP. The
      details of recruitment are described in Section D. A screening survey determining eligibility
      will be administered in addition to an explanation of consent. After completion of the
      screening survey and consent process, NEP educators will randomize participants into one of
      two groups: control or experimental. The NEP educators will be assigned a random number using
      Excel and then listed in order from least to greatest according to their random number. The
      first half of the NEP educators will assign their first recruited participants to the
      experimental group. After the first assignment, they will alternate assigning participants to
      either study group in an "every other" participant fashion. The second half of the NEP
      educators will assign their first recruited participants to the control group. After the
      first assignment, they will also alternate assigning participants to either study group in an
      "every other" participant fashion. The control group will wait 1 year from taking the second
      survey before starting NEP lessons. The experimental group will start NEP lessons
      immediately. Participants in the experimental group must take at least the first 4 NEP
      lessons within a time period of 4 to 10 weeks. The NEP SNAP-Ed curriculum includes 10
      lessons, and participants may take the additional 6 lessons if desired.

      All participants will complete three 30 minute surveys throughout the study. Surveys will be
      administered by NEP educators using the Qualtrics Offline Application on their
      program-provided iPads or paper surveys. The first survey will be administered upon
      enrollment in the study. Participants in the experimental group will take the second survey
      after they have completed the first 4 lessons between 4 and 10 weeks after enrollment in the
      study. Control participants will take the second survey after 4 to 10 weeks with no lessons.
      Since participants will be recruited on a rolling basis, they will take surveys at different
      times within a designated time period. The third survey will be administered to both groups 1
      year after the second survey. Surveys are comprised of the US Household Food Security Survey
      Module from the United States Department of Agriculture Economic Research Service, questions
      querying household and individual level characteristics, and the Indiana Food and Nutrition
      Program Evaluation Tool.

      Participants will also complete two 24-hour dietary recalls using the Automated Self-Assisted
      24-hour recall (ASA-24) and one food frequency questionnaire (FFQ) using the Diet History
      Questionnaire II (DHQ II) at each data collection time point. Both instruments are online and
      complementary dietary assessment tools created by the National Cancer Institute and have a
      respondent and researcher website. Results will be analyzed by the researchers using the
      researcher website. One dietary recall and the FFQ may be administered by the NEP Educators
      immediately following the in person survey, or a link to complete the dietary recall and FFQ
      online will be emailed to the participant within 2 days, or the participant can request to
      complete the dietary recalls and FFQ over the phone with the co-investigators at Purdue
      within 7 days after completing the survey. A script will be provided for the Purdue
      researchers to administer the dietary recalls and FFQ. The completion of the dietary recalls
      and the FFQ is necessary to perform complex modeling techniques for estimating usual dietary
      intake. The program that administers the dietary recalls assists participants through the
      recall process using an animated guide with audio and visual cues. Previous research has
      shown that the majority of Indiana SNAP-Ed participants have a computer with high-speed
      Internet connection in their home or residence. Participants without email, without access to
      a computer with internet, or with limited computer skills will be instructed to complete the
      assessments via telephone with assistance from researchers. If assistance from researchers is
      needed via telephone, participant identifying information will not be collected at that time.
      Participants will be identified only by their participant identification number, which they
      will receive upon enrollment in the study. Participants will provide days and time frames
      over the following week when they will be available to complete the dietary assessments over
      the phone with Purdue researchers. In addition, participants may call the co-investigator's
      Purdue office phone number any time after the survey for assistance with completing the
      dietary assessments. If the first dietary recall and FFQ have not been completed within 4
      days after the survey, researchers will call the participant no more than once per day to
      complete the first dietary recall and FFQ over the phone at that time or to set up
      appointments to complete the dietary recalls and FFQ over the phone with researchers within
      the 7 days after completing the in person survey. The second dietary recall should be
      completed 24 hours after the first dietary recall at the earliest but before 9 days after
      completing the in person survey. Participants will have the same options as described above
      to complete the second dietary recall.

      In addition to the survey, dietary recalls, and FFQ, NEP educators will take height and
      weight measurements on each participant at each assessment time point. Weights will be
      measured using the SECA 869 mobile medical flat scale with remote display. Heights will be
      measured using the SECA 213 mobile stadiometer. This weight scale and stadiometer are
      research grade measurement tools. Height and weight measurements will be taken following the
      Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) National Health and Nutrition Examination
      Survey (NHANES) anthropometry manual guidelines. Height and weight measurements will be
      completed in a private setting or privacy screens will be used. Only the NEP educators will
      be able to see the measurements. Three measurements will be taken at each assessment time
      point in order to calculate an average. Participants will be allowed to know their
      measurements upon request at the time of measurement. Researchers will use these measurements
      to calculate BMI.

      An in person survey, two dietary recalls, one FFQ, and height and weight measurements will be
      completed for each participant at each of the three assessment time points. The first and
      third assessments will cover a reference period the past 12 months, while the second
      assessment will cover the past 30 days. Participants randomized to the control group will be
      provided the opportunity to complete the SNAP-Ed program at the completion of the study.
    
  