
    
      The primary goal of clinical trial is to determine effects of combined therapeutic plasma
      exchange (TPE), rituximab, and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in comparison to effects of
      treatment as usual (TAU), among AE-IPF patients.

      Our central hypothesis is "AUTOANTIBODY REDUCTION IS BENEFICIAL FOR AE-IPF PATIENTS." A
      corollary of this hypothesis is that antibody-mediated autoimmunity can play an important
      role in IPF exacerbations.

      Following baseline screening assessments, hospitalized AE-IPF patients at the collaborating
      sites that meet all inclusion/exclusion criteria will be randomly assigned to receive one of
      the following treatments in a ratio of 2:1:

      • Arm A (n=34) - Experimental Treatment:

      Steroids: Prednisone 60 mg (p.o.) on day 1, followed by 20 mg/day on days 2-5, 7-14, and
      16-19 (or the i.v. methylprednisolone equivalent). Methyl-prednisolone 100 mg i.v. will be
      administered on days 6 and 15, as a premedication prior to the rituximab.

      Insertion of a dialysis/apheresis catheter into a central vein, and initiation of therapeutic
      plasma exchange (TPE), rituximab, and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) regimens:

      Therapeutic Plasma Exchange (TPE) will consist of 1x estimated plasma volume exchanges for 3
      successive days (1-3) and then, after a one day interval to enable equilibration of
      autoantibodies between intra- and extra-vascular spaces, again on days 5, 6, 9, 11, 13, and
      15.

      Rituximab: One gm i.v. will be administered on day 6 and day 15 after completion of the TPE
      on those days.

      Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG): 0.5 gm/kg/day i.v. on days 16-19

      • Arm B (n=17) - Treatment as Usual (TAU):

      The same steroid regimen as described for Arm A, i.e., prednisone 60 mg (p.o.) on day 1,
      followed by 20 mg/day on days 2-5, 7-14, and 16-19 (or the i.v. methylprednisolone
      equivalent), and methylprednisolone 100 mg i.v. administered on days 6 and 15.

      All patients enrolled in both cohorts at all sites will also receive empiric broad-spectrum
      antibiotics for 8 days. The empiric antibiotic regimen will be reassessed and tailored based
      on any subsequent cultures and sensitivity results.

      Patients will be monitored carefully for occurrences of adverse events, laboratory test
      abnormalities, and changes in vital signs.

      The respective treatment courses can be finished on an outpatient basis among enrolled
      patients who are able to be discharged from the hospital, if medically indicated, and if
      those treatment compliance can be assured.

      Patients will be followed for the duration of their hospital admission after enrollment, and
      then observed as either inpatients or outpatients on days 19, 60, 90, 180, 270, and 365. A
      telephone contact will occur at monthly intervals, aside from those visits above. The total
      observation/subject is 365 days.
    
  