
    
      GBS is a post-infectious immune-mediated polyradiculoneuropathy with a highly diverse
      clinical course and outcome despite partially effective forms of treatment(immunoglobulins
      and plasma exchange). Outcome in patients with GBS has not improved in the last two decades.
      At present about 10 to 20% of patients remain severely disabled and about 5% die. One
      explanation for this stagnation is the highly variable clinical course of GBS and the lack of
      knowledge about the factors that determine the clinical course in individual patients with
      GBS. GBS may consist of distinct pathogenic subgroups, in which disease onset and progression
      is influenced by different types of preceding infections, anti-neural antibodies and genetic
      polymorphisms. Optimal treatment of individual patients may depend on the pathogenesis and
      clinical severity. Patients with severe forms of GBS may possibly need more intensive
      treatment to recover. Patients with a milder course that fully recover after standard therapy
      could suffer from possibly more side effects of more aggressive forms of treatment. This
      could only be possible if there are prognostic models that accurately predict the clinical
      course in individual patients. Ideally such models should be based on clinical and biological
      predictors that are strongly associated with disease course and known as early as possible in
      the acute phase of illness, when treatment with immunomodulatory therapy is most effective.
      Prognostic models could help to guide selective trials in specific GBS subtypes. Because of
      this it will be possible to treat GBS with more effective and more individual therapy.

      This study aims to identify clinical and biological determinants and predictors of disease
      course and outcome in individual patients with Guillain-Barré syndrome, as early as possible
      after onset of disease. This information will be used to understand the diversity in clinical
      presentation and response to treatment of GBS. This information will also be used to develop
      new prognostic models to predict the clinical course and outcome accurately in individual
      patients with GBS.

      To address these research questions it is required to conduct a prospective study with
      standardized collection of clinical data and biomaterials from a large group of well-defined
      GBS patients during a long follow-up period. Such an extensive study in a relatively rare
      disease as GBS can be addressed only by intensive international collaboration.
    
  