
    
      Background:

      Osteoporosis increases the risk of fractures. Alendronate reduces the risk of both vertebral-
      and hip fractures by approximately 50%. It has, however, become evident that long-term
      anti-resorptive may lead to serious side effects such as atypical femoral fractures or
      osteonecrosis of the jaw. The alendronate extension study (FLEX) showed that despite stopping
      treatment after five years the anti-fracture efficacy regarding non-vertebral and
      radiological vertebral fractures persists for an additional five years in patients with bone
      mineral density (BMD) T-score > -2.5 at the femoral neck, no fractures during treatment, and
      no previous vertebral fracture. It is therefore now clinical practice, that treatment is
      discontinued after five years in patients that fulfil these criteria. Based on the
      alendronate extension study it was assumed, that bone turnover monitored by biochemical
      markers would stay suppressed for years after stopping treatment, however, other studies have
      demonstrated that there is a great variability in the change in bone turnover markers seen
      after stopping treatment with alendronate in a real-life setting.

      Aim:

      To investigate the predictive value of markers of bone turnover on bone loss 12 months after
      stopping alendronate therapy.

      Methods:

      The study is a cohort study comprising 136 patients with osteoporosis stopping treatment with
      alendronate.

      Perspectives:

      The study will contribute with new knowledge about biochemical markers of bone turnover as
      predictors of bone loss after stopping treatment with alendronate. It will thus be possible
      to identify patients who will experience a decrease in BMD during treatment break, and for
      this particular group of patients treatment can be re-initiated earlier so further loss of
      bone will be avoided. On the other hand, the biochemical markers of bone turnover could also
      shed light on who can tolerate treatment break, thereby avoid long-term treatment with
      alendronate, which may be associated with serious side effects. Finally, the use of blood
      samples rather than DXA will reduce the use of X-rays.
    
  