
    
      Hypoglycemia is the most prevalent clinical complication in the daily management of diabetes
      and is the major obstacle to normalizing blood sugar. For people with Type 1 diabetes
      mellitus (T1DM), hypoglycemia associated autonomic failure (HAAF) increases the risk for
      severe hypoglycemia by a factor of 25 or more. A major component of HAAF is hypoglycemia
      unawareness (perhaps more accurately defined as impaired awareness of hypoglycemia), which
      involves in the loss/diminution of warning symptoms to hypoglycemia that would normally
      prompt a corrective behavioral response (e.g., eating food). Approximately 25-40% of people
      with T1DM report hypoglycemia unawareness. This value is most certainly an underestimation,
      as even people with diabetes who report having intact hypoglycemia, demonstrate impaired
      awareness of biochemically confirmed hypoglycemia. Although a major clinical problem for
      people with T1DM, it remains largely unknown what therapeutic agents could possibly be used
      to treat hypoglycemia unawareness.

      With a goal of identifying existing biological compounds that could restore hypoglycemia
      awareness, laboratory drug screens were conducted using animal models. It was postulated that
      an ideal drug would markedly enhance the ability to sense hypoglycemia and trigger a
      potentially life-saving behavioral response (ie, alert the subject to increase food
      consumption). The vast majority of tested drugs did not restore hypoglycemia awareness (ie,
      did not restore blunted food intake response to hypoglycemia). Interestingly, of all the
      drugs tested, the dopamine antagonist metoclopramide consistently restored hypoglycemia
      awareness in several preclinical experiments. Additionally, metoclopramide also restored the
      impaired counterregulatory response to hypoglycemia in the animal model of HAAF.

      This pilot phase II clinical trial (with placebo control) will be conducted to determine if
      FDA approved doses of Metaclopramdide can restore both, 1) hypoglycemia awareness, and 2) the
      sympathoadrenal response to hypoglycemia in patients with T1DM and hypoglycemia unawareness.
    
  