
    
      After the patient signs the written informed consent the patient will enter the screening
      phase planning baseline assessments and will be randomly allocated with a 1 to 1 ratio to Arm
      A (Standard arm) or Arm B (Experimental arm).

      Patients randomized to Arm A will receive a prephase with oral prednisone (50 mg for 7 days
      [day -6 to day 0]) followed by 6 courses of R-CHOP or R-miniCHOP every 21 days.

      If patients randomized to arm A are already on VitD, they are allowed to continue receiving
      VitD supplementation at a dose that can be considered part of the standard of care and does
      not exceed the maximum standard VitD dose recommended for general adult and elderly
      population , up to 10,000 U/week VitD .

      If clinically indicated at treating physician judgement, patients could receive 1 mg of
      vincristine on the first day of prephase ; in this case vincristine administration in cycle 1
      of immunochemotherapy should be skipped, in patients receiving R-miniCHOP; reduced to 1 mg,
      in patients receiving R-CHOP.

      Patients randomized to Arm B will receive a prephase with oral prednisone and a prephase
      therapy with VitD according to the below reported schedule followed by 6 courses of R-CHOP or
      R-miniCHOP every 21 days.

      Schedule for VitD (Cholecalciferol) supplementation: 25,000 U/day starting on day -6:

      daily loading dose for 7 days if 25 VitD baseline level 20-40 ng/ml daily loading dose for 14
      days if 25 VitD baseline level < 20 ng/ml followed by weekly maintenance supplementation of
      25,000 U for the entire duration of immunochemotherapy (6 courses every 21 days - 18 weeks),
      regardless of the baseline level of 25 VitD.

      If clinically indicated at treating physician judgement, patients could receive 1 mg of
      vincristine on the first day of prephase (DAY -6); in this case vincristine administration in
      cycle 1 of immunochemotherapy should be: skipped, in patients receiving R-miniCHOP; reduced
      to 1 mg, in patients receiving R-CHOP.

      Patients with 25(OH)VitD levels <30 ng/ml on d1 cycle 2 will receive and additional loading
      phase of Cholecalciferol 25,000 U/day for 7 days and then 25,000 U once weekly for the
      duration of immunochemotherapy.

      Patients may continue with VitD supplementation after the end of the immunochemotherapy at a
      (reduced) standard dose of 25,000 U once a month for up to 2 years from end of
      immunochemotherapy.

      Patients experimenting toxicity leading to a delay in treatment administration > 4 weeks will
      discontinue study treatment and will be addressed to a salvage treatment: these patients will
      be followed-up for survival until the end of the study.

      Consolidation radiotherapy:
    
  