
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate efficacy (overall response rate) of MK-3475 (pembrolizumab) and doxorubicin
      (doxorubicin hydrochloride) in patients with stage IV triple negative breast cancer.

      II. To evaluate efficacy (overall response rate) of MK-3475 and an oral aromatase inhibitor
      in patients with stage IV hormone receptor positive (HR+) human epidermal growth factor
      receptor 2 negative (HER2-) breast cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess clinical benefit rate (lack of progression for > 24 weeks), duration of
      response, time-to-treatment failure, progression-free survival, and overall survival in
      triple negative (TN) stage IV breast cancer patients based primarily on Response Evaluation
      Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.1 and immune-related (ir)RECIST.

      II. To assess feasibility and toxicity.

      III. To assess clinical benefit rate (lack of progression for > 24 weeks), duration of
      response, time-to-treatment failure, progression-free survival, and overall survival in
      patients with stage IV HR+ breast cancer based primarily on RECIST 1.1, and irRECIST.

      IV. To assess feasibility and toxicities.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To procure serial tumor (primary and metastatic) and blood (cellular and serum/plasma)
      samples and analyze them to better our understanding of cellular and humoral immune response
      correlates and predictors of clinical benefits, leading to optimized selection of target
      populations in future phase II and subsequent phase III randomized prospective trials.

      OUTLINE: Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      COHORT 1 (TRIPLE-NEGATIVE): Patients receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      on day 1 and doxorubicin hydrochloride IV on day 1. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 6
      courses, and then continues for up to 24 months with pembrolizumab alone in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      COHORT 2 (HORMONE/HER2+): Patients receive pembrolizumab IV over 30 minutes on day 1 and an
      aromatase inhibitor (exemestane, anastrozole, or letrozole) orally (PO) once daily (QD) on
      days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 24 months in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, patients who stop pembrolizumab with stable disease or better may receive
      additional pembrolizumab therapy for up to 1 year if they progress after stopping study
      treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days after the end of
      treatment and then every 8-12 weeks thereafter.
    
  