
    
      Sequential culture media are designed to mimic the changing environment in the ovary ducts
      and the uterus in vivo. However, there are some differences between in vivo and in vitro
      culture conditions. Hence, single step media are created which allow the embryo itself to
      choose the necessary nutrients while maintaining a more stable culture environment. Previous
      studies suggest higher blastulation rate in the single step media than the sequential media.

      This is an Randomized controlled trial (RCT) study comparing the blastulation rate of single
      step culture media and sequential culture media. Stimulation protocol is antagonist. Patient
      will be consulted on the day of ultrasound if they meet the inclusion criteria and sign the
      consent form. Then, the nurse will open the letter containing the type of media for that
      case. The media is prepared inside the lab a day before oocyte pick-up.

      After oocyte pick-up, the oocyte-cumulus complex (OCC) will be cultured for 2 hours at 37°C,
      6% Carbon dioxide (CO2) and 5% oxygen (O2). Meanwhile, sperm preparation will be performed
      using gradient technique. After 2 hours, OCC will be denuded and will be cultured for 1 hour
      until Intracytoplasmic Sperm Injection (ICSI). Oocytes after ICSI will be cultured in groups
      of 3-4 oocytes in the same conditions of 37 ° C, 6% CO2 and 5% O2. Fertilization check
      procedure is at 16-18 hours after ICSI. On day 3, the embryos will be evaluated in 66-68
      hours after ICSI, grade 1 embryos are identified with 7-9 blastomeres and fragmentation is
      from 0-10%. The patients will be informed about the embryo quality. If the embryos are not
      decided to have day 5 transferring, patient will be consulted to transfer on day 3.
      Blastulation rate will not be recorded.

      For the sequential culture media group, embryos will be transferred to Sequential Blast
      medium. For the single step culture media group, embryos will be transferred to the new
      culture dish with the same medium. On day 5, embryo quality assessment will be at 116±1 hours
      after ICSI. Blastocyst grading is based on the expansion, inner cell mass quality, and
      trophectoderm quality. Two good blastocyst will be transferred. After 11 days, beta-human
      chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test will be required. If the beta-hCG result is positive,
      examination will be needed after 3 weeks and the luteal support will be given until 7 weeks.
    
  