
    
      This study will focus on the combination of Saquinavir (SQV) and RTV. Firstly, this is
      because SQV is widely used in Thailand and has shown to be an adequate first and second line
      antiretroviral agent. Secondly, reduced dose of SQV (1600 mg OD) has proven to generate
      adequate efficacy and good pharmacokinetic parameters in the Thai population[5, 6]. Now 500
      mg tablets of SQV are becoming more and more available, therefore a 1500 mg OD dose will be
      of more interest for our study. A TDM comparison study between SQV 1600 OD mg and SQV1500 mg
      OD has been done (Ananworanich et al, unpublished data) and did not show any difference in
      terms of drug concentrations . The efficacy of this regimen has shown to be adequate as
      described in the STACCATO cohort[7]. So we consider it safe to use the SQV 1500 mg OD in our
      study.

      It is not clear what RTV concentrations are necessary to obtain good levels for SQV. In the
      study of Autar et al [5] no relation between RTV levels and boosting effect was described.
      Besides that it might well be that even the boosting levels of RTV contribute to the toxicity
      of the antiretroviral treatment.For instance, a study performed in healthy volunteers on RTV
      100 mg BID monotherapy, showed a significant increase in total cholesterol, low-density
      lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and triglycerides and a marked reduction of high-density
      lipoprotein (HDL)[8]. This last finding was confirmed in the study of Boyd et al (submitted)
      in Thai HIV-infected patients.

      Preliminary data from HIVNAT 019 [9] suggests that lower boosting dosage still give adequate
      levels of the other PIs. In this open label 4 arm study one arm contains Lopinavir/Ritonavir
      266/66 mg bid together with SQV 600 mg bid. Despite the dose reduction in all PIs, adequate
      PK levels were obtained. Two arms (23 patients) in this study used normal dose of RTV (100 mg
      bid) in combination with Lopinavir and Saquinavir. Five of them had maximal concentrations
      (Cmax) above the therapeutic level RTV (>2.1 mg/l). This finding is supported by clinical
      experience.

      Therefore, looking into lower doses of RTV in the Thai population is of great interest A
      liquid formulation for RTV 50 mg will be used, as a capsule is not available yet. The liquid
      formulation has the same bioequivalence as the capsule and was used extensively during the
      time of manufactory problems of the Norvir capsule. Because of the bad taste of this
      formulation PK samples will be collected after one week, thereafter patients can return to
      their old regimen. A dose reduction of RTV can be of great importance for the Thai population
      as it prevents unnecessary toxicity and costs. If this PK study turns out to be adequate, an
      efficacy study can be performed and the boosting of other commonly used PI's, like IDV and
      Lopinavir, can be studied.
    
  