
    
      Objective: To investigate whether partner-assisted Cognitive Behavioral Therapy for Insomnia
      (CBT-I) has a positive impact on subjective and objective sleep and quality of life in
      individuals with insomnia. Secondary aims will examine treatment adherence and maintenance of
      therapeutic gains as well as relationship satisfaction and impact on broader psychiatric
      functioning.

      Research Design: This is an open trial, feasibility study designed to examine the
      effectiveness of partner-assisted CBT-I on insomnia patient's sleep and quality of life.
      After individuals, Veterans and non-Veterans, and their respective bed partners consent to
      participate in this treatment study, we will collect de-identified data including self-report
      questionnaires, daily sleep diaries, and actigraphy (ambulatory sleep/wake monitoring). For
      Veteran participants, we also plan to collect data from medical records. Study participants
      will be seen for study partner-assisted CBT-I treatment at the VA San Diego Healthcare System
      (VASDHS) Sleep and Mood Clinic. The initial screening appointment and 1-month follow up
      assessment will be conducted in the Veterans Medical Research Foundation (VMRF) building. The
      entire study will take two years; participation for Veterans and non-Veterans will last about
      3 months from the date of initial screening appointment to their follow up assessment.

      Methodology:

      Procedures:

      Participants will primarily be recruited through the VASDHS's Sleep and Mood Clinic by
      physician and clinician referrals as well as posted study fliers in these clinics.
      Non-veterans such as those enrolled in other UCSD research studies will also be recruited.
      All individuals who meet eligibility criteria will be offered the opportunity to participate
      and informed consent will be obtained for those who wish to do so. Participation or
      non-participation in the protocol will not affect clinical care. Assessments of sleep
      symptoms, health-related quality of life, treatment adherence, relationship satisfaction, and
      psychiatric functioning will occur as part of standard treatment protocols. Assessments
      include self-report questionnaires as well as weekly sleep diaries and two weeks of
      actigraphy (e.g., at the start and end of treatment). Assessment data will be de-identified
      and analyzed to determine: (a) descriptive characteristics of study participants; (b)
      effectiveness of partner-assisted CBT-I treatment; (c) relationship functioning; (d)
      treatment adherence (e.g., did participants follow treatment recommendations from week to
      week); and, (e) any reduction in symptoms of psychiatric conditions that frequently co-occur
      with insomnia including mood and/or PTSD symptoms.

      Treatment:

      We aim to test the effectiveness of partner-assisted CBT-I treatment in patients with
      insomnia. There are currently no published studies on a couple-based CBT-I approach. The
      proposed treatment will closely resemble the CBT-I manual currently used for insomnia group
      therapy in the VA Sleep and Mood Clinic. The main difference will be the inclusion of
      patients' partners in treatment and administering the manual with emphasis on how patients'
      partners can assist the patient in making behavioral changes outlined and prioritized in the
      existing manual.

      Data Extraction and Security Plan:

      Data will be collected and extracted in a de-identified format and coded only with a study
      specific number.

        -  Demographic information: e.g., age, relationship status, era of military service (for
           Veteran participants), gender, race and ethnicity.

        -  Treatment information: e.g., number of sessions attended, treatment adherence, treatment
           barriers.

        -  Medical / Psychiatric Information: e.g., history of treatment for psychiatric
           co-morbidities, use of pharmacological agents, and presence of medical conditions.

      Statistical Procedures:

        -  Prior to quantitative analyses, data will be screened to ensure quality and to check
           standard statistical assumptions.

        -  Descriptive Statistics will be used to calculate frequency of demographic variables in
           patients.

        -  Paired sample t-tests will examine change in pre-treatment and post-treatment means for
           sleep, quality of life and relationship satisfaction variables.

        -  Paired sample t-tests will also examine change in post-treatment and follow-up means for
           sleep, quality of life and relationship satisfaction variables.

        -  Descriptive Statistics will calculate average weekly treatment adherence from the
           participant, partner and the therapist perspectives.
    
  