
    
      Vocal fold granulomas may be due to reflux, voice trauma, intubation, multiple or unknown
      etiologies. Regimens of voice therapy and anti-reflux medications have show resolution rates
      varying from 38% to 100%, with recurrence rates of 15-20%, and up to 50-92% in
      surgical-operated on recalcitrant granulomas. Nasri and colleagues first proposed
      thyroarytenoid botulinum toxin type A (BOTOX) injections for vocal fold granulomas with
      success. They posited that the chemically paralyzed muscle would result in limited contact at
      the site of the granuloma, allowing for healing. Damrose and Damrose further showed that
      thyroarytenoid BOTOX injections were effective in treating recalcitrant vocal fold
      granulomas. Both of the above groups noted hoarseness as an expected side effect. Pham and
      colleagues showed complete resolution of granulomas in 2-8 weeks after treatment with
      thyroarytenoid BOTOX injections. This was compared to mean granuloma resolution of 5.7 months
      proton pump inhibitor therapy alone. The investigators reviewed eight patients treated for
      recalcitrant vocal fold granuloma at Mass Eye and Ear with interarytenoid BOTOX injections
      and found no serious adverse effects and complete response in seven cases. The investigators
      now seek to compare interarytenoid BOTOX injections to standard anti-reflux therapy alone to
      see if the addition of IA Botox injections improves response rates at 3 months. The
      investigators chose this timeframe since 86% of granulomas treated in our retrospective study
      had resolved 3 months after initiation of treatment compared to 25% of granulomas treated
      with medical management.

      The investigators will not include a Thyroarytenoid injection arm in this study as this
      technique has not been useful in our clinical experience.

      For those who consent, a Voice Handicap Index survey (6 - see attached) will be completed.
      Participants will then be randomized to undergo only medical therapy with omeprazole (40mg by
      mouth twice daily ) or an interarytenoid BOTOX injection followed by the same reflux regimen.
      Randomization will be performed by the Tufts online randomization plan, which may be found
      at: http://www.tufts.edu/~gdallal/PLANDOC.HTM. This program generates a random order in which
      participants will be enrolled in either of the two arms of the study.

      The injection will consist of 10 units of botulinum toxin injected into the interarytenoid
      muscle under fiberoptic visualization. All participants will remain on the PPI therapy for
      the duration of the study. Participants will receive prescriptions for PPI medication from
      the attending Laryngologist and participants will then be responsible for acquiring and
      taking their medications.

      Injections will be performed per standard MEEI Laryngology protocol for interarytenoid BOTOX
      injection. Participants will then be evaluated at 1.5 months, 3 months and 6 months with
      fiberoptic examination as well as Voice Handicap Index & Reflux Symptom Index. Participants
      in the medication only arm who continue to have a granuloma at 3 months will receive a BOTOX
      injection. They will be re-evaluated 3 months after the injection. Examinations will be
      recorded and reviewed by blinded reviewers.
    
  