
    
      Corneal transplantation has evolved rapidly in recent years. Lamellar keratoplasty to replace
      diseased endothelium has led to faster recovery times, fewer complications, and better visual
      acuity outcomes. Currently, Descemet's Stripping Endothelial Keratoplasty (DSAEK) is the most
      common procedure because of its relative ease and good outcomes. Newer techniques such as
      Descemet's Membrane Endothelial Keratoplasty (DMEK), where Descemet's membrane alone is
      transplanted, has the potential to further improve visual acuity outcomes, produce fewer
      higher-order corneal aberrations and decrease rejection rates. However, donor preparation,
      increased intra-operative times, and problems with donor attachment in DMEK are all important
      limitations.

      There are three potential mechanisms by which DMEK may provide better visual acuity outcomes
      than DSAEK; graft thickness, interface haze and corneal higher-order aberrations. Graft
      thickness has been correlated with best spectacle corrected visual acuity (BSCVA) outcomes
      among thinner grafts. One retrospective case series found that 71% of thin endothelial grafts
      (defined as <131μm) had BSCVA of 20/25 or better while only 50% of thick grafts (defined as
      ≥131) achieved this. In addition, higher-order aberrations, in particular of the posterior
      cornea, are increased after DSAEK. Theoretically, given the decreased tissue transplanted
      after DMEK this would be lessened, however, one retrospective series looking at higher order
      aberrations in DMEK compared with DSAEK found no difference in posterior aberrations of the
      central 4.0 mm zone between the two groups. Finally, interface haze may be increased in DSAEK
      and has been correlated with BSCVA.

      Ultrathin DSAEK involves donor preparation with a deep microkeratome pass to produce donor
      grafts less than 100 um thick. This procedure may have similar results to DMEK but without
      the technical difficulties. Several large prospective series show similar visual outcome
      results and rates of immunologic rejection between ultrathin DSAEK and DMEK, however
      comparisons are difficult. This comparative effectiveness clinical trial could directly
      address these important issues. The investigators also anticipate that secondary analyses of
      the trial data will allow us to address several more.
    
  