
    
      Hypertension in pregnancy is defined by PAS ≥140 mmHg and/or PAD ≥ 90 mmHg, mild to moderate
      hypertension by PAS = 140-159 mmHg and/or PAD = 90-109 mmHg and severe hypertension by PAS ≥
      160 mmHg and/or PAD ≥ 110 mmHg.

      During gestational hypertension (GE) there is no pathologic elevation of proteinuria (after
      20 weeks of amenorrhea). Preeclampsia (PE) is defined as high blood pressure (controlled or
      uncontrolled) associated with proteinuria discovered after the 20th week of amenorrhea.

      The cause of hypertension during pregnancy and in particular of preeclampsia remains poorly
      understood. Endothelial dysfunction and abnormal blood levels of several biomarkers are
      associated with PE, such as: soluble Fms-like- tyrosine kinase 1 (sFlt-1), Placental Growth
      Factor (PIGF) and Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF). VEGF is of particular importance
      due to its direct vasodilating effect at systemic level through its interaction with nitric
      oxide (NO). There is a bi-directional regulation between VEGF and NO, which has direct
      implications for endothelium, capillary permeability and angiogenesis. sFlt-1 (circulating
      form of VEGF receptor) has the property of neutraliting the growth factors VEGF and PIGF.
      Inhibition of VEGF has a known biological effect on endothelial function in adults and is
      believed to be a key factor in explaining elevated blood pressure. This has been demonstrated
      in patients undergoing anti-angiogenic therapy in combination with chemotherapy. Other
      biomarkers of preeclampsia are less known and could be involved in pathophysiological
      mechanisms; mainly hypervolemia, renal dysfunction and activation of inflammation. The
      progression of gestational hypertension to preeclampsia is difficult to predict; between 15
      and 40 % of gestational hypertension cases progress to preeclampsia, suggesting that it is a
      single worsening disease. Preeclampsia is known to be one of the few diseases in which acute
      placental abnormalities manifest at the mother's vascular and renal system levels. These
      abnormalities are attributable to generalized vascular endothelial activation and vasospasm,
      resulting in hypertension and hypoperfusion of organs.

      Endothelial dysfunction could be at the origin of gestational hypertension, and subsequently
      itself contribute to the subsequent development of preeclampsia through an imbalance between
      pro- and anti-angiogenic factors likely in relation with increased oxidative stress.

      It is now accepted that angiogenic biomarkers (such as soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase 1,
      Placenta growth factor and soluble endoglin) contribute to endothelial dysfunction through
      VEGF antagonizing among others. The dosage of these angiogenic biomarkers in the maternal
      bloodstream is highly predictive and significantly abnormal from the 23th week of amenorrhea
      on average, and with a maximum peak between the 32th and 36th week of amenorrhea.

      Endothelial dysfunction contributes to cardiovascular risk and can be measured by
      Laser-Doppler technique coupled with transdermal administration of acetylcholine by
      iontophoresis. This non-invasive technique has been validated and has already been used in
      models of hypertension, including preeclamptic women.

      The main objective is to assess whether the alteration of endothelium-dependent
      vasodilatation in women with gestational hypertension is correlated with the occurrence of
      preeclampsia later during pregnancy. Endothelium-dependent vasodilation can be achieved by a
      validated method using Doppler-Laser skin blood flow measurement coupled with transdermal
      iontophoresis of acetylcholine.

      The investigators further explore a possible correlation of endothelium dysfunction with
      other biomarkers of pre-eclampsia endothelial dysfunction and vascular involvement in
      pregnancy hypertension.
    
  