
    
      Research steps: If the patients with hemifacial spasm are complicated with hypertension and
      have the intention of surgical treatment, researchers would introduce the process, possible
      benefits and possible complications of the clinical trial in detail. Patients who agree to be
      enrolled and meet the inclusion conditions will sign the informed consent form.

      The history of hypertension, the relationship between hypertension and hemifacial spasm, the
      highest blood pressure, oral medication, blood pressure maintenance, whether complicated with
      dyslipidemia, diabetes, smoking history, etc. Before operation, 24-hour ambulatory blood
      pressure monitoring was performed to record preoperative systolic blood pressure, diastolic
      blood pressure and heart rate. The measurement interval is automatically measured every 20
      minutes in the daytime (8:00am ~ 10:00pm) and every 30 minutes at night (10:00pm ~ 8:00am).
      CBP was recorded in the morning (8:00-10:00 AM) before taking medication, and completed in
      the morning of 8:00-9:00 am the next day. The cuff was placed on the left upper arm. During
      the monitoring period, the patient was required to reduce the movement of the left upper arm
      as much as possible to avoid the cuff loosening or falling off, which would affect the
      measurement results. The record of effective monitoring times must be more than 80% and the
      covering time must be more than 20h, otherwise the measurement should be repeated. Patients
      should rest for at least 5 minutes before blood pressure measurement. The upper arm was
      placed at the heart level. Using OMRON electronic sphygmomanometer, the size of the cuff is
      suitable for the patient's upper arm circumference, covering at least 2 / 3 of the upper arm
      circumference. The blood pressure of both upper arms was measured, and the blood pressure of
      the higher side was taken as the criterion. Repeat the measurement at an interval of 1-2 min,
      and record the average value of the two readings. If the difference between the two readings
      of systolic or diastolic blood pressure is more than 5 mmHg, it should be measured again, and
      the average of the three readings should be taken as the baseline blood pressure measurement
      result.

      Both the experimental group and the control group need to continue to take antihypertensive
      drugs orally, and the type and dose of drugs remain unchanged.

      The experimental group was hospitalized and completed the corresponding hematology and
      imaging examination. The control group was followed up for 3 months, after the end of the
      follow-up can be hospitalized and improve the corresponding hematology and imaging
      examination. If the control group matched with the experimental group is excluded, the
      control group needs to be rematched. The experimental group received RVLM and (or) IX / X rez
      decompression at the same time of facial nerve decompression, while the control group
      received no operation.

      Follow up: Patients should be followed up at 3 months. The following items were evaluated and
      recorded in CRF during follow-up

        1. Physical examination;

        2. Laboratory examination;

        3. Vital signs (heart rate, respiration);

        4. Ambulatory blood pressure examination

        5. Office blood pressure

        6. Antihypertensive medication: the patient's blood pressure and the use of
           antihypertensive drugs were closely monitored after the operation, and the adjustment
           time, the type and dosage of antihypertensive drugs after the adjustment were recorded
           when making adjustments according to the blood pressure and the cardiologist's
           suggestions.

        7. Postoperative adverse reactions and duration / remission time: adverse reactions such as
           dizziness, headache, nausea and vomiting, tinnitus, hearing loss, diplopia, facial
           paralysis, drinking water cough and hoarseness. The above adverse reactions can be
           recovered in a few days after the operation. The duration of adverse reactions should be
           recorded and relieved in a few days after the operation.

        8. Postoperative adverse events: such as patient death, acute cardiovascular events (such
           as cardiac arrest, ventricular fibrillation, myocardial infarction and hypertensive
           crisis), severe anesthesia or surgical complications (such as long-term mechanical
           ventilation due to inability to remove endotracheal intubation, pulmonary embolism,
           postoperative cerebral hemorrhage, severe intracranial infection), etc.

      Statistical analysis: SPSS software was used to analyze the follow-up results of the
      intervention group and the control group. The general statistical test uses the two-sided
      test, and the one-sided test needs to be explained. P value less than or equal to 0.05 was
      used to judge whether the difference was statistically significant. The description of
      quantitative indicators will calculate the mean, standard deviation, median, quartile,
      minimum and maximum. The classification index is described by the number and percentage of
      cases. The demographic characteristics, general situation and baseline (before treatment) of
      the three groups were compared. Among them, t test was used for measurement data and chi
      square test was used for grade data. Binary logistic regression was used to further verify
      the influence of age, gender, side, BMI, family history of hypertension and changes of serum
      catecholamine on the effect of microvascular decompression in the treatment of neurogenic
      hypertension.
    
  