
    
      The long-term goal of this study is to develop evidence-based auditory rehabilitation for
      veterans who have normal/near-normal peripheral auditory function and significant complaints
      of difficulty hearing. Many are veterans of the OIF/OEF conflicts who have been exposed to
      blast - the most common wounding etiology in these conflicts. Approximately 18% of
      blast-injured veterans are diagnosed with mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI). mTBI can result
      in post-concussive symptoms such as memory problems, difficulty concentrating, increased
      anxiety, and functional hearing difficulties in the presence of clinically-normal hearing
      sensitivity.

      Currently there is no standard-of-care auditory rehabilitation for veterans with
      normal/near-normal auditory sensitivity and complaints of difficulty hearing. At a minimum,
      the VA recommends provision of information about the auditory system, hearing conservation
      and use of communication strategies. Two interventions likely to be more efficacious are: (1)
      use of personal FM (frequency modulation) systems, and/or (2) auditory training. FM systems
      are effective for managing auditory problems in children with normal/near normal peripheral
      hearing. FM systems substantially improve the signal-to-noise ratio of speech in noisy and
      reverberant environments, theoretically making more resources available for higher level
      processing. Auditory training takes advantage of neural plasticity. The Posit Science Brain
      Fitness Program (BFP) is an auditory training program for adults that can improve temporal
      processing and working memory of older adults. Combining use of FM systems with auditory
      training has been shown to improve speech understanding and to decrease reported hearing
      abilities among adults with sensorineural hearing loss and functional hearing complaints.

      No study has systemically examined the relative efficacy of FM use and/or auditory training
      for veterans with mTBI and normal/almost normal hearing sensitivity. The effectiveness of
      these two intervention strategies will be examined in this study through a between-subjects
      randomized controlled clinical trial comparing the outcomes of: (1) FM use alone, (2) BFP
      alone, and (3) FM+BFP combined. All groups will also receive informational-counseling, as
      will (4) a control group. Outcomes will be measured subjectively through self-report of
      auditory competence.

      The results of the study will help to determine whether or not the use of FM systems or
      auditory training, either alone or combined, are efficacious interventions for blast-exposed
      veterans with reported functional hearing difficulties and normal/near-normal auditory
      sensitivity. Results will contribute to the development of evidence-based auditory
      rehabilitation for these veterans, moving VA closer to fulfilling its goal of providing
      excellence in patient care, veterans' benefits and customer satisfaction.
    
  