
    
      Background: Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common psychological disorder following
      trauma and disaster. Due to the frequent occurrence of disasters induced by natural hazards,
      many Taiwanese people suffer from post-disaster mental health problems, suggesting the
      necessity of promoting evidence-based psychotherapies for PTSD in Taiwan. However, there has
      been little concern about this necessity over the past decades. To date, several
      evidence-based psychotherapies for PTSD have been developed, and prolonged exposure treatment
      (PE) has the largest number of studies supporting its efficacy and effectiveness. PE has been
      found effective with the widest range of trauma populations and has been studies across
      cultures. Given its strong evidence base, the investigators tested the efficacy and
      feasibility of PE for Taiwanese PTSD patients. It is noted that the original length of PE
      session is 90 minutes, which is difficult to get reimbursement by insurance and may prevent
      mental health professionals to use PE. Recent researchers shortened the length of PE session
      to 60 minutes and found its efficacy was non-inferior to standard 90-minute PE session
      (Nacasch et al., 2015; van Minnen & Foa, 2006). Accordingly, this study aims to examine the
      efficacy of 60-minute PE sessions versus standard 90-minute session for patients with PTSD in
      Taiwan.

      Study Hypothesis: (a) 60-minute PE session is as effective as 90-minute PE session in
      reducing PTSD and depressive symptoms as well as in promoting posttraumatic growth (PTG); and
      (b) the treatment gains will be maintained at 3-month follow-up. A systematic case study will
      be employed to test the hypotheses.

      Participants: Participants will include eight individuals aged 18 or older who meet a
      diagnosis of DSM-5 PTSD and to experience moderate to severe symptoms for at least 3 months.
      Those who have current substance dependence, psychosis, and acute suicidality (i.e., recent
      suicidal ideation with intent and plan) will be excluded.

      Study Design: All enrolled participants will attend 10-15 weekly 60- or 90-minute PE
      sessions. Independent evaluators will assess PTSD diagnosis using the PTSD Symptoms Scale
      Interview for DSM-5 (PSSI-5) at pre- and post-treatment and at the three-month follow-up.
      Psychiatric comorbidity will be assessed using the MINI 7.0.2 at pretreatment. Participants
      will complete the Posttraumatic Diagnostic Scale for DSM-5 (PDS-5), Beck Depression
      Inventory-II (BDI-II), Beck Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Posttraumatic Cognitions Inventory
      (PTCI), and Posttraumatic Growth Inventory -Extended version (PTGI-X) at pre- and
      post-treatment and at the three-month follow-up. The PDS-5 and BDI-II will also be
      administered every two weeks during treatment.

      Statistical Analysis: The nonparametric tests will be used given the small sample size.
      Wilcoxon signed-rank test will be conducted to test pre-post differences. Mann-Whitney U test
      will be conducted examine whether 60-minute PE session is as effective as 90-minute PE
      session in reducing PTSD and depressive symptoms as well as increasing PTG at post-treatment
      and three-month follow-up.

      Expected Outcome: The investigators except that shortened PE will result in substantial
      improvement in PTSD and depressive symptoms in patients with PTSD in Taiwan.
    
  