
    
      Methods:

      200 infants (<2 years old) will be enrolled into the study. Clinical data will be gathered
      from the emergency room file, and in case of admission from the discharge letter and the
      clinical file. Based on the current protocols of treatment and diagnosis of children with
      head injury, CT will be performed according to the current axisting protocols. No
      intervention, imaging, or treatment will be administered different from the current protocol
      used in the hospital, according to the existing guidelines. Both TINS and Children's Glasgow
      Coma Scale (CCS) score was applied, based on the clinical data obtained from the files. If
      imaging is peformed data will be recoreded. As all children with head trauma are invited
      routinely to follow-up clinic within the 1st year after injury, this data will be recoreded
      as well.

      As there is no violation of current treatment protocols, or any additional exams or
      interventions due to the study - and since the data is obtained from the files, informed
      concent will not be necessary.

      The data will be coded by the treating doctors into a database that will be coded in a manner
      that identification of the child is not possible by the statisticians or by people who are
      not involved in treatment and follw up.

      The database used will be a "filemaker pro" data base, with concequent numbering of the
      infant enrolled.

      The difficulty in clinical assessment and early diagnosis of infants using different versions
      of the CCS, is well known as reported previously. [12-18] In our series, about half of the
      patients were brought in unconscious, whereas two infants had CCS scores of 15 on arrival and
      were neurologically intact .

      In patients with no neurologic deficit and full alertness, a conservative approach may be
      chosen. Conservative treatment of acute epidural or subdural hematomas is rare. [20] This is
      usually suggested in patients with a small EDH (less than 1 cm thick and less than 3 cm in
      length in the anteroposterior plane on CT). If the patient is symptomatic, however (even
      severe headache present without any focal neurologic deficit), and the EDH is larger than 1
      cm thick, surgery is the treatment of choice. In infants, symptoms are not always clear
      unless irritability or somnolence is observed. Objective signs rather than symptoms thus may
      be more helpful. If conservative treatment is chosen for an infant on admission, very close
      observation in an intensive care unit is mandatory. Also, in such cases, because of the lack
      of language communication and underestimation of symptoms, repeat CT is advised within 12 to
      24 hours, even if no neurologic deterioration appears. As described above, one of the
      infants, a 7-month-old girl, was admitted with bilateral EDH. Conservative treatment was
      undertaken, with close observation; however, there was no neurologic deterioration during the
      subsequent 13 hours. On the next morning, repeat CT was performed, which clearly showed
      enlargement of the EDH on the left. The infant was then taken to the operating room, and
      bilateral craniotomy was performed. She was discharged within a few days in excellent
      condition with no neurologic deficit. In this rare example, the hematoma grew on CT without
      clinical deterioration, and surgery was indicated because the hematoma enlarged. Probably,
      the child would have deteriorated at a certain point because of the enlarging hematoma, but
      this was avoided by the routine repeat CT indicated in cases of attempted conservative
      treatment.

      General Symptoms Transient loss of consciousness is not always clear in this age group, and
      lack of symptoms and signs in a fully awake baby may be confusing. [3-6,12] In our series,
      vomiting and loss of consciousness were very common. Also, most of the infants had
      significant subgaleal hematomas. In fact, in some infants, these were the only positive
      parameters for which CT was performed by the neurosurgeon, considering the young age of the
      patients.

      CCS Score Looking at prognosis and CCS score on admission, one may be surprised. Of the five
      infants who arrived unconscious, three left the hospital neurologically intact. As was
      reported in previous series, a low CCS score in infants does not necessarily indicate a poor
      prognosis or gross neurologic deficits on discharge. [12,13] On the other hand, early
      diagnosis of EDH in infants admitted in good neurologic condition with a history of minor
      head injury is difficult. Neither good condition nor minor trauma can rule out an
      intracranial emergency. [13,17]

      Mechanism of Injury In our series, most of the patients fell from less than 1 m, and even
      when they arrived in good neurologic condition, surgical EDH was found on CT. When mechanism
      of injury was a fall from more than 1 m, clinical presentation was much worse, with
      lateralizing signs, loss of consciousness, and a high rate of posterior fossa hematomas. This
      shows how vulnerable infants may be compared with older children even after minor head
      injury. A relatively high rate of posterior fossa EDH was found in our series compared with
      previous reports. [2-5,15]

      Lag Time An interesting observation was the lag time we found (up to 48 hours) in some
      infants between the time of injury and admission to the ER. This was common with younger
      infants when parents at first underestimated the apparently minor head injury (fall from less
      than 1 m). These infants were eventually brought to the ER, however, because of some
      deterioration or unusual behavior. Another lag time was observed between admission to the ER
      and operation. This lag time was probably attributable to the good neurologic condition of
      some infants on admission. Less than half of the infants were operated on immediately on
      arrival or within 1 hour of presentation to the ER. This may suggest a rather subacute
      presentation of EDH in infants compared with children and adults. It can be explained either
      by better compliance of the infant cranium and brain, which delayed the appearance of severe
      symptoms, or by underestimation of the injury by the parents and the doctor as well.

      Scoring Method for Infants Several Children's Coma Scales have been suggested in the past
      [1,7-11,21] to improve the neurologic evaluation of children compared with adults. When
      applied to infants, however, these scoring methods may be disappointing. An anatomic
      difference of skull size and flexibility, as well as the opened sutures and fontanels in
      infants, make the dynamics of the intracranial compartment different from that of older
      children. They may be more fragile but also more compliant. The pathophysiology of the
      evolving intracranial bleeding, in our case the EDH, thus may be different in both the form
      and the timing of clinical symptoms. [13,22-24]

      One reason why application of CCS may be inaccurate and problematic for infants is that most
      suggested Children's Coma Scales include parameters that are difficult to interpret and
      score. Examples are infants' interaction with the examiner, restlessness or consolability,
      and the difficult evaluation of sound and cry. The problem is greater than in older children
      because infants' psychomotor development is variable (each infant has a different speed and
      level) and verbal communication is incomplete-considerations that may influence the CCS
      applied. We think that in this age group, therefore, objective parameters, which are clear
      and evident to any examiner, should be used.

      The New Trauma Infant Neurologic Score IN 1999 new approach and scoring system was proposed
      and reported by Beni Adani et all (Ref 25), that is not necessarily a tailored or revised
      Glasgow Coma Scale but that uses a different concept in evaluating infants. Unlike different
      versions of the Glasgow Coma Scale, we include objective parameters such as the presence of
      lateralizing signs, pupillary abnormalities, and scalp injuries, all of which are easy to
      define. Being, in our opinion, more accurate in evaluating infants, this scale may help in
      the early diagnosis of intracranial disorders in apparently neurologically intact infants and
      may improve the estimation of prognosis in infants with apparently low CCS. We first
      presented the Trauma Infant Neurologic Score (TINS) at the International Neurotrauma
      Symposium in 1997 (Table ). In our opinion, TINS should include: (1) Mechanism of trauma (T);
      (2) whether or not the infant is intubated (I), because intubation makes proper neurologic
      assessment difficult; (3) three neurological (N) parameters (alertness vs. coma, lateralizing
      signs, and pupillary abnormalities); and (4) scalp injuries (S). The TINS suggested is simple
      to apply, short, and clear, scaling from 1 to 10 points. For each "bad" parameter, the infant
      earns one point. Because TINS is applied for trauma cases, the minimal score is 1 point (for
      minor trauma) (see Table 3). For severe mechanism of trauma (2 points), we include falls from
      more than 1 m, penetrating injuries, motor vehicle crashes, and severe blow injuries to the
      head. The maximal TINS, which is the worst possible, would be 10. Based on our preliminary
      experience from unpublished data , we assume that TINS < 4 is predictive of a good prognosis,
      TINS of 4 to 7 indicates moderate disability, and TINS > 8 would suggest poor prognosis. As
      for guidelines for CT in an infant with trauma, TINS of 2 or more would be the indication, in
      our opinion for CT. Of course, for patients at high risk (infants with hematologic or
      oncologic diseases), CT is performed in all cases. We think that TINS is more than another
      Glasgow Coma Scale score for children, because it emphasizes the unique aspect of clinical
      presentation and vulnerability of infants.

      The usefulness and reliability of the suggested TINS is still to be determined in prospective
      studies of infants with head trauma and intracranial injuries. Using a different concept in
      building this score for infants, however, we hope to provide a better clinical and prognostic
      tool for this particular population.
    
  