
    
      STUDY TREATMENT:

      Investigational therapy product: Wharton Jelly derived allogeneic MSCs.

      Method of administration and dose: Super selective intravenous administration of 50 million
      Allogeneic Human Umbilical Cord Tissue-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells (UC-MSC) and
      intrathecal administration of UC-MSCs in dose of 100 million along with liberation therapy
      (when associated with CCSVI).

      SAFETY AND EFFICACY EVALUATION:

      The proposed study will assess safety and primary and secondary efficacy endpoints after
      super selective intravenous and intrathecal administration of allogeneic umbilical cord
      mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSC) in 69 patients with Relapsing Remitting Multiple Sclerosis.

      Safety Evaluation:

      Assessment of treatment safety based on incidence of any treatment emergent/treatment
      associated adverse events prior to discharge and at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months post treatment.

      Efficacy evaluation:

      Clinical evaluations, including EDSS and 29-item Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-29)
      will be performed at baseline before stem cell mobilization, prior to discharge at 1, 3, 6
      and 12 months after stem cell therapy.

      The MS Functional Composite (MSFC) consists of the (a) Timed 25-Foot Walk, (b) 9 Hole Peg
      Test, and (c) Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test will be performed at baseline before stem
      cell mobilization and at 12 months after stem cell therapy.

      Gadolinium enhanced MRI scans of the brain will be performed at baseline before therapy and
      then 12 months after stem cell therapy. Follow-up scans will be performed on the same type of
      scanner used at baseline. Scans will be analyzed centrally. The 'baseline MRI scan' will be
      the reference for brain volume changes.

      DATA COLLECTION AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS:

      Descriptive analyses of the adverse events will be performed. Proportion of adverse events at
      each visit will be calculated using frequency distribution. The frequency, severity, timing
      and the potential relationship to the intervention will be assessed in order to characterize
      the safety of the intervention.

      The probability of overall event-free survival (as well as progression-free, relapse-free, or
      MRI event-free survival) at baseline through 1 year will be calculated. The end point of
      progression is defined as increased Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) score greater
      than 0.5 from baseline. Analyses will be conducted using Kaplan-Meier estimates with
      Wald-type 90% CIs based on Greenwood's formula for SE.

      Descriptive analyses of all primary and secondary efficacy endpoints will be performed using
      descriptive statistics. Proportion of patients with clinically significant change in this
      efficacy measurement scales (EDSS, MSIS, MSFC, MSFC-25 foot walking test, MSFC-Nine Hole Peg
      Test, MSFC-Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test) and change in gadolinium enhancing lesions,
      new T2 lesions from previous visit will be presented as a proportion.

      The percentage of change in brain volume will be calculated from screening and analyzed by
      end point status at month 12 with an exact Wilcoxon rank sum test using mean scores when the
      results are identical.The null hypothesis tests whether the median percentage of change in
      brain volume among participants who met the endpoint by month 12 is equal to the median of
      those who have not met the end point by month 12.

      Other primary and secondary efficacy endpoints (EDSS, MSIS, MSFC, MSFC-25 foot walking test,
      MSFC-Nine Hole Peg Test, MSFC-Paced Auditory Serial Addition Test) will be analyzed using a
      Wilcoxon signed rank test. Change from baseline outcomes for all the endpoints will be
      calculated for each patient who underwent stem cell transplant as the post transplant value
      minus the baseline value. The null hypothesis tests whether the median difference from
      baseline measurement in the values at the month 1, month 3, month 6 and month 12 visits was
      significantly different from zero,with baseline measurement defined as the screening
      assessment for the percentage of change in brain volume and the baseline visit for all other
      end points.

      To calculate MSFC, results from each of the 3 components will be transformed into a z score
      and averaged to yield a composite for each patient at each timepoint. The z scores that
      compose the MSFC score will be calculated using the reference population from the National
      Multiple Sclerosis Society Task Force database.
    
  