
    
      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as glucose intolerance of any degree with
      onset or first recognition during pregnancy. In Singapore, 20-30% of pregnant women are
      affected by GDM. If poorly controlled, GDM is associated with various maternal and perinatal
      morbidities such as increased cesarean deliveries, preeclampsia, preterm labour, macrosomia,
      neonatal hypoglycemia etc. It is well recognized now that GDM is also associated with
      long-term metabolic complications in mothers and offspring. Women with a history of GDM have
      increased risk of GDM in subsequent pregnancies, and at high risk of developing Type 2
      diabetes after pregnancy. Infants born to mothers with GDM are also at increased risk of
      developing obesity and diabetes in later life. An increasing number of studies, including
      studies in Singapore, suggest that screening and management of GDM can be cost-effective,
      although these results are highly dependent on intervention efficacy.

      In Singapore, individuals with GDM are first advised to adopt diet modification, and if
      glycemic control is not on target despite diet control, insulin therapy is the next line of
      treatment. In all cases, patients need to perform self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) to
      guide treatment decisions. These strategies aim to reduce the risks maternal and perinatal
      complications. In addition to that, preventing excessive gestational weight gain (GWG) is
      another important goal in women with GDM. This is because excessive GWG is not only
      associated with higher risks of delivering a large for gestational age infant, but is also
      the strongest risk factor for postpartum weight retention, and an important predictor for
      future development of Type 2 diabetes. Lifestyle intervention programs have been shown to be
      effective in reducing GWG in pregnant women.

      One thing in common among diet modification, SMBG and achieving optimum GWG is that they
      involve self-management, and hence require a certain degree of self-efficacy in women with
      GDM. To achieve this in the National University Hospital (NUH), patients are referred to a
      gestational diabetes clinic for education. At this time, if the patient's plasma glucose at 0
      minute and/or 120 minutes of a 75g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) is <7.0 mmol/L and
      <11.1 mmol/L respectively, this is conducted in a group teaching session lasting 1 - 1.5
      hours, with 4 - 6 patients per group, led by a diabetes nurse educator and a dietitian. If
      the patient's plasma glucose at 0 minutes and/or 120 minutes of a 75g OGTT is ≥7.0 and ≥11.1
      mmol/L respectively, this is conducted in an individual session lasting 1 hour with a
      diabetes nurse educator and a dietitian. Patients are initiated on capillary glucose
      monitoring, typically 7 times a day, 2-3 days in a week. Subsequently, their care is provided
      by their obstetrician until such time as the obstetrician feels that insulin is required, in
      which case they are often referred back to the endocrinology service for the initiation and
      management of insulin therapy. Capillary glucose monitoring is carried out using a glucometer
      that is purchased by the patient, and the patient duly records blood glucose on a paper
      record which will be shown to her obstetrician at the clinic appointments every 2 - 4 weeks.
      In addition, weight is generally monitored at the clinic visit. Advice on diet and lifestyle
      modification is provided by the obstetrician based on the results of capillary glucose
      monitoring at the clinic visit. In between appointments, there is limited interaction between
      healthcare providers unless the patient identifies a problem and contacts the provider.

      This arrangement has some limitations. Firstly, it has been demonstrated that spacing
      learning activities over a period of time improves encoding and long term retention of
      information. As such, the current method of providing all the education that a patient needs
      in a single session is less likely to be optimal for retention of information. Secondly, the
      collection of information (through capillary glucose monitoring) is often separated from any
      feedback from health care providers by days or weeks. In general, the lifestyle activities
      (whether diet or physical activities) which generate any abnormal blood glucose results occur
      in close proximity to the glucose readings (often hours before rather than weeks). By the
      time feedback is received, the patient often does not recall the events that generated the
      abnormal readings. More importantly, it does not provide any meaningful feedback to the
      patient that allows modification of the risk of an episode of hyperglycemia. In fact, this
      generates a significant amount of distress for the patient. It has been shown that the
      distress perceived in response to a stressor is much greater when the person experiencing the
      stressor does not have a way to control the occurrence of the stressor. In this context, the
      lack of timely feedback that is actionable related to blood glucose or weight, results in
      significant distress on the part of patients and results in a failure to adhere to efforts to
      monitor or control blood glucose. In a recent mixed-methods feasibility study to assess
      acceptability of mobile-application based support tool for women with GDM in NUH, most
      reported significant stress from the burden of management and desire for supporting tools
      that would aid control of blood glucose as an adjunct to self-monitoring.

      It is the investigators' hypothesis that by providing education that is spaced out over 1-2
      weeks and providing feedback that is timely and actionable to the patient, it will improve
      adherence to lifestyle modification, reduce patient distress and improve clinical outcomes
      for women with GDM.

      Singapore has among the highest smartphone use in the world, with a smartphone adoption rate
      of 88%. Such widespread adoption of mobile phones and smartphone provides a promising
      opportunity to improve diabetes care and self-management, and to intervene on weight-related
      behaviors in new and exciting ways. There is emerging evidence that mobile technologies
      improve outcomes in patients with diabetes in the short term.

      For these reasons, the investigators have developed a mobile application to aid in the
      management of GDM. This is carried out with a company called Jana Care. Jana Care has
      developed the Habits Program (http://www.habitsprogram.com), a lifestyle coaching program
      which is available on Apple App Store and Google Play, two of the most commonly used
      smartphone app platforms. This was developed based on the Diabetes Prevention Program and
      Look-AHEAD Trial. It targets behavioral change by providing a personalized diabetes
      management program which consists of 12 interactive video lessons, diet, physical activity
      and weight tracking tools, interactive messaging platform with the lifestyle coaches, and
      daily short messaging tips. It interfaces with the Aina device, a novel hardware sensor that
      plugs into any smartphone and can be used to measure blood glucose. The glucose readings
      measured are automatically transferred to the Habits Program application. It is able to
      generate weekly reports for patients to assess their progress.

      In 2013, a pilot study was conducted by Madras Diabetes Research Foundation & Dr. Mohan's
      Diabetes Specialties Center, World Health Organization Collaborating Center for
      Non-communicable Diseases, International Diabetes Federation Center for Education, Chennai,
      in collaboration with Jana Care, to look at the effect of the Habits Program on changes in
      weight, caloric intake and physical activity in 64 overweight adults at high-risk of
      developing diabetes, over a period of 16 weeks. The participants achieved moderate weight
      loss of 4.2%, up to a maximum of 11kg. Average daily calorie and fat intake decreased by 28%
      and 44% respectively, while daily physical activity increased from 3438 steps (week 1) to
      8459 steps (week 16) (p<0.05). Statistics collected by Jana Care from commercial deployment
      with approximately 13,000 individuals also showed self-reported weight loss of 4.3% and
      physical activity improvement of 26% at 12 weeks. Another randomized-control trial to assess
      the effectiveness of the program is currently underway in India, funded by the Department of
      Biotechnology, Government of India, in collaboration with Madras Diabetes Research
      Foundation, Chennai and All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi.

      The Habits Program, however, is not specifically designed for the management of GDM. Working
      with the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology we have developed a workflow to manage
      patients with GDM by optimizing blood glucose control through lifestyle modification and
      achieving optimal GWG. We have worked with Jana Care to develop 'Habits-GDM' - an app
      modified from the Habits Program which is designed specifically to support this workflow,
      which takes into account the nutritional requirements and limitations on exercise during
      pregnancy, and the need to prevent excessive weight gain (as opposed to weight loss in the
      original Habits Program). The program has been customized for use in Singapore including
      translation (with modification of messaging) and a Singapore food database.

      The investigators hypothesize that the use of a web/smartphone-based coaching program
      specific for the management of GDM can improve clinical outcomes among women with GDM. The
      investigators propose to conduct a randomised clinical trial to study the efficacy of the
      Habits-GDM program in clinical practice in Singapore. The primary outcome would be the
      percentage of patients who have excessive gestational weight gain (EGWG) according to the
      2009 US Institute of Medicine (IOM) guidelines.

      GDM provides an ideal clinical scenario for the use of smartphone technologies to improve
      self-efficacy and clinical outcomes. In Singapore, women of child bearing age well versed
      with using smartphone apps, these individuals are generally highly motivated, engaged to
      improve their own health and well-being of the fetus. In a preliminary studies, this seems to
      be an acceptable and preferred mode of providing information and care. The most popular
      option for obtaining support for management would be a web-based or smartphone app-based
      resource, with 58.8% of the participants rated it as their most preferred choice. More
      traditional source of information such as individual counselling, group teaching or printed
      education materials were less preferred.

      Furthermore, this phase of life and intervention period is short-lived and lasts a further
      5-6 months from the time of diagnosis of GDM and therefore avoids the potential problem of
      technology fatigue of a largely lifestyle modification intervention.

      Despite pregnancy being a precious window of opportunity to bring about lasting beneficial
      for patients and their offspring, and smartphone-based resources being the preferred source
      of information by women with GDM, there are very few smartphone apps that are designed
      specifically to support self-management of GDM. Moreover, there is a need for such apps to be
      customized to the local context in terms of language, nutritional habits and food sources;
      and integrated to a reliable degree with existing healthcare services, clinical workflow and
      setup. To the investigators' knowledge, there are no such apps that fulfil these
      characteristics and features that are currently available in Singapore and in this region,
      and globally there are only two other similar trials among the GDM population which is being
      carried out - one in Norway and another in Ireland.

      This study will result in a unique clinical application for GDM that integrates lifestyle
      coaching with glucose monitoring and can be used to treat GDM with minimal manpower
      commitment. The improved clinical outcomes are not only relevant to the current pregnancy but
      also have significant impact on the future metabolic health of both mothers and offspring
      throughout later life.
    
  