
    
      Hypotheses

        1. At baseline, the forward rate constant (kfor) of CK enzymatic activity in the frontal
           lobe of older subjects with bipolar depression will be significantly decreased relative
           to that of age-matched healthy controls.

        2. After 8 weeks of treatment, bipolar depression subjects will demonstrate an increase in
           the kfor of CK after 8 weeks of CoQ 10 treatment.

        3. Increases in the CK forward rate constant (kfor) will correlate with improvement in
           subjects' mood state as assessed by the Montgomery Asberg Depression Rating Scale
           (MADRS).

        4. Baseline measures of executive functioning and information processing speed (measured by
           performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST), Trails A and B and Stroop tests)
           will be impaired in subjects with geriatric bipolar depression compared with healthy
           controls. These measures will improve with successful treatment with CoQ10 and correlate
           with increases in the CK forward rate constant (kfor).

      Summary:

      A review of literature suggests a distinct pattern of bioenergetic changes, possibly related
      to mitochondrial dysfunction and abnormal CK function, in older adults and in individuals
      with bipolar disorder. As opposed to rudimentary measurements of static metabolite
      concentrations, the novel use of MT-MRS in such individuals will offer insight into the
      enzyme kinetics of CK, specifically examining the rate at which ATP is formed from PCr. From
      previous investigations it would seem that the dietary-supplement, CoQ10, is able to improve
      the efficiency of mitochondrial function in subjects with altered bioenergetics. We propose
      to measure CK activity and PCr turnover rate before and after CoQ10 treatment, with the
      overall aim of understanding metabolic relationships between brain bioenergetic alterations
      and treatment with CoQ10 in geriatric bipolar depression.
    
  