
    
      Multiple researchers across the world over many decades have noted eyesight problems in
      children born to mothers who use drugs during pregnancy. From our earlier work on this group
      of children, we have detailed knowledge of which drugs each mother used, making this group of
      children uniquely important for understanding the consequences of drug use during pregnancy.
      Although methadone use in the UK is dropping as heroin misuse falls, there is currently an
      international epidemic of babies being born to mothers using illicit or prescribed opioid
      drugs (e.g. methadone, heroin, opiate-based painkillers). These babies may be at risk of the
      same eyesight problems as this Scottish cohort. Knowing the longer-term consequences and
      disseminating the findings to relevant international clinical groups could help to alleviate
      the consequential damage, through better information for mothers and through better and
      prompter management of affected children.

      The study is planned to run for 2 years. It is anticipated that a maximum of 65 drug-exposed
      children (out of the original 100) will attend, and will therefore aim to also investigate 65
      comparison children, as many as possible of whom will belong to the original cohort of 50
      comparison children.

      Testing will take place in the Children's Clinical Research Facility (CRF), on the campus of
      the Queen Elizabeth University Hospital and Royal Hospital for Children, Glasgow. A CRF
      paediatric nurse will recruit, coordinate and administrate the study. They will manage the
      child's progress through the assessment session, measure height, weight and head
      circumference, document demographic, social and educational details from the child's carer,
      and will apply two questionnaires to the carers. Eyesight tests will be done by a specialist
      paediatric orthoptist, and will include acuity (the smallest letter correctly identified),
      stereoacuity (perception of depth) and looking for squints or nystagmus (shaking or wobbling
      of the eyes).

      Highly specialised eye tests (eye movement recordings and visual evoked potentials) will also
      be undertaken.

      If any abnormalities are noted from these tests, the child will be given eyedrops to dilate
      their pupils. All children will be seen by a paediatric ophthalmologist who will look at the
      back of their eyes, and check whether they need glasses, or whether their glasses are
      correct. A medical history will be taken. If any problems are noted during the visit (e.g.
      visual, medical, social), the child will be referred to relevant services after discussion
      with their carer.

      The data will be added to the existing database for these children, and the test results
      correlated with the results found at birth and at six months, and with the any known drug
      exposure of each child.
    
  