
    
      The objective of prospective RELOC-AGE is to study housing choices and relocation and to
      examine the effects on active ageing among people aged 55+ considering relocation.

      Research Questions

        1. What aspects of housing, health and participation predict a) relocation to different
           housing options in the ordinary housing stock; b) residential care facilities; c)
           remaining in the present dwelling?

        2. How is the complex interaction between objective and perceived aspects of housing,
           health and participation associated with active ageing, and what are the patterns and
           characteristics of such dynamics?

        3. What housing attributes do people aged 55+ considering relocation find important, and to
           what extent, when making their decisions on housing preferences?

        4. How do people aged 55+ considering relocation reason a) regarding different housing
           options; b) motives for considering and effectuating relocation, and; c) to what extent
           are their motives fulfilled?

      The sample will include people aged 55+ considering relocation. Recruitment will be made from
      a sub-sample based on waiting lists (n=22 000) among two housing companies in Sweden:
      Karlshamnsbostäder AB and Riksbyggen. The expected final sample size is n=3000. Quantitative
      data will be collected through two web surveys and one telephone interview at baseline, 12
      and 24 months. Data on primary and secondary outcomes are based on established questionnaires
      used in previous research on older people, health, and housing as well as in national public
      health surveys in Sweden. In addition to primary and secondary outcomes (presented below),
      the surveys include demographic and socioeconomic characteristics including civil status,
      education level, economic situation, occupational status, holding a driver license, critical
      life events (e.g., death of spouse, long-term disease, divorce), original nationality;
      questions about present housing situation (dwelling characteristics (e.g., type and size of
      dwelling, location) and neighborhood characteristics (e.g., access to services and green
      areas), potential and realized mobility, social/cohabiting situation, time spent at home,
      housing adaptations); use of technical aids for mobility, use of health, social and informal
      care, thoughts about future housing, reasons related to consideration about relocating and
      moving intentions. Data on stated preferences in relation to housing will be collected in a
      specific survey based on a discrete choice methodology. Qualitative interviews will be
      conducted consecutively with a subsample (n=100) of respondents who have relocated during the
      follow-up period. Further, linking to register data will be made within the scope of Register
      RELOC-AGE, which is another part of the larger project.

      For quantitative data, descriptive, exploratory, and inferential statistics will be used. For
      longitudinal analyses, generalised linear models or Cox regression with time-dependent
      covariates will be applied. Throughout, we will control for demographic and socioeconomic
      characteristics and other potential confounders and compare the results across different
      cohorts. Quantitative analyses will be conducted using standard statistical software. For
      analyses of DCE data, we will use the conditional logit model (also referred to as the
      multinomial logit model) as the reference model, but the analysis will be extended to mixed
      logit and latent class models to take preference heterogeneity into account. Qualitative
      interviews will be audio-recorded and transc¬ribed verbatim and principles from Grounded
      Theory will be used for the analysis.
    
  