
    
      A study population of men and women over 19 years will be identified through nurse
      practitioners, primary care networks, and other practicing primary care physicians located
      within the Northern Health, Fraser Health, Interior Health, Vancouver Island Health and
      Vancouver Coastal Health Authorities. Patients will be eligible if they have two or more of
      the five targeted chronic diseases; daily Internet access (home, work or other environment)
      by and means; and able to read, write and understand English without difficulty. A total of
      318 patients (159 per group) will be recruited and randomized to either usual care, or a
      24-month interactive chronic disease management program delivered via the Internet.

      Usual Care Group Patients randomized to usual care will be given educational information
      regarding general chronic disease management and a list of Internet-based resources, and will
      return to the care of their primary care physician. Patients will be contacted after 24
      months for an outcome assessment. There will be no contact between the study personnel and
      usual care patients for the duration of the study, nor will there be any attempt to control
      the level of patient care.

      iCDM Experimental Group The iCDM is a 24-month interactive website that has been designed for
      patients with two or more of the following chronic diseases: ischemic heart disease, heart
      failure, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The iCDM
      is managed by a nurse with experience in chronic disease management who will review patient
      data, communicate with patients, implement treatment and interact with the patients' primary
      care physician. Patients will also be able to interact with a dietician and exercise
      specialist to support their disease management.

      The main premise of the iCDM is that users will log-on on a regular basis and enter data
      related to how they are feeling and some physical measures (such as body weight, blood sugar,
      blood pressure, as relevant). Based on answers to these questions, the website may show a
      message either saying everything is fine or give a warning, informing the patient of their
      answers and that a nurse will be contacting them on the next business day. If the nurse
      receives an alert in his/her email inbox, he/she will telephone the patient within
      approximately 24 hours to discuss the entered data. The nurse may also direct the patient to
      discuss with the dietician or exercise specialist, or tell them that it is probably best for
      them to visit their physician for their symptoms.

      Patients will have access to the iCDM for a 24 month period. Their family physician will
      receive a letter indicating their participation in the program and the conditions under which
      they may be contacted. At 24 months patients will be contacted for an outcome assessment.
    
  