
    
      The myHealth Rewards wellness program managed by GHP rewards those GHP members who carry
      their insurance through employment at Geisinger with reduced health insurance premiums over
      the course of the following year, if members register for the program and have their health
      measures on file by the enrollment deadline and are then able to meet their health goals by
      the respective due date. In spite of the potential savings to health plan members and the
      wellness program's potential to motivate engagement in healthy activities (with consequent
      improvement in health outcomes), over 20% of eligible GHP members have not yet enrolled in
      2019, even after receiving promotional email communications and reminders. Therefore, the
      current study was developed to test whether different versions of emails are more effective
      than a standard reminder email or no-email condition in increasing myHealth Rewards login and
      enrollment rates. The standard email reminder mentions the average premium savings, the ease
      of the registration process, and the deadline for registering and having health measures on
      file, plus it provides links for registering and finding free health screenings where health
      measures can be collected and registered at one convenient time and location. The social
      norms email notes that a majority (78%) of GHP members' colleagues had enrolled in 2018, it
      provides a testimonial from a medical director at Geisinger's Commonwealth School of
      Medicine, stating the ways in which myHealth Rewards helped that doctor personally, and it
      emphasizes the simplicity and ease of taking the first step toward enrollment. The loss
      framing email suggests that GHP members are currently "throwing away" a precise monetary
      amount in savings by not participating and that they can therefore avoid missing out on
      substantial gains (i.e., savings) by taking action. It is hypothesized that, on average, each
      of the emails will increase enrollment compared with no email. Among GHP members who never
      enrolled in the past, it is hypothesized that the standard email reminder will not be as
      effective as the social norms and loss framing emails. Therefore, email conditions will be
      compared separately among those who did and did not register in 2018. Findings will help
      inform how best to increase enrollment in a wellness program among health plan members who
      have already received past promotional communications and who may or may not have
      participated in the past.
    
  