
    
      Children, teenagers or young adults between the age of 10 (including the day of the 10th
      birthday) and 24 years 364 days (at the time of diagnosis) with a first diagnosis of acute
      lymphoblastic leukaemia or lymphoblastic lymphoma (T-NHL or SmIg negative precursor B-NHL)
      diagnosed under standard criteria are eligible for BONES.

      The recruitment target is 50 over a 2 year period, which is based on an anticipated
      ascertainment target of 75%.

      Information will be collected on basic demographics, presenting features and diagnosis at
      initial recruitment. Further data will be collected at the end of induction to ascertain
      treatment and response, along with results of relevant investigations performed in induction
      detailed below. Clinical information collected will include height, weight and puberty stage.
      At the four subsequent time points when MRI imagine is performed further data will also be
      collected, including a physiotherapy assessment using a structured assessment tool and child
      health assessment questionnaire, and biochemical information.

      Investigations

      The results of the following investigations, usually performed as part of the routine
      assessment, will be collected:

        1. At diagnosis - highest white cell count, immunophenotype, cytogenetics, molecular
           results; albumin; lipid profile; vitamin D level, PTH, bone profile

        2. At the end of induction - MRD result, flow cytometry from end of induction bone marrow;
           albumin; lipid profile plus results of additional investigations of vitamin D, PTH and
           bone profile if performed.

      DEXA scans should be performed on all children >10y old and on treatment for ALL. It is
      recommended that a DEXA scan is performed at diagnosis and then annually. The results of
      these DEXA scans will be collected.

      MRI of the hips, knees and ankles should comprise of unenhanced coronal T1 and STIR images as
      a minimum protocol. Knees and ankles can be imaged together. Where further information of a
      specific joint is needed pre-treatment additional sequences in different planes could be
      performed at the discretion of the participating centre. MRI will be performed at the
      following time points:

        1. Within 4 weeks of diagnosis

        2. At the end of delayed intensification

        3. One year after the start of maintenance

        4. Two years after the start of maintenance

        5. Three years after the start of maintenance

      In the event of the development of osteonecrosis the patient should be managed according to
      local protocols and at the discretion of their own consultant. Information on treatment will
      be collected.

      Radiological review:

      A central review panel consisting of Paediatric Radiologists with an interest in paediatric
      haematology will meet quarterly to review each MRI in order to agree the grade of
      osteonecrosis and noting specific features according to the study radiology proforma.
    
  