
    
      Norway has one of the worlds highest rates of fractures, and osteoporosis is a major risk
      factor. People with established osteoporosis (low bone density including fractures)
      experience a lot of pain, reduced physical function and quality of life. Treatments related
      to osteoporotic fractures cost the Norwegian society approximately five billion NOK per year.
      Over the past few years there has been an increasing focus on active rehabilitation in terms
      of physical activity as a major factor in preventing osteoporotic fractures. It is still
      unknown what type of training, as well as frequency, volume and intensity of activity that is
      necessary to achieve effect on risk factors for osteoporotic fractures. There are only
      limited organized exercise offers available for these patients, and health personals are
      quite often unsure what recommendations they should give. In addition, the patients are often
      hesitant participating in physical activities due to fear of falling and the risk of new
      fractures. The primary objective is therefore to assess if active rehabilitation can reduce
      the risk for osteoporotic fractures, as well as improving quality of life for women with
      established osteoporosis. The patients will be recruited from The Centre of Osteoporosis at
      Ulleval University Hospital and will be randomised into an intervention group (n=40) and a
      control group (n=40). The intervention consists of active rehabilitation 3 times a week for 6
      months (OsteoActive). Our model is based upon the Canadian model. The results from the
      project will be published in international recognized scientific papers, and as information
      to health personals who work with this patient group. In the long term it is desirable that
      the clinicians treating osteoporotic patients can recommend active rehabilitation based upon
      a model developed on the findings from this study.
    
  