
    
      This study will be a randomized, placebo-controlled, double blind clinical investigation.
      Four hundred patients scheduled for surgical procedures under general anesthesia will be
      enrolled. Patients will be randomized via a computerized randomization table to one of two
      groups; a dexamethasone group (10 mg of dexamethasone in a 5 cc syringe) or a control group
      (an equal volume of saline in a 5 cc syringe)). A dose of 10 mg of dexamethasone was
      selected, as this reflects a dose that has been demonstrated to attenuate the inflammatory
      response to surgery, decrease pain, and improve clinical recovery. This is also within the
      dose range commonly used at NorthShore University HealthSystem. The drug/placebo solution
      will be prepared by the pharmacy into the syringes. Both solutions are clear and appear
      identical. Study syringes will be prepared by the pharmacy, and all clinicians will be
      blinded to group assignment. At the induction of anesthesia, the syringe containing either
      dexamethasone or saline will be administered. The administration of all other anesthetic
      agents will be standardized and reflect the usual practices of anesthesiologists at
      NorthShore University HealthSystem.

      Monitoring will consist of standard American Society of Anesthesiologists monitors, which
      include manual blood pressure measurements, continuous EKG monitoring, pulse oximetry,
      capnography and infrared gas analysis. Additional monitoring, such as direct radial artery
      pressure measurements, will be at the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist.
      Anesthetic induction will consist of propofol 0.5-2.0 mg/kg, fentanyl 50-100 μg, and
      rocuronium 0.6 mg/kg. Anesthesia will be maintained with sevoflurane 0.5-3.0%, with the
      concentration of inhalational agent adjusted to maintain blood pressure within 20-30% of
      baseline values and depth of anesthesia standardized using a BIS monitor (BIS values 40-60).
      Additional doses of fentanyl, up to 1-2 µg/kg/hour, can be administered at the discretion of
      the anesthesia care provider. Hydromorphone may be provided for postoperative analgesia.
      Hypotension (any decrease in mean arterial pressure ≥ 20%) will be treated with a fluid
      bolus, phenylephrine, or ephedrine, as clinically indicated. Thirty minutes before the
      anticipated conclusion of the surgical procedure, patients will receive ondansetron 4 mg.
      Neuromuscular blockade will be reversed with neostigmine and glycopyrrolate.

      Patients will be managed according to standard PACU protocols. Nausea and vomiting will be
      treated per standard protocols. Any episodes of nausea and vomiting in the PACU will be noted
      on a data collection sheet. Pain will be treated with hydromorphone. Pain scores in the PACU,
      as well as total doses of hydromorphone will be recorded. Patients will be discharged from
      the PACU when standard criteria are met. Study subjects will be discharged either to the
      surgical floor or the intensive care unit (ICU). The times to meet discharge criteria and
      actually achieve discharge will be recorded. For patients transferred directly to the ICU
      from the operating room, nausea, vomiting, pain scores, and analgesic requirements will be
      collected over the first 3 hours of recovery. Postoperatively, pain will be controlled with
      intravenous doses of hydromorphone. Intravenous analgesia will be provided until patients are
      able to resume oral intake, which usually occurs on the first or second postoperative day. At
      this time, analgesic management will be transitioned to oral pain medication (typically
      hydrocodone 5 mg / acetaminophen 500 mg). Total doses of intravenous and oral pain
      medications will be recorded during the hospitalization. Postoperative pain scores will be
      assessed at the same time testing for delirium is performed during the postoperative period.
      A planned interim analysis will be performed when 200 patients are enrolled
    
  