
    
      The number of obese people around the world has been increasing rapidly. It has been
      estimated that over 10% of the world's adult population are obese. Obesity is associated with
      increased risk of coronary heart disease, type II diabetes, stroke, osteoarthritis, and
      certain types of cancer. These deleterious conditions are detrimental to individuals' quality
      of life, and places emotional and financial burden on the individual, their families, and
      society as a whole. Much more needs to be done to improve treatments for obesity.

      Current methods to treat obesity include dietary intervention, lifestyle intervention, drug
      intervention, or bariatric surgery. Among these, acupuncture, in a comprehensive program for
      weight loss, has been increasing in popularity. However, previous systematic reviews
      assessing the effects of acupuncture on obesity discovered promising but inconclusive
      results. The low quality methodology used in those trials further reduced the strength of
      those conclusions. In addition, the lack of safety procedures used in traditional manual
      acupuncture could lead to adverse events such as retroperitoneal abscess, rapid dermal spread
      of breast cancer, pneumothorax, cardiac tamponade, viral hepatitis, and granuloma.

      In comparison with traditional manual acupuncture, laser acupuncture therapy has several
      advantages. These advantages include ease of application, precision in dose measurement,
      painlessness, and non-invasiveness. It is a quick and safe therapy with low cost and no risk
      of infection. As laser acupuncture does not produce local sensation, double blind randomized
      controlled studies are also much easier to perform.

      Laser acupuncture has been widely used in medical fields for over 30 years. Clinical research
      on the efficacy of laser acupuncture has also increased. Several studies have showed that
      laser acupuncture could be an effective treatment of obesity. Low-level laser therapy as a
      non-invasive approach for body contouring and spot fat reduction has also been reported.
      However, there are several experimental limitations that have to be considered. For instance,
      absence of placebo (sham) control, combination with low-calorie diet, and lack of sufficient
      comparative parameters have been questioned . For these reasons, investigators decided to
      conduct a patient-assessor-blinded, randomized, sham-controlled crossover pilot trial to
      investigate the effects of laser acupuncture with Gallium Aluminum Arsenide (GaAlAs) laser
      irradiation on weight loss, fat reduction, body contouring, and quality of life in people
      suffering from obesity.
    
  