
    
      The volunteers to be included in our study will be selected from chronic stroke patients who
      applied to Uludağ University Medical Faculty Hospital - Department of Neurology, had a fall
      history, and whose suitability for participation in exercise was evaluated by a neurologist.
      They will be divided into two groups as control and intervention, and a multifactorial
      program (recommendations to prevent falling, home arrangements for a safe environment, and
      home-based strengthening and balance exercises) will be applied to prevent falling into both
      groups. The information required to prevent falls will be communicated face to face to the
      patients verbally and in written form (via brochure) at the beginning. The exercises will be
      shown to the patients face to face and they will be asked to be done at home. In addition, a
      booklet with pictures will be given to the patients in which each exercise is performed and
      the number to be done in order not to forget the exercises. Patient caregivers will be asked
      to be with the patient during exercises to ensure patient safety. The exercises will be
      applied 3 times a week for 12 weeks. In addition to this program, patients in the
      intervention group will perform core stabilization exercises at home within the specified
      schedule. First of all, activation of the "transversus abdominis" muscle, which forms the
      basis of core stabilization, will be taught to patients. "Chattanooga Stabilizer Pressure
      Biofeedback Device" will be used in order to teach this activation and to observe whether the
      patient is doing it correctly in intermediate controls. The exercises will be made more
      difficult by adding extremity movements to this activation. The exercises also will be
      applied 3 times a week for 12 weeks. The main principles of the exercises will be explained
      to the patients face-to-face, shown by the physiotherapist and will be asked to be performed
      at home within the determined schedule. For these exercises, a picture booklet will be given
      with the form of each exercise and the number to be done. For both groups, interim controls
      will be made face-to-face or online, 2 times in the first month in order to adapt the
      patients to the exercises, and once in the other months to increase and control the
      difficulty level of the exercises. Apart from these interviews, patients will be followed up
      by phone calls every week. Evaluations will be made twice, at the beginning (0. week) and end
      of the treatment (13. week).In order to evaluate the effect of the treatment on the fall, the
      number of falls that occurred within 3 months after the end of the treatment will be
      questioned by phone.
    
  