
    
      The purpose of this study is to measure the quality of life (QOL) of long-term survivors of
      resected gastric cancer. This cohort of long-term survivors will include patients who have no
      evidence of disease (NED) at least three years after having curative resection for gastric
      cancer. There are three main types of surgical procedures used to resect primary gastric
      cancer, which include proximal subtotal, distal subtotal, and total gastrectomy. Surgical
      management of gastric cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center (MSKCC) has shifted
      over the years to a greater use of proximal subtotal gastrectomies than in the past; however
      the effects on the QOL of these patients are unknown. In this study, we propose to use the
      European Organization for Research Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) two-part questionnaire QLQ-C30
      and QLQ-STO22. This instrument has been shown to be a valid and reliable QOL instrument used
      to assess the quality of life of patients with gastric cancer.

      We will measure multiple domains of QOL including, physical, role, cognitive, and emotional
      functions. An additional 10-item questionnaire (MSK-10) was designed by GMT service surgeons
      and will be administered in order to more specifically identify certain potential issues of
      QOL among gastric cancer survivors. These issues include eating capabilities, work status and
      major life changing events. Patients will be identified using the Gastric and Mixed Tumor
      (GMT) Service Gastric Cancer Database. The questionnaires will be conducted via telephone
      interview. Establishing these QOL measurements will help to provide valuable baseline data
      upon which to base future clinical trials of optimal surgical techniques.

      OBJECTIVES AND SCIENTIFIC AIMS

        -  To establish health related QOL using the EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-STO22 in gastric cancer
           patients who are alive and free of disease for three or more years after a proximal,
           distal, or total gastrectomy for gastric cancer.

        -  To compare the differences in QOL scores between the three different types of
           gastrectomy.

        -  To compare results using the EORTC QLQ-C30 with published norms established in the
           United States.

        -  To use the MSK-10 to assess the incidence and degree of certain areas of QOL that may
           affect gastric cancer survivors specifically.
    
  