
    
      BACKGROUND:

      This study contributed to understanding the development of patterns of eating and exercise,
      focusing on environmental influences that promoted healthful life styles and prevented risk
      behaviors for CVD.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The data set included additional measures of activity and nutrition of the preschool child as
      well as measures of the activity of an older sibling and mother. The data were gathered in
      the homes and schools of the children and included both self-report and direct measurement of
      activity and nutrition. Additional assessments of activity, lipid fractions and
      apolipoproteins, and Type A Behavior Patterns and Life Stress in the preschool child, i.e.,
      target child , an older sibling and the children's mother added considerably to the
      complexity and value of the data set permitting additional questions regarding the
      development of activity, the influences of siblings and parents on this development, and the
      relationship to CVD risk status and Type A Behavior Patterns.

      Hypotheses addressed included 1. Activity levels and the activities selected showed
      increasing stability with age in preschool and older Black children. 2. The influence of
      parental prompts and family environment on activity increased asymptotically with age: The
      effects increased during early childhood; the effects did not increase significantly in older
      children. 3. Older sibling's influence on the target child's behavior increased with age. The
      target child's CVD risk status became more like the older sibling's with age. 4. Perceptions
      of recent Life Stress and ratings of Type A Behavior Patterns for target child, the older
      sibling, and mother were predisposing variables that were positively related to the target
      child's activity. 5. Long-term patterns of physical activity were associated with HDL and apo
      A-1 in the target child and the older sibling; the effect was stronger for the older sibling.
      Long-term patterns of the target child's nutrient intake were associated with his/her lipid
      levels.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  