
    
      Preterm birth (PTB) is defined as the birth of a baby before the completion of 37 weeks
      gestation in the womb. It is the major cause of infant mortality particularly during the
      first month of life. Approximately 75 per cent of babies who die during the first 28 days of
      life are born before 37 weeks gestation. Survivors of PTB are at increased risk of long-term
      disabilities such as cerebral palsy, sight and hearing impairment, learning and behavioural
      problems, epilepsy, and hospital readmissions. Even late preterm births, defined as PTB at
      34--36 weeks gestation, which account for 70% of all preterm births in England and Wales, are
      at increased risk of death and disability compared with babies born at term. Although the
      prevalence of adverse long--term outcome is highest among children born at the earliest
      gestational ages, the much higher number of births at 34--36 weeks of gestation compared with
      earlier gestations means that this group of children makes a major contribution to the number
      of children adversely affected. PTB and its consequences can have negative emotional and
      psychosocial impacts on parents and families.

      In addition to its impact on individuals and families, the financial consequences for the
      public sector of caring for children born preterm are significant. The cost of care up to the
      age of 18 for children born preterm has been estimated to exceed £3 billion per year in
      England and Wales at 2006 prices. It has been estimated that a hypothetical intervention that
      delayed PTB by 1 week across all gestational age categories would reduce the public sector
      cost of PTB by £1 billion annually.

      About one third of PTBs occur because early delivery is indicated due to complications in the
      mother or the unborn baby (fetus); the remaining two thirds occur spontaneously. The rate of
      PTB has increased by 19% from 1990 to 2010 in developed countries. At the same time, there
      has been a marked improvement in the survival rates of PTBs but a similar reduction in
      adverse outcomes has not been seen. Thus, the absolute numbers of individuals adversely
      affected is increasing.

      Infection within the womb (intrauterine infection) is strongly associated with spontaneous
      PTB. The commonest pathway for intrauterine infection is the ascent of unhealthy bacteria
      from the vagina and cervix into the womb. Bacterial vaginosis (BV), in which the normally
      dominant healthy bacteria in the vagina (lactobacilli) are replaced with unhealthy bacteria,
      is strongly associated with PTB. Lactobacilli, principally the strains that produce higher
      levels of the chemical hydrogen peroxide, appear to protect against BV and reduce the risk of
      PTB.

      Despite substantial evidence linking BV with PTB, the results of trials of antibiotic
      treatment of BV in pregnancy have not produced clear evidence of benefit. The reason for this
      might be that it is not the eradication of unhealthy bacteria that is required but rather the
      replacement of unhealthy bacteria with the normally dominant lactobacilli. One way of
      achieving this could be by administering lactobacilli-containing capsules (probiotics) to
      pregnant women. Oral probiotics taken during pregnancy may directly alter the vaginal
      bacteria and in so doing protect the cervical opening from ascending infection.

      The investigators have formally reviewed the medical literature on the use of probiotics to
      prevent PTB. There is some evidence from medical trials which suggests that probiotics taken
      during pregnancy can reduce the risk of PTB but the trials have either been too small or of
      poor quality for the results to be conclusive. The results of an observational study on
      nearly 19,000 pregnant women suggested that probiotic- containing foods reduced the risk of
      spontaneous PTB.

      The best way to determine whether probiotics can reduce the risk of PTB is by performing a
      type of study called a double-blind, randomised controlled trial (RCT). In such a trial, the
      participants are allocated to receive either probiotic supplements or dummy (placebo)
      supplements. The allocation to a particular supplement is purely by chance (random) and
      neither the participants nor the researchers know the allocation of any participant until the
      end of the trial (double-blind). Then, by looking at the difference in the rate of PTB
      between the groups it would be possible to say whether probiotics can reduce the rate of PTB.
      The investigators have estimated that an RCT that could detect a useful difference in the
      rate of PTB between the two groups would require the participation of approximately 10,000
      women and cost several million pounds. Given that approximately 20,000 deliveries occur
      annually in inner North East London alone, there are sufficient women in this region who
      would be eligible for participation in such a RCT. However, the willingness of women to
      participate in and complete such a trial is unknown.

      A small, pilot trial is required to determine what proportion of pregnant women would
      participate in a probiotics and PTB trial and the proportion that would complete the study.
      The proposal here, the PrePro trial, is designed to gather these data which will inform the
      feasibility, planning and execution of a large RCT looking at the effects of probiotics on
      PTB.

      Potential risks and benefits of probiotics The World Health Organisation defines probiotics
      as live micro-organisms that confer a health benefit on the host when administered in
      adequate amounts. They can displace and kill pathogens, and modulate the immune response by
      interfering with the inflammatory cascade that can cause preterm labour. Administration of
      probiotics by mouth or intravaginally is safe and effective in reducing the incidence of or
      treating urogenital infections. There is no evidence of adverse consequences for mothers or
      their infants as a result of probiotic exposure during pregnancy. Acceptability of and
      compliance with daily ingestion of probiotic or placebo for a few weeks during mid-pregnancy
      was found to be high. The particular probiotic strains proposed for this study have been
      shown to be acceptable to and safe in pregnant women, and can colonise the vagina within 4
      weeks of commencing oral intake.

      A large intervention trial of ingesting oral capsules from early pregnancy to the end of
      gestation has not been performed in the UK. For such a trial to be successful, it is
      essential to gather data that will inform its feasibility, planning and execution. PrePro is
      designed to provide these data. This trial will be conducted in compliance with the study
      protocol, relevant regulations, and the MRC Guidelines for Good Clinical Practice (GCP).
    
  