
    
      The NASCITA study (NAscere e creSCere in ITAlia) was created to improve the understanding of
      the health status of Italian children early on and how it is affected by social and health
      determinants. The findings will be used in the development of specific prevention measures
      and interventions to improve the health of children, in particular more vulnerable ones.

      The hypotheses are that:

        -  differences due to environmental, sociodemographic, and parental determinants, as well
           as to child characteristics and physician attitudes, exist between geographic areas in a
           population's health and in the use of health resources in the first few years of life;

        -  differences exist in the appropriateness of care provided by the National Health Service
           at different levels (regional, local, family pediatrician);

        -  differences exist between geographical settings in parental attitudes toward the
           recommendations concerning children's health care, and these differences may be a
           determinant of child development and well-being and health resource utilization;

        -  the existing differences between geographical settings in the opportunities for children
           to access educational/socialization experiences (e.g. day-care centers) may have an
           impact on development.

      Aims:

        -  The main aim of the NASCITA cohort is to evaluate physical, cognitive, and psychological
           development, and health status and health resource use during the first six years of
           life in a group of newborns, and to evaluate potential associated factors.

        -  To evaluate differences between geographical settings in educational and socialization
           opportunities available for young children and in the care provided by the family
           pediatricians and by the National Health Service for the same needs

        -  To evaluate the association between the well-being of children and parental adherence to
           the recommendations for better child care and development.

      More specifically:

        -  To evaluate child development through the monitoring of domains that affect nurturing
           care during the preschool period: health (disease prevention and treatment), nutrition
           (breastfeeding and dietary approach), safety and security (care and early intervention
           for vulnerable children), responsive caregiving (caregiving routine), and early learning
           (home opportunities to explore and learn);

        -  to identify potential factors influencing child well-being and growth and development,
           including the acquisition of competences.

      The study population of the NASCITA cohort study will consist of children born in Italy
      during a one-year period who will be followed prospectively by participating pediatricians
      until at least the age of 6 years and whose parents agree to participate.

      In Italy the large North-South divide is a major factor of socio-economic weakness and can be
      noted by the huge difference in statistical income between the northern and southern regions
      and municipalities.

      Organization The coordination of the NASCITA study will be provided by the team of the
      Laboratory for Mother and Child Health of the Mario Negri Research Institute that integrates
      different expertise and competence with a long-standing experience in multicenter clinical
      research. The coordinating center will also carry out data collection, storage, management,
      and analysis. An independent scientific committee consisting of representatives of different
      disciplines and realities (including lay people) will monitor the development and results of
      the project.

      NASCITA will be embedded in Italian pediatric primary care practice. A network of local
      contacts between pediatricians has been set up so that each node, representative of a
      setting, will act as a bridge to the coordinating center in conducting the study.

      Recruitment The network that the study coordination center has built over the years involving
      hundreds of family pediatricians, documented by numerous collaborative publications,
      represents the first interlocutor to whom to propose participation in the study. The national
      Pediatric Cultural Association (ACP), with about 2000 members consisting mainly of family
      pediatricians, is among the supporters of the study. Pediatric scientific societies and
      associations will be contacted because detailed information concerning the study will be
      disseminated through national pediatric journals and internet-based resources. Recruitment
      will be based on the voluntary participation of interested pediatricians who can guarantee
      seven years of professional activity so that they can follow the enrolled newborns for the
      whole study period. This approach to enrolling pediatricians can be defined as a mixed method
      using also non-probability sampling techniques (convenience and purposive sampling) applied
      to choose a sample of subjects/units from a population.

      Twenty-three geographic clusters were identified as representative of the country based on
      geographic and socio-economic characteristics and administrative divisions. Pediatricians and
      newborns of all the 23 identified clusters will be involved in the study.

      Recruitment of the newborns (and their parents) will take place during the first routine well
      child visit scheduled for all newborns within their first 45 days of life at the office of
      the pediatrician assigned to them by the Local Health Units (LHU) to which they belong.
      Parents will receive oral and written information about the purpose and methods of the study
      and will be invited to participate.If they agree to participate, they will be asked to sign
      an informed consent. Recruitment of newborns will start in the first half of 2019, while
      recruitment of pediatricians will start in the preceding months.

      Training and tutorial activities Before the start of the study, family pediatricians will be
      involved in training activities. Local coordinators will be trained by the research team, and
      will be responsible for the training of their peers at the local level. A CRF (case report
      form) was created in an online form with the contribution of local representatives of family
      pediatricians and scientific committee participants. During an initial phase, a group of
      family pediatricians tested the electronic CRF (eCRF), leading to improvements and adding the
      necessary questions to achieve an eCRF that would allow a more complete and simple collection
      of data. The eCRF will be available online before the start of the enrolment period in order
      to let participating family pediatricians familiarize with the information that needs to be
      collected.

      Central and local monitoring of the study will be scheduled with the aim to guarantee follow
      up of the infants and the quality of data collected.

      Data collection Data considered for the basic CRF are part of those routinely collected by
      the family pediatricians at the 7 standard well-child visits scheduled for all children
      during their first 6 years of life, and data collected during each contact with the enrolled
      children. However, expansion of the eCRF for specific research interests that may occur
      during the study period is foreseen. In order to enhance the quality of the data, the eCRF
      includes consistency and range checks to prevent internal inconsistencies, although the
      continuing review of collected data is guaranteed by the coordinating center and, in case of
      inconsistencies, pediatricians will be contacted. The administrators of the website (the
      coordinating center) will be able to view the completed forms also in a graphic format that
      will be updated periodically.

      Baseline data At the first visit (within 45 days of life of the newborn), parents will be
      asked about parental medical history, characteristics and lifestyle, indoor and outdoor
      environment, and circumstances during pregnancy and around birth. Pregnancy and perinatal
      data will be collected also through hospital discharge documents following delivery.

      Study population size The NASCITA cohort is sized to have enough power to study relatively
      common childhood exposures and outcomes, based on the national prevalence of certain health
      characteristics of Italian children and the expected number of cases for different enrolling
      scenarios. The aim is to recruit no less than 5000, and hopefully at least 10,000, newborns
      with complete information collected over the period of the study.

      Analysis plan

      In line with the aims of the study, univariate and multivariate analyses will be performed in
      an ongoing manner to investigate several associations in order to provide an answer to a
      number of research questions, including:

        -  the association between prenatal and living setting determinants and child
           neurocognitive development and health;

        -  the relationship between pregnancy, perinatal, and newborn growth characteristics and
           occurrence of adverse outcomes (i.e., obesity, hypertension, wheezing, eczema, hay
           fever, and asthma);

        -  the relationship between newborn and child nutrition quality and occurrence of
           overweight and obesity;

        -  the association between early stimulating learning initiatives and neurodevelopment of
           enrolled children;

        -  the association between vaccination and prevalence of preventable infectious diseases;

        -  the association between lifestyle factors and health inequalities and the trajectory of
           health in the preschool period.

      Migrant newborns will be included in a special subgroup of analyses.

      Materials produced A specific web portal for the NASCITA cohort study was developed
      (https://coortenascita.marionegri.it) to collect data, through a web-based form, and to
      provide findings and other information during the study period, also with the use of graphics
      on the analyses and data collected based on a successful approach already reported by the
      coordinating center.

      Ethics and dissemination A consent form for participation will be signed by the pediatricians
      upon their first access to the web site. A paper consent form will be signed by parents at
      the first visit. This form includes the consent to data collection at each contact with the
      pediatrician during the six-year study period (first 6 years of the child's life). The filled
      in consent form will be stored by the pediatrician for ten years. Withdrawal from the study
      is guaranteed at any time both to pediatricians and parents. When consent is withdrawn, the
      child's data collected up to that point will be kept in the analyses, but no further data
      will be collected. Standard procedures for the protection of confidential individual
      information will be applied according to national and international ethical recommendations
      and guidelines as well as national legal regulations. Data will be pseudonymized and all
      analyses will be conducted with fully anonymized data sets.

      A newsletter report will periodically be sent to the pediatricians and uploaded on the web
      site. During the study, different tools will be used to update the participating families
      mainly through the web site. Collected data will be periodically analyzed according to the
      aims of the project, and findings reported to lay people and the scientific community.

      When the enrolled children reach the age of 6 years, if not decided otherwise in the
      meantime, their personal files will no longer be updated, but will be kept for another 10
      years in the database.

      NASCITA proposes to be a resource for the research community, so data will be available to
      public researchers outside the NASCITA research group upon request for collaborative research
      initiatives, after approval by the scientific committee.
    
  