
    
      This is a randomized, controlled, single-blind and parallel group study. After admission to
      the hospital, initial physical and laboratory examinations will be performed. Laboratory
      tests and medical treatment not related to the experimental protocol (except for
      immunosuppressive drugs) will be performed as clinically needed. Patients who fulfill the
      inclusion criteria and give their informed consent to participate in the study will be
      randomized to be treated either with a course of ATG-Fresenius together with intensified
      insulin therapy (Group 1) or with intensified insulin therapy only (Group 2).

      For the study purpose, clinical and laboratory status of the patients will be assessed at 14
      occasions (screening, visit 1 - visit 14). Thereafter, an extended follow-up study is planned
      with evaluations every 6 months.

      Patients will be referred to the research institution by cooperating general practitioners
      and diabetes specialists, preferably before initiation of insulin therapy. After diabetes
      confirmation (according to WHO criteria) and initial clinical and biochemical examinations
      (typical for all patients with recent onset diabetes) the purpose, potential risk and
      benefits and the design of the study will be explained. Subjects willing to participate in
      the study will be asked to give their written informed consent.

      All patients will be actively educated in diabetes management and intensified insulin therapy
      (3 - 4 daily injections of human insulin, glucose self-monitoring) will be initiated
      according to individual needs. In subjects randomized to Group 1, 4 doses of ATG Fresenius
      (first dose of 9 mg/kg of body weight, then 3 consecutive doses of 3 mg/kg) will be
      administered intravenously over 4 hours. Subjects in Group 2 will be treated with saline
      infusion (500 ml) on the same days. 1 hour before the first ATG administration, a cutaneous
      tolerance test (0.2 ml of the final solution) will be performed. Approximately 10 days after
      admission the patients will be dismissed. Besides scheduled ambulant visits, all subjects
      will be followed-up as clinically needed. In Paediatric patients (age 15-18 years),
      recommendations of a paediatric endocrinologist concerning diabetes management will be
      respected.

      After completion of the study each patient's diabetes specialist will be acquainted with the
      course of the treatment so far and the patients will be treated according to individual
      needs. They will be seen regularly once per year in the Department of Diabetes in IKEM for
      the next 3 years.

      Discontinuation of the study:

      Participation in the study may be at all times stopped according to the patient's will.
      Should this require the medical status of the patients, the study may be interrupted based on
      the investigator's decision during the period of ATG administration.

      Study population:

      Twenty four patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus of recent onset will be followed in the
      Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine in Prague. Inclusion criteria will be:

        -  Type 1 diabetes mellitus of known duration up to 6 weeks

        -  Men and women 15 - 35 years old, body mass index up to 32 kg/m2, exclusion of gravidity
           in women

        -  Insulin dose up to 40 IU per day for no longer than 1 month

        -  C-peptide level ≥ 0.3 pmol/ml 4 min. following iv. administration of 1 ml glucagon

        -  No previous immunosuppressive therapy, no concurrent severe infection, granulocyte count
           ≥ 2 x 10^9/l, platelet count ≥ 120 x 10^9/l
    
  