
    
      This trial is a multi-center, parallel design comparing open label BoNT-A paired with
      rehabilitation therapy (OT) versus BoNT-A alone in patients diagnosed with post-stroke focal
      upper limb spasticity. Cohort 1 will receive BoNT-A plus rehabilitation therapy for the
      duration of the study (for up to 2 injections of BoNT-A) while Cohort 2 will receive BoNT-A
      alone. The injection protocol will closely follow the design of the Allergan 191622-056 study
      with the inclusion of rehabilitation therapy intervention. Those randomized to BoNT-A alone
      will not be able to start any new therapy or exercise therapy while in the study. Two types
      of patients will be recruited for the study, those naïve to BoNT-A and those who have
      received BoNT-A for treatment of their spasticity. Given that BoNT-A has temporary effects,
      the second group of patients is not expected to react differently that patients naïve to the
      intervention. The sites will contact patients previously enrolled in the 191622-008, 025 and
      056 protocols to determine if they are eligible for involvement in the BoNT-A /
      rehabilitation study. In addition, the sites will recruit from the local community patients
      who have and have not received BoNT-A treatment for their spasticity by placing a notice in
      the stroke club newsletters, contacting local physician and rehabilitation offices, and
      posting fliers in area hospitals. Patients will be screened for eligibility during an
      interview with a study team member. Eligible patients will complete the informed consent
      process, sign a consent form, HIPPA. A blinded study physician will perform a physical
      examination and focal exam of the affected limb obtaining Modified Ashworth Scale scores for
      the elbow, wrist, finger, and thumb. Following the baseline visit, appointments will be
      scheduled for the next visit (Study Visit 1 {Week 0}, injection of BoNT-A. Prior to
      injection,, patients will be evaluated by a Therapist, blinded to treatment who will do the
      Functional Independence Measure (FIM) and the Fugl-Meyer Assessment of Sensorimotor Recovery
      after Stroke (Upper Extremity subsection). Participants will receive IM injections of BoNT-A
      between 200 and 400 Units with the total dose not to exceed 6 U / kg. The primary targets for
      BoNT-A injection are the wrist and finger flexor muscles (flexor carpi radialis, flexor carpi
      ulnaris, flexor digitorum profundus, flexor digitorum superficialis). Additional target
      muscles include biceps, brachioradialis, brachialis, pronator quadratus, pronator teres,
      flexor pollicis brevis / opponens, adductor pollicis, flexor pollicis longus, and lumbricales
      / interossei. The goal of the injections is to reduce spasticity causing such events as
      flexed elbow, pronated forearm, flexed wrist, thumb in palm, clenched fist, and hand
      deformity. It is not necessary to administer the same dose or inject the same muscles at each
      injection visit. The treatment should be guided by the spasticity measured and the clinical
      judgment of the Investigator. All injections will be performed with the assistance of EMG
      guidance for muscle localization. Randomization to either BoNT-A + rehab or BoNT-A alone will
      occur after the first injection. Randomization schedule will be determined by sequential
      lettered sealed envelopes sent to each site, generated by the independent analyst.

      Participants assigned to Cohort 1 (determined by a randomization scheme) will also be
      scheduled for weekly therapy appointments to begin within 2 weeks of injection. An attempt
      will be made to have all study patients seen by the same therapists at each site and efforts
      will be made to standardize therapy as much as possible. The evaluating therapist who is
      blinded to treatment assignment will complete the Fugl-Meyer upper extremity subsection every
      6 weeks and the FIM at week 1 and at the final visit. Participants will be seen every 6 weeks
      by the coordinator and physician for Study Visits 2, 3/3A, 4, and 5 at which time they will
      have the following assessments: Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), , Patients' Disability and
      Carer Burden Rating Scale, Visual Analog Scale and the Disability Assessment Scale. The
      participants in Cohort 2 will follow the same injection and assessment schedule (including
      Fugl-Meyer upper extremity subsection every 6 weeks and FIM at week 1 and at the final
      visit), but will not participate in therapy. If, by visit 3, the participants' upper limb
      spasticity has reached a MAS score of 2 or greater in the wrist and/or fingers, they will be
      eligible for a second injection of BoNT-A. Any subjects who do not meet re-injection criteria
      by Visit 3 (week 12) will be re-evaluated in another 3 weeks, Visit 3A. If participants do
      not meet re-injection criteria by Study Visit 3A (week 15) they will not receive another
      injection, but will be followed until Visit 5 (final visit). If subjects are injected at
      visit 3A, visit 4 will occur at 21 weeks (6 weeks after 2nd injection). Visit 5 will occur at
      week 27 (12 weeks after 2nd injection). Participants receiving both injections will complete
      the study no sooner than Study Visit 5. The expected time to recruit patients and complete
      the study is 18 months.

      All participants will be queried at each visit regarding the occurrence of adverse events
      (AE) or serious adverse events (SAE). All unexpected AE and all SAEs will be reviewed by the
      Site Principal Investigator and reported to the local IRB and reported to Dr. Glenn Graham
      who will then report to the VA Research & Development Committee and the University of New
      Mexico Health Science Center Human Research Review Committee. (See Appendix I for AE and SAE
      definitions). Study sites will be in regular contact with study participants whether or not
      they receive weekly therapy.
    
  