
    
      Background: The historical dogma that acute appendicitis always progresses to gangrene and
      perforation has been rejected. In addition, there is evolving evidence that medical treatment
      of non-perforated acute appendicitis is safe. On the other hand, perforated acute
      appendicitis requires appendectomy [Andersson]. Therefore, it is important to differentiate
      perforation from non-perforation in order to enable proper treatment.

      In a pilot-study in children with acute appendicitis (n=80), plasma sodium was shown to be an
      independent predictor differentiating between perforated and non-perforated acute
      appendicitis [Lindestam]. Using plasma sodium at a cut-off value of <136 mmol/L, the odds
      ratio of having a perforated acute appendicitis was 31.9 (95% CI, 6.3- 161.9) with an area
      under the receiver operating curve of 0.93. Sensitivity and specificity were 0.87 (95 % CI
      0.60-0.98) and 0.83 (95 % CI 0.72-0.91). Similar results have later been shown by another
      research group [Pogorelic]. Possible mechanism for lower plasma sodium among patients with
      perforation is higher concentration of arginin-vasopressin, which has previously been shown
      [Lindestam].

      Methods: Participants (n=450 in total) whereof 150 in Sweden, 150 in Republic of South
      Africa, 50 in Germany, 50 in Denmark and 50 in Norway will be included in the study. The
      patients/parents will be asked for participation in the study and included after decision of
      surgery has been made by the attendant surgeon. At this timepoint, (i) variables from
      clinical examination/history (presence of right iliac fossa pain, rebound tenderness,
      duration of symptoms, vomiting, temperature, gender, age, weight, (ii) blood sampling: blood
      gas (including plasma sodium), C-reactive protein, neutrophiles, White blood cell count
      (obtained at the emergency department) and (iii) radiology has been obtained. No intervention
      is planned. These variables will also be used to calculate the Appendicitis Inflammatory
      Responce (AIR) score [Scott]. Thereafter, plasma sodium concentration will be added and the
      score will be recalculated.

      After surgery, histopathology will be used to determine if the appendix is perforated or not.
    
  