
    
      Background Many patients experience serious reduced functional ability in form of physical
      and mental problems (1) after a critical illness and prolonged stay at an Intensive Care
      Unit. The critical illness entails the need for sedation and mechanical ventilation leading
      to immobilization as a consequence.

      The combination of critical illness and immobilization leads to an increased risk of further
      muscle deterioration and it is assumed that this condition deteriorates the inflammatory
      response (2, 3, 4, 5).

      Immobilization is an important contributory cause of reduced functional ability independent
      of critical illness. The deterioration is noticed up till a year after the discharge from
      hospital (1, 6) and physically it is shown in a reduced ability to walk (1, 6, 7), and
      mentally as delirium, associated with increased mortality and an extended period of
      hospitalisation. The mentally effects show a deterioration 1 year after the discharge from
      hospital.

      The symptoms appear as difficulty concentrating and evaluated poor health (1, 6, 7).

      Mobilization has a positive effect on the functional ability of patients, physically and
      mentally (8, 9, 10, 11, 12) even during mobilizing in connection with wake up calls of
      sedated patients 10). The patients experience less fear and dependency, they are in control
      to a greater extent (10) and also a significant increase in the ability to walk is shown
      (13). The mobilized patients have fewer days of delirium, mechanical ventilation and lesser
      days at Intensive Care Units (10, 12). It is possible to mobilize critically ill patients in
      bed by means of passive and active exercises. The exercises consist of getting out of bed,
      sitting on the edge of the bed, moving from bed to chair, standing on the floor, standing up,
      sitting in a chair and walking (10,13,14,15,16), but it is recommended that there is a close
      interdisciplinary collaboration between nurse and physiotherapist (17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22).

      Several studies (23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28) show that it is safe and possible to mobilize
      critically ill patients while they receive mechanical ventilation. The incidence is less than
      1 % (22) and is not directly related to age, sex, number of organ failure, co-morbidity or
      endo-tracheal tube (10, 21,22,25). The incidences appear as deceased SAT < 80 % (10, 17, 22,
      24), subsidence of prostration without sustaining any damage (22), discontinuation of enteral
      feeding probe (22) or arterial catheter (10), changes in the systolic pressure (10,21,22), or
      patient-ventilator-asynchrony (10). It is recommended that the mobilization is structured
      (10, 15, 18, 22) by guidelines or protocols, and that the patients are screened before the
      mobilization. It is however not obvious, how soon and how intense patients can endure
      mobilizing.

      Our hypothesis is that an early systematic mobilization improves the functional ability of
      critically ill patients, mentally and physically.

      The purpose of this study is:

        -  To document the effects of early systematic mobilization of critically ill patients -

        -  to evaluate a mobilization protocol applied to critically ill patients, including a
           contribute related to knowledge of how soon and how intense patients can endure
           mobilization.

        -  To evaluate connections between functional ability and life expectancy of critically ill
           patients compared to a population matching in age.

      The primary outcome is to measure the functional ability of the patients related to
      systematic mobilization. The patients stamina, balance, strength, experience and sense of
      control and emotional energy in relation to social contact is also measured. Correlation
      between functional ability and life expectancy is measured through their own judgment in
      relation to their physical level of activity, before hospitalisation and after discharge.

      The secondary outcome is to measure mortality, days with mechanical ventilation, number of
      days of delirium, and bed rest at the Intensive Care Units and in the hospital, and factors
      contributing to critical illness which could influence the patients ability to recover
      (viewed as mobilization) are also measured.

      Design and method:

      This intervention project has a multicenter design with pre- and post research related to the
      effect of early systematic mobilization of critically ill patients (29).

      Intervention and data collection:

      The research is divided in 3 phases: An 8 month observation phase, a 2 month implementation
      phase and an 8 month intervention phase. The effect is measured as the difference in the
      functional level between the observation phase and the intervention phase related to primary
      and secondary outcome.

      Phase 1: Observation phase The patients are mobilized according to the present routine of the
      hospital units without any guidelines. Data is registered on "the observation form" (exh1),
      and collected in the light of the present routine of the units. Before the form is used, the
      staff is instructed verbally and in writing.

      Inter-observer variation is measured and tested at 8 nurses and by Kappa statistic.
      Acceptable values of Kappa are 0.61-0.80 corresponding to a high level of agreement.

      Phase 2 implementation phase The mobilization protocol (exh 2) is formulated, inspired by
      Perme (15) and Gosselink (28) and in collaboration with physiotherapists at Slagelse
      Hospital, as a support for the staff during early systematic training. In order to strengthen
      the project, the staff is involved in the process early, when the mobilization protocol is
      used (31, 32). In both units there are established "steering groups" before the protocol is
      made. The staff is introduced to the protocol in this phase, and it is expected that the
      implementation is finished within a period of two month.

      Phase 3 intervention phase The patients are mobilized according to the mobilization protocol.
      The training consists of improving the balance, muscle strength and stamina. Before the
      mobilization the abilities of the patients are evaluated according to contradictions and
      prescreening (exh 2, 3). The primary nurse and the physiotherapist evaluate and allocate
      patients to the best possible mobilization stage. All patients are mobilized minimum 3 times
      a day (exh 2) and the have the support of two persons as a minimum. Before each activity the
      patient must have a rest period of ½ hour. The security of the patients during mobilization
      is registered (exh 1, 3). The mobilization stops if the security is affected. During walks
      patients are followed by a member of staff pushing a chair behind them, in order to prevent
      or cushion a fall.

      Participants:

      100 patients will be included in the observation phase of this project, and another 100 in
      the intervention phase, according to the following criteria: Patients hospitalized in Unit
      4141, at Rigshospitalet or ICU at Slagelse, who have been intubated for more than 48 hours,
      age ≥18, and after positive confirmation from relatives that the patient before the
      hospitalization was able to read and understand instructions.

      Excluded:

      Patients with a terminal illness, users of wheelchairs, patients with a known cognitive
      disturbance, open thorax, ECMO, VAD, IABP, and patients where mobilization is contradicted,
      and finally patients living outside Sjaelland, Lolland and Falster.

      Patients vary from being totally dependent of help towards an alteration of independence and
      this requires a method to measure which can detect the shift in their functional ability
      during hospitalization and after discharge from the hospital. No single method of measurement
      detects this shift per se and it is therefore necessary to use various methods to measure the
      functional ability of the patients.

      The appraisal of the mental ability of patients, understood as consciousness is evaluated
      daily with RASS score, and delirium through CAM ICU (exh 1, 3).

      After discharge the patients evaluate their own functional ability, understood as control and
      emotional energy related to social contact with other human beings, in the questionnaire SF
      36 (exh 4). All 3 measurements are validated in a number of International and Danish projects
      and are therefore regarded as suitable for critically ill patients (34, 35) The appraisal of
      the functional ability of patients, understood as the capability to mobilize during
      hospitalization is "the Cumulated Ambulation Score" (CAS). CAS shows the independency and
      development of the patients regarding the basic mobility in days, understood as capability to
      get out of bed, to stand, to sit and to walk (exh 1, 3). CAS, which originally was validated
      for patients with hip fractures, has been recommended for a broader group of patients (36).
      Pain is evaluated through a numeric rang scale (NRS) (37) before mobilization (exh 1, 3). In
      addition the varying forms of mobilization like standing up, sitting down, walking and also
      accidents are registered (exh 1,3) At discharge from the ICU to a ward or their own home, the
      development in functional ability is registered by means of ADL, Bartel-20 (exh 5). ADL
      registration shows the ability of patients to fulfill daily living, Bartel-20 clarifies the
      functional ability in 10 selected areas (38, 39) and is validated both internationally and in
      Denmark (40). In order to follow the development of the physical strength, endurance and
      balance the "Rejse Sætte Sig" test is used (exh 6) and also "Timed Up and Go" (TUG) (exh 7).
      The test "Rejse Sætte Sig " clarifies the level of strength in the lower part of their
      bodies, their balance and risk of falling. The TUG test is recommended to predict the
      physical strength and balance of patients who are neither self-reliant nor totally dependent
      (41).

      The shift in the ability of patients to be self-reliant at home is evaluated in "New Mobility
      Score" (exh 8). The test which clarifies the ability to be self-reliant at home shows an
      acceptable reliability score (42, 43, 44).

      In order to measure connections between the functional ability and life expectancy matched to
      the Danish population and correlating in age "Fysisk Aktivitet i Fritiden" is used (exh 9).
      The score which clarifies the physical activities is also recommended to clarify the risk of
      dependency and death (45).

      In order to estimate the outcome of critically ill patients Apache and SAPS are used. Both
      are validated for critically ill patients (46, 47).

      Statistic Calculation of strength is done based on previous studies and the key parameters
      are walking distance in meter and ADL measured in bartel-20.

      Sample size calculation for ADL Interval scale Type 1 errors: 5% Est.SD:43 The least
      difference between mean: 20,00 Type 2 errors: 20% Patients needed both group: 72 Sample size
      calculation for walking distance (20 m estimate) Interval scale Type 1 errors: 5% Est.SD: 20
      The least difference between mean: 10, 00 Type 2 errors: 20% Patients needed both group: 62

      Processing of data:

      Data are registered in Excel, processed in SPSS and statistically compared X2 ((48) and kept
      safe in servers with "log on" and back ups, at Rigshospital and Slagelse Hospital, and are
      only accessible for members of the project group.

      Timeschedule The research started at 2011.02.01. The observation phase runs from 2011.02.01
      to 2011.12.31. The implementation phase starts 2012.01.01 and is expected to end the
      2012.03.31. The intervention phase is scheduled when the mobilization protocol is
      implemented, probably in 2012.04.01. The last patient is expected to be included in Jan 2013.
      The research is expected to end 2014.01.31 Preliminary results are expected in Apr. 2014.
      Final results are expected in July 2014.

      Settings The Anesthesiological Thorax ICU (4141) at Rigshospitalet has room for 19 patients.
      The most commonly treated problems are heart failure, thorax surgery, lung transplantation
      and thoracotomy. Adverse side effects are circulation failure, renal failure or sepsis with a
      need for gradual reduction from ventilator and physical rehabilitation. The ICU has single
      rooms, double rooms, one room for four patients and one for six patients. The physiotherapist
      evaluates and starts the training which consists of excises to improve strength, the ability
      to sit down, to stand up and to walk. The training is always medically prescribed. The
      different transitions are taking place by use of a lift.

      ICU at Slagelse Hospital has room for 10 patients, all in single rooms. The most commonly
      treated patient groups are patients with complications after gastointestinal surgery, medical
      or orthopedic patients. Compared to 4141 at Rigshospitalet the ICU at Slagelse also treats
      patients with adverse side effects as circulation failure, renal failure, sepsis or patients
      with a need for gradual reduction from a ventilator and need of physical rehabilitation. As
      in 4141 at Rigshospitalet the physiotherapy is medically prescribed. The training consists of
      prevention when the patient can not move, and when the patient can cooperate the training
      consists of improving the physical functions, such as moving around in the bed, sitting at
      the bedside, standing up, turning around and walking. As in 4141 at Rigshospitalet the
      different transitions are taking place by use of a lift in the ceiling at the beginning. The
      assistive technology used in both units, are ceiling lifts, walkers, wheelchairs, adaptable
      armchairs and mobile ventilators.

      Processing of data:

      In the observation phase and in the intervention phase data are collected as follows: The
      nurse who is caring for the patient every day collects data regarding the evaluation of
      consciousness, pain, basic mobility and security during mobilization.

      A member of the project group (exh 12) includes the patient and obtains consent, and is
      performing the test at discharge from the ICU, and again on the 5th day at the ward, and
      finally at home after discharge. Before the visit at home, the patient is contacted by
      telephone in order to accept and schedule a date for the visit and to allow us to send out a
      questionnaire. The tests are conducted as close as possible to the day for discharge from the
      ICU, the 5th day at the ward and 3 and 12 month after returning home. Deviation from the
      exact date can for the first 2 tests vary +/- 1 day, and for the test after 3 and 12 month
      +/- 10 days.

      Ethics The project is approved by "The Science/Ethical Committee" (exh 13) and the
      "Datatilsynet" according to the "Law of Privacy", and the data are stored according to
      regulations from the "Datatilsynet" (exh 14). The project is carried out according to
      "Ethical Guidelines for Research performed by Nurses in the Nordic Area", building on
      "Ethical Principles" expressed in the Helsinki Declaration and UN Human Rights Declaration
      (49, 50).

      In the observation phase, approval is gathered as soon as the patient is regarded as being
      clear minded. If the patient is not situated in a single room, and because it is not always
      possible or save to move the patient out of the bedroom, approval, in both the observation
      phase and in the intervention phase, will be obtained with regard to the integrity of the
      patient. The participants will be informed equally verbally and in writing and with the
      present of a relative. If a participant does not wish to continue the project, he will be
      excluded promptly.

      In the intervention phase the participants are often sedated and therefore it is necessary to
      inform a relative/substitute/personal doctor both verbally and in writing in order to obtain
      the approval. The relative will be contacted by one of the members of the project group when
      the patient has been at the ICU for 24 hours, and approval is needed after further 24 hours.
      The verbal information will be giving by a member of the steering group in a separate room
      away from other patients. The written information will be handed out at the same time. Final
      approval will be requested, only when the written information has been read. As soon as the
      participant is assessed to be awake and clear minded, he will be asked for further
      participation.

      Financing The results will be financed through the ICU accounts, but also by application to
      funds (exh 8,19).

      Publication Results from the research, positive as well as negative, will be published in
      scientific journals and an application for an article in CCN will be made.
    
  