
    
      PHASE I OBJECTIVES:

      I. To describe toxicities and estimate the maximum safe flow rate and maximum tolerated
      infusion concentration, of IL13-PE38QQR delivered after surgical resection by peritumoral
      infusion via 2 to 4 catheters positioned in the brain adjacent to the resection cavity, from
      the start of infusion through the DLT observation period.

      II. To determine the IL13 receptor alpha-2 chain expression status and distribution in
      pediatric recurrent or progressive malignant gliomas.

      III. To describe the overall safety and tolerability of IL13PE38QQR infusion from the start
      of infusion through disease progression or initiation of alternative treatment.

      PHASE II OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the survival distribution post initial progression, at the maximum safe total
      flow rate and MTiC established in phase I.

      II. To estimate the progression-free survival distribution for patients post-initial
      progression or recurrence at the maximum safe total flow rate and MTiC established in phase
      I.

      III. To determine the serum levels of IL13-PE38QQR and distribution in pediatric recurrent or
      progressive malignant gliomas.

      IV. To describe the overall safety and tolerability of IL13-PE38QQR infusion from the start
      of infusion through disease progression or initiation of alternative treatment.

      PROTOCOL OUTLINE: At study entry, all patients will be registered prior to planned gross
      total resection (> 95% resection of the solid, contrast enhancing tumor component). On the
      day of catheter placement (CP, 2-7 days after resection), if the patient is neurologically
      stable, 2-4 catheters will be stereotactically placed. On day 1 after catheter placement,
      infusion of IL3-PE38QQR will begin if the patient is neurologically stable and will continue
      for 96 hours. In Phase I, the total flow rate and the concentration of IL3-PE38QQR will be
      determined by the dose escalation plan. In the Phase II evaluations of safety and efficacy,
      patients will be treated at the flow rate and concentration identified in Phase I.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 24 patients will participate in the Phase I portion of the
      study. During the Phase I portion, the rate-limiting factor is the time the study must be
      closed during the toxicity assessment period. Although it is estimated that 1.5 patients per
      month will enroll in the Phase I portion, the observed rate may be lower due to temporary
      suspensions in accrual. It is not possible to estimate the time required to complete the
      Phase I portion of the trial. It is estimated that approximately 26 patients will contribute
      to the Phase II portion. Using the same rough estimate of accrual, the Phase II portion may
      last about 3 years.
    
  