
    
      An increasing number of patients receive implantable cardioverter-defibrillators for primary
      and secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death. Within this group, it is difficult to
      differentiate between patients at high risk with need for additional treatment and, on the
      other hand, patients at low risk without benefit from implantable cardioverter-defibrillator
      therapy. Risk stratification techniques have been studied extensively over the last decades,
      but no conclusive recommendations can be found in the current guidelines for prevention of
      SCD. Furthermore, new genetic markers associated with sudden cardiac death were discovered
      recently, however, have not been implemented in concurrent risk analysis. Last, time
      dependent changes of risk stratification assessment are unknown.

      The prospective EUTrigTreat multi-center study is an observational, advanced diagnostics and
      genetic risk stratification trial in patients with standard indications for ICD treatment and
      without myocardial infarction in their history.

      Its aims are fourfold: 1) To accurately risk stratify a large cohort of implantable
      cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) patients for ICD shock risk and mortality using traditional
      risk markers as well as genetic markers 2) To find a link between repolarization biomarkers
      and genetic markers of calcium metabolism. 3) To compare invasive and noninvasive
      electrophysiologic (EP) testing systematically 4) To assess temporal changes of typical
      noninvasive risk stratifiers and their prognostic implication.

      In four European academic clinical centers, 700 ICD patients are prospectively enrolled.
      Optionally, the number of patients may be expanded to 1000. Comprehensive non-invasive risk
      stratifying ECG diagnostics including beat-to-beat variability of repolarization (BVR) are
      applied, and candidate genes associated with malignant arrhythmias are analyzed. Programmed
      electrical stimulation is performed to test for inducibility of malignant ventricular
      arrhythmias and BVR. In a subset of patients, electrophysiologic studies include recording of
      monophasic action potentials (MAP) from the right ventricle for assessment of restitution
      properties. Non-invasive risk stratifying ECG methods are repeated annually. Outcome
      (mortality, ICD shocks) will be assessed until September 2014.
    
  