
    
      A 2016 systematic review that included 30 observational studies (n= 19,813 patients) found
      high quality evidence that axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) is associated with a 21%
      absolute risk increase of PPSP (95% CI = 13% to 29%). In many cases of breast cancer, surgery
      involves axillary approaches; however, preliminary evidence suggests that preservation of the
      intercostobrachial nerves (ICBN) may reduce the incidence of PPSP after axillary clearance. A
      2014 systematic review found 3 small, single-center randomized controlled trials (RCTs), that
      enrolled a total of 309 patients, and explored the effect of ICBN preservation versus
      sacrifice during breast cancer surgery. This review found that division of the ICBN was
      associated with higher risk of sensory deficits, and that nerve preservation techniques
      increased the median operating time by 5 minutes. Due to limitations of existing evidence,
      clinical practice guidelines currently provide no recommendations on whether the ICBN should
      be preserved during axillary lymph node dissection.A large, definitive trial is needed to
      establish whether nerve preservation techniques are effective in reducing PPSP after breast
      cancer surgery involving ALND. If all the apparent effect of axillary dissection is
      associated with lack of ICBN preservation, the absolute reduction of rates of PPSP would be
      considerable. Furthermore, nerve sparing requires no specialized equipment, suggesting that
      scalability will be highly feasible.

      In addition, there is substantial evidence that neuro-inflammation as a result of neural
      damage leads to peripheral and central changes that can be described as peripheral and
      central sensitization, leading to PPSP. As such, we will be conducting a biomarker sub-study
      as part of the pilot program. Identification of biomarkers to correlate with the development
      of neuropathic pain may facilitate identification of individuals at risk for development of
      PPSP at an early stage. The INSPIRE trial provides an important opportunity to compare
      patients before and after nerve injury to further explore the association of persistent pain
      with cytokine biomarkers. The findings will improve our mechanistic understanding of PPSP.
    
  