
    
      Pain is one of the major signs, if not the first, which encourages patient to call
      caregivers. It is a complex and multidimensional sensorial experience. An optimal pain
      management should consider these different dimensions. If not, the risk is to misidentify
      pain causes, resulting in therapeutic failures.

      Anxiety is one of these dimensions. It's an emotional factor particularly frequent in
      hospitalized patient.

      Pain and hospitalization are both sources of anxiety. Anxiety causes discomfort, hyper
      vigilance reactions and pain focusing; it can cause avoidance behavior and non-compliance
      with prescribed medical treatments. Specific care of anxiety can result in a positive impact
      on hospitalized patient's pains and comfort.

      Screening tools for anxiety exist. The STAI-Y is the actual reference scale to measure
      anxiety. The "Ya" version measures anxiety linked with the reactional state. It's composed of
      20 questions and scores of 45 and higher define a significant anxiety (at least moderate).
      Another tool, the HAD scale, measures anxiety and depression. It has been validated on a
      population of hospitalized patients. It's composed of 14 questions including 7 about anxiety
      (HAD-7A). An 11 and higher score defines a significant anxiety (at least moderate). But these
      tools, theoretically accessible to caregivers, are not often used, especially in
      hospitalization. The principal reason is their inadequacy to the real conditions in services.
      Their utilization is too restrictive to hope for an exhaustive diagnosis in routine clinical
      practice (e.g. the need to have a specific support at disposal or the time to fill in the
      auto-questionnaires). It would be particularly pertinent to have a faster and easier tool at
      disposal.

      Studies suggest the usefulness of the Visual Analog Scale (VAS) to measure anxiety in
      pre-operatory or pre-interventional context. This study aims at evaluating VAS' interest in a
      very frequent situation, the one of painful hospitalized patient. If the VAS demonstrates its
      capacity to detect and measure anxiety as the validated scales, its utilization could be
      proposed at the same time as VAS for pain. When pain is assessed by VAS, it'd be easy and
      simple to evaluate anxiety with the anxiety-VAS, with the same tool, systematically or in
      anxiety identified situations. Anxious patients who could have specific treatments for
      anxiety would be better detected and cared for in a general way in accordance with good
      practice recommendations.
    
  