
    
      Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) often results in short-term benefits for people
      with HIV in terms of reduced plasma viral levels and increased CD4 cell counts. When used at
      an early stage of HIV disease, however, the clinical benefit of HAART is uncertain. Many
      questions still remain regarding the optimal use of antiretroviral therapies, such as the
      timing of initial antiretroviral therapy and the composition of the best combination regimen
      to use initially or after virologic failure. Randomized trials of different starting
      antiretroviral regimens (e.g., FIRST [CPCRA 058]), different regimens after initial virologic
      failure (e.g., PIP [CPCRA 057]), and different management strategies for HIV infection (e.g.,
      bis-POM [CPCRA 039], NvR [CPCRA 042], GART [CPCRA 046], and IL-2 VL/Dose [CPCRA 059] are
      being conducted by the CPCRA. [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/28/01: The MDR-HIV (CPCRA 064) protocol is
      now included as an example of a different management strategy for HIV infection, whereas the
      bis-POM (CPCRA 039) protocol is no longer included.] This study provides a mechanism for
      long-term monitoring of patients enrolled in these trials as well as antiretroviral-naive
      patients who are either starting treatment or electing to defer treatment.

      Patients are divided into 3 groups. Group A consists of patients currently enrolled in or
      currently being followed in an ongoing qualifying study (see Purpose for CPCRA trials which
      qualify). Group B consists of patients previously enrolled in but not currently being
      followed in a qualifying study. Group C consists of antiretroviral-naive patients not
      enrolling in a qualifying study (i.e., patients starting treatment outside the FIRST study or
      patients deferring treatment). Patients in Group A undergo monitoring of selected clinical
      and laboratory parameters (including plasma HIV RNA levels and CD4 cell counts) once every 4
      weeks beginning after completion of all follow-up appointments for all other protocols in
      which they were enrolled. Patients in Groups B and C undergo monitoring of selected clinical
      and laboratory parameters (including plasma HIV RNA levels and CD4 cell counts) once every 4
      months. Patients are followed for at least 5 years. [AS PER AMENDMENT 2/28/01: Patients who
      are not being followed in a qualifying protocol and are antiretroviral naive at enrollment or
      were previously enrolled in the FIRST (CPCRA 058) protocol undergo blood draws at enrollment
      and then annually for measurement of plasma HIV levels by a CPCRA-approved laboratory and
      future CPCRA-approved, HIV-related research. Patients who relocate to a non-CPCRA affiliated
      site are asked to sign a consent for ongoing release (every 4 months) of their medical
      records from their new health care provider to the CPCRA.]
    
  