
    
      The anti-factor Xa (anti-Xa) assay is a functional assay that facilitates the measurement of
      antithrombin (AT)-catalyzed inhibition of factor Xa by unfractionated heparin (UFH) and
      direct inhibition of factor Xa by low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH). As a result,
      Anti-factor Xa level reflect the in situ pharmacological activity of LMWH. 0.2 to 0.5
      units/ml has been considered to be the desired level for prevention of VTE. Although this
      method was available since the 1970s, their cost was viewed to prohibit their broad use until
      recently.

      Previous studies determined the safety and effectiveness of fixed dose prophylactic regiments
      via clinical outcomes. This strategy has several shortcomings.

      The current study was there for devised to examine in vivo activity of LMWH in patients
      receiving a fixed dose prophylactic regimen, in order to assess the effectiveness of this
      method.

      Purpose To perform an exploratory prospective analysis of longitudinal data sets to assess
      anti-factor Xa levels in a cohort of patients recovering from acute ischemic stroke and
      receiving prophylactic-dose LMWH for VTE prevention.

      Primary Outcome Measures:

        1. assess anti-factor Xa levels

        2. adverse events related to thrombosis

        3. adverse event related to hemorrhage

      Secondary Outcome Measures:

      Patient demographic data Patient anthropometric data Adverse events/weekly (falls,
      infections, VTE, stress ulcer…) Eligibility

      Ages Eligible for Study: 40 Years to 80 Years (Adult, Senior) Gender Eligible for Study: All
      Accepts Healthy Volunteers: No Sampling Method: Non-Probability Sample Study Population
      Patients hospitalized for rehabilitation following acute ischemic stroke

      Methods:

      Clinical decision to administer LMWH prophylactic treatment will be made in line with
      standard clinical practice and in accordance to the criteria described above.

      Search for patients diagnosed with sub-acute stroke and receiving LMWH treatment will be
      performed on the digital database of the Loewenstien rehabilitation hospital Rannana, Israel.

      Patients receiving LMWH prophylaxis with fixed dose regimen will be recruited flowing signing
      of consent form.

      Flowing at least 7 consecutive days of treatment blood sample will be drown 3-4 hours post
      LMWH administration and sent for The anti-factor Xa (anti-Xa) assay. In the event of high or
      low results the Hematological consult will be contacted for decision about dose adjustment or
      other intervention/investigation.

      All data will be drawn from patient's electronic/hardcopy files. patient characteristics
      (age, gender, , past medical history), Stroke characteristics (type, location, NIHSS), days
      from stroke onset to rehabilitation admission, along with each patient's length of stay,
      neurological impairments, and Rehabilitation outcomes. Trained research associates, who are
      familiar with the process of chart review, will extract the information from the charts using
      the form provided.

      Statistical analysis: multi variant combative analysis of outcome measures will be carried
      out to compare study and control groups.

      Estimated Enrollment: 100 patients
    
  