
    
      Title: The evaluation of a preparatory information movie on oocyte aspiration: a Randomized
      Controlled Trial (POAM-RCT) Study purpose: To evaluate whether the preparatory information
      movie on oocyte aspiration (POAM) decreases the anxiety of ART-couples on the day of their
      first oocyte aspiration.

      Primary outcome: The primary outcome is women's 'state anxiety', which will be assessed with
      the reliable 'State Trait Anxiety Inventory, state module (STAI-state)' questionnaire upon
      arrival at the fertility clinic on the day of the oocyte aspiration.

      Secondary outcomes: Three secondary patient-reported outcomes will be assessed simultaneously
      with the primary outcome, upon arrival at the fertility clinic for oocyte aspiration.

      First, men's state anxiety will assessed with the STAI-state questionnaire. Second and third,
      in both women and men, infertility-specific distress will be assessed.

      The following two secondary clinical outcomes will be followed-up in all couples 12 weeks
      after the oocyte aspiration: clinical pregnancy with fetal heart beat and miscarriage in case
      of clinical pregnancy with fetal heart beat.

      Other outcomes: As a follow-up the following will be extracted from the medical charts of
      participating couples twelve months after the oocyte aspiration: long-term clinical outcomes
      (i.e. live birth from the first fresh embryo transfer, clinical pregnancy with fetal heart
      beat from the frozen embryo transfers of 1st IVF-cycle and the 12-months cumulative clinical
      pregnancy rates) and long-term discontinuation parameters (i.e. censored by their medical
      doctor to discontinue, IVF-delay or number of untreated cycles within 12 months and
      IVF-discontinuation or whether or not start a 2nd IVF-cycle was started within 12 months).

      Study design: Randomized controlled trial Sample size: 190 couples will be randomized to the
      intervention or control group Summary of eligibility criteria: Inclusion criteria: Couples
      treated with a 1st cycle of ART (IVF or ICSI; with or without PGD). Couples with a genetic
      indication for PGD can be included as they are an important patient group and are as likely
      as infertile patients to experience anxiety when they first come for oocyte retrieval.

      Exclusion criterion: Couples going through a subsequent cycle of ART are not eligible as they
      are not treatment naïve, but already know, from their first cycle, what will happen on the
      day of oocyte aspiration.

      Maximum duration of treatment of a subject: Each couple will participate from their
      ART-intake until the day of their first oocyte aspiration.

      Couples will be asked for informed consent during their ART-intake (i.e. individual or group
      session with midwife; 1-3 months prior to oocyte aspiration) and will then be randomized to
      either the intervention group or the control group.

      Participating couples of the intervention group will receive care as usual and will watch the
      preparatory information movie on oocyte aspiration (POAM) 1-3 days before their oocyte
      aspiration. Their gynecologist or midwife will empower them to watch the movie when they call
      them to plan the oocyte aspiration and will send them the secured link to the movie via
      email.

      Participating couples of the control group will receive care as usual (as will participating
      couples of the intervention group) and will not get access to the preparatory information
      movie on oocyte aspiration (POAM).

      When they arrive at the fertility clinic on the day of oocyte aspiration both partners of
      participating couples of the intervention and control group will be asked to fill out a
      questionnaire (5-10 minutes) before any clinical procedures are performed.
    
  