
    
      30 postmenopausal females with senile vaginitis will be enrolled with score of <15 on the
      Gloria Bachman Vaginal Health Index (VHI) intramucosal injections of PRP will be adminstered
      and perform clinical evaluations at 0, 1, 3, and 6 months.

      The patients will be seen in Ain shams university gynecological clinic and will not be paid
      either to receive the procedure or to complete the survey. All patients were fully informed
      of the innovative therapeutic and experimental nature of the localized PRP injection and
      consented to the procedure.

      The materials and equipment included the following:

        1. 5 cc syringes.

        2. 27 gauge needles.

        3. Centrifuge with proprietary collection system.

        4. Calcium chloride 10% (for activation of PRP).

        5. and a topical anesthetic cream compounded with a base that prevents irritation and
           promotes absorption through the vaginal mucosa. Active ingredients will be as follows:
           bupivicaine, lidocaine, and tetracaine with percent concentrations of 20/8/8
           respectively.

      First, a topical anesthetic cream will be applied to the posterior vaginal wall. Delaying the
      PRP injection for 20 minutes after anesthetic application achieved complete or near complete
      analgesia for the procedure. Peripheral blood will be drawn from the arm and centrifuged to
      yield 5 cc of PRP. The Regen® system concentrates 5ml of PRP from 10 ml of whole blood using
      a gel separator.

      Study Interventions:

      After isolation of the PRP, calcium chloride (0.5ml) was added to the 5 ml of PRP isolate to
      activate the thrombin cascade, thereby causing degranulation of platelets, releasing growth
      factors and cytokines, and starting the transformation of the PRP to platelet rich fibrin
      matrix (PRFM) Before the PRFM became too gelatinous for passing through a needle (less than
      10 minutes), two injections will be given through a 27-gauge needle in the posterior vaginal
      wall and perform clinical evaluations at 0, 1, 3, and 6 months.
    
  