
    
      Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), also known as Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome
      Coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2), is caused by a coronavirus strain that has become a global health
      problem by affecting the lives of billions of people worldwide and is a member of the
      Betacoronavirus genus.

      Its clinical presentation can be heterogeneous, ranging from asymptomatic to severe disease,
      which may be associated with a cytokine storm. The pathogenesis of COVID-19 is not fully
      understood, but it is likely multifactorial, resulting in a systemic hyperinflammatory
      response and associated thromboembolic complications in severe cases.

      Due to their anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, certain vitamins and nutrients may
      be beneficial for patients infected with COVID-19. Vitamins such as A, B, C, D, E and folate;
      Trace elements such as iron, zinc, magnesium, selenium and copper have important roles in
      supporting both innate and adaptive immune systems.

      In order to consider an adult to be physically active, it is generally accepted to reach at
      least 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of high-intensity activity per week, or an
      equivalent combination of both. Sedentary behavior is defined as wakeful behavior
      characterized by an energy expenditure of less than 1.5 metabolic equivalent (MET) in
      positions such as lying, sitting or standing. While the COVID-19 disease spreads all over the
      world, healthy people are asked to stay at home for a long time against the risk of
      transmission. As a result, COVID-19 is radically changing the determinants of both behaviors
      (individual, interpersonal, environmental, regional or national policies and global).
      Accordingly, it can be said that due to isolation and limitations in regular and joint
      activities, it can be said that it poses a significant challenge to fulfill physical activity
      recommendations and reduce sedentary behavior during the stay at home, especially in the
      first weeks when the chance of finding alternatives to keep the population active even at
      home is limited. For this reason, individuals are strongly encouraged to engage in physical
      activity in the home environment by public health advocates to prevent the potential harmful
      effects of protective lifestyle regulations related to COVID-19 and to prevent the
      restrictions from causing physical inactivity.

      In the light of all this information, in order to contribute to the literature, the aim of
      this study is to determine the serum trace element levels and physical activity levels of
      COVID-19 patients immediately before the beginning of COVID-19 treatments and compare with
      the results of healthy adults.
    
  