
    
      This is a prospective, observational, non-interventional, non-randomized study involving the
      adult patients undergoing Whipple's procedure. Institutional ethics permission and written
      informed consent will be taken from the patient. The study duration will be for a period of 5
      years, but the data of the first one year will be analysed and will presented as a thesis for
      MD (Anaesthesia). Administration of anaesthesia and reversal of neuromuscular blocking drugs
      will be carried as per the institutional routine practice and at the discretion of
      anaesthesiologist in charge. The study will include patients undergoing Whipple's procedure
      for pancreatic cancer, between age group of 18-75years, with ASA-PS I - III. Preoperative,
      intraoperative and outcome variables as defined according to the definitions established by
      the American college of surgeons National Surgeons Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) will
      be recorded. A total of 11 preoperative, 14 intraoperative and 21 outcome variables will be
      collected (see Appendix). All the post operative outcome variables will be defined.
      Preoperative comorbid conditions will also be recorded. SAS will be calculated from three
      intraoperative variables (1) the estimated blood loss (EBL), (2) lowest heart rate (HR), and
      (3) lowest mean arterial pressure (MAP). For analysis, SAS will be classified as low (≤ 4
      points), intermediate (5-6 points) and high (7-9 points). Complications including mortality
      will be assessed Upto 30 days postoperatively. The categorization of the complications as
      major and minor is consistent with NSQIP definition. Major complications include acute kidney
      injury, blood loss ≥ 2000ml, transfusion requiring ≥ 4 U packed blood cells within 72 hours
      of surgery, cardiac or respiratory arrest requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), coma
      for 24 hours or longer, deep venous thrombosis, septic shock, acute myocardial infarction,
      new onset arrhythmias, unplanned re-intubation, ventilator use for 48 hours or longer,
      pneumonia, pulmonary embolism, stroke, wound disruption, deep or organ space surgical site
      infection, sepsis, systemic inflammatory response syndrome, unplanned intensive care unit
      (ICU) admission, need for reoperation, anastomotic leak or fistula, vascular, ureteral or
      neural injuries, unplanned readmission < 30 days of discharge, and death. The occurrence of
      major postoperative complications within 30 days of surgery represents primary outcome. Some
      of the patients do follow-up at day 30 to the OPD and those patients who don't follow-up at
      day 30 will be assessed and interviewed by telephone. If they are not able to follow-up on
      day 30, they will be contacted telephonically and interviewed for a period of 10-15 minutes,
      by a research nurse or a research doctor. Only mortality will be noted at day 30.
    
  