
    
      Background Face-touching behavior often happens frequently and automatically, and poses
      potential risk for spreading infectious disease. Mindfulness-based interventions (MBIs) have
      shown its efficacy in the treatment of behavior disorders. This study aims to evaluate an
      online mindfulness-based brief intervention skill named "STOP (Stop, Take a Breath, Observe,
      Proceed) touching your face" in reducing face-touching behavior.

      Methods This will be a single-blind, randomized, controlled, trial. We will recruit 1,000
      participants, and will randomize and allocate participants 1:1 to the "STOP touching your
      face" intervention group (n=500) and the control group (n=500). All participants will be
      asked to monitor and record their face-touching behavior. The intervention group will receive
      the brief online mindfulness-based "STOP touching your face" program, and the control group
      will receive control intervention. Primary outcome will be the efficacy of short-term
      mindfulness-based "STOP touching your face" intervention for reducing the frequency of
      face-touching. The secondary outcomes will be the reduction of the duration of face-touching
      after intervention; the correlation between the psychological traits of mindfulness and
      face-touching behavior; and the differences of face-touching behavior between left-handers
      and right-handers. We will recruit 1000 participants from April to June 2020 or until the
      recruitment process is complete. The follow-up will be completed in June 2020. We expect all
      trial results to be available by the end of June 2020.

      Discussion This is the first RCT to evaluate the efficacy of brief mindfulness intervention
      to reduce face-touching behavior. We expect that "STOP touching your face" has a
      significantly greater reduction the frequency of face-touching behavior than the control
      intervention. As "STOP touching your face" is a brief and simple skill, the public health
      impact of its expansion world-wide could be enormous, helping us to manage any face-touching
      spread infectious diseases, like Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
    
  