
    
      About 30% of people with schizophrenia suffer from treatment-resistant psychotic symptoms,
      which may include social withdrawal, apathy, and depression. These negative symptoms can
      produce substantial distress for those affected, often disrupting social and occupational
      functioning and resulting in hospitalization. Although atypical antipsychotic medications
      have demonstrated some success in treating negative symptoms, the degree to which many
      negative symptoms respond is unclear. Depression and poor response to antidepressant
      medication have been linked to deficiency in the vitamins folate and B12. It is believed that
      vitamin supplementation with folate and B12 may offer a safe and inexpensive approach to
      improve outcomes for people with schizophrenia who have residual negative symptoms and have
      exhibited poor treatment response. This study will compare the effectiveness of folate and
      B12 versus placebo in reducing negative symptoms in people with schizophrenia.

      Participation in this double-blind study will last 19 weeks. Potential participants will
      undergo initial screening, which will include a medical and psychiatric evaluation, physical
      exam, blood draw, urine sampling, and questionnaires. Participants will also be asked for
      permission to use a portion of the blood sample for genetic analysis. Eligible participants
      will be randomly assigned to take folate with B12 or placebo. Participants will first
      complete a 2-week stabilization phase, followed by the 16-week treatment study. Medication
      visits, occurring every 2 weeks during treatment, will include questions about medication
      side effects and the distribution of study medication. During specified medication visits,
      participants will complete various assessments, which will include questionnaires about
      schizophrenia, tests of learning and memory, repeat blood tests, and pregnancy tests. The
      medication visits will last between 15 minutes and 4 hours, depending on the scheduled
      assessments for that visit.
    
  