
    
      Background: Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disease with disabling, deadly, and
      costly consequences for individuals, families, and national health care systems. Proper
      diabetes management in people living with type 2 diabetes mellitus focuses on reducing the
      risks for macrovascular and microvascular complications through controlling blood pressure,
      lipid levels, and blood glucose levels, and avoiding tobacco. Although important advances in
      pharmacological and non-pharmacological strategies have been developed, large gaps exist in
      achieving care goals, particularly in real-world practice and low- and middle- income
      countries. Barriers to care in T2DM patients may include lack of medical care, poverty, long
      distances or lack of time to get medical attention, lack of confidence, and inadequate social
      support, among others. Achievement of diabetes care goals: normal glycated hemoglobin, blood
      pressure, and LDL cholesterol is associated with better health outcomes, including lower
      risks of complicating events and death. The DIABEMPIC program is a quality of care initiative
      developed by primary care public health services of the Mexico City Government to propitiate
      diabetes empowerment in people living with type 2 diabetes through a 6-months intervention
      comprised by an interdisciplinary team care, shared medical appointment scheme,
      patient-centered care approach, structured diabetes education program, promotion of
      self-management, audit, , and guaranteed supply of anti-diabetic medication. The DIABEMPIC
      program target population consists of patients with type 2 diabetes, without advanced chronic
      complications, who have regular care in the public primary care services in Mexico city.

      Hypothesis: Participation in the Diabetes Empowerment and Improvement of Care strategy allows
      reaching diabetes care goals.

      General objective: To quantify diabetes care goals achievement at the end of the intervention
      and one year after finishing the comprehensive care program designed to propitiate diabetes
      empowerment at Clínica Especializada en el Manejo de la Diabetes of the Mexico City
      Government.

      Specific objectives: To measure the program impact through the following variables: glycated
      hemoglobin, blood lipids, arterial pressure, self-care activities, diabetes knowledge, health
      related quality of life, incidence of complications and use of hospital services.

      Goals: To improve diabetes care through this multicomponent intervention in order to prevent
      complications and and enhance quality of life in people with diabetes, but also to expand the
      care model to primary care health units in Mexico City.

      Methodology: The DIABEMPIC program is a quality of care initiative developed by primary care
      public health services of the Mexico City Government to propitiate diabetes empowerment in
      people living with type 2 diabetes through an intervention comprised by an interdisciplinary
      team care, shared medical appointment scheme, patient-centered care approach, structured
      diabetes education program, promotion of self-management, audit, and guaranteed supply of
      anti-diabetic medication. Intervention consists of visits at Clínica Especializada en el
      Manejo de la Diabetes to attend individual and group sessions in a shared medical appointment
      model by an interdisciplinary case management team. The program last five months and visits
      occur every 2 weeks according to the needs assessed by the interdisciplinary team.
      Interdisciplinary team include: endocrinology, diabetes educator, nutritionist, podiatrist,
      ophthalmologist, psychologist, social worker and dentist. At each visit standardized
      interventions based in clinical practice guidelines are executed. At the initial, last visit
      and yearly visit preset indicators are evaluated, including: weight, blood pressure, glycated
      hemoglobin, lipid profile, creatinine, albumin/creatinin index in urine sample and validated
      questionaires related to diabetes self-care (Summary of Diabetes Self-care Activities) and
      Health related quality of life (EuroQOL-5Q-5L). The effect of the intervention will be
      determined on the improvement on metabolic parameters, as well as in self care activities and
      quality of life using a "before and after design". As a secondary analysis, results will be
      compared with the population in the wait-list receiving routine care in primary care units.

      Expected results: In case of demonstrating its effectiveness, DIABEMPIC program is considered
      to be expanded in order to allow more people living with diabetes to receive the benefits of
      a Multicomponent intervention in Mexico City.
    
  