
    
      Familial adenomatous polyposis (FAP) is a autosomal dominant disorder, secondary to a
      germ-line mutation in the tumour suppressor gene and characterised by multiple colorectal
      polyps (>100). Typically colorectal adenomas develop in the second and third decade of life.
      As a result these patients require an endoscopic colonic surveillance program, especially for
      at-risk family members, which usually begins in the 2nd decade of life starting with annual
      flexible sigmoidoscopies. The lifetime risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) is 100 percent, if
      left untreated and patient usually develop CRC in the 4th-5th decade of life. The patient's
      thus usually progress to a total colectomy.

      FAP is also associated with adenomas in the upper gastrointestinal tract and is in nearly 90%
      of patients with FAP by age 70.Upper gastrointestinal tract screening with gastroscopies
      commences usually from 25-30 years of age. Usually a duodenoscopy is performed simultaneously
      to assess for ampullary adenomas. Although surgical procedures have been shown to be
      effective and have changed the natural history of colorectal cancer in FAP the management of
      duodenal adenomatosis remains a challenge. The prevalence of FAP associated duodenal adenomas
      has led to the development of Spigelman classification which assigns surveillance intervals
      by dividing patient's into four group based on size, histology and severity of dysplasia on
      histology7. Local endoscopic therapy options available for duodenal adenomatosis include;
      snare polypectomy, thermal ablation (using a mono/bipolar current) and laser coagulation each
      with their own limitation. Endoscopic intervention is usually recommended for Spigelman stage
      II and III disease.

      Duodenal endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) has been shown to be safe and effective methods
      in removing flat duodenal adenomas in FAP as observed in small case series. However as with
      colonic EMR these patient's automatically are placed in a higher risk group with the feared
      complications of delayed bleeding (per and post procedure) and perforation, with the former
      being as high as 10-15%. The bleeding risk is especially increased in the duodenum due to the
      rich vascularity of the sub-mucosal layer.

      Cold snare polypectomy (CSP) has been shown to be a safe and effective method for removing
      diminutive colorectal polyps (<8mm) as compared to conventional polypectomy/endoscopic
      mucosal resection (EMR).

      A small case series published the use of a hybrid technique, for duodenal adenomas, where a
      submucosal injection is performed underneath the lesion to separate the mucosa from the
      larger sub-mucosal vessels from which bleeding risk is thought to arise. By then performing
      cold snare piece-meal polypectomy and avoiding the need for thermal therapy risk of delayed
      bleeding associated is significantly reduced as compared to conventional EMR.

      Isolated case report using CSP in non-ampullary duodenal adenomas have shown this technique
      to be effective.

      No large studies to date have examined the use of this technique for duodenal adenomas.
    
  