
    
      The LMNA related muscular dystrophies are monogenic progressive neuromuscular disorders.
      Affected pediatric patients can present at birth or in childhood and are classified as either
      congenital muscular dystrophy (LMNA-CMD), congenital onset Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy
      type 1B (LGMD1B) or childhood onset Emery Dreifuss muscular dystrophy (EDMD). These distinct
      clinical presentations all involve variants in the LMNA gene and can be distinguished by
      method of inheritance. Those with LMNA-CMD have new mutations in the LMNA gene not carried by
      either parent, while those with LGMD1B and EDMD will have a parent who may or not have
      symptoms with the same variant (change in the LMNA gene). There is no current cure or
      treatment for LMNA-MD.

      While heart involvement has been studied for the adult forms of LMNA muscular dystrophy.
      These studies have identified an increased risk for arrhythmia (abnormal heart rhythms),
      conduction defects, cardiomyopathy and sudden cardiac death. To date there has been no study
      evaluating the age of onset of heart involvement, the type of heart involvement, the rate of
      heart disease progression and the risk of sudden cardiac death in children affected with
      LMNA-MD. The investigators' research aims to evaluate heart involvement in children and teens
      affected by LMNA-MD.

      This is a prospective interventional natural history study. The intervention consists of 3
      steps: 1) High complexity echocardiography, 2) Electrophysiological Study, 3) subcutaneous
      ECG holter monitor implantation.

      The duration of the active protocol will last 3 years. Potential subjects will be identified
      through the Spanish muscular dystrophy network and the Congenital Muscle Disease
      International Registry. The study will involve one on-site visit at Sant Joan de Déu Hospital
      in Barcelona, Spain; and a yearly follow-up that will be arrange individually (either a
      second visit to Barcelona or doctors will travel to see the patient).

      At Visit 1, subjects will have their baseline assessments, including an echocardiogram, an
      electrocardiogram, a electrophysiological study and medication review and the subcutaneous
      ECG holter monitor implantation.

      The second study visit will occur 12-14 months after the first study visit. Remote monitoring
      through the holter device will continue for 36 months after placement of the device.

      For those individuals traveling from outside Spain, travel arrangements will be eased by
      Andres Marcio Foundation
    
  