
    
      Mounting evidence finds that obesity tracks with age, even from infancy.1-10 Excess bottles
      of whole milk and sweet beverages beyond the advised weaning age of 12 months- inappropriate
      bottle-feeding- is linked to overweight. Inappropriate bottle use as used herein refers to
      children > 12 months drinking > 2 bottle-type containers/day. In our prior work inappropriate
      bottle use was associated with overweight in local WIC centers and national survey data.
      And,a February 2007 publication from a national study found that "taking a bottle to bed" was
      a major predictor of 3 year olds' being overweight or obese. Our pilot of the proposed
      intervention reduced daily bottle use.

      The Feeding Young Children Study (FYCS) is a randomized controlled trial (RCT) of a
      bottle-weaning intervention aimed at reducing the risk of overweight in low-income
      multi-ethnic toddlers in WIC.

      Aim #1: To reduce inappropriate bottle-feeding practices (RCT)

      1.The Intervention group will reduce inappropriate feeding practices, as measured by:
      absolute weaning; # of bottles; ounces consumed from bottles; and content, pattern & timing
      of bottles.

      Aim#2: To decrease the risk of overweight in children (RCT)

        1. The Intervention group will see a decrease in the percentage of children >85th
           percentile weight-for-length, and > 95th % ile weight-for-length over the 12 month
           follow-up.

        2. The Intervention group will have lower age- and sex-adjusted weight-for-length z scores;
           and a decreased weight gain velocity over the 12 month follow-up, compared with
           Controls.

      Aim #3: To understand dietary intake & nutrient density (Observational Study)

      1. We will describe beverage and food intakes and nutrient density at baseline and over time
      in relation to bottle use patterns and anthropometrics, for the sample and by treatment
      group.

      Aim #4: To produce sustainable products and widely disseminate findings (Extension)

        1. We will produce a 5-8 minute bottle-weaning infomercial, and nutritionist and client
           guides for download from WIC,15 maternal/child health16,17 and pediatric18 websites-- as
           well as a segment for "Keeping Kids Healthy," a nationally syndicated, Emmy award
           winning TV show.

        2. We will extend findings through a) lay print, media, and web outlets via Public
           Relations; b) the National WIC association; and c) nutrition & pediatric journal papers.

      We will enroll n=464 12 month olds who are drinking >2 (non-water) bottles or sippy cups/day,
      from 2 Bronx WIC sites. Bottle/sippy cup use, anthropometrics, and dietary intake will be
      assessed at Baseline, and again at 15, 18, 21, and 24 months of age. FYCS nutritionists
      (blinded to group assignment) will collect two 24 h recalls of all beverage and solid intake,
      and enter it into the Windows-based Nutrition Data Systems for Research software, the
      premiere dietary data collection and nutrient density calculation tool. WIC nutritionists
      will administer the Intervention at Baseline, and (blinded to outcomes) as needed at
      follow-ups.
    
  