
    
      Recent studies estimate that 43 to 75% of Veterans also receive care from non-VA providers
      (dual use). Dual use is a concern because splitting care between two or more health systems
      and multiple providers may result in poor coordination of services and a loss of continuity
      -ultimately putting the patient at increased risk for poor outcomes. Addressing dual use in
      Veterans is an issue of care coordination. One component of care coordination is information
      sharing, which often relies on the patient to share information between systems/providers.
      Veterans registered in My HealtheVet with premium account status have access to download and
      print a VA health summary (VA CCD). This health summary can be shared with non-VA providers
      to inform them about recent VA care. This pilot randomized controlled trial will compare
      usual care to an intervention which aims to improve care coordination for dual use Veterans
      by educating them about the use of information technology to share health information and
      informing their providers about the extent and nature of care from other health care systems.

      Methods: Dual use Veterans with at least one chronic health condition and both an upcoming VA
      and non-VA appointments within the study time frame will be eligible to participate. Veterans
      will be randomized to the intervention or usual care. Veterans in the intervention group will
      be trained on use of My HealtheVet and their community patient portal (if applicable) to
      access summary health information to share with providers. In addition, he/she will create a
      document that lists all members of their health care team. All participants will be asked to
      take a provider evaluation packet each provider visit (VA and non-VA). After the visit, a
      phone call will be scheduled with the Veteran to ask about the appointment and medical
      records from the appointment will be obtained. Outcomes: The main outcomes will be related to
      patient perceived continuity of care, provider relational coordination survey, medication
      concordance, and medical laboratory test duplication. Pre and post scores on the patient
      activation measures will also be explored.
    
  