
    
      Objectives: (1): To evaluate the effectiveness of high-intensity aerobic training (HIAT) on
      pain intensity, absenteeism, and academic performance among university students with primary
      dysmenorrhea. (2): To investigate the physiological mechanism(s) underlying aerobic
      exercise-induced analgesia in women with primary dysmenorrhea. (3) Compare the
      cost-effectiveness of HIAT against that for usual care to treat pain associated with primary
      dysmenorrhea.

      Design and subjects: A mixed-methods study, including a cross-over RCT, and semi-structured
      focus groups, alongside economic evaluation, will be conducted using 130 women with primary
      dysmenorrhea.

      Interventions: Women will randomly allocated into high-intensity aerobic training (HIAT) or
      wait-list control (WLC) groups. Participants in the HIAT group will receive supervised
      treadmill training for the first 12 weeks of the trial. Following a four-week washout period
      the cross-over period will begin during Week 16, and the participants initially randomised to
      the WLC group will receive the HIAT regimen from Weeks 14-28. Participants initially
      randomized to HIAT group will be instructed not to engage in exercise during the remainder of
      the study period (i.e. Weeks 14-28).

      Outcome measures: Pain intensity, absenteeism from university, academic performance,
      concentration, dysmenorrhea daily diary, and salivary progesterone and prostaglandin F2-alpha
      levels in saliva. The EQ-5D-3L will be used to determine the QoL for the HIAT and WLC groups.

      Data analysis plan: A preliminary test using the independent samples t-test and a two-sided
      Student's unpaired t-test will be performed to rule out carryover effects and identify the
      within-participant differences in outcome variables between the study periods, respectively.
      Treatment effects will be evaluated using an ANOVA with a mixed-effects model considering the
      longitudinal repeated measures, including the effects of time within each study group and the
      interaction between time and intervention. The mediation effects will be assessed using the
      Sobel test. The EQ-5D responses will be converted into utility scores to estimate the gain or
      loss of quality-adjusted life-years (QUALYs). The seemingly unrelated regression (SUR)
      analyses will be used to estimate the total cost differences (ΔC) and effect differences
      (ΔE). Qualitative data will be analysed using the process of thematic analysis.
    
  