
    
      There are significant numbers of Immune Thrombocytopenia (ITP) patients 18 years of age or
      older who relapse and become refractory after short responses to initial therapy (usually
      corticosteroids) or who do not respond at all. Despite a variety of available therapies,
      there are patients with persistently low platelet counts and bleeding complications, and
      there are other patients who suffer from the side effects of current treatments. Thus, there
      still remains an unmet need for better treatments in these patients. Based on the
      investigators' experience, it is expected that most of ITP patients treated with intensive
      induction therapy (Dexamethasone combined with rituximab, R+3D) will increase their platelet
      counts, and the investigators hope that a further 6-month course of Mycophenolate Mofetil
      will help patients to maintain continuous response and even achieve a cure of ITP. The
      increase in platelet count will likely result in a decreased risk for bleeding and better
      health-related quality of life. In addition, responders potentially will be able to stop
      concomitant ITP medications and will not suffer from adverse events of various ITP therapies
      and will avoid undergoing splenectomy.

      This multi-center, randomized study will help physicians determine the best treatment option
      for ITP patients and may help to establish a new standard of care.

      The knowledge to be gained is that of:

        1. whether R+3D and placebo confirms the previous data on R+3D

        2. whether R+3D + MMF increases the cure rate of ITP

        3. whether R+3D + MMF increases the risk of serious infections

      The investigators do not believe that the triple therapy will result in a high rate of
      serious infections based on the past track record of R+3D and of MMF in combination with
      other stronger immunosuppressive medications such as cyclosporine and tacrolimus. Therefore
      the risk will be limited and worth the increase in cure rate that we expect.
    
  