
    
      Background:

      Older cancer patients (> 65 years) represent the majority of the cancer population, and their
      number grows due to an aging population. These patients often present with a multiplicity of
      problems. They frequently suffer from physical- or mental health comorbidities, and are often
      frail with impairment in mobility, daily life functioning and cognition. When diagnosed with
      cancer and in need of therapy, they are at substantial risk of complications and functional
      decline.

      Geriatric assessment with management (GAM) has documented success in improving outcomes in
      older patients with other diseases than cancer. Thus, GAM is strongly recommended as an
      approach to optimize treatment and care for older cancer patients. Evidence for the potential
      benefits is still scarce and in particular for older patients receiving radiotherapy.

      Although GAM has been proven successful in other contexts, there is no universally accepted
      recipe for how such an intervention should be performed and implemented. To be feasible and
      efficient, adjustments according to patient population, health care organization and
      available resources are necessary. The present study will be conducted to provide the
      evidence needed for a subsequent definitive evaluation of a GAM intervention for older
      patients receiving radiotherapy in a larger RTC, aiming at improving quality of life (QoL)
      and function, and thereby reduce the burden for the patients, their families and the society.

      The detailed objectives are to:

        1. assess the potential short- and long-term effect of the intervention on global QoL and
           physical functioning for older cancer patients receiving RT

        2. assess the feasibility of the intervention

             1. at the patient level (recruitment, compliance and adherence)

             2. at the organizational level (structures facilitating or impeding implementation and
                collaboration across sectors and between professionals)

        3. study the use of health care services and related costs in the intervention and control
           group

      Methods:

      The study emerges from Innlandet Hospital Trust and will be conducted in cooperation with
      Trondheim University Hospital, and 30 municipalities in the catchment area of Innlandet
      Hospital Trust, and Trondheim Municipality. The intervention is developed by an
      interdisciplinary, experienced research group in close collaboration with user
      representatives, hospital- and primary health care professionals. It is based on experience,
      results and preliminary results from foregoing studies by our study group (including
      NCT03071640 and NCT01742442) and focus group interviews with health professionals.

      The design is cluster-randomized, randomizing municipalities and city districts. Patients
      will be recruited at the radiotherapy units at Innlandet Hospital Trust (primary study
      center) and Trondheim University Hospital (second study center). Anticipated number of
      participants from the two hospitals is 102 patients and 60 patients, respectively.

      Eligible, consenting patients will be included by the start of radiotherapy (RT), and enter
      the control or intervention groups in accordance with the assignment of the municipality or
      city district in which they reside. They will be followed with study specific assessments for
      one year after end of RT, and for survival for five years.

      Assessments:

      By the time of inclusion, demographic and medical characteristics (including cancer
      diagnosis, stage of disease, former and ongoing tumor treatment, ECOG performance status, RT
      treatment aim (palliative or curative), and comorbidity. Detailed information about the RT
      schedule will be registered by the end of RT.

      Patient reported outcomes (EORTC QLQ-C30 and EQ-5D-5L) will be assessed at baseline, by the
      end of RT, and thereafter 4, 8, 16, 32 and 52 weeks after RT. Physical performance tests,
      i.e. Short Physical Performance Battery (SPPB), Timed Up and Go (TUG), grip strength and
      one-legged balance test, will be applied at baseline and 8 and 16 weeks after the end of RT.
      Cognitive function will be tested at baseline using the MiniCog.

      To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the intervention in comparison to control (standard
      care), detailed information on the patients' use of health care services (home based and
      institutional care) will be registered throughout the intervention period and during
      follow-up (one year, week 52).

      Feasibility will be assessed by a process evaluation, aiming to identify facilitators and
      barriers for a successful implementation, using mixed methodology. Measures recommended for
      each patient's intervention plan will be consecutively registered, as will patients'
      compliance and adherence through weekly contact with the coordinating nurse (log notes).
      Further data will include interviews with patients and providers. Questionnaires to involved
      primary health care nurses and other relevant professionals will also be applied.
    
  