
    
      This study is a randomized controlled trial performed at Department of Nephrology
      Rigshospitalet, Copenhagen Denmark. Sixty patients will be randomized to either 26 weeks on
      the NNRD (intervention) or 26 weeks on their habitual diet (control). The patients will be
      randomized by blinded drawing by lot. The study participants can leave the trial at any time
      during the study period, without any explanation. The investigator can at any time pull a
      patient out of the trial, if there is concern for the patient's safety or if there is a
      breach in terms of following the protocol. The principal investigator is required to document
      and report dropouts from the study.

      The project group has entered a cooperation agreement with Danish chefs. The agreement
      involves that a team consisting of highly talented chefs will create the recipes for the
      intervention. The recipes will be created in close collaboration with the principal
      investigator who will use her expertise within Clinical Nutrition to combine the
      international nutrients guidelines and culinarian experiences. Moreover, the agreement holds
      that they will find the raw materials needed for the recipes and deliver them weekly to the
      patients' homes throughout the study period in packages containing the recipes and raw
      materials. There will be no financial costs for the patients. The patients in the
      intervention group are expected to follow the recipes five days of the week during the study
      period. The final two days of the week, the patients must plan their own meals. However,
      still following the recommended guidelines upon the NNRD whole food approach delivered from
      the principal investigator, who is a phd.-student and also a registered clinical dietitian
      and MSc in clinical nutrition (Nikita Misella Hansen).

      Sample size calculation and statistical analysis:

      The sample size calculation is based on results from previous studies performed by this study
      group. Within 6 months of participating in this study we expect a decrease in eGFR to be
      about 1 ml/min/1.73 m2. This will have no influence on the total amount of 24-h urine
      phosphorus excretion (primary endpoint), as CKD progresses normophosphatemia is maintained by
      increasing the per nephron urinary phosphorus excretion stimulated by an increase in FGF23
      and PTH leading to progressively increasing plasma levels of FGF23 and SHP the
      "phospho-toxicity model hypothesis" to a compensation from PTH and FGF23. In a randomized
      controlled study with a type-1-error risk of 0.05 (alfa, two tailed) and a power of 80%
      (beta) with a standard deviation of 24-h urine phosphorus excretion of 200 mg and a minimum
      clinical relevant difference of 300 mg the study population is estimated to 21 in each group.
      In case of drop-outs we will include 30 participants in each group. Therefore, total number
      of patients to be included in this study is 60.

      Timeline for the study:

        1. Baseline (day 0)

           Written consent will be obtained, randomization will be performed, and the following
           data will be registered:

             -  Patient history: Gender, age, disease history, current medical record, diagnoses

             -  Comorbidities - e.g. cardiovascular diseases, chronic obstructive lung disease,
                diabetes, hyperlipidemia, hypertension

             -  Smoking (years) and alcohol consumption (average per week)

             -  Blood- and urine samples

             -  DEXA-scan and Electrocardiogram (ECG)

             -  Blood pressure

             -  Weight, BMI, hip- and waist circumference

             -  Questionnaires regarding quality of life

             -  Dietary record

        2. Day 14 The patients will be asked to deliver a 24-hour urine sample for measuring
           phosphorus excretion. Furthermore, blood samples will be drawn

        3. Day 30, 60, 90, 120, 150

           Every 4th week during the study period of 26 weeks (a total of 6 times) all patients
           will be evaluated at the Department of Nephrology, University Hospital, Copenhagen.
           During these first 5 visits the following data will be gathered:

             -  24-h urine phosphorus excretion

             -  Blood samples

             -  Blood pressure

             -  Weight, hip- and waist circumference

        4. Once a week Once every week the principal investigator will offer all the patients a
           telephone meeting. Duration of the phone conversation will depend on individual needs,
           but up to 20 minutes per patient/week despite of allocation. The content of these
           conversations will evolve around dietary intake and overall general condition. The
           principal investigator is in close collaboration with the others in the research group
           who are all medical doctors and will discuss any clinical problem if needed.

        5. Day 180 (study completion)

           During the last day of the study period, the patients will be asked to meet at
           Rigshospitalet one more time. Data as on day 30, 60, 90, 120 and 150 will be gathered,
           moreover the following information will be obtained:

             -  DEXA-scan and ECG

             -  Weight, BMI, hip- and waist circumference

             -  Questionnaires regarding quality of life

             -  Dietary record

        6. Follow-up visit Three months after study completion there will be an end-of-trial visit
           with a 24-h urine collection and blood samples
    
  