
    
      Research Design: Using a 2-group randomized control trial, the investigators will evaluate
      the intervention in comparison to usual care. Usual care is traditional clinic-based care,
      which will be enhanced by 2 phone calls to provide an attention control condition.

      Methodology: Participants will be 100 Veterans diagnosed with mild to moderate TBI who are
      followed by the Philadelphia VA Medical Center (PVAMC) Polytrauma Service and a family member
      (100) of each Veteran. All Veterans will have a family member or partner living with them who
      is willing to participate in the study. The intervention and study interviews will occur in
      Veterans' homes. Qualitative phone interviews with a subset of the sample who received the
      intervention will be conducted at PVAMC.

      Primary study outcomes for the Veterans will be physical, cognitive, and
      emotional/interpersonal functioning and community reintegration, measured by standardized
      instruments at baseline and follow-up at 3 to 4 months. Study outcomes for family members
      will be mood and dimensions of well-being, measured by standardized instruments at baseline
      and follow-up at 3 to 4 months. Acceptability of the intervention for Veterans and family
      members will be measured through Project Evaluations, administered at follow-up with both
      groups. In addition, qualitative phone interviews will be conducted with a subset of Veterans
      and family members who received VIP to evaluate VIP's acceptability and to enhance
      understanding of the impact of VIP from the perspective of those experiencing it.

      Based on a person-environment fit framework, the VIP intervention consists of 8 sessions (up
      to 6 in the home and 2 telephone contacts) delivered by occupational therapists over a 3
      month period to Veterans and family members. VIP realigns environmental demands to match
      Veterans' abilities through the modification of home environments, development of meaningful
      activities tailored to Veterans' strengths, training in the use of emotion-regulation
      strategies to address behavioral/interpersonal difficulties, and training in the use of
      cognitive strategies to compensate for cognitive impairments. In its family focus, VIP
      provides family members with education and training to understand and manage the Veterans'
      limitations.

      Clinical relationships: VIP extends and adds value to traditional on-site clinical care by
      helping individuals with TBI and their families in the setting where most functional and
      behavioral problems emerge. As a skills-building intervention, VIP has the potential to
      enhance Veterans' abilities to function effectively in their home environments and to improve
      their quality of life and that of their families.
    
  