
    
      SPACEWALK is an innovative remote consent and participation study using next-generation
      sequencing (NGS) of plasma cell-free DNA (cfDNA) to characterize resistance mechanisms
      arising in ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) after progression while on a next
      generation ALK tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI). Additionally, the study will capture the
      potential of genomic-driven resistance therapy approach for effecting outcomes in patients
      with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC and TKI resistance. Finally, the study will assess the role
      of repeat plasma NGS in evaluating drug response.

      The study will accrue patients with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC on systemic progression
      (outside the brain) while on treatment with a next-generation ALK TKI. Any patient interested
      in the study will find information about the study on the study website. The patient will
      consent remotely through the study website and documentation of advanced ALK-positive NSCLC
      and systemic progression while on a next-generation ALK TKI. The study team will then reach
      out to the patient to confirm eligibility and send a blood collection kit. In the study kit
      the study participants will find all the necessary materials for local blood draws and
      collected specimens will be sent directly to the central study laboratory (Resolution
      Bioscience) for plasma NGS.

      Plasma NGS of cfDNA will involve sequencing of 19 genes, including ALK, permitting remote
      tumor genotyping. Plasma NGS analysis and results will be done following standard procedures
      of the Resolution Bioscience CLIA-certified laboratory. Results will take 1-2 weeks to be
      sent back to study participants, their physicians and study team. Those plasma NGS reports
      will not include any specific treatment recommendations but will describe the presence of an
      ALK rearrangement, ALK resistance mutation, or other relevant mutations.

      Study participants are then followed remotely. The study coordinator will contact the
      participants weekly for 4 weeks after enrolled into the study to learn of any new treatment
      initiation and to release an additional plasma collection kit 2-4 weeks after starting
      treatment. Study participants will then be remotely contacted every 3 months to follow
      clinical outcomes on therapy for up to 2 years. If the cancer begins to grow again on the
      participant's new treatment, the patient will have the option to provide a third blood
      specimen. Medical records and local imaging will be collected and studied.

      The primary objective of the study is to characterize ALK TKI resistance to next-generation
      ALK TKIs in patients with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC. Secondarily, the investigators will
      assess the potential of plasma NGS to impact outcome on treatment by studying time to
      treatment discontinuation (TTD). Serial plasma NGS will also be assessed as a response
      biomarker. A total of 300 patients will be enrolled, with the expectation that approximately
      200 will have tumor-related mutations detected in plasma NGS.
    
  