
    
      This is a multi centre, multiple dose, open label study to investigate the safety,
      tolerability, pharmacodynamics and efficacy of EE-TP in patients with MNGIE. The study will
      be conducted in an open label manner with all patients receiving EE-TP.

      The study will enrol 12 adult treatment naïve patients with MNGIE, aged 18 years or older at
      Screening. With Independent Data Monitoring Committee (IDMC) approval, a further four
      juvenile patients (aged 16-17) will be recruited after at least 24 patient-months exposure to
      treatment. With IDMC approval, a further four juvenile patients (aged 12-15) will be
      recruited after at least 24 patient-months exposure to treatment in the 16-17 year old
      patient group.

      Screening failures and patients withdrawing from the study may be substituted with IDMC
      approval. Patients who have previously received EE-TP on a 'compassionate use' basis may be
      included in the study, if they meet eligibility criteria; these patients will be additional
      and will not be included in the sample size of 12.

      The total sample size of 12 adult treatment naïve patients is not based on a formal
      statistical assessment, but is dictated by practical considerations mainly due to the rarity
      of the condition.

      All patients will be administered EE-TP by intravenous (IV) infusion. There are 3 planned
      dose levels:

        -  Dose Level 1 (low dose): ~58 -65 x10^10 erythrocytes encapsulating 30 to 49 U TP/10^10
           erythrocytes

        -  Dose Level 2 (mid dose): ~58 -65 x10^10 erythrocytes encapsulating 50 to 69 U TP/10^10
           erythrocytes

        -  Dose Level 3 (high dose): ~58 -65 x10^10 erythrocytes encapsulating 70 to 90 U TP/10^10
           erythrocytes

      All patients will receive infusions at Dose Level 1 (low dose) for the first 2 treatment
      cycles. If metabolic correction is not achieved, the subsequent 2 treatment cycles will be
      infusions at Dose Level 2 (mid dose). If metabolic correction is still not achieved,
      treatment will advance to Dose Level 3 (high dose) for subsequent treatment cycles. If, at
      any time during this progression, metabolic correction is achieved, the patient will continue
      at the Dose Level in which metabolic correction has been achieved and there will be no
      further dose escalation.

      Metabolic correction is defined as plasma thymidine <3 µmol/L and deoxyuridine <5 µmol/L
      (i.e., below the diagnostic levels for MNGIE).

      The doses listed represent the planned doses; the starting dose will be Dose Level 1. It is
      anticipated that the highest dose will not exceed Dose Level 3; however, if metabolic
      correction is not achieved for an individual patient at this dose level, other modifications
      of dosing, such as increasing the number of erythrocytes administered in each infusion can be
      made.

      Patients will be administered EE-TP every 3 weeks until the dose level achieving metabolic
      correction is identified. From Day 78 (or once metabolic correction has been achieved), it is
      planned that patients will receive EE-TP every 2 to 4 weeks until the end of the study. The
      interval between doses will not be shorter than 2 weeks ± 2 days. Dose selection will be
      flexible; continued pharmacodynamic assessment will enable dose optimization and further
      inform dose response models and establish the therapeutic window for the treatment.

      Single doses of EE-TP will be administered on Day 0 then every 3 weeks until metabolic
      correction is achieved. The starting dose will be Dose Level 1, with potential subsequent
      dose levels of Dose Level 2 and Dose Level 3 dependent on whether metabolic correction is
      achieved or not. All doses will be administered IV.

      From Day 78 (or once metabolic correction has been achieved), it is planned that patients
      will receive EE-TP every 2 to 4 weeks until the end of the study. Dose frequency may be
      reduced (e.g., from every 2 weeks to every 3 to 4 weeks) for individual patients based on
      ongoing review of emerging safety, tolerability, efficacy, and pharmacodynamic data. The
      interval between doses will not be shorter than 2 weeks ±2 days.

      The dose level from day 78 onward will remain at the dose that achieved metabolic correction
      during the initial treatment phase (pre-day 78). In the advent of an increase in plasma
      metabolite levels (i.e. loss of metabolic correction), the frequency of dosing and/or dose
      level will be reviewed and adjusted accordingly.

      Infusions with EE-TP will occur once every 2 to 4 weeks for 24 months.

      Planned Enrolment/Screening (Run in) Duration: approximately 28 days (Days 120 to Day 92).
      Run-in period of 90 days (Days -91 to 0) for repeated evaluations of a number of assessments.
      Follow up, 90 days post dose. Planned Study Conduct Duration: approximately 31 months
      including screening, run-in period and post dose follow-up.
    
  