
    
      Intimate partner violence is a problem arising in adolescence, which causes severe suffering.
      Since the first romantic relationships are established during adolescence, implementation of
      preventive interventions during this developmental stage opens a window of opportunity for
      the prevention of partner aggression. Previous prevention programs have shown efficacy in
      modifying cognitions and attitudes related to dating violence, although behavioral changes
      have been reported in very few cases. Recent innovative brief interventions based on changing
      entity theories of personality (i.e., the belief that people cannot change and personal
      characteristics are fixed; Miu & Yeager, 2015) have provided good results for preventing
      depression and other behavioral problems in adolescents. Therefore, the principal aim of this
      study is to examine whether a brief one-hour intervention based on promoting the idea that
      people can change shows efficacy in the prevention of perpetration and victimization of
      dating aggressive behaviors (both online -cyber dating abuse- and traditional -face-to-face
      dating aggression-) in adolescents. Additionally, other objective of the project is to
      examine whether gender moderates the effects of the intervention in changes in dating
      violence. The study involves the evaluation of the intervention in a sample of around 400
      adolescents (13-18 years), randomly allocated to experimental and control conditions. It is a
      field experiment conducted in high schools and involves multiple measures over time
      (self-reports and parent reports). In summary, the project aims to respond to the challenge
      of health and wellness in the population through a randomized controlled trial with multiple
      sources of measure and from a biopsychosocial perspective. The ITP intervention has the
      potential to become a universal intervention to help reduce the rates of adolescent dating
      violence.
    
  