
    
      Introduction One important goal in anesthetic management during ocular surgery is to provide
      adequate control of intraocular pressure (IOP). An increase in IOP may be catastrophic in
      patients with glaucoma or a penetrating open-eye injury. Accurate assessment of IOP is
      particularly important in infants and children with definite or suspected glaucoma undergoing
      examination under anesthesia (EUA).

      There is an ongoing debate over the effect of anesthetic agents on the IOP. Anesthetic
      regimens in this surgical field commonly consist of short-acting anesthetic agents, such as
      propofol and sevoflurane, usually combined with short-acting analgesics, such as remifentanil
      [1-3].

      Both propofol and sevoflurane are known to reduce the IOP [4-7]. Previous studies have
      compared these two anesthetics protocols in order to determine which provides superior
      control of the IOP. Propofol produced significantly lower IOP measurements compared to
      sevoflurane (both combined with remifentanil), in cataract surgery [8], whereas in
      non-ophthalmic surgery propofol and sevoflurane caused a comparable decrease in IOP [9].

      Sevoflurane, an inhalational anesthetic, has a rapid onset of action, faster recovery time
      and lower incidence of reported side effects in pediatric patients [10], and is also suitable
      for inhalation induction because it does not irritate the airway [3].

      During pediatric ocular surgery, the inspired sevoflurane concentration is normally maximal
      at induction of anesthesia (approximately end-tidal concentration of 7%), and it is
      thereafter reduced or discontinued to achieve an end-tidal sevoflurane concentration of <0.1%
      by the completion of skin closure. In between these time points the inhaled end-tidal
      concentration gradually decreases and may have an impact over the IOP that could affect the
      conduct of surgery. A prospective randomized clinical trial compared the effects of ketamine
      and sevoflurane on IOP during the eight minutes after induction of anesthesia (in 2-minute
      intervals) in children with suspected or diagnosed glaucoma undergoing EUA [5]. During these
      8 minutes the IOP decreased significantly only in the sevoflurane group. This finding
      contradicted claims that measurements immediately after induction are relatively unaffected
      by anesthetics, and suggested that variations in sevoflurane concentration do affect the IOP.
      To this end there is no data in the literature to support or disprove this finding.

      Study Objective To assess the effect of different end-tidal sevoflurane concentrations on the
      IOP in children with healthy eyes undergoing extraocular procedures, i.e., strabismus
      correction and tear duct probing and irrigation.

      Study hypothesis We believe that variations in the end-tidal sevoflurane concentrations have
      no significant effect on the IOP of healthy eyes.

      Study design This is a prospective randomized trial of 21 children undergoing ocular surgery.
      Informed consent will first be obtained from the parent or legal guardian. After induction of
      anesthesia and before onset of surgery, IOP will be measured in both eyes under four
      different concentrations of inhaled sevoflurane.

      Intra-operative anesthetic management Anesthetic management will be performed by a trained
      pediatric anesthesiologist. All patients will be premedicated with 0.5 mg/kg (up to 15 mg)
      midazolam P.O. 30min before surgery. No significant change in IOP has been reported for
      midazolam [11]. Induction of anesthesia will be carried out with sevoflurane 8% in 100%
      oxygen carrier gas. After induction of anesthesia, laryngeal mask will be inserted, and
      sevoflurane end-tidal concentrations will be adjusted according to the study protocol and
      assigned group (see "patient allocation and assessment"). No other systemic anesthetic agents
      will be used during IOP measurements. IOP measurements will be performed after induction of
      anesthesia. Thereafter, maintenance of anesthesia will be carried out with either spontaneous
      ventilation at one to two minimal alveolar concentration of sevoflurane (2 to 4%) in 100%
      oxygen, or mechanical ventilation, as commonly used in pediatric surgery. Standardized
      intraoperative monitoring will be employed for all subjects by an anesthesiologist.

      Intra-operative surgical management Routine strabismus correction or tear duct probing and
      irrigation procedures will be performed on each subject, as described elsewhere [12].

      Patient allocation and assessment

      Consented patients will be randomly (by means of computer-generated assignment of random
      numbers) allocated to one of three groups (n=7 in each group). In each group IOP will be
      measured and recorded under four different predetermined end-tidal sevoflurane
      concentrations: 7%, 5%, 2%, 0.5%. The order of concentrations will differ between the groups,
      to eliminate the effect of exposure time:

        1. 7%, 5%, 2%, 0.5%

        2. 7%, 2%, 5%, 0.5%

        3. 7%, 0.5%, 5%, 2% IOP will be measured by the ophthalmologist via both TonoPen XL and
           Schioz devices. Measurements will be taken from each eye alternatively for three
           consecutive readings, at each of the abovementioned concentrations. There is no known
           risk at IOP reading. At the same times, the anesthesiologist will record systolic and
           diastolic blood pressure (SBP, DBP) and heart rate (HR), End Tidal CO2, via iMDsoft
           software.

      In addition, we will collect demographic data (e.g., age, gender, weight) for each patient.
      Routine post operative follow up will be performed.
    
  