
    
      Analyzing qualitatively and quantitatively genetic alterations with an efficient, simple and
      cost-effective test from blood samples could optimize therapeutic decision-making and
      personalized cancer care. Cell-free DNA (ccfDNA) levels in the plasma of CRC patients are
      significantly higher than in healthy patients. These levels decrease progressively in
      tumor-free patients during the follow-up period and increase in patients with recurrence or
      metastasis. In the near future, the detection of circulating DNA (ccfDNA) could therefore
      represent a technology breakthrough for diagnosis, prognosis, detection of tumor growth and
      cancer patient follow up.

      We designed a refined and innovative method which simultaneously allows the determination of
      three parameters: the specific quantification of tumor-derived ccfDNA, the ccfDNA
      fragmentation index, and SNP (Single Nucleotide Polymorphism) or point mutation detection. In
      addition to its unprecedented sensitivity and specificity, this qPCR based-method (termed
      IntPlex®), recently patented by the CNRS, is easy and rapid, and the first multiplexed test
      for ccfDNA.

      Evaluation and validation of the IntPlex® test was examined in response to the pressing need
      to determine the KRAS/BRAF mutational status before anti-EGFR therapy in CRC patients. As a
      consequence, the method was adapted to detect the six more frequent KRAS mutations in CRC
      (G12D, G12V, G13D, G12S, G12C, G12A) and the BRAF V600E. We then carried out the first
      blinded prospective study to compare KRAS and BRAF mutational status data obtained from the
      analysis of tumor tissue by routine gold standard methods and of plasma DNA using our
      original method (ASCO oral communication). The mutational status was determined by both
      methods in 70 patient samples. Our results clearly showed for the first time that ccfDNA
      analysis for KRAS mutation could replace advantageously tumor-section analysis. CcfDNA
      analysis showed 100% specificity and sensitivity for the BRAF V600E mutation. For the six
      tested KRAS point mutations, the method exhibited 100% specificity and 87% sensitivity with a
      concordance value of 96%.

      The goal of this multicenter prospective study is to validate, and ultimately translate in
      routine clinical practice, the use of plasma analysis of ccfDNA for the determination of KRAS
      mutation status in mCRC patients.
    
  