
    
      Participants will be asked to visit laboratories at the University of Bath on four occasions,
      with each visit separated by at least 2 days. Each visit will last approximately 5 hours.

      Participants will be asked to provide informed consent to participate in the study and to
      answer a number of questions to confirm that it is safe for them to do so, and to confirm
      eligibility. Participants will be asked to monitor their diet for 48 h before their first
      laboratory visit, and then to replicate this diet before subsequent visits. Participants will
      also be asked abstain from caffeine (i.e tea and coffee), alcohol and strenuous physical
      activity the day before visiting us (e.g. no exercise that causing sweating or heavy
      breathing).

      Participants will be asked to arrive to the laboratory after having not eaten for at least 5
      hours, having drunk one pint of water at least one hour before testing. Upon arrival at the
      laboratory a person trained and experienced in sampling blood will insert a cannula (a small
      plastic tube) into a vein on the participants arm. This is to allow for repeated blood
      sampling every 30-60 minutes during their visit.

      Participants will then be provided with one of the four supplements under investigation (i.e.
      either a placebo or one of the preparations derived from tea) to ingest as fluid along with a
      standard milkshake that provides participants with 40 g of fat, such that the appearance of
      this fat in the bloodstream can be measured. Of the 55 participants in this study, additional
      measurements will be made on a randomly selected sub-group of 15 to directly trace the
      appearance of fat in their blood samples; if participants have been asked and agreed to this
      part of the study then some of the fat in their milkshake would be a stable isotope tracer
      (13C-Tripalmitin). Participants will then rest comfortably, and a 10 ml sample of blood will
      be drawn from participants every 30 minutes for two hours, and at three hours, after
      consumption of the high fat drink.
    
  