
    
      Maternal Immunisation research in LMICs

      Maternal immunisation is an evolving field that deserves special attention given its
      potential to have a significant positive impact on the health of women and children globally,
      and the potential safety and risk considerations associated with research in this population.

      Prior to undertaking any maternal vaccine study, it is vital that the background rates of
      pregnancy and neonatal outcomes are clearly documented as these vary by setting, so that
      safety signals during vaccine trials can be correctly assessed . Given the important
      contribution that maternal immunisations could make to reducing maternal and neonatal
      morbidity, efforts are underway to standardise case definitions used to classify adverse
      events in maternal vaccine trials. Historically, this has not been the case, limiting
      comparability between countries and pre and post-licensure. In 2014, in response to a call
      from the World Health Organisation (WHO) and with funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates
      Foundation, the GAIA (Global Alignment on Immunisation Safety Assessment in pregnancy)
      consortium was formed, with the goal of developing a harmonised, globally concerted approach
      to actively monitor the safety of clinical trials, vaccines and immunization programs in
      pregnancy. The group have developed 21 standardised case definitions for the classification
      of adverse obstetric and neonatal events including the need to follow up vaccinated women for
      6 months and infants for one year following vaccination.

      Study Setting Uganda has a long history of conducting prevention of mother to child HIV
      transmission (PMTCT) trials as well as vaccine trials for Ebola and Human Immunodeficiency
      Virus 9. The established National Drug Authority (NDA) and National Immunisation Technical
      Advisory Group (NITAG) provide pharmacovigilance capacity and an effective platform for
      monitoring drug and vaccine safety. Makerere University John Hopkins University Research
      Collaboration (MUJHU) has led multiple PMTCT and HIV therapeutic trials 10. This
      collaboration with St George's University, who are leaders in immunisation research, presents
      a unique opportunity to develop a maternal vaccination platform for future trials in Uganda.

      Funding has been provided from the European Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership
      (EDCTP) to develop a maternal vaccine trial platform at Kawempe National Referral Hospital.
      It is anticipated that a tetanus, diptheria and acellular pertussis (Tdap) study will be
      conducted in 2020 followed by two GBS vaccine trials.

      The study site, Kawempe National Referral Hospital, is developing as a centre of excellence
      for maternal and child health studies in Uganda with several large studies of neonatal
      encephalopathy, neonatal resuscitation (Clinical Trials - NCT03133572) and birth defects 11
      being conducted at the site. Capacity building activities in Kawempe have included
      implementation and piloting of an electronic medical record (EMR) system to enhance routine
      data collection. This system provides an opportunity for embedding vaccine surveillance
      activities for adverse pregnancy outcomes into routine data capture systems which support
      clinical care.

      Kawempe Electronic Medical Record The Uganda Electronic Medical Record (UgandaEMR) is an
      electronic health record system developed to capture patient level data collected during
      service delivery. The system is supported by Uganda's Ministry of Health through its
      Department of Health Informatics (DHI) with technical support from the CDC funded Monitoring
      and Evaluation Technical support program (METs) under the Makerere University School of
      Public Health. The system was developed based on open source technology, OpenMRS, and was
      initially implemented to capture patient level data for HIV care and treatment programs. The
      system has been rolled out to more than 600 health facilities countrywide and METS aim to
      rollout it out to 1000 health facilities by the end of 2019. Makerere University John's
      Hopkins University Research Collaboration (MUJHU) pioneered extension of the system to
      capture Maternal and Child Health (MCH) information through a pilot implementation initiated
      in February 2017 in the high-volume national referral hospital in Kawempe, Kampala.
      Additional data entrants were deployed to capture the e-data in parallel to the standard
      paper register-based data collection coupled with training and continuous quality improvement
      measures to support and promote complete and accurate recording in the hospital source forms.
      An evaluation of the pilot implementation found significant improvement in completeness of
      both paper and electronic data collected during service delivery from an average of 60% at
      baseline to over 90% at the end of the pilot implementation period.

      GBS Vaccine Research The PREPARE project is an international collaboration that aims to
      accelerate GBS vaccine development and licensure. It is composed of five work packages (WP).
      As part of the EDCTP funded PREPARE project two GBS vaccine trials (PREPARE WP4 and 5) will
      be conducted at Kawempe National Referral Hospital.

      In preparation for GBS clinical trials, PREPARE WP2 aims to characterise the Kawempe National
      Referral hospital baseline pregnancy, neonatal and infant outcomes in preparation for future
      GBS vaccine trial studies. Pregnancy is associated with complications which must be
      differentiated from adverse events associated with the administration of vaccines. The
      frequency of such pregnancy related complications varies significantly by geographical
      location and the prevalence of such pregnancy and neonatal outcomes are poorly documented in
      majority of developing countries.
    
  