
    
      The present study aims to assess whether special support approaches i.e. Interventions
      influence patients with Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA), to use the Mandibular Advancement
      Appliance (MAA) or the anti-snoring mouth guard, more as compared to those who receive
      standard care.

      Factors such as mood, anxiety, stress, depression, socioeconomic status, and social support
      play an important role in the ability of the patients to make decisions about using the
      appliance. Thus, the investigators also aim to explore the potential role these factors play
      in the decision-making process to help future patients make most of their treatments.

      Patients meeting the selection criteria will be provided with a patient information leaflet,
      explaining the whole study. Interested patients will be asked to sign the Informed Consent,
      after which they will be randomly assigned into two groups- Intervention Care group (IC) and
      Standardized Care group (SCG).

      Patients will be provided with a sleep diary to record their hours of sleep and usage of MAA,
      which will give a subjective record of the adherence (duration of usage of MAA) and an
      objective record of the adherence will be collected from a sensor present in the MAA.

      At Initial Screening, the patient's age, gender, body mass index (BMI) and neck circumference
      will be recorded. Patients in the IC group will receive a Health Pamphlet about OSA,
      specially designed for this study. The IC group's knowledge of OSA will be assessed along
      with their partner's. Patients in the IC group will be shown a 10 min video highlighting the
      negative impact of OSA. While patients in the SC group will only be provided with a pamphlet
      about OSA and MAA as per standard routine care.

      Patients of both the group will be asked to complete questionnaires regarding their
      personality, socioeconomic status, social support and quality of sleep and life.

      Along the course of the treatment, patients in the IC group will be contacted by telephone at
      3, 6, 18, and 21 weeks into the treatment to solve any technical problems with the appliance
      and for verbal encouragement.

      Both IC and SC groups will be called for follow-up at 3 and 6 months into the treatment. Data
      indicating the hours of usage of the MAA will be collected at 3 and 6 months to assess
      whether patients in the IC group wore the appliance for more hours as compared to those who
      are in the SC group. Patients will also be required to complete questionnaires at follow-up
      appointments. Data from the questionnaires will be analyzed to identify the factors
      influencing patients adherence to MAA.

      At the end of follow-up, one-to-one interviews will be conducted with both (n=5-10) compliant
      (users) and non-compliant (non-users) patients. It will comprise of questions, which will
      address the following topics:

        -  Patient's awareness of risks and benefits of OSA

        -  Barriers and Facilitators of MAA therapy The interviews will be conducted face-to-face
           and will be recorded using an audio recorder device and transcribed by a third party,
           Essential Secretary LTD.
    
  