
    
      Background

      Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) usually occurs suddenly and is associated with considerably
      high mortality rate. The infarct-related artery in inferior wall AMI is usually located at
      right coronary artery (RCA), less often at left circumflex coronary artery (LCX). [1,2]
      Inferior wall AMI occlusive site above the first right ventricular branch of RCA was more
      frequently associated with right ventricular infarction, which had higher incidence of
      bradyarrhythmia, shock, and in-hospital death.[3-7] Early recognition of the site of
      infarct-related artery and respond promptly may result in a significant reduction in
      in-hospital mortality and morbidity.[8-10] Coronary angiography is considered to be the gold
      standard for determining the culprit site of infarct-related artery, but it is an invasive
      examination. Additionally, not all hospitals have the facility in performing the cardiac
      catheterization. There were several non-invasive methods to predict the culprit site
      including: radioneuclear imaging study, echocardiography or electrocardiogram. Among these
      methods, electrocardiogram is one of the most simple and useful tools. Several studies have
      used ST segment elevation in lead III > ST segment elevation in lead II and ST segment
      depression in lead I, aVL or both to predict that culprit site was located at RCA; ST segment
      elevation in lead I, aVL, V5 and V6 and ST segment depression in V1, V2 and V3 to predict
      that the culprit site was located at LCX. [11-24] These electrocardiogram readings including
      lead III, II, I, aVL, V1, V2, V3, V5 and V6 , which can only differentiate RCA and LCX
      lesions. If clinicians are intended to know whether the culprit site is located at proximal
      or distal RCA, further evaluation of the ST segment elevation in leads V1 and V4R,would be
      needed [25] which makes the algorithm involving too many leads and not so easy to remember.
      Thus, the aim of this study is designing a method which is simple and useful in identifying
      the culprit sites in inferior wall acute myocardial infarction (AMI).

      Methods

      Study Patients:

      From review of the medical records, patients suffered from first inferior wall AMI will be
      enrolled in this study. The diagnosis of acute inferior AMI includes: 1) chest pain > 30
      minutes; 2) ST elevation > 1mm in at least two of the three inferior lead (II, III, AVF); and
      3) 2-fold increase in serum creatine kinase levels. At least 2 of the above 3 criteria are
      necessary to confirm the diagnosis. Right ventricular infarction is diagnosed by the presence
      of an ST-segment elevation of 0.1 mV in the V3R or V4R lead (recorded in all patients with
      inferior wall MI) in the electrocardiogram performed within 15 minutes after arrival at
      emergent department. Exclusion criteria include previous AMI or coronary artery bypass
      surgery, electrocardiographic evidence of bundle branch block, undetermined culprit site by
      coronary angiography, or first electrocardiogram obtained more than 12 hours after the onset
      of symptoms. Patient's demographic variables, important risk factors and clinical outcomes
      including atrioventricular block, arrhythmia, shock, mortality during the first hospital days
      are recorded.

      All patients received dual anti-platelates with aspirin and clopidegrol, and anti-coagulant
      (low molecular weight heparin or unfractured heparin) regimen. Most of the patients have
      received primary percutanuous coronary intervention. The GpIIb/IIIa antagonists is
      administered in all patients.

      Electrocardiogarphy:

      Standard 12-lead electrocardiogram is performed within 12 hours after onset of chest pain in
      all study patients. ST-segment deviation from isoelectric line will be measured with a
      calliper at the point of 80 ms after the J point. The preceding TP-segment is considered as
      the isoelectric line. The magnitudes of ST-segment deviation in 12-lead electrocardiogram and
      V4R are also assessed.

      Coronary angiography:

      Coronary angiography is performed during the first day of admission. The cineangiography
      films are reviewed by 2 interventional cardiologists who are blinded to the
      electrocardiographic findings. The culprit artery is defined as total occlusion (Thrombolysis
      in Myocardial Infarction, TIMI grade 0) or significant stenosis (> 70% diameter stenosis) of
      RCA or LCX and of their major branches with intraluminal thrombosis or supply to hypokinetic
      territory. The occlusion site of infarct-related coronary artery determined by coronary
      angiography is classified into three groups: proximal RCA: lesion proximal to the first right
      ventricular branch of the RCA; distal RCA: lesion distal to the first right ventricular
      branch of the RCA; and LCX groups.

      Statistical analysis:

      The data of electrocardiographic findings, patient's characteristics and clinical outcomes
      are presented as mean ± standard deviation for continuous variables and frequency
      distribution for discrete variables. Chi-square analysis is used to assess the association of
      patients' characteristics with site of culprit lesion. One way ANOVA with Bonferroni post hoc
      test are used to assess the relation between site of culprit lesion and electrocardiographic
      findings. The value of P ≤ 0.05 is considered statistically significant. The cut-off point of
      electrocardiographic criteria for predicting culprit coronary artery is determined by
      receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. The area under the ROC curve represents the
      diagnostic validity of each cut-off points will be determined and compared.
    
  