
    
      Thousands of children each year develop soft tissue swelling after an insect bite or sting
      and present shortly after to emergency departments (ED) across the United States. These
      wounds are particularly pruritic and can become self-inoculated with skin flora resulting in
      cellulitis. Clinicians who suspect cellulitis will typically prescribe oral antibiotics to
      treat this condition. Cellulitis, however, can be confused with a local allergic reaction to
      the insect bite because the physical examination findings are nearly identical. As such, the
      reliability of clinical examination in the diagnosis of pediatric skin and soft tissue
      infections is poor. Consequently, many patients with local allergic reactions are treated
      unnecessarily with antibiotics.

      Patients who take antibiotics may experience unintended and unpleasant side effects such as
      diarrhea and allergic reactions. Moreover, unnecessary antibiotic prescribing is an important
      factor in the development of antibiotic-resistant infections which are estimated to affect 2
      million patients and result in 23 thousand deaths each year in the United States. The medical
      community has thus sought innovative approaches to reducing unnecessary antibiotic use.

      The goal of this study is to reduce unnecessary antibiotic prescriptions for children with
      insect bites that are not infected. This quality improvement initiative will focus on
      children with insect bites presenting to the Pediatric Emergency Department at Jacobi Medical
      Center (Bronx, NY). The pre-intervention phase will consist of patients enrolled prior to the
      physicians receiving a Point-of-Care Ultrasound (POCUS) Educational Intervention. The
      post-intervention phase will consist of patients enrolled after the physicians have received
      a POCUS Educational Intervention. In both phases, the physician will be able to care for the
      patient however he or she believes is appropriate.

      The POCUS Education Intervention will supplement the baseline knowledge of the Pediatric
      Emergency Medicine physician with regards to performing a soft-tissue examination using
      POCUS. A POCUS expert will train all clinicians how to properly perform a soft tissue
      examination using POCUS to differentiate between cellulitis and local reactions due to
      angioedema/allergic reaction. The education will include a formal lecture and practical
      clinical examination. The proportion of patients receiving antibiotics will be compared
      before and after the Educational Initiative had started. All patients will be contacted 3 to
      5 days after their initial emergency department visit to determine if the patient's condition
      worsened, if the patient needed to return to a healthcare provider, and if the patient had
      taken any antibiotics.
    
  