
    
      One hundred and twenty (120) participants with head and neck cancer are scheduled to undergo
      combined radio- and chemotherapy (n = 120).

      Nearly all (90% to 97%) participants receiving radiotherapy in the head and neck will develop
      some degree of mucositis. Of these participants treated with radiotherapy with or without
      chemotherapy, 34% to 43% will present severe mucositis. As a result, the participant's
      quality of life is affected, hospital admittance rates are higher, the use of total
      parenteral nutrition is increased and interruption of treatment is more frequent, all of
      which compromise tumor control. Mucositis causes 9% to 19% of chemotherapy and radiotherapy
      interruption.

      A common chemotherapeutic agent used in head and neck cancer is Cisplatin. Cisplatin (cis-
      diamminedichloroplatinum(II), CDDP) is an antineoplastic drug used in the treatment of many
      cancers including testicular cancer, ovarian cancer, bladder cancer, head and neck cancer,
      esophageal cancer, small and non-small cell lung cancer, breast cancer, cervical cancer,
      stomach cancer, prostate cancer, brain tumors, neuroblastoma, sarcomas, multiple myeloma,
      melanoma, mesothelioma, Hodgkin's lymphoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, pancreatic cancer, and
      thyroid cancer. While toxicities include ototoxicity, gastrotoxicity, myelosuppression, and
      allergic reactions, the main dose-limiting side effect of cisplatin is nephrotoxicity
      followed by ototoxicity.

      Tempol is a piperidine nitroxide. Nitroxides are a class of stable free radical compounds
      that have anti-oxidant activity protecting mammalian cells against numerous toxic agents
      including hydrogen peroxide, superoxide, and t-butyl hydroperoxide cytotoxicity. This
      anti-oxidant activity of Tempol has led to its investigation as a potential radioprotector
      and chemoprotectant. In radiation and chemotherapy, Tempol protects normal cells from
      radiation and cisplatin-induced damage; however, in cancerous or tumor cells, Tempol is
      reduced to its hydroxylamine form that does not and cannot protect the cells from radiation
      and cisplatin induced damage. This distinction is of particular importance in the setting of
      cancer treatment, in which both normal and tumor tissue is exposed to radiation and
      chemotherapy. Without using Tempol, both normal cells and cancer cells suffer from toxicity.
      Tempol is the only known compound to possess this functional duality. Because of Tempol's
      free-radical scavenging ability, this compound is able to prevent many of the toxicities
      associated with cisplatin and radiation treatment including the prevention of mucositis,
      nephrotoxicity, and ototoxicity.

      The first group 60 participants will be randomized 1:1 to either Tempol 600 mg daily or
      placebo. Assuming that treatment is well tolerated but ≥20% of the participants in the active
      arm have grade 3 or 4 mucositis, a second group of 60 participants may be enrolled, and
      randomized 1:1 to receive either Tempol 1000 mg daily or placebo.

      Throughout the treatment period, participants will take study medication twice daily on both
      chemo/radiation days and cancer treatment free days. On radiation/chemo days, participants
      will be instructed to take study medication 10 minutes before each proton therapy or
      radiation treatment (400 or 600 mg) and again in the evening (200 or 400 mg) no less than 6
      hours following the first dose. Participants will begin to take study medication four (4)
      days before their scheduled cancer treatment. When proton therapy or radiation is not
      administered, participants will take the medication twice daily, 400 mg or 600 mg in the
      morning and 200 mg or 400 mg in the evening. On the day of radiation therapy, study
      medication will be administered within 10 minutes prior to each course of radiotherapy.
      Participants will be instructed to hold the solution in their mouth swishing for
      approximately 30 seconds and then swallow.
    
  