
    
      The prevalence of child stunting is high (~47%) in Malawi. In response, the Government of
      Malawi, with technical support from WFP, launched a 3.5 year of comprehensive nutrition
      program that provides a small quantity of Lipid-based Nutrient Supplement (LNS) and a
      comprehensive infant and young child feeding (IYCF) and water and sanitation, and hygiene
      (WASH) social and behavior change communications (SBCC) package.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the impact of the comprehensive nutrition program in
      reducing stunting and improving linear growth in children from 6 through 24 months of age and
      improving infant and young child feeding knowledge and practices in rural Malawi. The study
      design is quasi-experimental with one program district and one comparison district. The
      program impact will be evaluated using three rounds of cross-sectional panel data at baseline
      (January-March, 2014), midline (January-March, 2015), and endline (January-March, 2017).
      Required sample size for cross-sectional panel is (n = 2400; 1200 per district at each time
      point) and for pregnant and lactating Women (n = 1200; 600 per district at each time point).

      The study also includes the following components:

        -  Longitudinal study: Two longitudinal cohorts of children (derived from children aged 6-7
           months assessed at baseline and mid-line) are followed every 6 months through 24 months
           of age. Sample size will be ~132; 66 per district in each cohort. As children in the
           main study, this group will be assessed for their anthropometry.

        -  Qualitative study: this qualitative study aims to better understand facilitators and
           barriers to program participation, and factors that influence behavior change among
           target households. In-depth interviews (IDI) with mothers (n=34) and household members
           (n=15), and focus group discussions (FGD) with community leaders (n=1 of 11 village
           chiefs) and program staff (n=1 with 12 community leaders of actions on nutrition (CLAN)
           and n=2 with a total of 21 care group volunteers [CGV]) will elucidate their perceptions
           of the program, the Nutributter (NB), and the SBCC messages.

        -  Process evaluation: The process evaluation will focus on describing and testing the
           program's implementation theory by evaluating and documenting program inputs,
           implementation processes and delivery, and outputs. The process evaluation will begin
           with a broad collection and review of available program documents and data, which are
           used for the development of the implementation and program theories. To the extent
           possible, this study will use existing coverage and utilization data from the program's
           monitoring systems, and will collect additional data needed to fully diagram and
           understand program implementation activities, procedures, and fidelity to program
           design. As a final step, the results of the process evaluation will be used to
           illustrate the program implementation activities that may be expected to contribute to
           program impacts.

        -  Cost effectiveness study: In addition to calculating the cost per child covered by the
           nutrition program in Ntchisi, Malawi, the investigators will use an incremental
           cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) approach to report on cost per case of stunting averted
           and cost per 0.1 unit change in mean length-for-age z-score (LAZ).
    
  