
    
      Research question What is the levels of mental health symptoms (i.e., depression, general
      anxiety, and health anxiety) among immigrants and refugees in Norway during the COVID-19
      pandemic? The results will be benchmarked against the levels of mental symptoms in national
      and international surveys.

      Hypothesis:

      H1: There will be a significant decrease in the levels of health anxiety, depression, and
      general anxiety symptoms at the measurement period three months into the pandemic (T2) as
      compared to the baseline period (T1) with the strictest mitigation protocols in place during
      the first weeks of the pandemic.

      H2: Higher level at T1 and less reduction from T1 to T2 in positive metacognitions, negative
      metacognitions, unhelpful coping strategies, loneliness will be associated with less
      reduction in anxiety, depression and health anxiety from T1 to T2 above, and beyond age,
      gender, and education. Higher level at T1 and less reduction from T1 to T2 in emotional
      support will be associated with more reduction in anxiety, depression and health anxiety from
      T1 to T2.

      Statistical analysis:

      Repeated surveys like the present one typically have a lot of drop out and missing data.
      Therefore, we will use mixed models instead of paired t-tests, repeated measures ANOVAs, and
      ordinary linear regression to analyze the data. Mixed models use maximum likelihood
      estimation, which is the state of the art approach to handle missing data (Schafer & Graham,
      2002). Especially if data are missing at random, which is likely in our survey, mixed models
      give more unbiased results than the other analytic methods (O'Connel et al., 2017).

      In preliminary analyses, and for each of the dependent variables (GAD-7, PHQ-9) HAI, the
      combination of random effects and covariance structure of residuals that gives the best fit
      for the "empty" model (the model without fixed predictors except the intercept) will be
      chosen. Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) will used to compare the fit of different
      models. Models that give a reduction in AIC greater than 2 will be considered better (Burnham
      & Anderson, 2004). The program SPSS 25.0 will be used (IBM Corp, 2018).

      First, H1 about decrease in GAD-7, PHQ-9 and HAI will be tested by using anxiety or
      depression as dependent variable in a model using time (T1 period = 0, T2 period = 1) as a
      predictor. Second, demographic group variables will be added as predictors. Third, the
      initial (T1) levels of positive metacognitions, negative metacognitions and unhelpful coping
      strategies as measured with CAS-1, loneliness, and emotional support measured will be added,
      together with the interactions of these constant covariates with time. These interactions
      represent tests of H2 about the covariates predicting change in anxiety, depression and
      health anxiety. Finally, the T2 levels of positive metacognitions, negative metacognitions
      and unhelpful coping strategies as measured with CAS-1, loneliness, and emotional support as
      constant covariates will be added, together with the interactions of these constant
      covariates with time. These interactions represent tests of H2 about the change in the
      covariates from T1 to T2 predicting change in anxiety, depression and health anxiety from T1
      to T2s.

      Inference criteria We pre-define the significance level: p < 0.05 to determine significance.

      Sample size:

      The sample size at T1 included 574 participants. For the present study at T2, all
      participants will be invited to participate in accordance with the study plan. The data
      collection period will continue for up to three weeks until as many of the participants at
      baseline have responded.

      Measures:

      Positive metacognitions, negative metacognitions and unhelpful coping strategies will be
      measured with the CAS 1 (Wells, 2009): Emotional support will be measured with two items and
      loneliness is measured with the The UCLA Loneliness Scale-8 (ULS-8; Hays & DiMatteo,
      1987)which measures the frequency and intensity of aspects of the lonely experience.

      Possible transformations:

      All variables will be assessed in their original and validated format as is recommended
      practice, as long as this is possible with regards to statistical assumptions underlying the
      pre-defined analyses. However, if this is not possible with regards to the statistical
      assumptions behind the analyses, transformation (e.g., square root or log-transformations)
      may be needed to apply interval-based methods, alternatively the use of non-parametric tests.

      Missing data:

      Maximum likelihood

      Exploratory:

      Questions addressed in the future paper which is not pre-specified will be defined as
      exploratory.
    
  