
    
      Preventing deterioration in acute patients is of great interest internationally. Studies
      demonstrate that clinical deterioration can be measured up to 24 hours before a heart arrest
      or intensive care admission in the vital signs. Therefore, the health services have
      implemented early warning systems to detect deterioration and critical illness.

      Despite the systems, 12% of patients in an emergency department still develop severe clinical
      deterioration with increased risk of death as a result. Research indicates that the reasons
      for this may be diverse and further action to support the early identification and treatment
      of patients at risk of deterioration is needed.

      Cincinnati Children's Hospital has introduced a patient safety model to ensure identification
      and mitigation of patient risk through escalated observation, care and treatment depending on
      the individual's risk for clinical deterioration. The model includes early warning systems,
      but as something new, it is supplemented with systematic evaluation of more subjective
      factors such as staff's clinical gaze and concerns, patient/relatives' concerns,
      communication problems and high risk therapy.

      In an observational study, the Cincinnati Situation Awareness model was found to be
      associated with a near 50% reduction in unsafe intensive care unit transfers and decrease in
      severe safety events. However, the model has so far not been evaluated in a controlled study
      or an adult population.

      The study will consist of three substudies; the overall study design is based on a framework
      for implementation of complex interventions following a four-step-process entailing
      development, pilot test, evaluation and reporting.

      Study I. The study will consist of a systematic review and aims to identify risk factors
      associated with severe clinical deterioration and severe safety events that should ultimately
      be considered for inclusion in the patient safety model.

      The aim of study II is to develop a patient safety model based on the components in the
      Cincinnati Situation Awareness model and explore its feasibility. The Danish patient safety
      model is expected to consist of systematic patient risk screening, bed huddles and audits of
      intensive care unit transfers.

      Relevant aspects that should be included in the systematic patient risk screening are
      identified based on the literature study. A multidisciplinary panel is established to ensure
      that the choice of risk parameters is made on the basis of risk factors with the highest
      impact and the applicability to standard care.

      A pilot test of the model will be conducted to evaluate the feasibility of methods and
      procedures based on the principles of the Medical Research Council guidance.

      The final model will be investigated in a prospective controlled intervention study design to
      examine the effect in relation to severe clinical deterioration, safety awareness and serious
      adverse events (Study III).

      The study will follow a Quasi-experimental design. The intervention will be implemented at
      the Emergency Departments and Intensive Care Units at Horsens and Viborg Regional Hospitals
      with the Emergency Departments at Herning and Randers Regional Hospitals as controls.

      A positive outcome is expected to increase patient safety by reducing patients with severe
      deterioration, serious adverse events and increase staff safety awareness.
    
  