
    
      Rationale: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common presentation of atherosclerosis,
      resulting in intermittent claudication, pain at rest or gangrene. For the prevention of
      adverse events related to arterial thrombosis in PAD patients, clopidogrel is recommended.
      Clopidogrel in itself is inactive and needs to be metabolized by cytochrome P450 2C19
      (CYP2C19) into the active metabolite. About 30% of PAD patients receiving clopidogrel is
      carrying one or two CYP2C19 loss-of-function allele(s) and do not or to a limited extent
      convert the prodrug into its active metabolites, and are therefore at increased risk of
      adverse clinical events related to arterial thrombosis and subsequent cardiovascular death.
      We hypothesize that genotype-guided prescription of antithrombotic treatment reduces adverse
      clinical events related to arterial thrombosis.

      Objective: The primary aim of the GENPAD study is to evaluate the ability of genotype-guided
      antithrombotic treatment to reduce adverse clinical events related to arterial thrombosis in
      PAD patients. Adverse clinical events of interest are major adverse cardiovascular events
      (myocardial infarction, stroke, transient ischemic arrack), major adverse limb events
      (acute/chronic limb ischemia of peripheral vascular intervention including amputation) and
      death. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the ability of genotype-guided antithrombotic
      treatment to reduce the separate elements of the primary composite outcome and to assess the
      risk of clinically relevant bleedings in patients allocated to the genotype-guided
      antiplatelet treatment versus standard clopidogrel prescription. Other objectives are to
      evaluate cost-effectiveness, to explore health state scores and health-related quality of
      life between study groups and metabolizer states and to set-up a biobank.

      Study design: A randomized, controlled, open label, multicenter trial. Study population:
      Patients (n=2276) with PAD consulting a vascular surgeon for diagnosis and/or treatment,
      receiving clopidogrel according to the guidelines.

      Intervention: Testing for carriage of the CYP2C19*2 and *3 loss-of-function alleles, followed
      by a genotype guided antithrombotic treatment with either clopidogrel 75mg once daily (normal
      metabolizers), clopidogrel 75mg twice daily (intermediate metabolizers), or low-dose
      rivaroxaban plus acetylsalicylic acid (poor metabolizers).

      Comparator: All patients receive clopidogrel 75mg once daily without pharmacogenetic
      guidance.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary combined outcome is the occurrence of adverse
      clinical events related to arterial thrombosis at 24 months. The occurrence of major adverse
      cardiovascular events, major adverse limb events, death and clinically relevant bleedings are
      the secondary endpoints. Health state, quality of life and medical consumption will be
      measured with validated questionnaire. Questionnaires will be used to assess which
      antithrombotic treatment the participant is receiving during follow-up, medication adherence
      and the occurrence of extramural adverse events at 6, 12, 24 and 36 months.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Participants will visit the hospital once for informed consent procedure, blood
      sample withdrawal and/or buccal sample collection This visit will be combined with a routine
      visit to the vascular surgeon or vascular laboratory. Patients might experience some
      discomfort while taking blood samples and buccal sample collection for a short amount of
      time. The follow-up of participants will range from 6 months (minimum) to 36 months
      (maximum). Participants are sent questionnaires at baseline and at 6, 12, 24 and 36 months,
      dependent on the duration of their follow-up. Completing the questionnaires will take
      approximately 30 minutes. Risks regarding the study are negligible and consist of the
      possible adverse events related to doubling the daily dose of clopidogrel or related to
      rivaroxaban and acetylsalicylic acid.
    
  