
    
      Objectives and Rationale. Pain due to neuromusculoskeletal injuries is a leading cause of
      disability among active duty military Service members. The injury rate is significant with
      628 neuromusculoskeletal injuries per 1000 person-years among active duty military Service
      members. Neuromusculoskeletal injuries include amputations following battlefield trauma,
      repetitive motion injuries related to equipment use or weight-bearing postures, and even
      injuries or strains incurred during off-duty pursuits. Regardless of cause, the effects on
      both individual Service members and military readiness are significant: Only 13% of Service
      members being treated primarily for pain ever return to the field.

      The Department of Defense (DoD) has recently expanded its capacity to provide both functional
      restoration (FR) and complementary and integrative medicine (CIM) therapies for
      neuromusculoskeletal injury, pain, and disability. The proposed research aims to determine
      the most effective treatment combination, sequence, and duration of standard rehabilitative
      care (SRC), such as physical and occupational therapy in combination with cognitive
      behavioral therapy and CIM therapies, such as acupuncture and chiropractic, for Service
      members preparing to enroll in an intensive FR program that is currently the DoD-recommended
      treatment. In addition, this study aims to identify ways to predict in advance which patients
      will respond best to which therapeutic regimens.

      Potential Impact. This research has the potential to determine which patients are most likely
      to benefit from the non-medication pain therapies currently available in all Army
      Interdisciplinary Pain Management Centers (IPMC) and how these therapies can most effectively
      be combined to achieve the greatest improvements in pain impact, quality of life and ability
      to return to duty following injury.

      Patients Who Will Benefit. This study will involve active duty Service members referred to an
      Army IPMC. The results will be shared with other Military Health System (MHS) and Veterans
      Health Administration (VHA) pain management centers so that active duty Service members and
      veterans across United States may benefit from a treatment approach that is tailored to their
      individual characteristics. It is anticipated that the knowledge gained through this research
      will be applicable to family members of Service members and veterans and will ultimately lead
      to expansion of TRICARE benefits to include CIM therapies.

      Potential Clinical Applications, Benefits, and Risks. This research will assist providers in
      determining when to refer their patients with neuromusculoskeletal pain for SRC and/or CIM
      therapies prior to FR. It will assist IPMCs in developing treatment plans tailored to the
      needs of each patient. Service members and veterans will benefit by being referred for these
      approaches when appropriate during the course of disabling chronic pain conditions.
      Ultimately, it is hoped that decision tools can be imbedded in the electronic medical record
      to guide health care providers to consider referral for these therapies in patients who may
      benefit. This study will advance our ability to effectively tailor therapies for
      rehabilitation from neuromusculoskeletal pain for different patients to yield the greatest
      benefit in physical function and quality of life. The risks of these interventions are
      minimal; Service members may experience general muscle soreness for the first week or so of
      increased physical activity, but this typically resolves.

      Projected Timeline. This research will determine the optimal combination, sequence, and
      duration of therapies. It is expected that some active duty Service members could see
      improvements in function and quality of life within three weeks, but others may require up to
      six weeks to experience meaningful improvement.

      Benefit to Military Personnel. This research will benefit Service members experiencing pain
      due to neuromusculoskeletal injury. It will identify ways to direct them to the therapies
      most likely to yield meaningful improvements in function and quality of life, and thus
      facilitate their return to duty. The recommendations from this study will be shared with pain
      management centers throughout the DoD, VHA; and, we hope, eventually to TRICARE members.
    
  