
    
      Gastric-to-pulmonary aspiration during induction of anesthesia remains a significant risk in
      the modern practice of anesthesia.(1) Macroaspiration (grossly visible aspiration) has been
      clearly associated with severe pulmonary injury.(1-4) More recently, microaspiration
      (aspiration without grossly visible gastric material) has also been associated with
      significant morbidity.(2) Specifically, microaspiration has been associated with acute
      respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS)(5), ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP)(6) and acute
      respiratory failure due to bronchoconstriction and ventilation-perfusion mismatching. Pepsin
      A has been shown to be a very specific biochemical marker for gastric-to-pulmonary
      aspiration.(7) In our previous studies, we demonstrated the rate of microaspiration in normal
      elective surgical patients without risk factors for aspiration was 4% as detected by the
      ELISA assay for pepsin A.(8) This compared with a rate of 12.5% in patients with risk factors
      for microaspiration including obesity, GERD (gastroesophageal reflux disease) and diabetes.
      One proposed technique to prevent gastric-to-pulmonary aspiration is cricoid pressure.
      Recently, there has been growing evidence which calls into question the effectiveness of
      cricoid pressure. Radiologic studies by Smith et al yield indirect evidence to suggest that
      cricoid pressure may not reliably occlude the esophagus.(9,10) Currently, cricoid pressure
      for patients with risk factors for microaspiration (obesity, GERD and diabetes) is used
      commonly but inconsistently.(11) By using the same sampling and analysis techniques employed
      in our previous microaspiration studies, the currently proposed study will provide a very
      sensitive and specific assessment of the effectiveness of cricoid pressure to prevent
      aspiration during elective induction of anesthesia and intubation. Our proposed study would
      enroll patients with risk factors for microaspiration who are scheduled to undergo high-risk
      (for pulmonary complications) elective surgery requiring endotracheal intubation. We will
      exclude those with risk factors for macroaspiration (including bowel obstruction, non-fasting
      status and esophageal pathology associated with increased risk for macroaspiration such as
      achalasia and hiatal hernia), because cricoid pressure remains the standard of care for those
      at risk for macroaspiration at our institution. Those patients enrolled will be randomized to
      receive cricoid pressure versus no cricoid pressure. Immediately following elective
      intubation, a sample of tracheal secretions from each patient will be obtained and the pepsin
      A concentration determined. The primary outcome will be the rate of microaspiration
      determined by the presence of pepsin A in the trachea. Secondary outcomes of interest will be
      rates of postoperative pulmonary complications including acute respiratory distress syndrome
      (ARDS) and hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP). The findings of this study will provide the
      most direct evidence yet regarding the effectiveness of cricoid pressure for the prevention
      of gastric-to-pulmonary aspiration during induction of anesthesia and endotracheal
      intubation. Ultimately, the findings of this study will improve patient safety by providing
      accurate prospective evidence regarding the effectiveness and safety of cricoid pressure in
      this setting, and will further explore the clinical significance of microaspiration.
    
  