
    
      The research study for this career development plan involves the development, iterative user
      testing, and evaluation of an online ACT treatment program for Veterans with chronic pain.
      This study will determine whether a larger-scale, more definitive VACT-CP full scale efficacy
      trial is indicated.

      Phase 1: Development Phase (15 months): I will develop a detailed VACT-CP protocol for
      individual online treatment. Treatment techniques will be based on previously-developed ACT
      treatments for chronic pain, as well as additional ACT training I will obtain during the
      early phase of the CDA-2. During this phase, mental health and other clinical staff providing
      pain care at the Bedford VAMC (n = 10) will provide feedback and input on the intervention
      content.

      Phase 2: Pilot Evaluation of Intervention Components in Field-Based Iterative Usability
      Testing (21 months): The investigators will recruit Veterans (n=15) with chronic pain for
      usability testing, to assess the delivery mode, and utilize an Integrated Technology
      Acceptance Model to iteratively assess feasibility and usability of the VACT-CP online
      treatment. This portion of the project will focus on refining the delivery mode, and revising
      chronic pain intervention content as necessary. With my mentors, I will review the adequacy,
      utility of specific procedures, and intervention foci to revise the online treatment
      accordingly.

      Phase 3: Feasibility Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial (30 months): The investigators will
      assess the feasibility and acceptability using a Stage 1b RCT pilot test comparing VACT-CP (n
      = 20) to a wait-list control group (n = 20), including ease of recruitment, retention in each
      condition, treatment receptivity, attrition and retention in each condition, sustained
      participation, and the assessment process. The investigators will also describe preliminary
      data on the impact of VACT-CP vs. the control condition on pain-related functioning related
      to social, occupational, and physical functioning, emotional functioning, mental health, and
      quality of life.

      PHASE 1: INTERVENTION DEVELOPMENT

      The goal of this phase will be to 1) adapt ACT manualized treatment of chronic pain in
      Veterans into an online platform using the ECA as the intervention coach, and 2) gather
      qualitative feedback from chronic pain providers and content experts (n = 10 - 12) on the
      VACT-CP system for intervention refinement and potential benefits, barriers, referral
      concerns, and overall thoughts on the VACT-CP system.

      Initial Development of the VACT-CP System

      Procedure. The development of the intervention and its revision will be an iterative process
      over Phases 1 (Intervention Development) and 2 (Feasibility and Usability Testing)
      (specifications for intervention revision for Phase 2 are below) and will include: 1)
      reviewing existing ACT CP treatment manuals with mentors; 2) developing a preliminary online
      version of the intervention, with mentor input, 3) revising the intervention based on mentor
      and consultant feedback.

      Creation of the initial VACT-CP platform will include collaboration with mentors , as well as
      the Northeastern Personal Health Informatics team at Northeastern University led by Dr.
      Timothy Bickmore. Using input from this team of experts, as well as my own experience in
      educational technology and online course creation, I will create a basic prototype of the
      intervention including the main VACT-CP content components, alignment of session goals and
      outcomes, and the creation of a corresponding patient workbook with information on the
      system. This process will also include close mentorship between Drs. Kelly and Heapy to
      assess current ACT for CP manualized treatment, and adaption of this content to the online
      system.

      VACT-CP Treatment Content and Structure. The following components will be emphasized in
      VACT-CP based on previous manualized ACT-chronic pain treatment by Vowles and Sorrell Life
      with Chronic Pain: An Acceptance-based Approach Therapist Guide and Patient Workbook and
      utilizing ECA technology to create a personalized, therapeutic experience. Creation of the
      intervention will entail modification of the ECA image, creation of the intervention scripts
      and programming for the online user-experience. Participants will receive eight online
      modules, provided as weekly sessions that will feature an ECA (virtual therapist) as a
      treatment guide.

      Adaption to Online Platform. Treatment content for VACT-CP will be integrated into the
      Northeastern University platform created and maintained by the relational agent research
      group managed by Dr. Timothy Bickmore, which has already programmed and run several
      VA-specific, IRB-approved interventions. Dr. Bickmore has confirmed that both the budget and
      timeline for this project are appropriate, and thus feasible. This website will be available
      to Veterans for free for this project, and Veterans will be able to re-access the any module
      where they left off, or restart a module if preferred after logging out using their
      de-identified username and password provided by research staff. For the purposes of pilot
      testing with providers and Veterans, the user interface will also first be mocked-up using
      PowerPoint slides, and following feedback from providers will then be adapted to the current
      ECA online platform (Phases 1 and 2). This platform will include elements such as
      personalized conversations with the embodied conversation agent, starting with a mindfulness
      exercise at the beginning of each module, and moving through major session components. Each
      session will incorporate different interactive psychoeducation experiences for each session,
      goal setting and tracking, and finally end with weekly homework aligned with the goals of the
      next session.

      Planning for and addressing potential safety concerns online is a major concern, and
      consultation for the inclusion of safety procedures and information has been provided by Drs.
      Kelly, Heapy, and Greene. Consequently, in addition to the modules, information regarding the
      Veteran Crisis Hotline will be incorporated into the website with the addition of a button
      providing phone number information and the PI's number will be included within the website as
      well should a Veteran need to access clinical staff. The investigators will also assess with
      Veterans whether they were able to locate these resources early in the usability and pilot
      testing.

      Qualitative Provider Interviews

      Procedure. A sample of 10 current mental health providers (including social workers,
      physicians, PACT nurses, and psychologists) who provide treatment for chronic pain at the
      ENRM VA will be interviewed for formative assessment of the potential benefits, concerns, and
      institutional VHA dissemination issues for the VACT-CP intervention, using a semi-structured
      interview guide and a "think-aloud" strategy for intervention review.

      Sample. Providers will be recruited from presentations and emails to Primary Care/Behavioral
      Staff and the Mental Health Service Line at the Bedford VAMC, and scheduled for a time for a
      45 minute to one hour interview during regular work hours, though potential participants will
      also have the option to interview over the phone. Participants will be consented for
      participating in the interview and having their participation audio-recorded.

      Interview Guide. This interview will include open-ended questions related to palatability of
      the intervention, feasibility of engagement with Veterans with chronic pain, interest or
      potential concerns with referring Veterans to such a program, and reactions to a short
      walk-through of the intervention. The purpose of these questions is to gather information
      from valuable stakeholders and potential referral-providers on VACT-CP system to address
      refinement of the program, possible benefits, barriers, referral concerns, and overall
      thoughts on the VACT-CP system Questions for palatability are based on the "organizational
      perspective" components of the Practical, Robust Implementation and Sustainability Model
      (PRISM). Interviews will be audio recorded and transcribed.

      Provider Interview Analyses Qualitative data analysis will use a thematic approach for the
      data related to the goal of ascertaining intervention palatability and feasibility and
      referral issues, and a narrative approach for data collected with the goal of intervention
      refinement. Two independent reviewers will code Section 2 of the interview transcriptions
      using open-ended coding. Each element will be summarized separately, and overall summary
      themes will be generated. Summary tables of key points will be generated, similar to previous
      formative assessments performed. These tables will ensure data saturation has been reached
      for both provider input. Two reviewers will analyze qualitative data using a modified
      grounded coding to identify themes using audio recordings after each interview. Intervention
      areas will be modified as feedback is given. Each set of interviews will take place with 3 -
      4 participants, to allow for iterative adjustment of the intervention based on feedback.
      Number of changes needed for each intervention area will be tracked, and less intervention
      refinement will be anticipated by the end of the interview cycle. However, if intervention
      palatability is not achieved, further testing using other providers will be utilized. The
      generated information and themes will be utilized for development and refinement of the
      VACT-CP intervention, to learn from major stakeholders important areas for potential revision
      during intervention development.

      PHASE 2: FEASIBILITY AND USABILITY TESTING The goals of Phase 2 are to: 1) gain further
      feedback on the VACT-CP treatment by gathering information from Veterans via usability
      testing to; 2) assess Veteran interest, satisfaction, and usability of the online VACT-CP
      treatment; 3) iteratively address any technological concerns. This Phase will allow for
      feedback and preliminary support that the Phase 3 small-pilot RCT is merited.

      Given past research suggesting that similar interventions are usable and beneficial, the
      investigators anticipate that usability findings suggesting concerns or places for revision
      will not be such a strong barrier that the intervention will not be at all useful in this
      population. However, should Phase 2 data indicate that a small-pilot RCT is not merited, the
      usability information from this Phase will be utilized to inform further VACT-CP refinement
      until the usability bugs have been worked out and the system is ready for testing in a
      feasibility pilot RCT. This information will also be disseminated to inform future online
      chronic pain treatment development.

      Sample Information

      Sample Size: No single participant reviewer can identify all the usability problems in a
      system; typically 3-5 reviewers can identify 80% of the usability problems, with diminishing
      returns from additional reviewers per round of testing. The investigators will conduct 3
      rounds of usability testing with 4-5 Veterans per round to assess and iteratively address
      usability concerns (n=12-15 total).

      Recruitment. Subjects will be 15 patients primarily recruited by referral from the Primary
      Care Behavioral Health at the ENRM VA Hospital. Eligible participants will have a current
      diagnosis of non-cancer chronic pain, defined as related to either Musculoskeletal pain or
      Joint Problems/Osteoarthritis or presence of chronic pain of at least mild to moderate
      severity. The investigators have decided to target joint and musculoskeletal pain as these
      have been shown to best respond to psychological, behavioral interventions, whereas
      neuropathic pain and headaches having less research supporting this. However, the
      investigators will not exclude for other diagnoses of pain, as this is typical and would not
      necessarily preclude Veterans from benefiting from the treatment.

      The investigators have verified that there are 2,605 Veterans who were seen over the past
      year (i.e., having had at least two appointments for pain) at the Bedford VA with chronic,
      non-cancer pain concerns, suggesting that the recruitment goal of 15 Veterans within 3 months
      to do a single-session usability test for Phase 2 is achievable. In addition, I will give
      presentations to primary care providers, social workers, and mental health clinicians at the
      Bedford VA to enhance recruitment. Using CPRS, Veterans meeting eligibility criteria for
      chronic pain seen within 12 months at the Bedford VA will also be sent letters inviting them
      to participate.

      Screening Procedures. Callers will be screened by phone. Eligible participants will be
      scheduled for an in-person assessment with the PI, who will confirm study eligibility and
      obtain informed consent. A research associate affiliated with the research study will then
      conduct clinician-rated assessments, and subjects will complete self-report measures.

      Feasibility and Usability Assessment Procedures Eligible Veterans will come to the Bedford VA
      to complete baseline demographic and health measures. Following baseline assessment, Veterans
      will be provided with an iPad that will walk them through different portions of the user
      interface and treatment set-up, during which time they will be asked questions and recorded
      as a usability interview. Specifically, different images for options of the virtual therapy
      guide, as well as a PowerPoint with information about the user interface will be shown. Next,
      Veterans will be provided with written instructions for use, and do a behavioral walk-through
      of how to use the online system. Patients will be given instructions on interacting with the
      system, and will then walk through a portion of the treatment using PowerPoint slides that
      will simulate the VACT-CP treatment and usability interface, and then complete the Usability
      Survey and SUS (see measures below). During this time, the Veterans will take part in a
      contextual interview wherein Veterans move through the system unguided and are observed and
      asked questions about their experience. After this, additional, open-ended questions will be
      asked regarding Veteran preferences.

      For purposes of feedback and iterative program development, the Veteran will only be provided
      with the part of the first VACT-CP session during this time. The participant will then be
      left in a secure, confidential room to walk through the VACT-CP system on their own, during
      which time their use of the system will be recorded. Approximately 4 - 5 Veterans will be
      recruited and participate in this usability testing at a time, with 3 different usability
      testing arms, in order to allow for time to iteratively address any functionality issues or
      concerns with the user interface. Following this walkthrough, participants will be provided
      with measures of demographics, usability and health information technology use, including a
      retrospectively worded version of the Usability Survey items (e.g., I enjoyed using the
      VACT-CP program) and a semi-structured qualitative exit interview. Participants will receive
      compensation for their in-person visit, which should take approximately 2 - 3 hours.

      Assessment Measures A broad range of reliable and valid measures will be used to provide an
      assessment of chronic pain difficulties, demographic information, and technology use,
      technology interest, and comfort. In addition, Veterans will be observed while interfacing
      with the VACT-CP system, recorded, and asked questions by the interviewer. This will consist
      of specific questions related to the different parts of the system the veteran interacts with
      (e.g., the ECA design, structure of the modules, feedback system) as well as more open-ended
      when not provided with specific cues (e.g., what are you trying to get to from this page,
      what could be better about how this page is set up, etc.) Questions will be open-ended in
      nature, and address the extent of any problems with accessing and using the VACT-CP treatment
      online, how they might perceive the usefulness or importance of VACT-CP focal areas of
      treatment, whether they would recommend this treatment to a fellow Veteran, and any problems
      or concerns they may have with using the VACT-CP program.

      Using this additional, open-ended interview protocol, the investigators will also inquire as
      whether they would be interested in using the VACT-CP treatment at home and the role of their
      virtual therapist in the patient's interest in the treatment, and about past strategies or
      tools the patient used to address their chronic pain issues and whether the VACT-CP treatment
      might seem more useful than prior options or strategies. Finally, participants will be asked
      to indicate what, if any, changes they would make to the treatment to assist in
      self-management of their chronic pain. This will also include assessing their interest in it
      complementary and alternative methods of pain management (stretching, yoga, progressive
      muscle relaxation, etc.) to assess if it would be useful and feasible to add these options to
      the platform later if desired. The interview will be video recorded and coded to look for
      similar themes, difficulties, revisions, and strengths of the system.

      Intervention Revisions During Phase 2, in which Veterans will interact with the VACT-CP
      online treatment, the investigators will: 1) gather feedback from Veterans regarding
      acceptability and usefulness of the treatment, 3) gather and analyze complementary data from
      SUS-8, 4) address any technological issues as they arise, and 5) examine preliminary data
      from this phase of the study. Modifications to the treatment will be based upon: 1)
      acceptability and feasibility of the online treatment, and 3) qualitative feedback obtained
      from patients, therapist, and mentors. Individual feedback sessions at the end of phase 2
      will be held to gather information for refining the treatment manual and make it acceptable
      to patients.

      The investigators anticipate that the Veteran intervention reviewers might miss bugs or other
      user interface problems, and anticipate that some revisions to the online system and program
      may need to be made for Phase 3. For instance, one potential issue that may arise might be an
      inability for the Veteran to read the text on the tablet screen. After receiving this
      information during an initial feedback round, the researchers will amend the program with a
      potential solutions i.e. text size or text color being altered, with the revised version then
      being piloted in the next round of Veteran user testing. Some usability challenges will be
      addressed with introductory handouts/tutorial materials/orientation to the program at the
      beginning of the intervention session. In addition, large organizational issues will be
      discussed before moving on to platform refinement.

      Data Management Patient files will be kept in a locked cabinet and password protected files
      where data will be encoded with ID numbers. IDs will be unrelated to any identifying
      information. Video recordings will be stored on a secure, VA approved server. The majority of
      data analysis will consist of qualitative and observational methods, including coding
      qualitative interview data and coded video files. Data will be checked for inconsistencies,
      omissions and errors. As only 15 subjects will participate in Phase 2, only summary
      quantitative statistics will be computed to describe the sample and to determine outcome on
      the study measures. Data gathered through qualitative interviews and quantitative measures
      will be housed on a VA-approved cloud-based data storage server.

      Data Collection and Analysis Qualitative Combined Usability and Contextual Interview. The
      investigators will focus on usability and feasibility to address Aim 2. During 60-75-minute
      usability sessions held in private, secure rooms SoCRR rooms within the Bedford VAMC,
      participants will assess the usability of the VACT-CP intervention using a "think-aloud
      protocol", verbalizing their thoughts as they navigate the website. After a period of
      exploration with the site, the research staff will use a pre-created protocol to ask Veterans
      to perform a series of tasks on the website (i.e., entering therapy goals, accessing the
      different modules, completing pre-session assessment, interacting with the virtual
      therapist). The usability testing space is already equipped with a computer, tablet, and a
      web camera. As a participant navigates the intervention website on a tablet or computer,
      their actions will be recorded through webcam electronically, and Dr. Reilly will observe the
      actions in real-time within the room, and a blinded observer/note taker. Drs. Waring and
      Quigley will consult on usability testing procedures.

      The video recordings and notes made by Dr. Reilly during user testing will be transcribed and
      analyzed using NVivo software available through the Bedford VAMC. A modified consensual
      qualitative research (CQR) approach will be utilized to code the transcribed videos, which
      Dr. Reilly has been trained in and utilized in past peer-reviewed publications. CQR can be
      particularly useful in allowing for a team of coders to identify themes arising in both
      structured and more open-ended interview moments. Dr. Reilly will develop an initial codebook
      for using in coding based on the key activities and questions in the user-testing protocol.
      Dr. Reilly and the research associate will then employ the codebook in identifying
      usability-themes within the videos, with an additional research staff identified to act as a
      code auditor. According to CQR, the following processes occur to allow for depth and breadth
      in describing the shared experiences of participants: (b) two coders utilize the initial
      codebook throughout the data analysis process to foster multiple perspectives; (c) consensus
      is researched between coders about the meaning of the data; (d) at least one auditor must
      check the work of the primary team of judges and minimize potential bias; and (e) domains and
      themes are reported in terms of the frequency of arising themes.

      Themes will then be categorized according to the following CQR groupings: general (include
      all or all but one of the cases), typical (include more than half of the cases up to the
      cutoff for general), and variant (at least two cases up to the cutoff for typical).
      Specifically, the themes generated by this qualitative data will be used to identify user
      performance measures, errors and difficulties, and tasks that do not meet acceptable
      criteria, and general trends and categories of users' behavior such as how well users can
      complete an assigned task on the VACT-CP system and where they are encountering problems.
      Using this method, the investigators will classify all general comments regarding usability
      as necessary to include in iterative development, while variant and typical will be discussed
      within the research group to decide upon potential ways to incorporate this feedback into
      intervention refinement.

      In addition, Veterans will complete a series of brief usability questionnaires following user
      testing and the qualitative interview. Usability Survey and SUS data will be input into
      REDCap, reported descriptively using SPSS software, and used to describe Veteran's general
      perceptions and opinions of the technology's usability, both within the controlled testing
      setting and for future use within their home. This feedback will then be triangulated with
      qualitative data, and used to iteratively refine the VACT-CP program between the three waves
      of user testing. The investigators will complete this process with 4-5 Veterans per round;
      Dr. Reilly then summarize suggested changes, obtain input from the full mentoring team, then
      meet with Dr. Bickmore's staff to implement potential changes. Results will be published to
      inform other researchers about usability findings related to format feedback, user interface,
      interest, and perceptions of behavioral intervention content.

      PHASE 3: FEASIBILITY PILOT RCT

      The goals of the feasibility pilot RCT study phase are to conduct a Stage 1b RCT pilot trial
      to: 3a) explore relationships between Veteran traits, usability beliefs, and technology
      perceptions on intended and actual use of the VACT-CP system; 3b) describe differences in
      VACT-CP versus a wait-list control group on pre- and post-test measures of pain acceptance,
      pain level, pain-related functioning, and quality of life, treatment satisfaction with the
      VACT-CP system and ACT-related outcomes including pain acceptance, valued living and
      experiential avoidance; 3c) evaluative the relative feasibility and acceptability of the
      VACT-CP intervention procedure and waitlist control, including ease of recruitment, retention
      in each condition, treatment receptivity, attrition and retention in each condition,
      sustained participation, and the assessment process. A total of 40 Veterans will be enrolled
      to test the VACT-CP system within their home.

      Participant Selection and Recruitment

      Sample Size: Based on the previous recruitment of Veterans with chronic pain at the Bedford
      VAMC, the investigators estimate that approximately 65% of Veterans screened for
      participation by research staff, recruitment letters, flyer recruitment, and referrals from
      PCBH staff (N=60 enrolled participants) will meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria and be
      eligible for the pilot trial. Similar to Phase 2, the investigators will not exclude for
      other diagnoses of pain. Given this, the investigators will aim to recruit a total of 60
      participants over fifteen months total to allow for the desired final 40 participants
      screened as eligible and randomized into the pilot RCT study, specifically aiming for
      recruiting 3-4 participants per month. Subjects for the proposed study will be recruited over
      the course of approximately 15 months and be screened according to their presence of chronic
      pain and other important.

      Subjects will be recruited from the Bedford VAMC, where 2,605 Veterans are currently (as of
      November, 2017) being seen at the Bedford VAMC for chronic, non-cancer pain concerns,
      suggesting that the investigators' final recruitment goal of 40 persons total enrolled (1.5%
      of the total Bedford population) is feasible. In addition, I will give presentations to
      primary care providers, social workers, and mental health clinicians at the Bedford VA to
      enhance recruitment. Using CPRS, Veterans meeting eligibility criteria for chronic pain seen
      within one month at the Bedford VA will also be sent letters inviting them to participate.

      Study Procedures and Assessment

      Treatment Procedures. Following recruitment, a research associate not otherwise involved in
      the study will screen participants prior to enrollment. Veterans will be randomized in a 1:1
      ratio, with a research staff member utilizing and keeping the schedule. Veterans randomized
      to VACT-CP will receive 8 online-module based weekly sessions of treatment via personal
      computer or provided tablet with wireless accessibility at the Bedford VAMC. Veterans in the
      waitlist control will be provided with a list of common pain resources at the Bedford VAMC.
      The VACT-CP program will be housed on a secure web server through Northeastern University,
      with no Veteran private health information collected by the system.

      If during Phase 2 it becomes clear that more or less sessions are necessary (based on
      indicators previously discussed for usability and feasibility testing), the number of
      sessions for Phase 3 will be changed accordingly. Veterans in both conditions will complete
      the assessment battery (including all measures below, except for the treatment satisfaction
      and working alliance inventory) at baseline. In addition, the full battery will be taken at
      mid-point of the intervention phase (4 weeks) and at the end, immediately following the
      treatment (8 weeks). Veterans will be tracked in terms of their post-referral treatment
      engagement (e.g., enrolling in any of the pain-resource options on the handout). In addition,
      a research associate will call the Veteran at weeks 3 and 6 and conduct a brief safety
      assessment and qualitative interview with Veterans assess for potential suicidality,
      usability issues, and participant health and well-being.
    
  