
    
      Introduction

      Paravertebral block (PVB) showed to be successful in both children and adults. It has been
      reported to be an excellent pain reliever and it reduces post-operative nausea and vomiting,
      in patients undergoing breast surgery. PVB has proven to be very useful as a regional
      anesthetic technique when it comes to surgeries involving lumbar and thoracic dermatome. It
      was shown that the PVB combined with light intravenous sedation was associated with a short
      hospital stay, less post-operative nausea and vomiting (PONV) and reduced analgesic
      consumption compared to general anesthesia for ventral hernia repair. Given the effectiveness
      of PVB in the ventral hernia repair, it would be beneficial to study the effect of PVB with
      versus without clonidine in elderly patients.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the hemodynamic stability in a ventral
      hernia repair using paravertebral block with clonidine versus the PVB without clonidine.

      The secondary objectives include a comparison of PONV and postoperative analgesic
      consumption.

      Materials and Methods

      Study design and sampling This is a prospective study with a randomized double- blinded
      design that will be conducted between August 2015 and August 2016.

      Patients scheduled for ventral hernia repair whose age is 65 years and older with American
      Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) greater or equal to 2 will be included. Exclusion criteria
      comprised history of allergic reactions to local anesthetics, bleeding diatheses and spinal
      abnormality.

      Patients will be randomly allocated to one of 2 groups with 30 patients in each, using the
      sealed envelope technique. Group one will receive PVB with clonidine while group 2 will
      receive PVB with placebo.

      Anesthetic techniques Since this trial is double-blinded, a specialized nurse will prepare
      the syringes for each patient.

      Paravertebral nerve block techniques Bilateral nerve-stimulator PVB will be performed at the
      levels of T9-T10 or T9-T11 according to the type of ventral hernia and the planned incision
      type. The patient will be anesthetized in the lateral decubitus position. Supplemental oxygen
      will be given by facemask and regular anesthetic monitors will be attached.

      Each local anesthetic mixture will contain:

      For group 1, the syringes will contain: lidocaine 2% 6 mL, lidocaine 2% 6 mL with epinephrine
      5µg.mL-1, bupivacaine 0.5% 5 mL, fentanyl 1 mL (50µg) and clonidine 2 mL.

      As for the group 2, the same anesthetic mixture will be administrated however the clonidine
      will be substituted with 2 mL saline.

      Data collection

      Demographic data, ASA score, type and duration of surgery will be recorded. Haemodynamics
      will be registered such as the mean arterial blood pressure, heart rate and oxygen
      saturation, preoperatively (baseline), intra-operatively (incision of skin, dissection of
      hernia, traction over the sac and closure of incision) and postoperatively.

      As for postoperative analgesia consumption, patients with a VAS score between three and four
      are given Tramadol Hydrochloride 50-100 mg every 4- 6 hours. If the VAS score is greater or
      equal to five, patients receive 1 mg/kg Dolosal.

      Post-operative nausea and vomiting will be recorded in the recovery room and in the regular
      ward. Pain assessment will be taken from patients by a verbal statement using Numeric Rating
      Scale.
    
  