
    
      This is a two-group controlled study to test the following hypothesis: compared to body mass
      index (BMI)-matched normal controls, women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) will
      demonstrate blunted LH responses to preovulatory estradiol concentrations. We will study both
      normally-cycling controls and women with PCOS. We aim to recruit BMI-matched pairs (PCOS vs.
      control within 2 kg/m2). To provoke a gonadotropin surge, subjects will receive graded
      transdermal estradiol dosing, and we will use a dose adjustment protocol to maintain serum
      estradiol levels of 250-400 pg/ml. To enhance reliability of estradiol delivery, transdermal
      estradiol patches will be placed/replaced daily by Clinical Research Unit (CRU) nurses, and
      abdominal sites will be rotated. All subjects will begin estradiol on menstrual cycle day 4.
      Starting 24 hours before E2 administration, all subjects will collect all urine output in
      12-hour time blocks for later urinary LH and FSH analysis; this will continue until the end
      of the study. Additionally, subjects will have daily morning blood draws in the CRU for later
      hormone measurements. Transvaginal ovarian ultrasound will be performed on study day 6 --
      near the time of expected surge initiation -- to document largest follicle sizes. We will
      measure serum estradiol daily and employ an estradiol dose-adjustment protocol to maintain
      target estradiol levels. We will also measure LH daily. The study will be stopped after
      either (a) serum LH increases to 5-fold higher than baseline and subsequently falls to within
      200% of baseline, or (b) the subject has received estradiol for a full 7 days, whichever
      comes first. The primary endpoint will be estradiol-induced change in 24-hour urinary LH
      excretion, defined as 24-hour mean values immediately prior to estradiol administration vs.
      peak 24-hour mean values during estradiol administration. A comparison of 24-hour LH changes
      between healthy normal and PCOS groups will be conducted by way of a random-effects analysis
      of covariance (ANCOVA) model. The ANCOVA model will be specified so that each BMI-matched
      pair will represent an independent observational unit with respect to comparing 24-hour LH
      change between groups. With regard to hypothesis testing, we will test whether the component
      of variability in 24-hour LH change attributed to "Study Group" (healthy normal control vs.
      PCOS) is a significant component of the overall variability in 24-hour LH change. Variability
      in 24-hour LH change attributed to baseline disparities in LH will be accounted for by
      treating subject-specific baseline LH as a covariate in the ANCOVA model. If BMI matching is
      inadequate, we will also include BMI as a covariate in the model. If 11 women with PCOS and
      11 controls complete study, we expect at least 80% power to detect a 33% difference in
      E2-induced augmentation of urinary LH excretion.
    
  