
    
      The purpose of this pilot study is to measure adherence and quality of life in adults with
      intractable epilepsy following the Modified Atkins Diet (MAD) with Betaquik, a ready-to-use
      medium chain triglyceride (MCT) emulsion, as an adjunct to the MAD.

      The participants dietitian will recommend an appropriate daily intake of Betaquik based on
      individual requirements. Participants will be asked to gradually introduce Betaquik into the
      diet up to the target volume advised by the dietitian. Participants will then incorporate the
      target volume of Betaquik into their diet and gradually increase carbohydrate intake up to a
      maximum tolerated level and continue on the management regime until the end of the 26-week
      period. At the end of the 26-week period participants will undergo a Betaquik washout. In
      order to mitigate any impact of Betaquik tapering dietary effectiveness and sustained
      ketosis, carbohydrate intake will be reduced concurrently to the original 20-30 grams daily.
      This will continue for an additional 26-weeks (totaling 52-weeks). Both Betaquik introduction
      and tapers will occur under the direction of their dietitian with their daily intake under
      weekly review for the duration of the study. Vitaflo International Ltd. will supply Betaquik
      directly to the participants homes free of charge. Participants will be provided with a
      28-day supply of Betaquik renewed every four weeks.

      The objective of this study is to evaluate the acceptability, tolerance and adherence of the
      MAD including MCT - Betaquik in participants with a diagnosis of epilepsy.

      This is an exploratory pilot study to evaluate the gastrointestinal tolerance, palatability
      and participant adherence, over a 52-week period, of the MAD with and without Betaquik, for
      the dietary management of participants with epilepsy.

      Participants will be asked to collect daily information on any incidence of the following for
      the first 3 months and weekly thereafter:

        -  Diarrhea and/or constipation as measured by stool frequency, color and consistency

        -  Bloating and/or distension

        -  Nausea and/or vomiting

        -  Burping/flatulence/regurgitation

        -  Abdominal discomfort/pain

      If participants report any of the above then additional questions about the timing, duration,
      cause and seriousness/severity of any adverse effects are to be recorded in the diary.

      At the end of the 52-weeks all final questionnaires will be completed including those
      assessing quality of life, clinical epilepsy status, dietary intake and adherence, Betaquik
      and dietary carbohydrate intake and Betaquik tolerability. Final blood and urine samples will
      be taken for clinical safety assessment and routine anthropometry measurements taken.

      Statistics and Plans for Analysis: This is an exploratory pilot study and its primary aim is
      to determine the acceptability, adherence and tolerance of the MAD with Betaquik as an
      adjunct therapy. A t-test and chi-square will be used with the quantitative measures, under
      the direction of a biostatistician. Qualitative measures will be described in a narrative
      summarizing the study outcomes.
    
  