
    
      INTRODUCTION

      For some years, the use of OAMs is increasing and oncological teams must deal with the
      challenge of ensuring optimal adherence to prescribed treatments. It has been demonstrated
      that poor adherence impacts the quality of response and risk of relapse. However, data are
      scarce regarding how cancer patients adhere to their medication plan, particularly those with
      malignancies other than breast cancer. Moreover, oncohaematology appears to be the poor
      cousin to the cancer adherence studies. Except for CML or ALL, the extent of non-adherence
      has rarely been investigated in an outpatient setting.

      In Belgium, the only available data suffers from critical underrepresentation of patients
      from minority diverse population. This is even more restricting that, studies suggest
      considerable disparities and difficulties in communication between doctors and patients from
      different cultural and ethnic backgrounds. Considering that medication adherence is a complex
      interplay of predisposing factors, patients' knowledge and beliefs and patient-physician
      interactions, the underrepresentation of the key population of Migrants and Ethnic Minorities
      in adherence studies in oncology is critical.

      In the context of increasing migration and emergence of novel oral therapeutics, it becomes
      urgent to identify potential differences in access, use and the quality of care that may lead
      to disparities in health outcomes. With the MADESIO Protocol, the investigators aim to fill
      this unmet need and to assess whether and why in oncohaematology, patients with migrant
      backgrounds are a risk group regarding adherence to OAMs.

      OBJECTIVES

      The primary objective of investigators is to measure the prevalence of medication adherence
      and persistence to OAMs in two subgroups of migrants and non-migrants with haematological
      malignancies. Additionally, in each subgroup, the study aims to identify the associated risk
      factors of adherence. Finallly, investigators aim to explain any observed differences between
      the 2 subgroups.

      DESIGN

      The MADESIO protocol is based on a prospective sequential mixed method study design able of
      tackling the challenges of studying adherence in haematology and in patients from diverse
      linguistic and cultural backgrounds.

      Conducted in the ambulatory setting of two Brussels hospitals, the MADESIO design combines
      sequentially a first quantitative explorative questionnaire-based survey with a second in
      depth qualitative approach. The first 4 visits questionnaire-based survey prospectively
      measures adherence to OAMs and identify associated risk factors in two sub-groups of 60
      migrant and 53 non-migrant ambulatory patients with various haematological malignancies. The
      second qualitative semi-structured interviews deeper address patients' therapeutic adherence
      and subjective meanings.

      CLINICAL SETTING

      The Institut Jules Bordet and the Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Saint-Pierre are two
      nearby hospitals. Located in the hearth of Brussels, their oncohaematological outpatient
      settings offer an ideal setting to explore the topic of migrants' adherence in the context of
      interethnic or intercultural medical consultations.

      STUDY POPULATION

      Eligible patients are adult patients with an haematological malignancy, having taken at least
      one OAM since minimum 30 days and having a minimum of 6 months life expectancy.

      The sub-group of migrants is composed of "First Generation (FG)" migrants - the group of
      foreign-born persons - and of "Second Generation (SG)" migrants which are people born in
      Belgium but with either a foreign nationality or with one or both parents foreign-born.

      QUANTITATIVE APPROACH - QUESTIONNAIRE-BASED STUDY VISITS:

      Each patient will answer different questionnaires across 4 visits. Over one year will be
      necessary to include the 113 patients and over 18 months to cover the follow-up duration.

      During the first information visit, the researcher obtains patient informed consent and
      collects full socio-demographic, socio-economic, linguistic and migratory characteristics.
      All subsequent questionnaires are self-administrated.

      A combination of validated self-reported measures was selected because designed to measure
      medication taking behaviours, assess both intentional and unintentional adherence, identify
      barriers and levers to adherence, not excluding contextual and socioeconomic factors,
      patients beliefs or patients' appraisal of the collaborative bond with its haematologist.

      1/ The Beliefs and Behaviour questionnaire (BBQ); 2/ the Tool for Adherence Behaviour
      Screening (TABS); 3/ The Morisky Medication Adherence Scale-8 (MMAS-8), 4/ The Beliefs about
      Medicine Questionnaire (BMQ); 5/ the Human Connection Scale (HCS);and 6/ the Hospital Anxiety
      and Depression Scale (HADS) was also added to screen both anxiety and depression as they can
      affect adherence to medications.

      The TABS and MMAS-8 aiming to measure adherence behaviour are repeated at every visit. Other
      selected questionnaires aiming to explore the associated risk factors are distributed across
      the next three visits. The schedule of the next three visits is adapted according to the
      usual follow-up frequency of the patient. Depending on the malignancy, patients are usually
      monitored every one, two or three months. Visit 2 might be on Month 1, 2 or 3, visit 3 on
      Month 3, 4 or 6 and visit 4 to Month 6 or 9. A last questionnaire aims to capture the trend
      of individuals to social desirability.

      At every visit, diagnosis, disease stage, prescribed drug regimen, side effects, concomitant
      medications, comorbidities and performance status are collected from patient medical record.
      After consultation, the haematologist completes contextual information regarding the presence
      of family members, language(s) used in communicating, assistance of an (non)-professional
      interpreter, and estimates the patient's level of French proficiency and the duration of the
      consultation.

      PATIENT SELECTION AND ENROLLMENT

      The researcher has access to the consultations' planning and the patients' medical file to
      identify potentially eligible patients. All of them are listed and selected in running order

      During an initial phone contact, the researcher briefly explains the purpose of the study. If
      the patient agrees, a half-hour information visit is scheduled during the next regular
      follow-up visit. In case of language barrier, the contact person mentioned in the patient's
      medical file is joined and the information visit is organized in the presence of an
      intercultural mediator.

      Questionnaires are distributed by the researcher just after the blood test, usually scheduled
      one to two hours before the medical consultation. All questionnaires are pre-coded with the
      patient study number and visit date and given to the patient in an pre-coded study envelope.
      The patient can then complete the questionnaires at its best convenience during the hospital
      visit and slide it into one of the numerous mailbox before leaving the hospital.

      TRANSLATION AND VALIDATION OF THE QUESTIONNAIRES

      Already validated translated versions existed in the five target languages (French, Dutch,
      Arabic, Polish, Romanian) for the HADS and were obtained after the licence fees. For other
      non-translated questionnaires, consistent with available resources and international
      guidelines, the investigators established a rigorous, appropriate and user-friendly valid
      translation method.

      Forward Translation : The initial translation from the original language has been made by a
      professional translator, familiar with health and medical terminologies. Instructions were
      given in the approach to translating, emphasizing conceptual rather than literal
      translations, as well as the need to use natural and acceptable language for the broadest
      audience.

      Back Translation : Using the same approach, the instrument was then converted back to English
      by an independent translator whose mother tongue was English and who was not familiar with
      the questionnaire.

      Both source-questionnaire in English and Backward translation were submitted for comparison
      to the main researcher. Each item of the two versions were ranked in terms of comparability
      of language and similarity of interpretability. All discrepancies, misunderstandings or
      unclear wording revealed by the back-translation were discussed with a third independent
      translator and again translated if needed.

      Preliminary pilot testing : The researcher pilot tested the prefinal version of the
      translation with cognitive debriefing on, first one bilingual patient with an haematological
      malignancy and, second, one bilingual nurse in oncology.

      All suggestions for linguistic and cultural adaptation were discussed with the researcher,
      the two bilingual respondents and the third professional translator until a consensus is
      reached.

      QUALITATIVE APPROACH - McGill ILLNESS NARRATIVE INTERVIEWS(MINI):

      Quantitative research methods have significant limitations in capturing the complexity of
      human behaviour and experience, tending to ignore the social and discursive contexts in which
      individual and collective understandings of illness experience emerge. Understanding the
      meaning that haematological cancer patients give to their illness and treatment experience
      may be crucial to explain the statistical associated between variables observed in
      quantitative study.

      According to an explanatory design, MADESIO study is a two-phase mixed methods design.
      Qualitative data will help to explain initial quantitative results. Given the lack of
      previous available data the two phases will be connected at two levels. A 6 months
      intermediate analysis of quantitative results will, on the one hand, instruct the appropriate
      participants to be selected for qualitative study, and on the other hand,will focus the
      results that need to be examined in more details. At this stage, it cannot be said whether
      adherence rates or associated risk factors will be different in the migrant and non-migrant
      subgroups. But whatever, qualitative study aims to understand why these results differ or
      not.

      The MINI will guide the conversation and produce narratives given access the many
      representations that come into play with regards to illness and health-related behaviour.
      Especially, addressing the discursive contexts in which individual and collective
      understandings of illness experience emerge may contribute to understand any potential
      association between personal or cultural beliefs and adherence behaviours. Therefore, the
      structured dimension of the MINI will enable the comparison between groups of patients from
      different cultural background.

      Sampling the selection criteria will be designed based on the first results of the
      quantitative study. The research team considers selecting outliers from the regression
      analysis or decide to learn more about the differences between people who score either high
      or low on adherence variables. Considering the risk of relapse or death of cancer patients
      treated by oral anticancer medication, the researcher will further decide to recontact
      appropriate members of our original quantitative sample, or to draw a new sample that meets
      our purposive criteria.

      CONCLUSION:

      When building this protocol, investigators are aware of the complexity, if only for practical
      reasons, of studying prospectively adherence in patients with a language barrier. Using a
      mixed method approach, the MADESIO protocol is able to generate solid complementary
      information on adherence behaviour and associated determinants among both non-migrant and
      migrants patients with various haematological malignancies.

      Successfully addressing the challenges raised by adherence study in haematology and in
      minority diverse populations, this sequential mixed method design will provide a first
      overview of how non-migrants and migrants with haematological malignancies, in our two
      Brussels Hospitals, adhere to their OAMs and will contribute to understand whether and why FG
      and SG migrants constitute a specific population regarding adherence to OAMs.
    
  