
    
      Chronic urticaria is a common condition which can be debilitating, difficult to treat, and
      sometimes life-threatening. Approximately 15-25% of the population is affected by urticaria
      at least once in their lifetime, and chronic urticaria develops in more than 25% of these
      cases. Chronic urticaria is characterized by frequent, often daily, development of pruritic
      wheals of 6 weeks duration or longer. The average duration of chronic urticaria is 3-5 years
      in adults. In the majority of cases, an underlying trigger for the urticaria is not
      identified and these cases are referred to as idiopathic (CIU). These considerations have led
      to the hypothesis that CIU may have an autoimmune etiology.

      CIU is a major affliction causing serious disability to a degree equal to that experienced by
      sufferers from coronary artery disease. Antihistamines are the most common therapy used.
      However, most cases of CIU are resistant to combinations of antihistamines and other
      therapies. In addition, patients are often intolerant to the side effects of antihistamines
      including sedation and cognitive dysfunction. The treatment of CIU patients can be
      frustrating. For those who do not respond to typical treatments, other therapies are needed.
      In many patients, immunosuppressant medications are required but this can lead to adverse
      effects such as renal dysfunction, liver function abnormalities, and anemia. A safer and more
      efficacious therapy is clearly needed for CIU.

      A few preclinical investigations have demonstrated an upregulation of TNF-alpha in patients
      with CIU. This is in contrast to acute urticaria where TNF-alpha does not appear to play as
      important of a role in the inflammatory response . This may explain why patients with CIU do
      not typically respond to usual therapies for acute urticaria. It has been suggested that CIU
      is an immediate hypersensitivity phenomenon appearing immediately after exposure to an
      antigen, but the presence of a delayed inflammatory phase is nevertheless observed in this
      pathology. Soluble factors play a role in this delayed inflammatory phase. Cytokines,
      including TNF-alpha, are important mediators the pathogenesis of this delayed response.
      Studies have demonstrated a similar immune profile as that found in patients with rheumatoid
      arthritis. In one study, cytokines were evaluated in lesional and non-lesional skin of
      patients with acute urticaria, CIU, delayed pressure urticaria, and cold urticaria. This
      study demonstrated upregulation of TNF-alpha on endothelial cells and perivascular cells in
      the dermis. Additionally, TNF-alpha was expressed throughout the epidermis in lesional and
      non-lesional skin of CIU patients, but not controls. These preclinical investigations support
      the use of targeted therapy of TNF-alpha in patients with CIU. Therapies directed at
      modulating the effects of TNF-alpha, including etanercept, may provide effective and safe
      long-term treatment for patients not responding to anti-histamines alone.

      HYPOTHESIS: We hypothesize that the blockage of TNF with etanercept could be a useful and
      safe therapy for patients with CIU.

      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary Objective: To determine the efficacy of etanercept on the clinical features of CIU. A
      positive response to treatment (a % change from baseline of urticaria activity scores

      Secondary Objective: Study the safety of etanercept in the treatment of CIU
    
  