
    
      Hypotheses and research questions:

      Hypothesis 1: Media consumption across all information sources will significantly be
      associated with depression and anxiety symptoms, with increased media consumption in general
      associated with higher levels of health anxiety, depression, and general anxiety.

      Hypothesis 2: Using social media and online interactive platforms to obtain news about the
      pandemic in comparison to using traditional media (e.g., TV, radio, and newspapers) will be
      associated with higher levels of health anxiety, depression, and general anxiety. Actively
      staying away from information will further significantly be associated with higher levels of
      higher levels of health anxiety, depression, and general anxiety.

      Research Question 1: Is there a differential effect among different information sources on
      health anxiety, depression and general anxiety? To what extend and how are different
      information sources related to symptoms of health anxiety, depression, and general anxiety.

      Exploratory:

      Additionally, the investigators will exploratory investigate to what extent the amount of use
      of different information sources impact health anxiety, depression, and general anxiety. The
      investigators will also examine effect sizes with part correlations, to investigate
      information sources with the most and least detrimental impact on health anxiety, depression,
      and general anxiety.

      Furthermore, the investigators will report which information platforms participants reported
      as most useful with regards to information concerning how to best deal with the pandemic.

      Statistical analysis:

      Three multiple regression analyses will be conducted. 1) with PHQ-9 as the dependent
      variable; and 2) the second with GAD-7 at as the dependent variable; and 3) the third with
      Health Anxiety as the dependent variable. All analyses will include the different sources of
      information as predictor variables, while controlling for the effects of pre-existing mental
      health condition, gender, age, and education. Part correlations will be reported for each
      regression analysis, presenting the effect size of the hypothesized predictors associated
      with health anxiety, depression and general anxiety. A part (semi-partial) correlation gives
      the least biased and easiest interpretable estimate of the strength of a predictive
      relationship (Dudgeon, 2016). It is the correlation between the outcome and the aspects of
      the predictor unique from all the other predictors. As a type of correlation, its size can be
      evaluated according to Cohen's (1988) criteria: small >=0.10, medium >=0.30, large >=0.50.

      The sources of information include: 1) National television and radio channels; 2) national
      and regional, and local newspapers; 3) Use of social media for information; 4) use of blogs,
      podcasts, forums or other Internet sources; 5) information obtained from peers (i.e., friends
      and family); 6) Other sources of information; 7) actively staying away from information.

      Multicollinearity and other statistical assumptions will be checked using examined.
      Multicollinearity will be assessed with common guidelines (VIF < 5 and Tolerance > 0.2;
      Hocking, 2003; O'Brian, 2007).

      All analyses and questions addressed in the forthcoming paper that are not pre-specified in
      this pre-registered protocol will be defined as exploratory.

      Sensitivity analyses and random subsample replications of the main findings will be conducted
      following selection of a random sample of participants that ensure a proportionate ratio
      between the collected sample and the adult population of Norway.

      Possible transformations:

      All variables will be assessed in their original and validated format as is recommended
      practice, as long as this is possible with regards to statistical assumptions underlying the
      pre-defined analyses (i.e., multiple regression). However, if this is not possible with
      regards to the statistical assumptions behind the analyses, transformation (e.g., square root
      or log-transformations) may be needed to apply interval-based methods. The investigators will
      examine the degree of skewness and evaluate this against the assumptions and analyses before
      choosing the appropriate analysis. The pre-registered and planned analyses include multiple
      regression as long as assumptions are met. Alternatively a non-parametric test will be used.

      Inference criteria Given the large sample size in this study, the investigators pre-define
      their significance level: p < 0.01 to determine significance.

      Sample size and power calculation:

      The present study is part of a larger project with the first part aiming to investigate
      information source predictors of mental health through regression analyses, and the second
      part aiming to examine directional relations amongst specific sources of information and
      their centrality through complex systems approaches (i.e., network analysis). Consequently,
      power calculations are based on power required for network analyses. Following power analysis
      guidelines by Fried & Cramer (2017), it is recommended that the number of participants are
      three times larger than the number of estimated parameters. However, more conservative
      recommendations by Roscoe (1975) for multivariate research, recommends sample size that is
      ten times larger than the number of estimated parameters. Thus, following these two
      approaches respectively, between 1053 to 3510 participants are required. Data will be
      collected for three weeks, and participants are based on a representative and random sample
      of Norwegian adults, randomly selected and provided equal opportunity to partake in the
      study, providing digital consent.

      Missing data:

      The TSD system (Services for Sensitive Data), a platform used in Norway to store
      person-sensitive data verifies participants officially through a kind of national ID number
      to give them full right to withdraw their data at any time, following the European GDPR
      (General Data Protection Regulation) laws. Accordingly, participants are allowed to withdraw
      their own data at any time. The survey includes mandatory fields of response. Participation
      is voluntarily, and withdrawal of provided data is possible at any moment. The investigators
      do not expect participants to withdraw their data and thus expect no missing data. However,
      if participants do withdraw their data, the investigators will conduct state-of-art missing
      data analyses and investigate whether data is missing at random.
    
  