
    
      1. BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE 1.1 Background Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related
      mortality in the world. Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the most common type of lung
      cancer, comprises about 80% of all lung cancer cases, and five-year survival across all
      stages is about 12%. More than 60% of all NSCLC patients have advanced or metastatic disease
      that is not suitable for curative resection at diagnosis. Platinum-based chemotherapy remains
      the cornerstone of treatment for these patients and results in a small but statistically
      significant improvement in survival compared with supportive care alone.But the regimen is
      also associated with moderate to severe hematological and non-hematological toxic effects in
      a majority of patients.

      Approximately two-thirds of patients diagnosed with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are 65
      years or older, and nearly 50% are 70 years or older. And greater than 90% of elderly
      patients experience a grade 3/4 toxicity when treated with a platinum-based
      doublet..Moreover，a group of patients with the performance status ≥2 is intolerant
      intravenous chemotherapy. Availability of an effective,less toxic therapy might help extend
      potentially beneficial treatment to a greater proportion of elderly or patients whose
      performance status ≥2.

      1.2 Rationale 1.2.1 Capecitabine for NSCLC Capecitabine is an oral prodrug of 5-Fu.It is
      absorbed through the intestine and converted to 5'-deoxy-S-fluorocytidine (5'-DFCR) by
      carboxylesterase and then to 5'-deoxy-S-fluorouridine (5'-DFUR) by cytidine deaminase, both
      steps taking place in the liver. Finally,it is converted to the only active metabolite, FU,
      by thymidine phosphorylase（TP）. This occurs in both tumor and normal tissues; however, the TP
      is found at higher concentrations in some tumor tissue compared with normal healthy
      tissue.The expression of this enzymes may influence the effect of the capecitabine. Han et al
      examined the TP expression in tumor tissue samples from NSCLC patients who enrolled in a
      previous phase II study of capecitabine/docetaxel chemotherapy and found that the patients
      with high tumour cell thymidine phosphorylase expression show a better response to
      capecitabine based chemotherapy .

      The thymidylate synthase (TS) is an important target enzyme for antifolate drugs, such as
      5-FU、UFT and capecitabine,because it catalyzes an essential step in DNA synthesis. The
      predictive role of the expression of thymidylate synthase (TS) in tumors treated with
      antifolate drugs has been extensively reported in NSCLC.In 2006, Nakano et al performed an
      immunohistochemical study on the clinical significance of TS expression using 151 resected
      non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients postoperatively treated with UFT.They found that
      the 5-year survival rate of patients with TS-negative tumours was significantly higher than
      that with TS-positive tumours (P=0.0133).Miyoshi et al reported that the oral administration
      of UFT after surgery might improve the survival of NSCLC patients when TS levels in tumor
      tissues are low,with the 5-year survival rates of patients positive and negative for TS were
      50.0 and 89.5%(p<0.001).Some research still found that TS expression was significantly higher
      in squamous cell carcinoma compared with adenocarcinoma when both mRNA levels and protein
      levels.

      Recently，a Phase III Study Comparing Cisplatin Plus Gemcitabine With Cisplatin Plus
      Pemetrexed in Chemotherapy-Naïve Patients With Advanced-Stage Non-Small- Cell Lung Cancer
      showed that Overall survival was statistically superior for cisplatin/ pemetrexed versus
      cisplatin/gemcitabine in patients with adenocarcinoma.The result reminded us that patients
      with adenocarcinoma were most likely to benefit from antifolate drugs.

      In the preclinical study, we examined tumor specimens for TS and TP expression obtained from
      171 Chinese NSCLC patients who were operated without any preoperative chemotherapy or
      radiation at our institute. We categorized Grades 0 and 1 as negative, Grades 2 and 3 as
      positive for both enzymes. As for TS staining, 14.6% (n = 25) were classified as Grade 0,
      28.7% (n = 49) as Grade 1, 32.7% (n = 56) as Grade 2 and 24.0% (n = 41) as Grade 3. And for
      TP staining, 12.3% (n = 21) were classified as Grade 0, 17.0% (n = 29) as Grade 1, 13.5% (n =
      23) as Grade 2 and 57.3% (n =98) as Grade 3. Although the anti-tumor activity of capecitabine
      has not been well evaluated in NSCLC, the relatively high expression of TP (70.8%) and low
      expression TS (43.3%) in NSCLC provided a rationale for the use of capecitabine in patients
      with this tumor.

      1.2.2 Erlotinib for NSCLC Erlotinib is a novel small molecule inhibitor of the EGFR tyrosine
      kinase (TK). It has been approved as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with advanced
      NSCLC who have progressed following first- and second-line chemotherapy.It is fairly well
      tolerated and the salient adverse effects are mild to moderate skin rash and diarrhea. And
      the further study showed that adenocarcinoma histology predicted the better survival.

      Recently a trial of erlotinib as first-line therapy in elderly patients has been reported by
      investigators at the Dana-Farber Cancer Center. In 76 patients over the age of 70, the vast
      majority with adenocarcinoma histology, the response rate was 12% and a median survival was
      11 months.

      1.2.3 The synergistic interaction of erlotinib and capecitabine in NSCLC. Giovannetti et al
      reported that erlotinib significantly reduced TS expression and activity, possibly via E2F-1
      reduction, as detected by RT-PCR and western blot, and the combination decreased TS in situ
      activity in NSCLC cells. Furthermore, Van SS. et al found TS inhibitor (5-FU) increases EGFR
      phosphorylation which potentially favors EGFR-TKIs activity.Thus, erlotinib and capecitabine
      may have a strong synergism in NSCLC.

      Because of the effect in the treatment of NSCLC, the capecitabine and erlotinib may compose
      to a new regimen for NSCLC. Based on the preclinical observation and the confirmed clinical
      synergistic anti-tumor activity of combined capecitabine and erlotinib in gemzar refractory
      APC, we previously conducted a phase II study of erlotinib in combination with capecitabine
      against NSCLC.
    
  