
    
      Many serious NMHD affecting children, including SAA, FA, sickle cell disease (SCD), and
      thalassemia can be cured by allogeneic HSCT. While the best results are achieved with HSCT
      from human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched siblings, most children lack such donors, and many
      children with NMHD are therefore transplanted with grafts from adult URD. Because URD grafts
      are less histocompatible, they are more likely to cause GVHD, a process driven by the
      reaction of donor T cells against incompatible host tissues. Despite the routine
      administration of immune suppression for GVHD prophylaxis, GVHD claims the lives of many and
      plagues others with incapacitating chronic illness. For NMHD, the threat of GVHD limits the
      use of URD HSCT to only the most severely affected children. In African-Americans and other
      ethnic minorities, the situation is compounded by the fact that most of these children lack
      fully matched URD and typically receive mismatched grafts, which carry an increased risk for
      graft rejection. A more effective form of GVHD prophylaxis that does not compromise
      engraftment is urgently needed, both to improve outcomes for those children undergoing HSCT
      as well as to allow expansion of this curative therapy to the many children with NMHD who
      forego transplantation because of the risk for GVHD.

      The researchers have investigated the use of the co-stimulation blocking agent CTLA4-Ig
      (abatacept) to prevent GVHD. Study results to date indicate that abatacept strongly inhibits
      allo-reactive donor T cells and is clinically safe and effective. The clinical experience has
      included a variety of recipients: children and adults, peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) and
      bone marrow (BM) grafts, as well as mismatched and matched unrelated and matched related
      donors; all have involved the administration of four IV doses of abatacept, on days -1, +5,
      +14, and +28, in combination with standard calcineurin inhibitor-based GVHD prophylaxis.
      Collectively, the results to date suggest that this combination, including abatacept, very
      effectively prevents acute GVHD. However, these results also suggest that protection against
      chronic GVHD is more limited. In this current trial, the researchers will attempt to more
      effectively prevent chronic GVHD by extending the administration of abatacept, giving eight
      doses (additional doses days +56, +84, +112, and +150). This trial will test the hypothesis
      that extended abatacept administration (combined with a standard regimen of tacrolimus and
      mycophenolate mofetil) will effectively prevent acute and chronic GVHD in children and
      adolescents receiving mismatched URD HSCT, without compromising their engraftment or
      reconstitution of protective immunity to infection.

      The study will enroll 28 pediatric patients with serious NMHD undergoing mismatched URD HSCT.
      The trial will include two strata, based on donor matching. Stratum 1 (n=14) will be for
      patients with 7/8 donors and stratum 2 (n=14) will be for those with 8/8 (matched) donors.
      Study participants will be admitted to the hospital ten or eleven days prior to the day of
      transplant (day -10 or day -11) to complete a conditioning regimen to prevent the donor cells
      from being rejected.

      Patients will receive one of three reduced toxicity or intensity conditioning regimens based
      upon underlying disease and/or physician preference: (1) anti-thymocyte globulin,
      fludarabine, and a low dose of cyclophosphamide (FA patients only); (2) anti-thymocyte
      globulin, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and a low dose of total body radiation (SAA and
      other bone marrow failure disorders); or (3) alemtuzumab, fludarabine, melphalan, and
      thiotepa (hemoglobinopathy and non-SAA bone marrow failure disorders). All participants will
      receive 8 doses of abatacept (10 mg/kg intravenously on days -1, +5, +14, +28, +56, +84,
      +112, and +150). Recruitment is expected to last for about 2 years and participants will be
      followed for up to 3 years.
    
  