
    
      Background : A meta-analysis has demonstrated the beneficial effect of immuno nutrition in
      surgical patients, leading to half reduction of incidence of nosocomial infections (HEYLAND
      DK, JAMA ; 2001). This beneficial effect seems to be related to L-arginine content of
      formula. In medical intensive care, such an improvement has not been shown, in spite of
      similar impairment of immune response, which could be due to a more heterogenous population.
      Our hypothesis is that this beneficial effect could be observed in selected patients of
      medical intensive care units. L-arginine is a semi-essential amino acid that is the precursor
      of nitric oxide (NO) synthesis. NO is involved in immune response regulation and has
      antimicrobial properties, notably into airways where it can be measured in exhaled gas. A
      decrease in exhaled and nasal NO has been demonstrated in critically ill patients, which may
      suggest an impairment of its production.

      Objectives : The aim of this study is to evaluate the immune effects of enteral L-arginine
      administration in non surgical critically ill patients. These patients will be selected based
      on the decrease in nasal NO: directed immuno nutrition. The main objective is to demonstrate
      that L-arginine administration, as compared to placebo administration, increases nasal NO and
      enhances immune functions (increase in HLA-DR expression on monocytes, modification of
      circulating Myeloid-Derived Suppressor Cells (MDSC), decrease in IL-6, IL-17 plasmatic
      concentrations): stimulation of immune response. The secondary objective is to demonstrate
      the safety of L-arginine administration on organ failure and on the incidence of nosocomial
      infections.

      This is a monocentric therapeutic trial, randomized and double blind: standard enteral
      nutrition plus L-arginine (200 mg/kg/d for 5 days from the admission in ICU) versus standard
      enteral nutrition plus placebo.

      Methods-Patients: Non surgical patients admitted in a single medical intensive care unit,
      under mechanical ventilation for an expected duration > 2 days, with decreased concentrations
      of nasal NO (< 60 ppb), without severe sepsis or septic shock, will be enrolled. On admission
      (before treatment), the severity will be evaluated (SAPS II and SOFA score) together with an
      assessment of plasmatic L-arginine, cytokines (IL-6, IL-17), MDSC, and expression of HLA-DR
      by monocytes. The same evaluation will be repeated on day 4 (during treatment) and on day 7
      (after treatment). The enrolment of 50 patients is statistically enough to demonstrate an
      increased expression of HLA-DR in the L-arginine group as compared to the placebo group on
      day 4.

      Expected results and perspectives: The aim of this study is to demonstrate the validity of
      the concept of directed immune stimulation by the sole L-arginine in medical intensive care
      unit, the patients being selected based on their decrease in exhaled and nasal NO
      concentrations. This pathophysiological study is the necessary first step before conducting a
      large clinical trial aimed at demonstrating a reduction of nosocomial infection incidence by
      L-arginine.
    
  