
    
      Research has shown that the current definitions used by doctors to assess and treat infants
      who have a circulatory problem are inaccurate and lead to a large differences in how doctors
      treat this problem in babies. Treatments for circulatory problems in babies can involve the
      giving of medication such as adrenaline, dobutamine or dopamine. However these drugs are not
      licensed for use in babies and have potentially harmful side effects.

      By investigating new methods of assessing a babies circulatory status we intend to help
      create a new definition of circulatory failure which will in turn help doctors create further
      studies to identify infants with circulatory failure and find the best ways of treating this
      condition in babies. So far research in this area has been confined to babies born at less
      than 33 weeks gestation. We intend to extend the knowledge in this area to infants older that
      33 weeks gestation.

      This is a pilot prospective observational study in babies older that 33 weeks. Infants will
      been considered to be from a healthy population (i.e. receiving routine care on the postnatal
      care or special care on the neonatal unit). Potential participants will be approached by a
      member of the research team and given information about the study and informed consent will
      be taken.

      For the first three days of their lives all included infants will have two specific
      measurements once a day. These are known as:-

        1. Superior vena cava flow assessment- This involves measuring the blood flow through one
           of large veins that is connected to the babies' heart using an ultrasound machine. It is
           a painless procedure that is well tolerated by infants.

        2. Pleth variability index- This involves placing a small probe on the baby's hand or foot
           that will measure their oxygen levels. This will be done at the same time as the
           superior vena cava flow assessment is performed. Again this is a painless procedure that
           is well tolerated by infants.

      Prior to these measurements the infants will have there blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen
      saturation's and capillary refill time assessed.

      This assessments will be performed in addition to the routine care they receive. Infants will
      therefore have these measurements performed three times for the purpose of the study. If an
      infant is discharged by the clinical team before the third day of life then the measurements
      that have been performed prior to discharge will be included in the final analysis.
    
  