
    
      Sarcoidosis is a relatively rare, poorly defined autoimmune disease characterized by the
      formation of sterile granulomas in affected organs, including the liver. The diagnosis of
      hepatic sarcoid is often presumed based upon an elevated liver-specific isoenzyme of alkaline
      phosphatase or imaging findings suggestive of portal hypertension, hepatomegaly, or liver
      lesions in a patient with known pulmonary sarcoidosis; a minority of hepatic sarcoid cases
      are diagnosed through liver biopsy. The mainstay of treatment of systemic sarcoidosis in
      those with symptoms is immunosuppression with corticosteroids, which are gradually tapered
      over months. The disease course for sarcoidosis can vary; patients who are asymptomatic can
      be monitored without therapy, while some require intermittent corticosteroids for flares. The
      expert guidelines for treatment of hepatic sarcoid suggest waiting until a patient is
      symptomatic or experiencing evidence of liver dysfunction to treat. This approach is in
      opposition to the treatment of primary liver diseases in which treatment is often initiated
      based upon abnormal lab values even without symptoms, as symptoms of liver disease (ascites,
      variceal bleeding, pruritus, jaundice, and encephalopathy) often occur late in the disease.
      The approach to the treatment of hepatic sarcoid should be similar to two other autoimmune
      liver diseases: autoimmune hepatitis (AIH) and primary biliary cholangitis (PBC). Liver
      decompensation can be prevented in both AIH and PBC if the disease is diagnosed and treated
      in the early stages. The first-line treatment for AIH is immunosuppression with
      corticosteroids and azathioprine; for PBC, it is Ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA). In a similar
      vein, patients with hepatic sarcoid may benefit from earlier initiation of therapy. Given its
      excellent safety profile and minimal side effects, UDCA may be the consensus first-line
      treatment for hepatic sarcoid, a disease that, like PBC, usually causes a cholestatic liver
      injury. There have been case reports and retrospective studies documenting the beneficial
      effects of UDCA on hepatic sarcoid. However, thus far, there have been no clinical trials to
      evaluate the efficacy of UDCA in hepatic sarcoid. This pilot study will examine the effects
      of UDCA in a small sample of patients at the University of Pennsylvania. Patients with a
      prior diagnosis of sarcoidosis and lab/imaging findings suggestive of hepatic sarcoid would
      be approached. The primary endpoint is a reduction in alkaline phosphatase from baseline.
      Secondary endpoints include safety and tolerability of UDCA, new or worsening symptoms of
      hepatic sarcoidosis and liver disease, changes in bilirubin and transaminases, and liver
      stiffness as measured by Fibroscan. A minimum of ten patients will be enrolled for a
      twelve-month study with the total study time of two years. It is hypothesized that UDCA will
      lead to modest decreases in alkaline phosphatase levels in patients with hepatic sarcoid with
      minimal side effects. Overtime a long-term decline in alkaline phosphatase could decrease the
      risk of hepatic decompensation in patients with hepatic sarcoid.

      As an exploratory objective and optional sub-study, the investigators will include the
      methacetin breath test (MBT), a noninvasive tool to assess microsomal capacity to metabolize
      the nonradioactive compound 13-Carbon-labeled Methacetin. The MBT will be used in parallel
      with clinical and laboratory parameters (Fibroscan, liver enzymes) to assess subjects liver
      function prior to and following intervention with UDCA. Changes in the methacetin breath
      tests in all subjects prior to and following intervention with UDCA will be examined as a
      secondary exploratory endpoint.
    
  