
    
      Anticipated Impacts on Veterans Health Care: by identifying a colonoscopy bowel preparation
      regimen which is the most effective in real-world VA practice and can be immediately
      implemented on a VA-wide scale, the proposed study will maximize the effectiveness of
      colonoscopy in reducing colorectal cancer (CRC) risk among Veterans, increase Veteran
      satisfaction, and reduce VA healthcare cost. Background: CRC is a leading cause of
      cancer-related death among Veterans. Colonoscopy can effectively reduce CRC incidence and
      mortality. However, non-adherence to screening colonoscopy substantially undermines this
      benefit. Existing evidence indicates that a disagreeable bowel preparation is a leading
      barrier to completing a colonoscopy from the patients' perspective. The taste and the volume
      of the bowel preparation determine patient tolerability and compliance to the preparation
      instructions, which in turn affects the incompletion (e.g., cancellation/no-show/reschedule)
      rate of scheduled colonoscopies as well as the effectiveness of the completed colonoscopies
      and patient satisfaction. The two most commonly used preparations currently in the US are the
      split-dose 4L polyethylene glycol (PEG) and the split-dose 2L MiraLAX/Gatorade preparations.
      While a high-volume regimen may in theory be more effective than a lower volume one, it may
      be associated with lower tolerability and adherence in real-world practice. Three small
      trials have compared these two preparations. However, data from these explanatory trials
      cannot inform policy decisions because they were conducted under artificial conditions,
      restricted among narrow patient populations, and most importantly not designed to capture the
      full impact of bowel preparation on the completion rate or effectiveness of colonoscopy. To
      address this critical knowledge gap, the investigators are proposing a pragmatic trial to
      determine the optimal split-dose bowel preparation in the general Veteran population.
      Objectives: to compare the real-world effectiveness of the two most commonly used split-dose
      colonoscopy bowel preparation regimens in the US (i.e., 4L PEG and 2L MiraLAX/Gatorade) with
      respect to the completion rate of scheduled colonoscopies, adenoma detection rate and
      secondarily preparation quality, cancellation/no-show rate and patient-oriented outcomes
      (e.g., willingness to repeat the preparation).
    
  