
    
      Eligible patients will have metastatic CRPC with no disease related symptoms and progression
      on Androgen deprivation therapy and will have progressed post-treatment with abiraterone.
      Patients will continue on Androgen deprivation therapy with Luteinising Hormone Releasing
      Hormone agonist (i.e. Zoladex, Trelstar, Eligard or Lupron) or Luteinising Hormone Releasing
      Hormone antagonist (Degarelix) if not surgically castrated throughout the duration of the
      study to inhibit endogenous testosterone production. Patients will be randomized 1:1 and
      stratified based on duration of prior abiraterone acetate therapy (6 months or less or
      greater than 6 months). Patients randomized to BAT (Arm A) will receive intramuscular
      injections with either testosterone cypionate or testosterone enanthate at a dose of 400 mg
      every 28 days. This dose was selected based on data demonstrating that it produces an initial
      supraphysiologic serum level of T (i.e. > 1500 ng/dL or 3-10 times normal level) with
      eugonadal levels achieved at the end of two weeks and near castrate levels after 28 days.
      Patients randomized to enzalutamide (Arm B) will receive daily oral dose of 160 mg. Each
      cycle is defined as 28 days.

      Patients will have Prostate-specific antigen level and symptoms assessment checked every
      cycle. Every 3 cycles patients will have repeat bone/CT scans to evaluate treatment response
      status. On CT scan, radiographic progression will be defined by RECIST criteria (i.e. >20%
      increase in the sum of target lesions). On bone scan, radiographic progression will be
      defined by PCWG2 criteria as ≥ 2 new bone lesions. However, for the first reassessment scan
      only, patients should remain on study and have a confirmatory scan performed 12 weeks (3
      cycles) later. If this confirmatory scan shows 2 or more additional new lesions, this defines
      progression. The date of progression is the date of the first reassessment bone scan. If the
      confirmatory scan does not show any additional new lesions, patient remains on study. If
      progression is observed on subsequent bone scans, a confirmatory scan is not required; the
      date of this bone scan is the date of progression.

      Patients with Prostate-specific antigen progression but with disease response or stable
      disease on imaging studies will remain on study until radiographic or other clinical
      progression criteria are met. Patients with radiographic disease progression will not receive
      continued BAT (arm A) or enzalutamide (arm B) and will be eligible for crossover to the
      opposite therapy. Patients on the BAT arm A can cross over to receive enzalutamide at time of
      progression or can choose to go off study and be treated with other standard of care
      treatments. Patients on the enzalutamide arm B will be allowed to cross-over to receive BAT
      or can choose to go off study and be treated with other standard of care treatments.

      Patients with clinical progression due to prostate cancer must meet study exclusion criteria
      to be permitted to cross-over to the opposite treatment. Patients with clinical progression
      due to pain from prostate cancer are not permitted to cross-over.
    
  