
    
      Research Hypothesis: Molecular groups of ccrcc will define patients who will respond to
      nivolumab alone, nivolumab combined with ipilimumab, or VEGFR-TKI (sunitinib or pazopanib) in
      subjects with previously untreated metastatic renal cell carcinoma (mRCC).

      Conditions:

        -  Advanced or metastatic RCC: previously untreated in metastatic setting.

        -  Frozen tumor samples available for molecular group determination.

        -  Determination of molecular subgroup prior to randomization.

      Product(s):

        -  ARM A: nivolumab alone administered IV over 60 minutes at 240 mg every 2 weeks
           (molecular group 1 and 4).

        -  ARM B : Nivolumab administered IV over 60 minutes at 3 mg/kg combined with ipilimumab
           administered IV over 30 minutes at 1 mg/kg every 3 weeks for 4 doses followed by
           nivolumab administered IV over 60 minutes at 240 mg every 2 weeks

      starting from the Cycle 7 possibility to switch from nivolumab 240 mg every 2 weeks to 480 mg
      every 4 weeks according to the Investigator's preference (Arm A and B),

      - ARM C: TKI (molecular group 2 and 3), pazopanib or sunitinib according to investigator's
      choice until disease progression, unacceptable toxicity or other reasons specified in the
      protocol.

      Biological assessments:

      Molecular groups (1 to 4) will be determined for all patients from frozen tumor tissue
      samples or from fresh tumor samples immediately stored in "RNA later" medium.

      Further exploratory biological assessments will be performed in order to define predictive
      biomarkers of response to N+I, N alone or TKI (sunitinib or pazopanib) by analyzing tumor
      specimens and blood samples:

        -  To assess gene expression of immune population markers in the primary tumor as well as
           in the metastases before beginning treatment, and at progression if safely achievable.

        -  Gene expression analysis will be performed from frozen and FFPE tumor tissue in order to
           compare the two methods.

        -  To assess the density and phenotype of selected immune populations (CD8, CD3/CD20, PD-1,
           TIM-3, LAG3, FoxP3) as well as the phenotype of tumor cells (PD-L1, PD-L2) by
           immunohistochemistry (IHC) in the primary tumor and metastases, before treatment
           initiation and at progression if safely achievable.

        -  To assess the functional status of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) by flow cytometry,
           before treatment initiation, during treatment, and at progression.

        -  To quantify plasmatic angiogenesis-related (i.e. VEGF-A, VEGF-C its soluble receptors
           VEGFR-1 and 2 and co-receptors neuropilin 1 and 2, angiopoietins, SDF-1, PDGFs…)) and
           endothelial cell-derived molecules (i.e. endoglin, VE-cadherin) before treatment
           initiation, during treatment, and at progression.

        -  To correlate plasmatic angiogenesis-related molecules with tumor vascularization studied
           by immunofluorescence (IF) and a multi-spectral analyzer (Vectra technology) on tumor
           tissue.

        -  To investigate a predictive role of the response of CXCL7 and sCD146 to TKI, nivolumab
           and/or nivolumab+ipilimumab.

        -  To determine whether the mutation and methylation analysis of circulating tumor DNA can
           be used as predictive biomarker of response, resistance to treatment or progression.

        -  Identify genetic and epigenetic alterations associated with either response or
           resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors and tyrosine kinase inhibitors

        -  Evaluate association between immune cells composing tumor microenvironment and response
           and/or resistance to immune checkpoint inhibitors or tyrosine kinase inhibitors

        -  Evaluate additional genetic and epigenetic tumor alterations at resistance/progression
           or after resection of residual mass.

      Statistical Considerations:

      An adaptative design will be used to ensure that conclusions can be made with a limited
      number of patients in each molecular group, which is the major constraint of the study.

      Sample Size: Approximately 150 patients are planned to be treated. Given an expected failure
      rate of molecular grouping of less than 20%, 150-200 patients must be included.
    
  