
    
      Research shows that more than 1/3 of patients with acute cerebral hemorrhage in the first 24
      hours will be expanding hematoma. The treatment of acute cerebral hemorrhage has two main
      targets: prevention of hematoma enlargement in primary brain damage; Reduce hematoma
      secondary brain damage caused by blood toxicity degradation products. At present, the
      curative effect of drug treatment of acute cerebral hemorrhage remains limited, using drug
      therapy to treat hematoma caused by blood toxicity degradation products secondary brain
      damage, is one of the main current international research direction and hotspot. Recent
      studies have found that iron overload in cells in acute cerebral hemorrhage stove weeks edema
      secondary lesion plays a very important role. Acute cerebral hemorrhage animal model research
      and small sample clinical study has shown that the iron chelator deferoxamine has good
      curative effect and security. Currently ongoing international HI-DEF test plans to assess the
      efficacy and safety of high-dose deferoxamine treatment within 24 h of patients with acute
      cerebral hemorrhage.

      Basic research shows Xingnaojing injection can inhibit inflammatory reaction, scavenging free
      radicals, relieve acute cerebral hemorrhage hematoma surrounding edema and has a variety of
      brain protection mechanism. The current study builds on these results to assess the potential
      utility of deferoxamine and Xingnaojing injection as a therapeutic intervention in ICH.

      This is a prospective, multi-center, double-blind, randomized, placebo-armed clinical study
      to test the safety and effectiveness of deferoxamine and Xingnaojing injection treatment in
      intracerebral hemorrhage. The investigators will randomize 180 subjects with ICH equally
      (1:1:1) to either DFO at 40mg/kg/day (up to a maximum daily dose of 6000 mg/day), or
      Xingnaojing injection, or saline placebo, given by continuous IV infusion for 5 consecutive
      days. Treatment will be initiated within 12 hours after ICH symptom onset.

      The main objectives are:

        1. Examining the effects of DFO and Xingnaojing injection on peri-hematoma edema (PHE)
           volume progression between baseline and post-treatment CT/MRI scans and the residual
           cavity volume at 90 days.

        2. Obtaining data on the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) to explore the
           effects of treatment on neurological functions.

        3. Examining the effects of DFO and Xingnaojing injection on biomarkers of acute cerebral
           hemorrhage such as ferritin, interleukin - 6, matrix metalloproteinase 9, tumor necrosis
           factor alpha and so on.

        4. Study the traditional Chinese medicine(TCM)curative effect evaluation of the roles of
           different treatment methods on secondary damage after ICH.

      Secondary and exploratory objectives include:

        1. Exploring whether the effect of DFO on outcome is dependent on initial ICH volume, after
           adjusting for other prognostic variables, to determine if specific limits for ICH volume
           should be specified as exclusion/inclusion criteria for future studies.

        2. Exploring the differences between early (≤12h) and late (>12-24h) OTT windows in DFO
           treatment effect on functional outcome.

      Exploratory study shows that iron chelator deferoxamine is effective and safe in the
      treatment of acute cerebral hemorrhage. We choose within 12 hours as the treatment time
      window, different from within 24 hours in the current international ongoing HI-DEF test. In
      theory, the earlier, the better curative effect. So this experiment is more likely to get a
      better curative effect. Xingnaojing injection is widely used in clinical in china, but lack
      of rigorous randomized controlled trial to prove its brain protection effect currently.
      Successful completion of this study will provide a crucial, reliable experimental evidence
      for a new treatment for acute cerebral hemorrhage. ICH is one of main causes of disability
      and death. A successful study demonstrating the efficacy of DFO and xingnaojing injection
      would be of considerable public health significance.
    
  