
    
      We conducted a multi-center phase II trial of cediranib in patients with unresectable,
      histologically-confirmed malignant mesothelioma (MM) who had received <=1 prior regimen of
      chemotherapy. The primary endpoint was objective response rate. Initial cediranib dosing was
      45 mg daily during a 28-day cycle. Due to substantial toxicity, the starting dose was
      subsequently lowered to 30 mg daily.

      Pretreatment evaluation included a medical history and physical exam, complete blood count
      and differential, chemistry panel, pregnancy test, and a computed tomography (CT) scan of the
      chest, abdomen, and pelvis if relevant. A history and physical exam were repeated every 14
      days and laboratory evaluations including a complete blood count with differential, serum
      chemistry panel, and urinalysis were repeated every 7 days. Patients were provided with a
      blood pressure monitoring device and a diary to record their blood pressure readings twice
      daily.

      Patients received a minimum of 2 cycles unless unacceptable toxicity or rapid clinical
      progression of disease occurred. Response was evaluated by CT imaging every two cycles.
      Confirmatory scans were to be obtained at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of an
      objective complete or partial response.

      Cediranib was administered orally once daily on days 1 through 28 of a 28-day cycle.
      Cediranib was initially dosed at 45 mg daily, but due to substantial rates of toxicity the
      protocol was amended in June 2007 to decrease the starting dose to 30 mg daily. Cediranib was
      taken 1 hour (h) before or 2 h after meals. Only one dose modification was permitted. When
      the starting cediranib dose was 45 mg, dose level-1 was 30 mg daily. After the protocol
      amendment, dose level-1 was 20 mg daily. Further dose reductions were allowed at the
      discretion of the investigator only if the patient had received clinical benefit from
      cediranib for >3 months. Patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for
      biomarker and optional pharmacogenomic correlative studies. After completion of study
      treatment, patients are followed for up to 8 weeks.

      Adverse effects were graded according to National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria
      version 3.0. The dose was reduced for grade 3 or greater non-hematologic toxicity
      attributable to cediranib or grade 4 hematologic toxicity if the toxicity lasted for >5 days
      and did not resolve to <=grade 2. Maximal antihypertensive therapy was defined as taking 4
      antihypertensive agents for >2 weeks at full dosage. For patients on antihypertensive therapy
      who had an elevation in systolic blood pressure (SBP) >=140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure
      (DBP) >=90 mmHg on 2 separate readings during a 48 h period, the dose of cediranib was
      maintained without interruption while the dosage of current antihypertensive therapy was
      increased or an additional antihypertensive agent was started. If 2 readings reported a SBP
      >=180 mmHg or a DBP >=105 mmHg during a 1 week period, cediranib was held and there was
      either an increase in the dosage of current antihypertensive therapy or an additional
      antihypertensive agent was added. Resumption of cediranib was allowed only after the blood
      pressure was <140/90 mmHg. If 2 blood pressure readings recorded an SBP >=160 mmHg or a DBP
      >=105 mmHg 1 h apart during a 48 hour period in a patient already on maximal antihypertensive
      therapy, cediranib was held and treatment was resumed at 1 dose level lower when the blood
      pressure was <160/105.

      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Determine the objective response rate in patients with malignant pleural, peritoneal, or
      tunica vaginalis mesothelioma that is not amenable to curative surgery who are treated with
      AZD2171 (cediranib maleate).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Determine the progression-free survival of patients treated with AZD2171. II. Determine
      the toxicity experienced by patients treated with AZD2171. III. Determine median and overall
      survival of patients treated with AZD2171.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Generate preliminary data regarding potential utility of pharmacogenomic and plasma/serum
      biomarkers of angiogenesis as predictive or prognostic markers for future investigations of
      this drug in malignant mesothelioma.
    
  