
    
      Rationale:

      Angiotensin inhibitors including angiotensin convertying enzyme inhibitors (ACEI), and
      angiontensin receptors blockers (ARB) are frequently used to treat patients with chronic
      hypertension. These drugs reduce morbidity and mortality on the long term. However, when
      patients who use ACEI or ARB undergo surgery, hypotension may occur in the perioperative
      period, which may can lead to organ hypoperfusion and damage. On the other hand, when ACEI
      and ARB are temporarily discontinued in the perioperative period, hypertension may occur
      which also may lead to complications. Therefore, before surgery the anesthesiologist advises
      the patient to continue or to temporarily withdraw this drug. Importantly, it is currently
      unclear which strategy is best, and international guidelines are disconcordant on this point.
      Policy varies between hospitals and even between anesthesiologists: in some hospitals,
      patients are advised to temporarily withdraw the ACEI/ARB, whilst in other hospitals patients
      are advised to continue this drug. The latest research on this topic suggests that
      perioperative continuation of ACEI/ARB may lead to more complications, but definitive
      evidence is lacking. Therefore it is important to perform a randomized trial to compare the
      two options: perioperative continuation versus withdrawal of ACEI/ARB.

      Objective:

      The objective of this trial is to determine the effect of continuation versus withdrawal of
      ACEI and ARB in the perioperative period on postoperative complications, expressed as acute
      kidney injury (AKI), myocardial injury, and quality of life (QoL).

      Study design:

      This is a multicenter randomized clinical trial.

      Study population:

      Patients who use ACEI/ARB chronically for treatment of hypertension and who are scheduled for
      an elective intermediate to high risk non-cardiac surgical procedure with an expected
      postoperative length of hospital stay of at least 2 days, are eligible for inclusion.
      Patients who use a combination pill of ACEI/ARB with a diuretic are eligible as well.
      Patients who use a combination pill ACEIwith another drug will be excluded, as well as
      patients who use other drugs acting on the renin aldosterone angiotensin system.

      Intervention:

      The intervention is the withdrawal of ACEI/ARB in the perioperative period, i.e. 24 hours
      before surgery until 24-48 hours after surgery. The ACEI/ARB medication is resumed on the
      second or third day after surgery, as soon as the clinical condition allows based on
      judgement by the attending physician.

      This intervention will be compared to perioperative continuation of ACEI/ARB.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      The primary outcome for this study is postoperative acute kidney injury, defined according to
      the Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes (KDIGO) guideline.

      Secondary outcomes include postoperative myocardial injury, intraoperative and postoperative
      hypotension and hypertension, length of stay in the hospital or nursing home, kidney function
      loss and end-stage renal disease within three months after surgery, major cardiovascular
      complications (myocardial infarction, coronary revascularization, heart failure, arrhythmia,
      stroke) within three months after surgery, all-cause mortality within three months after
      surgery and a quality of life (QoL) assessment.
    
  