
    
      Objective: To examine the difference in outcomes of relaxation-based Internet-based cognitive
      behavioral therapy (R-ICBT) versus full version of Internet-based cognitive behavioral
      therapy (F-ICBT) for tinnitus sufferers (n=200).

      Hypothesis: It is hypothesized that F-ICBT (experimental group) is superior when compared to
      R-ICBT (control group) in reducing the tinnitus-related distress, decreasing sleep
      disturbance, decreasing anxiety and depression, and improving health-related quality of life.
      The investigators also hypothesize that these results will be stable in both short- and
      long-term post-intervention.

      Design: A two-armed Randomized Control Trial (RCT), with a one-year follow-up design will be
      used to evaluate the efficacy of F-ICBT and R-ICBT on tinnitus distress.

      Setting: This will be an Internet-based study for adults with tinnitus living in the USA.

      Participants: Eligible participants will include adults with tinnitus for a minimum period of
      3 months with internet access and no major medical or psychiatric conditions. 100
      participants will be recruited for each group and will be randomly assigned using a
      computer-generated randomization schedule by an independent research assistant after being
      pre-stratified for tinnitus severity and depression severity.

      Intervention: The intervention offered to experimental group is a guided CTB-based internet
      intervention (ICBT), providing an opportunity to learn about new ways of coping with tinnitus
      during everyday life. It is 8-week long e-learning intervention, with new modules introduced
      weekly and assignments are given to practice techniques learned. The experimental group will
      be given the full ICBT program with all the components (22 chapters), whereas the control
      group will get only the relaxation-based exercises (8 chapters) of the ICBT program.

      Outcome measures: The main outcome measure is the Tinnitus Functional Index (TFI). Secondary
      outcome measures are the Tinnitus and Hearing Survey (THS), Tinnitus Cognition Questionnaire
      (TCQ), Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ-9), Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD-7), Insomnia
      Severity Index (ISI), and EuroQol EQ-5D-5L.
    
  