
    
      The choice of the sedation protocol has a massive impact on the duration of mechanical
      ventilation and the timing of extubation. Many sedation protocols are described in the
      literature. No data are available about the possibility of using transdermal fentanyl as an
      alternative to intravenous opioids during the weaning phase from mechanical ventilation and
      the post-extubation period until the discharge from ICU to the ward. The investigators aim to
      assess if a transdermal fentanyl-based sedation protocol can have an impact on the global
      Work of Breathing (WOB). Secondary endpoints of the study are the duration of mechanical
      ventilation, the duration of continuous infusion of opioids, the length of stay in ICU and in
      hospital. Eligible patients will be randomized in 2 groups: Group 1 will receive
      remifentanil; Group 2 will receive transdermal fentanyl and remifentanil. An Edi Catheter for
      diaphragm electrical activity monitoring will be put in place for each patient.

      Statistical Analysis: Distribution normality will be assessed with the Kolmogorov-Smirnov
      test. Continuous variables will be reported expressed as medians (interquartile ranges).
      Qualitative variables will be reported as frequencies. Analysis on the primary efficacy
      criterion and other quantitative variables will be assessed with the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney
      test. Categorical outcomes will be compared with the chi-square test, or Fisher's exact test,
      as appropriate. Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel statistics will be reported for all these results.
      Two-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) for repeated measures with Bonferroni correction will be
      used to determine the differences in secondary endpoints. Comparisons between groups
      regarding these variables at each study time point were performed with the Student's t-test
      or Mann-Whitney test, as appropriate. Mean difference and 95% confidence interval [Confidence
      Interval 95%] are reported for most significant results. Two-tail p values≤0.05 Will be
      considered significant.
    
  