
    
      Pain management is an integral part of Endodontics, according to previously published
      results, pulp therapy and endodontic treatment induce postoperative pain more frequently than
      other dental procedures.

      The prevalence of postoperative pain has been reported in 3-58% of cases, a positive
      association has been demonstrated between postoperative pain and the presence of apprehension
      and preoperative pain.

      Although the incidence of moderate pain decreases within 1 day and substantially to minimal
      levels in 7 days after the endodontic treatment, severe postoperative pain occurs during the
      first 24 h.

      Some drugs can prevent the production of inflammatory mediators involved in producing pain,
      such as prostaglandins.

      Prostaglandin tissue levels are associated with patient reports of pain, and therefore,
      nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAID's) may be key drugs for inflammatory pain
      abatement.

      NSAIDs are widely available, and they have been reported to be effective in managing
      endodontic pain.

      Ibuprofen is one of the most frequently used NSAIDs for control of postoperative pain
      associated with root canal treatment, and it has good efficacy and safety.

      However an alternative treatment is Dexketoprofen Trometamol, a non-selective nonsteroidal
      anti-inflammatory drug, and a single isomer (S(+)-enantiomer) of ketoprofen formulated as
      trometamol salt. Dexketoprofen trometamol has been demonstrated to be effective in the
      treatment of acute pain.

      The purpose of the study is assess the analgesic efficacy of multiple doses of Dexketoprofen
      Trometamol 25 mg on postoperative pain following emergency endodontic treatment in teeth with
      irreversible pulpitis This study was designed as a double-blind, randomised,
      placebo-controlled clinical trial. Following the guidelines suggested by CONSORT group for
      planning and reporting clinical trials. The ethics committee of the faculty of Dentistry
      approved the study design. All of the subjects will be informed of the possible risk of
      endodontic therapy and experimental treatments and will sign institutionally approved
      consents forms.

      In total, 87 patients will be included in this study. The simple size calculation was
      performed with a type error of 0.05 and statistical power of 80% on the basis of report of
      the analgesic efficacy of Dexketoprofen Trometamol 25 mg vs Ibuprofen 600 mg after their
      administration in patients subject to oral surgery.

      All of the subjects voluntarily will presented at the postgraduate endodontics clinic of the
      Faculty of Dentistry at San Luis Potosí University. The select subjects will have a diagnosis
      of symptomatic irreversible pulpitis.

      Pain will be scored using numerical rating scale, this is a 11 point scale where the end
      points are the extremes of no pain and pain as bad as it could be, or worst pain.
      Accordingly, no pain corresponded with 0, mild pain with 1-3, moderate pain with 4-6, and
      severe pain 7 and above.7 After the endodontic emergency treatment, patients will be randomly
      divided into three groups of 27 patients each. A control group will receive multiple doses of
      placebo and 2 experimental groups receive multiple dose of ibuprofen (600 mg) and
      Dexketoprofen trometamol (25 mg). The first dose of medication is given once the procedure is
      completed, the following doses will be taken every 8 hours to cover a total of 24 hours.

      Patients will be monitored to assess the therapeutic effect at different time intervals,
      1,8,16,24,48 and 72 hours using numerical rating scale.

      If the analgesic efficacy is not achieved Supradol (Ketorolac 30 mg) or Zaldiar (Paracetamol
      325mg/Tramadol 37.5 mg) will be taken as rescue medication.Any adverse events or symptoms
      will be recorded.

      Statistics Normal distribution will be tested by the Student's-t test or mann-whitney U test.
      A non -parametric chi-squared test was performed to identify statistically significant
      differences between the groups; the level of significance was set at p<0.05.
    
  