
    
      Research questions

        1. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP(Positive End
           Expiratory Pressure) and intra-operative RMs (Recruitment maneuvers) protect against
           pulmonary complications in patients at high or intermediate risk for postoperative
           pulmonary complications scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal surgery?

        2. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP and intra-operative
           RMs protect against extra-pulmonary complications in patients at high or intermediate
           risk for postoperative pulmonary complications scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal
           surgery?

        3. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP and intra-operative
           RMs shorten length of hospital stay of patients at high or intermediate risk for
           postoperative pulmonary complications scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal surgery?

        4. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP and intra-operative
           RMs ameliorate post-operative wound healing in patients at high or intermediate risk for
           postoperative pulmonary complications scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal surgery?

        5. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP and intra-operative
           RMs attenuate post-operative unexpected need for ICU admission (i.e., before surgery the
           patient is not scheduled for admission to the ICU, but eventually is admitted) or ICU
           readmission in patients at high or intermediate risk for postoperative pulmonary
           complications scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal surgery?

        6. Does mechanical ventilation with the use of higher levels of PEEP and intra-operative
           RMs influence intra-operative complications related to the ventilator strategy (i.e.,
           de-saturation, hypotension during recruitment, need for vasopressors) or ICU readmission
           in patients at high or intermediate risk for postoperative pulmonary complications
           scheduled for non-laparoscopic abdominal surgery?

      Methods In this international randomized controlled trial all patients with high or
      intermediate risk for post-operative pulmonary complications following non-laparoscopic
      abdominal surgery with general anesthesia are eligible for participation. To identify such
      patients the ARISCAT risk score is used.

      Patients are randomly assigned to mechanical ventilation with levels of PEEP at 12 cmH2O with
      the use of recruitment maneuvers (the lung-protective strategy) or mechanical ventilation
      with levels of PEEP at maximum 2 cmH2O without recruitment maneuvers (the conventional
      strategy).

      Patients are ventilated with a volume-controlled mechanical ventilation strategy. Although it
      is left to the discretion of the attending anesthesiologist to use different fractions of
      inspired oxygen, it is advised to use at least 0.4, with the lowest oxygen fraction to
      maintain oxygen saturation ≥ 92%. The I:E ratio is set at 1:2, and the respiratory rate is
      adjusted to reach normocapnia (etCO2 between 35 and 45 mmHg). Tidal volumes of < 8 mL/kg
      predicted body weight (PBW) are advised to be used.

      Recruitment maneuvers, as part of the lung-protective strategy, are performed directly after
      intubation, after any disconnection from the mechanical ventilator, and directly before
      tracheal extubation. Recruitment maneuvers should not be performed when patients are
      hemodynamic unstable, as judged by the attending physician. To obtain standardization among
      centers, recruitment maneuvers are performed as follows:

        1. peak inspiratory pressure limit is set at 45 cmH2O

        2. tidal volume is set at 8 ml/kg PBW and respiratory rate at 6-8 breaths/min (or lowest
           respiratory rate that anesthesia ventilator allows), while PEEP is set at 12 cmH2O

        3. inspiratory to expiratory ratio (I:E) is set at 1:2

        4. tidal volumes are increased in steps of 4 ml/kg PBW until a plateau pressure of 30-35
           cmH2O

        5. 3 breaths are administered with a plateau pressure of 30-35 cmH2O

        6. peak inspiratory pressure limit, respiratory rate, I:E, and tidal volume are set back to
           settings preceding each recruitment maneuver, while maintaining PEEP at 12 cmH2O

      The study protocol stresses that routine general anesthesia, post-operative pain management,
      physiotherapeutic procedures and fluid management must be used in the peri-operative as well
      as the post-operative period according to each centers specific expertise and routine
      clinical use, to minimize interference with the trial intervention.

      Centres The investigators aim to recruit as many centres as possible worldwide, but expect a
      minimum of 40 centres.

      Ethics approval National co-ordinators will be responsible for clarifying the need for ethics
      approval and applying for this where appropriate according to local policy. Centres will not
      be permitted to record data unless ethics approval or an equivalent waiver is in place. The
      investigators expect that in most, if not every participating country, a patient informed
      consent will be required.

      Monitoring Monitoring of patient safety and reviewing of safety issues is performed by a
      designated independent Data Safety and Monitoring Board. The DSMB watches over the ethics of
      conducting the study in accordance with the Declaration of Helsinki. All (serious) adverse
      events will be collected by the National Coordinators and sent in a blinded fashion to a
      designated SAE manager, who presents the events to the DSMB for evaluation.

      Interim analysis One main concern is not to withhold positive effects of the open lung
      mechanical ventilation strategy to the control group. Therefore, interim analyses are
      performed after 300 and 600 patients. The first interim analysis is performed when 300
      patients have successfully been included and followed-up. If the intervention has a strong
      trend for improving post-operative pulmonary complications (as defined above) with a p-value
      < 0.0005 is found at 300 patients or < 0.014 at 600 patients, termination of the study is
      considered. The third and final analysis is performed at 900 patients with a p-value of 0.045
      for significance. When post-operative pulmonary complications occur significantly more
      frequent in the intervention group, terminating the study due to harm will be considered when
      p ≤ 0.022 for each interim analysis.

      Blinding The patient is blinded for the allocated treatment during the trial. In the
      participating centers at least 2 investigators are involved with the study. One researcher is
      involved with mechanical ventilation practice in the operation room, he/she will be blinded
      for the randomized intervention most closely to the time of tracheal intubation (depending on
      local situation) - the second investigator, blinded for randomization arm, will score the
      primary and secondary post-operative endpoints.

      Data collection Data will be collected at inclusion pre-operatively, intra-operatively and
      post-operatively on day 1, day 2, day 3, day 4, day 5, day of discharge and on day 90. Data
      collection will be performed by an investigator blinded for the randomization group at the
      bedside, except on day 90 if the patient is discharged. In that case follow-up will be
      performed by telephone. Data will be coded by a patient identification number (PIN) of which
      the code will be kept safe at the local sites. The data will be transcribed by local
      investigators onto an internet based electronic CRF.

      Sample size calculation The required sample size is calculated from an estimated effect size
      derived from data collected in the ARISCAT study and previous studies on the incidence of
      postoperative pulmonary complications. A two group χ2 test with a 0.05 two-sided significance
      level will have 80% power to detect the difference (in post-operative pulmonary
      complications) between conventional mechanical ventilation (24%) and open lung mechanical
      ventilation (16.5%) (Odds ratio of 0.626) when the sample size in each group is 450.

      Statistical analysis Normally distributed variables will be expressed by their mean and
      standard deviation; not normally distributed variables will be expressed by their medians and
      interquartile ranges; categorical variables will be expressed as n (%). In test groups of
      continuous normally distributed variables, Student's t-test will be used. Likewise if
      continuous data are not normally distributed the Mann-Whitney U test will be used.
      Categorical variables will be compared with the Chi-square test or Fisher's exact tests or
      when appropriate as relative risks. Where appropriate statistical uncertainty will be
      expressed by 95% confidence levels.

      Primary outcome is the total occurrence of pulmonary complications within the first 5
      post-operative days, presented as a percentage. The percentage will be analyzed as continuous
      data. If the data is normally distributed, Student's t-test will be used or when not normally
      distributed the Mann-Whitney U test will be used.

      As this is a randomized controlled trial, we expect that randomization in this large study
      population will sufficiently balance the baseline characteristics. Baseline balance is tested
      and imbalance compensated in all pre-operative variables and on ARISCAT scores. However if
      imbalance occurs, the confounding factor will be corrected using a multiple logistic
      regression model. For this we will treat the proportion as a binary response (complications
      occur during day one to day five post-operative).

      Time to event variables (primary and secondary outcomes) are analyzed using a proportional
      hazard model adjusted for possible imbalances of patients' baseline characteristics. Time
      course variables (e.g. repeated measures of vital parameters, blood values, VAS-scores,
      actual mobility) are analyzed by a linear mixed model. The linear mixed models procedure
      expands the GLM so that the data are permitted to exhibit correlated and non-constant
      variability. The model includes two factors: 1) study group (fixed factor, intervention or
      control group), each level of the study group factor can have a different linear effect on
      the value of the dependent variable; 2) time as a covariate, time is considered to be a
      random sample from a larger population of values, the effect is not limited to the chosen
      times.

      Organization The study is conducted by the PROVHILO collaboration. National co-ordinators
      will lead the project within individual nations and identify participating hospitals,
      translate study paperwork, distribute study paperwork and ensure necessary regulatory
      approvals are in place. They provide assistance to the participating clinical sites in trial
      management, record keeping and data management. Local coordinators in each site will perform
      randomization and mechanical ventilation, supervise data collection and ensure adherence to
      Good Clinical Practice during the trial.

      Study Population Adult patients with high or intermediate risk for postoperative pulmonary
      complications undergoing open abdominal surgery with general anesthesia
    
  