
    
      This primary objective of this Phase 1/2 study is to evaluate the DLT and MTD of escalating
      oral doses of ABT-751 given BID (twice daily) on Day 1 of each cycle for 7 days in
      combination with carboplatin given on a 21-day schedule. The carboplatin dose is fixed at AUC
      6 and will be administered on Day 4 during the first cycle to facilitate the pharmacokinetic
      analysis. During the subsequent cycles both agents will be administered on Day 1. ABT-751 is
      administered at the following dose levels using the Simon rapid dose escalation model: 100,
      mg, 125 mg, 150 mg, 175 mg and 200 mg BID.

      Initially, 1 patient will be enrolled in dose level 1. If the patient experiences a Grade 2
      toxicity, an additional 2 patients will be enrolled at the same dose level. If 1 of the 3
      patients experiences a Grade 3 (or higher toxicity), the cohort will be expanded to 6
      patients. However, if 1 patient completes one cycle at the assigned dose regimen without
      experiencing a Grade 2 toxicity, enrollment in the next cohort (dose level 2) can begin. This
      rapid dose escalation scheme will apply to cohorts 1 through 3.

      Initially, in the 4th cohort (dose level 4), a minimum of three patients will be enrolled. If
      1 of the 3 patients experiences a Grade 3 (or higher toxicity), the cohort will be expanded
      to 6 patients. However, if 3 patients complete one cycle at the assigned dose regimen without
      experiencing a Grade 3 (or higher toxicity), enrollment in the next cohort (dose level 5) can
      begin. This scheme will apply to cohorts 4, 5, and 6 MTD is defined as the highest dose of
      ABT-751 given in combination with carboplatin at which fewer than 33% of patients experience
      DLT. MTD will be evaluated at the end of the first cycle (21 days). Toxicities will be
      determined also at the end of cycle 2 to evaluate the safety of combining both agents on day
      1. If the MTD has not been determined after completion of the 6th cohort (dose level 6),
      based on an overall review of toxicity at each cohort, the Investigator may select a dose
      thought to be the recommended dose for Phase 2 studies. Six patients treated at MTD will
      undergo PK (pharmacokinetic) and PD (pharmacodynamic) evaluation. An additional cohort of
      14-20 patients will be enrolled at either the MTD or at the recommended Phase 2 dose level
      administering both drugs on day 1. During this portion of the study patients will be
      withdrawn from the study if any of the following occur:

      • Patient or patient's legally acceptable representative decides to withdraw consent.

      • Patient's response to therapy is unsatisfactory, as evidenced by progression of disease as
      defined by RECIST Criteria for Tumor Response (within 2 cycles)

      • The patient experiences toxicities deemed possibly or probably related to drug that have
      not resolved to at least Grade 2 or lower within three weeks.

      • The patient requires more than one dose reduction because of toxicities attributable to
      ABT-751.

      • The patient requires during the study period alternate antineoplastin agent, concurrent
      radiotherapy or surgery of the only measurable site(s) of disease.

      • The patient becomes pregnant or begins to breast-feed.

      • The investigator believes it is in the best interest of the patient to discontinue study
      drug administration.

      If grade 3 or higher toxicities develop in 2 or more out of the first 6 patients who receive
      both drugs on day 1 on a dose level at which no such toxicities were noted on the ABT-751 day
      1/carboplatin day 4 schedule, the additional patients for the second portion of the study
      will receive the latter schedule.

      If toxicities characteristic of carboplatin (myelosuppression and others) are observed at the
      AUC 6 dose, carboplatin dose will be lowered to AUC 4.5 and the following dose escalation
      schema will be employed, beginning at the same ABT-751 dose as the one at which the toxicity
      developed:

      All patients should receive antiemetics prior to carboplatin. A regimen of dexamethasone 10
      mg and dolasetron 100 mg IV prior to carboplatin infusion may be used.

      The study enrollment will be limited to patients with advanced NSCLC. Treatment will continue
      until progression of disease, unacceptable toxicities or withdrawal of informed consent. Male
      and female cancer patients will be selected to participate in the study according to the
      selection criteria.
    
  