
    
      Healthy leg veins have valves that allow blood to move in one direction from the lower leg to
      the heart. These valves open when blood is flowing toward the heart and then quickly close to
      stop any backward flow. When veins weaken, their valves cannot close properly, causing
      reversal of blood flow in the vein or venous reflux. Venous reflux due to the incompetent
      valves in the superficial venous system is the most common form of venous insufficiency, also
      known as varicose veins. This happens most often in the veins closest to the skin; the
      superficial veins. Varicose veins may or may not have associated symptoms and can look like
      twisted, bulging, rope-like cords or even small spider veins. While sometimes asymptomatic,
      varicose veins can be associated with pain, aching or cramping in the legs, heaviness or a
      tired sensation, paresthesia, pruritus, edema, inflammation with superficial phlebitis or
      thrombophlebitis, ulceration, bleeding from ulcerated varicosities, ecchymosis from
      subcutaneous rupture of varicosities, and deep venous thrombosis from extension of
      superficial thrombophlebitis.

      Venous insufficiency of lower extremities is a very common condition that is influenced by
      genetic and mechanical factors, and is a chronic and progressive disorder. Prevalence
      estimates vary widely by geographic location, with the highest reported rates in Western
      countries, including Western Europe and the United States. Prevalence estimates of varicose
      veins range from <1% to up to 73% in females and 2% to up to 56% in males. The reported
      prevalence ranges presumably reflect differences in the population distribution of risk
      factors, accuracy in application of diagnostic criteria, and the quality and availability of
      medical diagnostic and treatment resources. Risk factors for venous insufficiency include
      older age, female gender and pregnancy, family history of venous disease, obesity and
      occupations associated with prolonged standing.

      There are a number of treatment options available to subjects with varicose veins, including
      vein stripping surgery, and thermal ablation; for example, Endovenous laser ablation (EVLA),
      radiofrequency ablation (RFA), and sclerotherapy. Recent technological advances have also
      brought about new treatment methods that are non-thermal, non-tumescent (NTNT). These include
      Venaseal and Clarivein. The goal of each of these treatment regimens is to eliminate source
      of reflux in order to control the progression of the disease, improve symptoms, promote ulcer
      healing, and prevent recurrence or a combination of these. The latest treatment available
      uses microwave ablation, which is a sub-type of radiofrequency and has the same
      characteristics as radiofrequency ablation.

      The aim of this study is to report a collaborative, prospective Singaporean experience using
      the ECO Varicose Veins Therapeutic Unit from ECO (Nanjing ECO Microwave System Co., Ltd) for
      Endovenous Microwave Ablation (EMA) to treat primary great and short saphenous vein reflux
      and to evaluate its safety, efficacy and performance.
    
  