
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Evaluation of safety and tolerability of an autologous dendritic cell (DC) vaccine
      delivered by intra-tumoral injection in patients with primary liver cancer treated with
      high-dose conformal external beam radiotherapy (EBRT).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess feasibility in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal EBRT
      followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      II. To assess overall response rate in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      III. To assess progression free survival in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      IV. To assess clinical benefit rate in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      V. To assess time to response in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose conformal
      EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      VI. To assess duration of response in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      VII. To assess overall survival in patients with liver cancer treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      RADIOLOGIC STUDY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To assess the radiologic response over time of primary liver tumors treated with high-dose
      conformal EBRT followed by autologous DC vaccine injection.

      CORRELATIVE RESEARCH OBJECTIVES:

      I. To monitor patients' immune response after vaccine therapy. II. To assess the immune
      response to pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine (Prevnar).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients undergo standard of care high-dose EBRT for 5 or 15 fractions over 1-3 weeks (cycle
      1). Patients then receive autologous dendritic cells intratumorally (IT) on day 1 of cycles
      2-8, and pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine intramuscularly (IM) on day 1 of cycles 2-4
      only. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 7 cycles in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 2 weeks and then every 3
      months for 1 year (beginning at week 36 or 12 weeks after last autologous dendritic cell dose
      whichever is earlier). Patients are then followed every 3 months until disease progression,
      and then every 6 months until 5 years after registration.
    
  