
    
      While activated microglia have been observed in the vicinity of neuritic amyloid plaques in
      Alzheimer's disease (AD), there have been no large-scale assessments of microglial activation
      in aging and neurodegenerative disease. The investigators seek to understand the genetic
      underpinning of microglial responses-particularly the proportion of microglia in a
      morphologically-defined state of activation-that increase susceptibility to AD, so the
      investigators can develop more targeted forms of immune-based therapies to prevent cognitive
      decline and progression to dementia. The objective is to refine the genetic architecture of
      microglial activation to validate a previously identified gene variant -- and to identify
      novel loci -- that influence the proportion of activated microglia. The investigators also
      seek to understand the functional consequences of variants driving microglial activation in
      AD.

      The central hypothesis is that identifiable gene variants influence microglial activation and
      susceptibility to AD. The investigators will test this hypothesis by conducting genome-wide
      analysis and identifying associations between gene variants and microglial activation.
      Microglial activation will be measured in human autopsy tissue (ex vivo), living human brain
      using PET imaging (in vivo), and in monocyte-derived microglia-like cells (in situ and in
      vitro).

      This genetic study is designed to validate a finding that was discovered in participants with
      self-reported European-Caucasian ancestry. Therefore, the study seeks to enroll participants
      who self-report as white, not Hispanic or Latino. However, if this study is successful, the
      investigators plan to use the methods in this protocol in a future study to identify new
      genetic variants associated with changes on TSPO PET in a more diverse participant
      population. The investigators intend to use the results from this study to eventually benefit
      individuals of all racial and ethnic groups.
    
  