
    
      Parents who take part in the research will arrive at their scheduled appointment. If parents
      have not brought their signed consent form, they will be asked to sign it in clinic. This
      consent form also will contain questions about infant and parent demographics as well as
      socio-demographic background details, which the parent is asked to fill in. Parents will be
      guided into a separate treatment room, which contains a treatment table behind a screen. A
      qualified osteopathic practitioner will take the case history for each infant who then
      receives a physical assessment. After that, the parent will have to give consent for the
      infant to be further involved in the study and to be treated. This procedure will be done
      without the screen, so that the parent can see what is going on. Then the infant is placed
      behind the screen on the treatment couch. The osteopath will be informed by the Research
      Assistant whether the infant is allocated (via random allocation list) to receiving either no
      intervention or OMT for 20 min. For infants in the OMT group, the osteopathic practitioner
      will carry out the treatment procedure, and the Research Assistant will act as an
      intermediary. Infants in the 'no intervention' group will just lie on the couch, without
      being touched by the osteopath.

      At all times, the screen is placed between the parent and their infant on the treatment
      couch, so that the parent will not be able to see their infant. However, the intermediary is
      placed in a way so that the parent can see and communicate with them, and the intermediary
      can observe what is happening behind the screen with the infant. The osteopathic practitioner
      will be present at all times in both groups, to safeguard the infant from rolling off the
      couch in case the infant does not receive any intervention. In addition, if the infant starts
      crying, the osteopathic practitioner will try to calm the infant down (for infants in the OMT
      group the osteopath will use toys and touch, in the 'no intervention' group toys only will be
      used, no touch), but if necessary will ask the parent to come round the screen and help in
      calming their infant down. If this is the case, the osteopathic practitioner stops the
      treatment, if the infant is placed in the OMT group, and waits until the infant is calmed
      down so that the parent can go back behind the screen. This procedure will be repeated until
      20 min of the treatment period are over. The same procedure applies for the 'no intervention
      group', except that the osteopath will not touch the infant, rather tries to calm it down
      with toys or eventually will call the parent in to do the calming. After the 20mins of
      'treatment period', parents of infants in both groups are required to fill in the blinding
      success and acceptability questionnaire.
    
  