
    
      Approximately 38% of children aged 2 months to 5 years are exposed to environmental tobacco
      smoke (ETS), and compelling evidence suggests rates are even higher in low-income, less
      educated households. The adverse health effects of chronic ETS in children are well
      documented and include higher risks of delayed lung development, respiratory illnesses,
      wheeze, cough, asthma, middle ear disease and sudden infant death syndrome. Preterm infants
      admitted to a Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) are particularly vulnerable to the effects
      of ETS, typically exhibiting significant respiratory or chronic lung conditions prior to
      discharge.

      The primary aim of this investigation is to develop and verify the feasibility and efficacy
      of a multicomponent behavioral intervention for reducing ETS exposure in a low-income,
      multi-ethnic population of NICU infants at particularly high social and medical risk for
      adverse effects of ETS. A randomized, controlled, between groups design will be used to test
      a hospital-based ETS reduction program based on motivational interviewing (MI). A total of
      150 families with an infant at high respiratory risk in the NICU who report regular household
      smoking will be randomized to either MI or Usual Care. The MI intervention will include 2
      one-hour counseling sessions within the 2 weeks prior to infant discharge and one telephone
      counseling call at two weeks post-discharge. Counseling and interviews will be conducted in
      Spanish or English.

      The proposed research brings together highly experienced behavioral and clinical
      investigators, an extraordinary infrastructure, and a large population easily accessible for
      intervention prior to discharge. Effective brief, hospital-based interventions to reduce ETS
      exposure in households with NICU infants at high respiratory risk could result in substantial
      decreases in adverse health effects and the very large associated costs.
    
  