
    
      The gut is home to a diverse and dynamic microbial ecosystem, termed the microbiota. These
      microbes provide their host with various beneficial effects including acquisition of
      additional nutrients and energy from dietary components, optimal development of the immune
      system, and resistance against invading pathogenic microbes, and are thus critical for
      health. As the neonatal gut is essentially sterile at the outset, these beneficial microbes
      and their associated functions are acquired after initial colonisation by pioneer bacteria,
      successive diversification, and changes in microbial population densities until a climax or
      'stable' microbiota has established during infancy and early childhood.

      The majority of human physiological functions are programmed either in utero, i.e. during
      pregnancy, or during the early-life window. Thus, the investigators need to determine
      early-life microbiome profiles over this critical period, particularly what factors influence
      these microbial signatures, and how changes in the signature are correlated with healthy
      development during this time-period.

      It is proposed that the initial colonisation and establishment of the gut microbiome during
      early life is closely linked with the promotion of healthy development. Critically,
      disturbances within this pioneering microbial community (both in mother and baby) have the
      potential to increase the risk of developing diseases such as autoimmune conditions,
      allergic-type disorders, infections and chronic intestinal diseases; disturbance may be
      caused by antibiotics, dietary changes (i.e. breast versus formula milk) and even the way the
      baby is delivered (i.e. Caesarean section versus vaginal).

      The proposed transmission of microbial species from the maternal microbiome to the baby is a
      key feature of birth, with subsequent waves of colonisation occurring as the baby gets older.
      There is also an increasing awareness of the importance of maternal health during pregnancy
      (as affected by obesity and antibiotic use) for the baby's development and health, both
      before and after birth. Importantly, these life stage events appear to be governed by
      particular interactions (immune and dietary) that 'select' beneficial microbes such as
      Bifidobacterium species; species in this genus are prevalent in the gut and vagina of mothers
      in the later stages of pregnancy and can represent up to 80% of the total microbiome in
      healthy infants. These pioneering microbe species seem to be important for the development of
      a healthy microbial community and the subsequent formation of a more 'adult-like' microbiome
      by the time the child has reached 2-3 years of age; this is thought to be in response to an
      expanding nutritional environment, i.e. from a milk-based diet to a more complex diet at
      weaning.

      Although several studies have tried to probe these key questions, there are currently many
      unknowns with respect to this key developmental window including (i) how does the microbiome
      change in response to different phases of pregnancy across different body sites (and how does
      this correlate with routinely collected clinical information), (ii) are microbes from mothers
      directly passed to infants during birth (and how does birth mode affect this i.e. vaginal vs.
      C-section), (iii) how do factors like diet and antibiotics influence the maternal microbiome,
      and what is the impact on developing infant microbial communities, (iv) how do different
      feeding regiments (e.g. breast vs. formula milk) influence specific microbial populations in
      the infant (e.g. Bifidobacterium), (v) how do these microbes influence immune and metabolic
      health, and how does this correlate with clinical information captured both in mother and
      baby over time, and (iv) if the investigators carry out in-depth mechanistic studies using in
      vitro and in vivo models, can the investigators determine how specific microbes and
      communities contribute to healthy development and prevent disease incidence?

      Critically, if the investigators are to determine the importance of the early life
      microbiome, the investigators must set-up and carry out comprehensive longitudinal pregnancy
      and infant studies, i.e. PEARL, to address these key points.

      Moreover, gathering these data is critical for implementation of new therapies and
      health-associated practices that would be expected to have beneficial effects, both in the
      short-term and across the life course, which could be explored in subsequent studies after
      PEARL.

      The PEARL Study will build on the Chief Investigator's (Hall) ongoing BAMBI Study - Baby
      Associated Microbiota of the Intestine (University of East Anglia Faculty of Medical Health
      Research Ethics Committee Reference 2012/2013 - 42 HT), which is collecting faecal samples
      from preterm infants residing in Neonatal Intensive Care Units (NICUs) and following these
      babies after they are discharged home for up to 3 years of age. This study has been analysing
      microbiome signatures in these preterm infants and correlating these to external factors such
      as antibiotic usage and diet and also immune markers.
    
  