
    
      The purpose of this study is to compare the effectiveness of Gamma Knife radiosurgery with
      temporal lobectomy in the treatment of patients with drug resistant temporal lobe epilepsy.
      Aim 1 is designed to compare the seizure-free outcomes and morbidity of radiosurgery for
      patients with drug resistant temporal lobe epilepsy with those of open temporal lobectomy.
      Our primary hypothesis is that radiosurgery will be non-inferior to lobectomy with respect to
      seizure-free rates at 25-36 months following therapy (one-year of seizure freedom beginning 2
      years after treatment).

      Aim 2 is designed to compare the neuropsychological outcomes in patients undergoing
      radiosurgery and temporal lobe surgery, in particular with respect to verbal memory function
      for language-dominant hemisphere treated patients. Our hypothesis is that patients treated
      for speech-dominant temporal lobe seizures with temporal lobectomy will show greater
      reduction in verbal memory than patients treated with radiosurgery.

      Aim 3 is designed to determine what changes occur in the quality of life of patients with
      temporal lobe epilepsy following radiosurgical treatment as compared with open surgery. Our
      primary hypothesis is that there will be improvements (comparing baseline with 3 years
      post-treatment) in quality of life measures in both groups. Our secondary hypothesis is that
      both open surgery and radiosurgery subjects will undergo transient reductions in quality of
      life measures caused by treatment effects during the first year following treatment, but that
      quality of life will improve for subjects who become seizure-free, independent of treatment
      group.

      Aim 4 is designed to compare the cost-effectiveness of radiosurgery compared with open
      surgery. Specifically, the marginal cost-utility ratio will fall below $50,000/QALY, a
      threshold thought to indicate that outcomes are considered worth the cost.
    
  