
    
      Allergic rhinitis (AR) affects upto 25% of the worldwide population and is associated with
      asthma, with Scotland having the highest prevalence in the world. Nasal blockage is the main
      symptom of allergic rhinitis. Nasal blockage affects sleep quality and impairs daytime
      performance. It is a major cause of sickness absenteeism and has been shown to adversely
      affect quality of life. The most efficacious class of drugs for nasal blockage in AR are the
      nasal decongestants (sympathomimetics acting on alpha receptors which unblock the nose).
      These are available over the counter for routine use by people experiencing nasal blockage.
      Nasal steroids are the most effective drugs for overall symptoms of allergic rhinitis and are
      considered first line therapy by recent guidelines. There is widespread belief that prolonged
      use of decongestant sprays like oxymetazoline can result in a condition of decreased
      effectiveness called tolerance. It is thought that with time they lose their effectiveness
      and more and more medication is needed to achieve the same level of decongestion. Also it has
      been proposed that once stopped, the patient experiences rebound congestion. Long term users
      of nasal decongestants cannot get off their sprays because of this vicious cycle. These
      sprays act via stimulating the alpha adrenoreceptors in the nose. It is a poorly understood
      condition and the mechanism of action is unclear. What is also not clear is the time to onset
      of tolerance. From studies in the lung we know that tolerance in certain types of
      adrenoreceptors can be reversed by use of corticosteroids. We have also seen over many years
      of clinical practice that concomitant use of steroid sprays and decongestants prevents the
      onset of tolerance and rebound. Anecdotally, patients are often treated with this combination
      in clinic particularly during a common cold, hayfever season with high pollen counts and
      acute exacerbations. Therefore, we would like to conduct a proof of concept study to show
      that a combination nasal spray of decongestant and steroid protects against tolerance. We
      will also show protection against early rebound congestion. This will enable a new lease of
      life for allergic rhinitis sufferers, whose quality of life is most affected by nasal
      blockage and the absence of an effective long term drug strategy for it.
    
  