
    
      Maternal death, stillbirth, early neonatal death, and obstetric fistula are among the most
      devastating adverse outcomes of pregnancy. Existing interventions could avert the majority of
      maternal and neonatal deaths; however, those women at greatest risk are least likely to have
      access to interventions delivered through the formal health care system. In many developing
      countries, most deliveries in rural areas and a significant number in urban areas are
      conducted at home without skilled attendance, circumstances which pose a high risk for both
      mothers and their neonates. The EmONC trial is designed to evaluate a comprehensive
      intervention encompassing community mobilization to establish and sustain mechanisms of
      transport and payment and to drive client-oriented emergency obstetrical and neonatal care.
      The intervention includes teaching recognition of prolonged labor, infection, preeclampsia
      and hemorrhage, and the use of appropriate stabilization methods by all community birth
      attendants. In addition, poor access to quality emergency obstetric and neonatal care in a
      sustainable manner will be addressed. To evaluate the effectiveness of this approach, a
      cluster-randomized trial is required to assess whether Cluster EmONC teams can work with the
      community and health care system to reduce adverse pregnancy outcomes in diverse settings
      where the majority of deliveries occur at home or at a health clinic with few or no available
      EmONC interventions. To accomplish the intervention, a train-the-trainer approach will be
      used. Master trainers will facilitate central and regional training sessions for Country
      trainers organized around the areas of community mobilization; birth attendant skills; and
      EmONC referral facility improvements. The Country trainers will then support training and
      related activities in the intervention clusters, predominantly focusing on these three areas.
      The study population includes pregnant women (and their neonates) living and delivering in
      the 108 study clusters. The study clusters are largely rural, geographically distinct
      communities, each of which have approximately 300 annual deliveries. The women will be
      enrolled at or after 20 weeks gestation and followed to 42 days post delivery. The total
      duration of the trial will be 24 months.
    
  