
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common mental disorder, with up to 10.3% of the
      population experiencing the disorder in a given 12-month period. The relationship between
      depression and anxiety has been well documented. Depression is a significant predictor of
      future anxiety, and anxiety is a significant predictor of future onset of depression. Indeed,
      studies find that more than 50% of all individuals with MDD also have a current anxiety
      disorder. Although effective treatments have been developed over the years to address
      depression and anxiety, the lack of personalization and inability to adapt to patient needs
      or preferences contributes to poor treatment adherence and outcomes.

      An intelligent treatment system was developed that uses state of the art machine learning
      approaches within a mobile intervention application to treat MDD and anxiety. Machine
      learning, a branch of artificial intelligence, focuses on the development of algorithms that
      automatically improve and evolve based on collected data. The intervention, called
      IntelliCare, uses a mobile application to continuously collect patient data and adapt
      intervention content and motivational messaging to create a highly tailored and
      user-responsive treatment system.

      During the RCT study, 270 participants with Major Depression and/or Anxiety will use
      IntelliCare apps for up to 8 weeks and will be invited to complete online questionnaires at
      four follow-up time points: weeks 4 and 8 in the study program, and months 3 and 6 after the
      study program ends. All participants will first undergo initial assessments that will include
      a telephone interview and a series of online questionnaires about their mood. Eligible
      participants will receive up to 8 weeks of access to the IntelliCare system, which consists
      of apps with lessons and tools designed to teach skills for mood management. It is suggested
      that participants utilize the mobile phone tools every day.

      Participants will be randomly assigned to one of two versions of the IntelliCare Hub App,
      which is the central delivery system for the IntelliCare program, and participants will also
      be randomly assigned to get support from a human coach or use the IntelliCare program
      independently.

      Each week, participants assigned to work with a coach will receive a brief motivational
      intervention. This coach will also be available to participants via email throughout the 8
      week study. Participants randomly assigned to use the IntelliCare program independently will
      receive an on-boarding guide to set up the IntelliCare Hub App on their phone, and
      participants will have access to our tech support team if technical difficulties arise while
      using the program.

      Data from the RCT study will be used to examine whether: the IntelliCare program is an
      effective intervention for reducing depressive and anxiety symptoms; the recommender system
      will produce greater program adherence and; support from a coach or independent use might
      affect user experience and adherence. Data collected will also be used to further develop and
      evaluate machine learning methods for future research and deployment efforts.
    
  