
    
      Cardiovascular disease is the leading cause of death in renal transplant recipients (RTR).
      44% of RTR have LDL-C greater than 100mg/dL, six months after transplant. The correlation
      between the increase in serum LDL level and the increased risk of atherosclerotic
      cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) is well established. A reduction in LDL level is associated
      with a decreased risk of mortality and morbidity in patients with ASCVD. Statins have been
      the long-standing drug of choice in treating dyslipidemia. A single prospective randomized
      trial known as the ALERT trial compared the benefits of statins to placebo in transplant
      recipients. The original study consisted of 2000 RTR and an extension of this study evaluated
      1652 patients and demonstrated a 21% reduction in major cardiac events (p=0.036) and a 29%
      reduction in cardiac death or definite non-fatal myocardial infarction (p=0.014). Even though
      statins decrease the probability of cardiovascular events there was no difference in graft
      survival or mortality benefit in RTR. Another concerning factor for the use of statins is the
      tolerability of these drugs. Statins have been associated with hepatotoxicity and
      myotoxicity, the incidence of which is higher in RTR. This effect is dose-related and may be
      precipitated by the administration of agents that inhibit cytochrome p450 isoenzymes such as
      Tacrolimus and Cyclosporine which are the most commonly used immunosuppressants. Another
      statin based drug (Fluvastatin) has been associated with proteinuria and renal failure. Hence
      there is a need to explore novel treatment options in the management of dyslipidemia,
      particularly in RTR. PCSK-9 inhibitors (Proprotein Convertase Subtilisin Kinase-9 inhibitors)
      have shown to decrease LDL levels by 60% in patients on statin therapy. However, these drugs
      have been studied sparingly in patients with Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) and have not yet
      been analyzed in RTR.

      The study will involve 120 patients across 3 different hospitals. Two different but
      equivalent drug dosing strategies are available. A 420mg monthly subcutaneous injection using
      an on-body infusor (Repatha Pushtronex system) or a 140mg subcutaneous injection once every
      two weeks using a prefilled auto-injector (Repatha SureClick). The choice of dosing strategy
      will be based on patient preference. This study will be conducted over one year.
    
  