
    
      Physical inactivity is a global health pandemic and is one of four leading contributors to
      premature mortality. Although there is evidence that physical activity improves short-term
      function and is safe among older adults of long-term care, the optimum contents of a physical
      activity programme or how best to implement it remain unclear. Few studies in nursing homes
      have attempted to increase physical activity levels by incorporating more usual activities
      into the resident's everyday routine. The proposed pilot feasibility study will implement a
      person-centred physical activity programme into the participant's daily routine, based on
      increasing duration and repetitions of everyday functions including walking and rising from a
      chair. It incorporates key constructs of social cognitive theory and is monitored by nursing
      home staff who will receive training and support.

      Research questions:

      This pilot feasibility study will have the following primary research questions:

        1. Is the intervention feasible and acceptable to staff and participants?

             -  Is the time commitment required for staff to monitor the intervention and
                participants to partake in the intervention feasible?

             -  Are there any environmental barriers to completion of the intervention?

             -  Is the content of the intervention acceptable to participants and staff?

             -  Do the participants adhere to the intervention and what adherence issues arise?

        2. Are the outcome measures feasible and acceptable to participants?

             -  What is the required time and number of visits required to collect each outcome
                from participants?

             -  Are the outcome measures acceptable to participants?

             -  What is the level of missing data within the self-reported outcome measures?

        3. What is the required sample size for a definitive randomised?

             -  What is the baseline score and variability of the primary outcome measure among
                participants?

             -  What is the estimated effect size and variance for the primary outcome measure?

             -  What are the recruitment and attrition rates for nursing homes and participants? Do
                these rates differ between the intervention and control groups?

           The secondary research questions of the pilot study are:

        4. What are the preliminary clinical outcomes and cost-effectiveness of the intervention
           compared to the control group?

             -  What are the components of usual care for participants allocated to the control
                group?

             -  What are the estimated outcomes of the intervention in comparison with the control
                group and are these sustained at 12 month follow-up?

             -  What are the costs of the intervention in comparison to costs in the control group?

             -  What is the feasibility of collecting health economic data (i.e. sources used and
                time taken)?

      Design:

      A randomised controlled pilot feasibility study, including a qualitative and economic
      component will be carried out. Two randomly selected nursing homes will take part in the
      study; participants (n=20) in one nursing home will receive the physical activity
      intervention and participants (n=20) in the other will receive usual care. In order to avoid
      contamination between intervention and control groups, randomisation will take place at
      nursing home level. The pilot feasibility study will not be an exact scale model of a
      definitive RCT, the difference being that outcome assessment will not be blinded as a full
      analysis of outcome data is not intended. However, the recruitment, randomisation, assessment
      and intervention conditions will be similar to a definitive RCT in order to answer the
      feasibility research questions. Quantitative outcome data will be collected in an unblinded
      manner from participants at T1 (baseline, pre-intervention), T2 (directly after completion of
      the intervention at 4 months) to examine the immediate intervention outcomes and T3 (12
      months following the start of the intervention) to examine if the outcomes are sustained
      beyond intervention completion.

      Qualitative component:

      A qualitative descriptive approach will be taken for the qualitative component of the study.
      Qualitative data will be collected from participants and staff of the intervention group
      within 1 month following intervention completion and again with the participants at 7 months
      following intervention completion. Data will be collected via audio-recorded semi structured
      one-to-one interviews. The aim of the interviews with participants will be to explore the
      participant's experiences of receiving the intervention, the feasibility and acceptability of
      the intervention, the perceived effects of the intervention, including potential adverse
      effect, and issues around maintenance of the participants' physical activity over time,
      following intervention completion. The staff interviews will explore the staffs' role and
      experiences of being involved in the study, including their participation in the staff
      education sessions and the delivery of the physical activity programmes. Semi-structured
      qualitative interviews will be conducted with small subset of participants from the control
      group on two occasions. The first interviews will take place immediately following the
      recruitment and consent stage of the study, in order to maximise the feasibility data
      obtained for these study processes. The second interviews will take place upon completion of
      the 4 month intervention with the objective being to define and describe usual care.

      Economic component:

      A preliminary estimate of the costs and outcomes of the intervention relative to the usual
      care control will be assessed using a cost effectiveness analysis and cost utility analysis.
      Resource use associated with delivery of the physical activity intervention will be measured
      and costed. Resources used by participants over the course of the study will be recorded in
      both groups, for example health service usage, medication usage and private expenses relating
      to the intervention. Data collected from the primary outcome measure, the Timed Up and Go
      test, at each time point will be used alongside resource usage to provide the basis for the
      cost effectiveness analysis. For the cost utility analysis, effectiveness will be evaluated
      on the basis of the Quality Adjusted Life Year which will be estimated using the EuroQol 5
      Dimensions 5 Levels instrument, assessed at baseline, 4 month and 12 month follow-up.

      Statistical analysis:

      SPSS Statistics (24.0 for Windows, Chicago, USA) will be use to analyse quantitative data.
      Demographical information in both groups will be tabulated and summarised. The effect of the
      intervention on clinical outcomes will be examined using suitable numerical and graphical
      summaries. The statistical analysis will serve primarily to provide an estimation of likely
      effect size and variance of effect size rather than statistical significance. Qualitative
      data will be analysed using NVivo (QSR International Pty Ltd. Version 11, 2015). Interviews
      will be transcribed verbatim and analysed using thematic analysis.
    
  