
    
      Intervention: The theoretic approach of the Theory of the Specific Situation Self-care in HF
      was used for the design of the intervention.

      Supplier/dosage/duration. The intervention was given by the researcher (nurse trained in the
      intervention protocol) in three doses, each contact lasts 60 minutes. Frequency: sessions are
      given once a week during a one-month period (duration). Nurse controls are implemented after
      the intervention after one month and three months. There is also telephonic accompaniment on
      application of the participant.

      Delivery method/environment. Verbal: Individual face to face. Printed educational written
      material type brochure, outpatient clinic of a health institution.

      Methodology

      Participants: inclusion criteria: adults (over the age of 18 years), more than two months of
      having been diagnosed; functional New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class II - III, left
      ventricular ejection fraction reduced (<40%). Cognitive state conservation (Lobo cognitive
      mini exam - MEC-35). Absence or low co-morbidity (Charlson index). Exclusion criteria: acute
      HF, advanced HF

      Sample: The study was designed to have a 90% output, (alpha = 0.05), an expected difference
      of 0.5 in the outcome score of the management and maintenance evaluation in both groups, a
      standard deviation of outcome scores of 1.0, a correlation average between the first and the
      second evaluation of 0.2 and a rate of wear of 20%. Therefore, the required final sample size
      was 124 (62 per group - theoretic sample).

      Pilot study: 176 adults with HF were recruited. 114 entered the study. 62 were excluded (did
      not meet the inclusion criteria (n=39), did not want to participate (=14), other reasons
      (n=9)).

      Randomization. Table of random numbers without repetition. The Participants randomly assigned
      to the control group CG (n=57) received the standard attention, including standard education
      given by attention providers, and the ones assigned to the intervention group IG (n=57)
      received the intervention protocol.

      Information collection (research assistant). The study registers information in the following
      time points: beginning (base line), follow up after a month (outpatient appointment), follow
      up after 3 months (outpatient appointment). The study is classified as simple blind; the
      research assistant, who is in charge of applying the instrument measuring the effect of the
      intervention, will remain blinded during the whole study regarding the group assigned to each
      participant.

      Risk control. Compliance with methodological recommendations used to guarantee reliability
      and validity of the research studies proving a clinic intervention for behavioral changes. A
      plan is being contemplated that includes goals and strategies to monitor and counter possible
      threats to internal and external validity.

      Ethical aspects. Compliance with universal ethical principles for research on humans,
      according to international ethical guidelines - CIOMS, national regulations, informed consent
      and deontological Nursing responsibilities in Colombia.

      Analysis framework Excel database - SPSS Program analysis

        1. Descriptive analysis of the total sample and by groups (intervention and control):
           absolute and relative frequency distributions; median and standard deviation.

        2. Data normality analysis: Kolmogorov-Smirnov test Statistical analysis for independent
           samples a) difference of proportions: X2, b) difference of means: t for student, c)
           difference of medians: U test of Mann - Whitney. In all cases a statistic significance
           will be assumed if the value p < 0.05.

        3. Intrasubject and intergroup analysis: ANOVA with repeated measurements.

        4. Hypothesis proof: W of Mauchly test. When the sphericity premise is fulfilled, test F
           will be used.

        5. Analysis of possible confusion and/or interaction effect.

             1. Stratified analysis: X2 of Mantel-Haenszel (M-H),

             2. Logistic regression analysis. Stepwise method. Minimum change % considered as
                favorable (≥20=1, ≤19=0).

        6. Analysis of the magnitude of the intervention's effect. Improvement of at least 20% of
           the score on the scale, with the analysis principle of the intention of trying. The
           absolute increase in benefit and the necessary number for treatment (NNT) will be
           calculated afterwards.
    
  