
    
      Investigators take a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, cross-over design
      clinical trial to evaluate the effect of Chinese herbal medicine (SS-1) on the regulation of
      oxidative-related cytokines and the antioxidant capacity for the Sjögren's syndrome (SJS)
      patients. Through the oxidative stress reduction, the quality of life and clinical
      manifestation will be improved. Investigators will also use a SJS cell model to elucidate the
      antioxidant mechanism of SS-1.

      The SJS patients in this clinical trial will be screened and be referred from the out-patient
      department (OPD) of the Rheumatology Department of Chang Gung Memorial Hospital. The patients
      will be divided into two groups (A and B) at random and all of them keep the routine
      treatment in the rheumatology OPD. Group A patients will receive 12 weeks SS-1 treatment
      first and stop the SS-1 for 4 weeks to enter the wash-out phase, and then receive 12 weeks
      placebo treatment after the wash-out phase. Group B patients receive 12 weeks placebo first
      and stop the placebo treatment for 4 weeks to enter the wash-out phase, and then receive 12
      weeks SS-1 treatment after the wash-out phase. SS-1 is composed of the powder of Gan-Lu-Yin,
      Sang-Ju-Yin and Xuefu-Zhuyu-Decoction with the ratio of 2:1:1 and the placebo is composed
      with corn starch, pigment and 1/100 SS-1. Patients in both groups take 6 gram of experiment
      medicine three times per day. Investigators plan to evaluate the associated parameters at the
      time just before treatment (V1), after treatment for 12 weeks (V2), at the end of wash-out
      phase (V3) and when the crossover treatment is completed (V4). Investigators use EULAR
      Sjogren's syndrome patient reported index, ocular surface disease index and SJS symptom
      questionnaire for clinical evaluation, and use the SF-36 for quality of life. And
      investigators use the schirmer's test, salivary scintigraphy, oxidative stress marker and
      related cytokine for objective observation.

      Expected Results:

        1. SS-1 may improve the clinical manifestation and quality of life for the patients with
           Sjögren's syndrome

        2. To evaluate the effect of the Chinese medicine on the tongue diagnosis before and after
           treatment.

        3. SS-1 may reduce the oxidative stress (8-OHdG and mtDNA 4977 bp deletion) and elevate the
           antioxidant capacity (TAC, GSH, mtDNA copy number, SOD, GPX, CAT).

        4. SS-1 may have the regulatory effect on cytokine secretion and immune function.

        5. SS-1 may have the capacity of reducing the oxidative stress, elevating the antioxidant
           capacity and regulating the immune response in the model of submaxillary salivary gland
           cell line with the induction of IFN-γand IFN-α.

        6. Identification of the single herb in the SS-1 mixture that regulates oxidative stress
           and cytokine in the model of submaxillary salivary gland cell line, and set up of the
           Chinese herbs screen platform for Sjögren's syndrome.
    
  