
    
      Invasive Fungal Infections (IFI)are a significant cause of death in patients with acute
      leukaemia who are undergoing chemotherapy. This is despite improvements in antifungal therapy
      for the treatment of IFI. The major reason for this is that the current standard diagnostic
      tests of culture and biopsy lack the ability to make a diagnosis, either early or accurately.
      Thus other strategies such as the use of prophylaxis are needed. Several antifungal agents
      have been trialled as prophylaxis but all have disadvantages that limit their effectiveness.

      Liposomal amphotericin B(LAB) is a broad spectrum antifungal agent that kills fungal cells.
      When given in high doses intermittently it supersaturates the liver and the overspill into
      the bloodstream is absorbed by tissues such as lung, brain and kidneys (i.e. sites where IFI
      are likely to occur). This effect has been shown in a number of animal and laboratory
      test-tube studies to reduce fungal burden, improve survival and maintain adequate levels of
      the drug in between doses. However no intermittent high-dose prophylaxis study has been done
      in humans. Thus before we proceed to a randomised controlled clinical trial of the efficacy
      of intermittent high-dose LAB compared with another antifungal agent it is necessary to
      determine in a phase 2 study which of 2 intermittent dosing LAB regimens (i.e. 3mg/kg three
      times a week or 10mg/kg once a week) administered during the neutropenic phase of
      induction-consolidation chemotherapy for treatment of acute leukaemia is safest and best
      tolerated compared to the standard dosing regimen of 1mg/kg daily of LAB.

      Males and females aged >18 years who are undergoing intensive combination chemotherapy for
      acute leukaemia will be randomised 1:1:1 to either 1mg/kg daily; 3mg/kg 3 times a week or
      10mg/kg once weekly of intravenous liposomal amphotericin B. The 3 arms will be compared for
      the safety of the 3 dosing regimens.
    
  