
    
      Healthcare-associated infections (HAIs), particularly those due to multidrug-resistant
      organisms (MDROs), are of great clinical and public health concern. Although evidence-based
      prevention strategies have resulted in some success in curtailing HAIs, novel approaches are
      needed to achieve further reductions. Efforts to curb the emergence of MDROs have been
      largely unsuccessful. Thus, new strategies to address MDROs are urgently needed. This grant
      is comprised of two complementary studies that focus on identifying innovative approaches to
      more effectively prevent HAIs and curtail further emergence of MDROs.

      We will conduct a randomized controlled trial (RCT) to assess the efficacy of copper
      oxide-impregnated textiles in preventing HAIs and MDROs as well as in reducing environmental
      microbial contamination. We hope to provide critical information to inform the development of
      novel strategies, and enhance the impact of existing strategies, to successfully address HAIs
      and MDROs.

      For approximately four months the hospital is conducting a research study to learn about the
      possible impact of copper linens in reducing hospital acquired infections. Some rooms will
      have copper linens (Group 1) and some rooms will have regular linens (Group 2). The linens
      will be comprised of the top and bottom sheets, pillowcase cover, and hospital gown.

      Patients in both groups will be asked to provide samples during their stay in the ICU. For
      both study groups, the linens will be sampled twice after they are placed. This will occur on
      2 consecutive days. At the same time, study staff will take samples from several areas of the
      room (the hand rails, overbed table, nurse call button).

      Patients will also be asked to allow the research team to obtain swabs of the nose,
      per-rectal area, armpit and groin. These swabs will be performed on their first day enrolled
      into the study, then 4 days later, and every week until ICU discharge.
    
  