
    
      Mechanical ventilation is the cornerstone of supportive management for most ARDS patients to
      prevent life-threatening hypoxemia. Arterial oxygenation can be improved via ventilator by
      increasing fractional inspired oxygen (FiO2) and/or increasing mean airway pressure. When
      treating mechanically ventilated ARDS patients, the benefit of improved arterial oxygenation
      must be balanced against the potential risk of ventilator-induced lung injury (VILI), oxygen
      toxicity occurring with high FiO2 and development of right heart failure.

      Arterial oxygen saturation target of 88-95 % and partial oxygen pressure (PaO2) target of
      7.3-10.6 are advocated in the management of patients with ARDS. Surprisingly little
      randomized evidence exists to support these values and current recommendations are thus
      arbitrary and largely based on normal physiologic values.

      Given the lack of evidence of strategies in oxygenating critically ill patients to an oxygen
      saturation and partial oxygen pressure that is generally accepted to be 'normal,' permissive
      hypoxemia may offer an alternative that has the potential to improve patient outcomes by
      avoiding unnecessary harm. Permissive hypoxemia is a concept in which a lower level of
      arterial oxygenation than usual is accepted in order to avoid the potentially detrimental
      effects of high fractional inspired oxygen and invasive mechanical ventilation with high
      pressures, while maintaining adequate oxygen delivery by optimizing cardiac output.

      Pulse oximetry is a simple, non-invasive and universally used method to monitor peripheral
      oxygen saturation of hemoglobin in a variety of clinical settings. Pulse oximetry depends on
      pulsatile blood flow and only measures the oxyhemoglobin in arterial blood as it leaves the
      heart. However, this measure does not provide information regarding organ or tissue
      oxygenation, which reflects the important local balance between oxygen supply and demand.

      Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) allows for continuous measurement of regional tissue
      oxygenation which reflects perfusion status and enables clinicians to directly monitor
      fluctuations in real time. NIRS reflects the balance of oxygen that is delivered minus what
      is extracted at tissue level and is an indicator of the tissue oxygen uptake.
    
  