
    
      Following the first vaginal delivery 85% of women will sustain perineal trauma (1). Sometimes
      these can extend to the anal sphincter, and these are referred to as Obstetric Anal Sphincter
      Injuries (OASIs).

      Occasionally OASIs may not be detected at delivery. If these tears are missed they would not
      be repaired and this may lead to incontinence of wind (flatus) or of faeces, both of which
      can have a significant impact on quality of life.

      Endoanal ultrasound (where an ultrasound probe is inserted directly into the back passage) is
      the gold standard diagnostic tool to detect OASIs. It is however not available in most
      obstetric units. Transperineal ultrasound (where an ultrasound probe is placed on the
      perineum)(TPUS) in contrast is available in most obstetric units and therefore we wish to
      determine whether TPUS in addition to a routine clinical examination will increase the
      detection rate of OASIs.

      Anal incontinence can also occur if the anal sphincter are not repaired adequately. Therefore
      we want to investigate whether the use of TPUS immediately after primary repair of OASIs is
      an useful tool to minimise an inadequate repair.

      The other aim of the study is to look at changes that occur to the pelvic floor muscles
      during labour by ultrasound. It is known that certain muscle changes may lead to urinary
      incontinence and pelvic organ prolapse. However limited studies have evaluated the natural
      history of the pelvic floor muscles in labour. We therefore wish to perform a transperineal
      ultrasound each time the midwife or doctor caring for the woman in labour decides the woman
      in labour needs a vaginal examination. This will provide important information regarding
      changes that occur to the muscles of the pelvic floor during normal labour.

      References:

      1)Byrd L,Hobbiss J,Tasker M. Is it possible to predict or prevent third degree tears?
      Colorectal Dis 2005;7:311-8.
    
  