
    
      Hereditary hemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is an autosomal dominant genetic disorder
      characterized by systemic vascular malformations that result from mutations of the ENG gene,
      which encodes for factors in the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) pathway. HHT is
      diagnosed by the Curacao Criteria including the presence of epistaxis; telangiectasias or
      vascular malformations in the lungs, liver, or nervous system; and a positive family history
      involving a first-degree relative. One of the most common presentations of this disease is
      recurrent and profound epistaxis, with many patients reporting more than 4 epistaxis episodes
      in a day, many lasting up to an hour. HHT-related epistaxis often results in severe anemia
      requiring intravenous iron and repeated blood transfusions, and also carries significant
      psychosocial disability relating to impaired quality of life and work absenteeism. Multiple
      approaches to treatment have been described, including electrocautery, laser treatment,
      embolization, septodermoplasty, and as a last resort, Young's procedure, involving closure of
      the nasal vestibule. These approaches are largely palliative, with variable effectiveness,
      and almost always require repeated procedures for chronic management of bleeding. There is a
      great need for the development of new treatment options for reducing the medical morbidity
      and quality of life impairment associated with refractory epistaxis in HHT.

      Recently there has been promising data suggesting that inhibition of angiogenesis may be an
      effective strategy for managing HHT-related bleeding. Circulating concentrations of VEGF are
      significantly elevated in HHT, making VEGF an attractive therapeutic target. Preliminary
      studies suggest that bevacizumab, a recombinant monoclonal antibody that inhibits the
      biologic activity of VEGF, can significantly improve epistaxis severity when topically
      applied, locally injected, or intravenously administered. However, these early pilot studies
      of bevacizumab have been limited exclusively to retrospective case series. As yet, there has
      been no prospective double-blind placebo controlled trial with serial follow up time points
      to establish the role of bevacizumab in the treatment of HHT-related epistaxis.

      Based on existing level 4 evidence that suggests that bevacizumab injection is beneficial in
      the management of HHT-related epistaxis, we hypothesize that patients who receive intranasal
      injection with bevacizumab at the time of electrocautery treatment will have an improvement
      in the frequency and severity of epistaxis compared to patients who receive injection of
      saline control.
    
  