
    
      Study design

      A quasi-experimental mixed methods approach will be used to determine the feasibility and
      acceptability of implementing volunteer-led exercise sessions in community clubs. This
      feasibility study will be conducted at community-clubs managed by Brendoncare. The
      acceptability of the intervention will also be examined through qualitative interviews and
      focus groups to explore the views and experiences of volunteers and older adults involved in
      this study. The impact of the intervention on physical activity levels and functional
      outcomes will be measured.

      Method

      A quasi-experimental mixed methods approach will be used to determine the feasibility and
      acceptability of this volunteer-led physical activity intervention. This feasibility study
      will be conducted at community-clubs with a focus on social interactions managed by
      Brendoncare. Due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the community clubs are currently meeting online.
      The exercise intervention will be conducted online and will consist mainly of seated
      exercises. The impact of the intervention on physical activity levels and functional outcomes
      will be measured. The acceptability of the intervention will also be examined through
      qualitative interviews and focus groups to explore the views and experiences of volunteers
      and older adults involved in this study. Facilitators and barriers to the intervention will
      be identified to inform future implementation studies.

      Participants

      Community-dwelling older adults who attend Brendoncare community clubs will be invited to
      participate in this study. The inclusion criteria are community-dwelling older adults age 65
      years and above who able to provide written consent. Club members who are not able to
      transfer or walk independently, and those who are actively participating in other exercise
      classes, will be excluded from the study. A sample size of 30 participants was chosen for
      pragmatic reasons for this feasibility study. Each Brendoncare club consists of between 10 -
      20 regular members and to achieve the desired sample size, the intervention will need to be
      implemented in three clubs. The regional manager and club volunteers of the respective clubs
      will inform eligible club members about the study and those who are keen to participate in
      this study will be approached by the research team to be recruited to the study. Club members
      who have been approached but decline to take part will be asked if they are willing to
      discuss their reasons for doing so. This will help in the evaluation of the acceptability of
      the intervention. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the community clubs are currently meeting
      online. The clubs will reconvene according to government guidance taking into consideration
      social distancing measures.

      Recruitment and training of volunteers

      The Brendoncare clubs are managed by paid staff members but the activities are led by
      volunteers. Existing volunteers who are actively involved in the clubs will be invited to
      participate in this study and receive training to deliver the intervention. Volunteers will
      be provided with participant information sheets and written consent will be obtained from
      volunteers who are willing to participate in this study. The volunteer training programme
      will consist of a half a day theoretical training session followed by practical sessions.
      This will be conducted online. It will be led by a senior physiotherapist, Esther Clift (EC)
      and the study PI, Stephen Lim (SL). The training programme will be developed based on
      clinical expertise from therapists and current evidence including experience from a recently
      completed study (the SoMoVe study). The training session will include training on personal
      safety and safety of participants, and the exercise and mobility protocols. As these are
      existing volunteers, they would have been recruited, and received the generic clearance and
      training provided by Brendoncare. Throughout the study period, fidelity checks will be
      conducted by EC and SL to ensure that the volunteers are delivering high quality exercise
      sessions. Volunteers will also receive training on how to document adverse events that occur
      during the exercise classes.

      Intervention

      The intervention consists of a once weekly volunteer-led group exercise which will take place
      online and at the community clubs over 6 months. Besides exercising, participants are also
      encouraged to increase mobility levels. The exercise sessions will be piloted in one club
      before being extended to other clubs.

      Data collection

      Participant characteristics including age, gender, domicile status, body mass index,
      co-morbidities and number of medications will be recorded. PRISMA 7 will be used to
      characterise participants' frailty status. Mini-mental state examination (MMSE) will be used
      to assess participants' cognitive function. The club location, size, usual activity details
      and age range of club members will also be recorded to provide contextual information for
      each club.

      The primary outcome of this study is the feasibility of implementing volunteer-led exercise
      sessions in the community for older adults. This will be assessed by determining the number
      of volunteers recruited, trained and retained at the end of the study, the number of physical
      activity sessions delivered and fidelity of volunteer delivery of and participants'
      participation in the exercise sessions. The secondary outcome measures include the
      measurement of physical activity levels and physical function. Physical activity levels will
      be measured using the CHAMPS questionnaire. Physical function will be measured using the
      Barthel Index. Other outcome measures include EuroQOL as a measure of quality of life, and
      measure of sarcopenia using SARC-F questionnaire. These outcome measures will be recorded at
      recruitment and repeated at 6 months and 12 months to capture any changes. Cost analysis will
      be conducted to determine the cost of implementing this intervention. To determine the safety
      of the intervention, adverse events that occur as a result of the intervention will be
      recorded.

      Acceptability of the intervention

      Interviews will be conducted among older adults and volunteers to determine the acceptability
      of the intervention and explore any barriers and enablers to participation and adherence to
      the intervention.

      Older adults will be selected by purposive sampling to share their thoughts and views
      regarding the implementation of the volunteer-led physical activity session. To ensure a wide
      range of views are included in the interviews, participants will be selected to ensure equal
      distribution of male and female patients, different clubs and a representative age range. The
      aim is to interview at least three participants per club, with a total number of 9
      participants.

      Interviews will also be conducted for volunteers leading the intervention. The shared
      experience of volunteers in delivering the intervention will be explored through a group
      setting. The aim is to interview at least two volunteers from each club, with a total number
      of six volunteers.

      The interviews will be semi-structured and consist of several key open-ended questions that
      help define the areas explored but allow the interviewer or interviewee to expand and diverge
      with the aim of pursuing or developing an idea with more depth. The interview schedules will
      be underpinned by Normalisation Process Theory.The interviews will seek to explore the views
      of older adults and volunteers on the exercise sessions, the barriers and facilitators to the
      intervention and suggestions for future implementation studies. The interviews will be
      audio-recorded for data collection purposes.

      Data analysis

      Quantitative data analysis Data collected will be double entered into a secured database for
      analysis. Statistical analysis will be conducted using the statistical software SPSS.
      Descriptive statistics -median (IQR); mean (SD); number (%) - will be used to analyse the
      numbers of volunteers recruited, trained and retained, as well as the type and extent of
      progression of the resistance exercise, and duration of their activity, and patients'
      adherence to the intervention. Analysis of the above outcome measures will be used to develop
      an assessment of the feasibility of delivering this intervention. To determine suitability
      for a future, fully-powered effectiveness study of the intervention, outcome measures
      recorded at baseline will be compared to measurement at 6 and 12 months to determine if PA
      intervention had an impact of physical activity levels measured by CHAMPS, functional
      outcomes including Barthel Index, and quality of life (EuroQol). The distribution of each
      outcome measure will be assessed for normality and described using parametric or
      non-parametric statistics accordingly. A basic cost-analysis of the training programme will
      be carried out, costing the time of clinical staff involved in delivering the training.

      Qualitative data analysis Data collected from the interviews will be transcribed verbatim and
      analysed using thematic analysis (TA). The audio-recordings will be transcribed by an
      administrative colleague within the research department who is experienced in transcribing
      qualitative data. Analysis of qualitative data will be conducted using either Microsoft Word,
      or with the help of NVIVO, depending on the amount of data collected. Transcribed text will
      be read and coded separately and then together by two researchers. The codes will be analysed
      to generate concepts and ideas to determine the acceptability of the intervention, and to
      identify facilitators and barriers to the implementation process. The codes act as tags or
      labels to help catalogue key concepts embedded within the raw data. From the codes, themes
      will be developed to reflect the views and experiences of the community-dwelling older adults
      and volunteers regarding the community-based PA intervention.
    
  