
    
      Over the last fifteen years, research in the field of positive psychology has increased
      exponentially (Bolier, Haverman, Westerhof, Riper, Smit & Bohlmeijer, 2013; Sin &
      Lyubomirsky, 2009). These studies have shown that positive moods and positive emotions lead
      people to think, feel, and act in favor of their approach goals, promoting their involvement
      in them (Lyubomirsky, 2001). One of the main arms of this framework, is the development of
      exercises and treatment protocols aimed to promote the appearance of different positive
      emotions and states, called Positive Psychology Interventions (PPIs).

      In this sense, Best Possible Self (BPS) has been included as a PPI, since is aimed to enhance
      wellbeing. Specifically, BPS is a positive future thinking technique, which requires people
      to envision themselves in the future, after everything has gone as good as it possibly could.
      This exercise has shown efficacy improving optimism, future expectancies and positive affect
      compared to a control condition, in general population (Meevissen, Peters & Alberts, 2011;
      Sheldon &Lyubomirsky, 2012; Peters, Flink, Boersma & Linton, 2010).

      Furthermore, the progress of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs), has allowed
      the development of technology applications and devices that could enhance the quality of
      experience and the wellbeing levels. This approach is called Positive Technology (PT) and it
      can be used as a complement to PPIs. PT can be defined as the scientific and applied approach
      to improve the quality of our personal experience trying to increase wellness and generate
      strengths (Riva, Baños, Botella, Wiederhold & Gaggioli, 2012).

      Taking into account the prior literature, the aim of the present study is to carry out a
      randomized controlled study in order to replicate the findings about the effects of BPS on
      optimism, mood and affect in young general population. The exercise will be applied through a
      Positive Technology system and the effects will be analyzed during four months. The design
      employed in this study is similar to the used in other studies (Meevissen et al, 2011;
      Renner, Schwarz, Peters & Huibers, 2014; Sheldon & Lyubomirsky, 2006).
    
  