
    
      1. The informed consent process will be initiated by investigators in the emergency
           department.

        2. All potential subjects will be informed that participation in the study could lead to a
           positive urine drug test that could remain positive for up to a month after the
           conclusion of the study.

        3. Female subjects of child bearing age, will have a pregnancy test performed prior to
           enrollment; any subjects who are pregnant will be excluded from this project.

        4. Each subject will be asked to grade his/her pain severity on a 100mm non-hatched visual
           analog scale (VAS) ranging from 0 (no pain) to 100 (worst, maximum pain).

        5. Each subject will be asked to fill out a baseline pain questionnaire

        6. Each subject will be placed on monitors for continuous pulse oximetry, Heart Rate,
           Respiratory Rate, and blood pressure every 5 minutes for the duration of the study of
           one hour and longer for any patient who needs continued care. The patients temperature
           will be taken prior to the start of the protocol.

        7. Each subject will have an intravenous catheter placed.

        8. Each subject will be sequentially assigned to one of three treatment groups, based on a
           computer-generated randomization schedule, to receive an intravenous infusion of
           sub-dissociative Ketamine (0.25mg/kg), sub-dissociative dose Ketamine (0.5mg/kg), or an
           equal amount of normal saline.

        9. All medications will be prepared by an emergency department pharmacist and all study
           medication intravenous bags will be identical in appearance and will be administered by
           the emergency department nurse caring for the patient who will be blinded to the study
           drug.

       10. Each subject will receive lightly tinted sunglasses to wear during the duration of the
           study to minimize bias as ketamine can evoke a tell-tale short- lived nystagmus

       11. Each subject will receive the study medication over a 20 minute period via an automated
           pump. At this point, the subjects will be asked to rate their pain on a VAS and asked if
           they need additional pain medication that will consist of intravenous hydromorphone with
           the dose and frequency determined by the discretion of the treating physician and
           documented on the data collection sheet.
    
  