
    
      Early assessment of the efficacy of anti-cancer therapy is highly desirable and an unmet need
      in clinical oncology. Currently, treatment efficacy is mostly measured by following tumor
      size by anatomical imaging (CT scan or MRI). However, changes in tumor size may be observed
      only after several weeks to several months after completion of treatment. Meanwhile, in cases
      where there is no response, the patient is unnecessarily exposed to treatment's side effects,
      and precious time may be lost before the initiation of an alternative, potentially more
      beneficial line of therapy. Therefore, there is an urgent and serious need for better tools
      for monitoring of tumor response to anti-cancer treatments.

      To address this need, [18F]-ML-10, a novel small molecular-weight probe (MW 205) was
      developed for clinical detection of apoptosis in vivo by positron emission tomography (PET).
      [18F]-ML-10 is a member of the ApoSense family of compounds, a novel class of molecular
      probes for molecular imaging of cell death. The first clinical indication for which
      [18F]-ML-10 is being developed is imaging of apoptosis in clinical oncology to monitor tumor
      response to radiation therapy.

      Previous preclinical and clinical studies have substantiated the safety of [18F]-ML-10, its
      very high stability in vivo, its favorable biodistribution profile, and its efficacy in
      clinical detection of cell death. In preclinical studies, the selective retention of
      [18F]-ML-10 in the focus of the neurovascular cell death in cerebral ischemia was
      demonstrated in respective animal models. 18F-ML-10 has been examined in two clinical trials
      in Uppsala Imanet, Sweden, and has been found safe in administration to healthy subjects and
      to elderly subjects with acute ischemic cerebral stroke. In these clinical trials,
      [18F]-ML-10 was also found efficacious in the clinical imaging of apoptosis, being either
      physiological apoptosis as observed in the testes in young healthy males, and pathological
      cell death, as observed in the brains of patients with acute ischemic cerebral stroke.
    
  