
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the proportion of postmenopausal women who are at increased risk for the
           development or recurrence of breast cancer, based on high breast density (≥ grade 4),
           who achieve a decrease in breast density of ≥ 1 grade after treatment with letrozole for
           1 year.

      Secondary

        -  Determine whether a decrease in breast density grade is sustained at 1 year in patients
           treated with this drug.

        -  Correlate plasma estrogen profile (E1, E1S, E2) with breast density grade at baseline in
           these patients.

        -  Determine the percentage of patients with breast tissue hyperplasia and atypical
           hyperplasia, as assessed by histopathological examination of breast tissue biopsies,
           before and after treatment with this drug.

        -  Determine the changes in estrogen profile from baseline, at 1 year, and 1 year after
           cessation of this drug in these patients.

        -  Compare changes in predetermined specific parameters of safety at the end of 1 year of
           treatment with this drug with baseline evaluations of these patients.

        -  Determine whether modifications of these predetermined specific parameters of safety are
           sustained 1 year after cessation of treatment with this drug in these patients.

        -  Determine the general safety of 1 year of treatment with this drug in these patients.

        -  Compare the effects of this drug on menopause-specific quality of life of these
           patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to breast density grade (4/6 vs 5/6 vs 6/6). Patients are randomized
      to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral letrozole once daily for 1 year in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo once daily for 1 year in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Menopause-specific quality of life is assessed at baseline and then at 12 and 24 months.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 months and 1 year.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 120 patients (80 in arm I and 40 in arm II) will be accrued for
      this study within 12 months.
    
  