
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To examine and compare the feasibility of two sequential neoadjuvant regimens in
           patients with newly diagnosed, stage IIIC-IV ovarian or peritoneal carcinoma.

        -  To confirm the feasibility of extended sequential regimens offering 6+6 courses of
           chemotherapy in patients presenting with inoperable disease.

        -  To establish the feasibility of biweekly paclitaxel with vs without gemcitabine
           hydrochloride in the adjuvant phase, after carboplatin neoadjuvant induction.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to serum albumin (<
      30 g/dL vs 30-35 g/dL vs > 35 g/dL), FIGO stage (stage IIIC vs stage IV), and histological
      grade (well-differentiated [grade 1] vs moderately well-differentiated [grade 2] vs poorly
      differentiated [grade 3]). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Neoadjuvant therapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour and gemcitabine hydrochloride IV
                over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8. Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for up to 6
                courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive carboplatin IV over 1 hour on day 1. Treatment repeats
                every 3 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, patients with disease progression are switched to adjuvant paclitaxel-based
      chemotherapy. Patients with responding disease after switching regimens may undergo debulking
      surgery at the investigator's discretion.

        -  Surgery: After completion of 6 courses of chemotherapy, all patients are evaluated for
           surgery. Patients with questionable operability based on clinical or radiological
           criteria are re-assessed laparoscopically. Patients judged to have disease that is
           amenable to optimal debulking at laparotomy are recommended for debulking surgery.
           Patients judged to have disease that is not amenable to optimal debulking are
           reconsidered for surgery after they receive an additional 6 courses of chemotherapy.
           Patients with disease progression after completion of 12 courses of chemotherapy undergo
           laparotomy only if there is a clinically pressing need to palliate their condition and
           if surgery offers some prospect of achieving this result (e.g., palliation for bowel
           obstruction).

        -  Adjuvant therapy:

             -  Arm I: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours on day 1. Treatment repeats
                every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or
                unacceptable toxicity.

             -  Arm II: Patients receive paclitaxel IV over 3 hours and gemcitabine hydrochloride
                IV over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in
                the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Patients complete quality of life questionnaires at baseline, after completion of course 6 of
      neoadjuvant therapy, before course 7, and at the end of study treatment.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  