
    
      Study Objectives:

      In this context, the investigators work is to show that training giving the consensus
      definitions of Crohn's lesions on inspection and typical images of these lesions is effective
      to enable students to achieve a level of diagnosis of these lesions acceptable to experts
      (ideally not significantly different from that of the experts). Assuming alternates, we will
      identify difficult diagnosis of lesions for students to find the most appropriate teaching
      method

      Inclusion criteria: all Gastroenterology Hepato-house of France (including overseas
      territories)

      Methodology:

      non-interventional multicentre prospective study

      February 2015 to July 2015

      Statistical analysis: Clinical Research Centre of the coordinating center. Quantitative
      variables are expressed by their mean, standard deviations, their minimum and maximum values
      as appropriate. The variables will be expressed in numbers and percentages.

      Development of the study:

        -  A broad group of experts (19 proctology and a dermatologist) will be contacted to choose
           two typical images of LAP (superficial ulceration, deep ulceration ...) from a selection
           of photos and give their opinions about fistula definition proposal. (Photos used does
           not identify patients, they have just typical lesions of LAP)

      Typical pictures chosen by the experts will be integrated into the training material issued
      after 1 internal questionnaire. This support will appear on one page and resume the
      definitions established by experts with or without the typical pictures.

        -  Internal Gastroenterology France (about 470 domestic total) will be contacted by email,
           their department heads have been told that work.

        -  Internal will inform their characteristics:

             -  Internal details: name, email address

             -  Year boarding.

             -  boarding area.

             -  Validation IUD (inter-university degree) 1st / 2nd year of proctology.

             -  Conducting an internal internship in a proctology service?

             -  Participation in specific courses on the LAP?

             -  buddy Training on LAP?

        -  Sending a first questionnaire to internal Google Drive: description pictures of LAP (12
           photos lesion initially selected by experts) using checkboxes. Eg ulceration: YES / NO /
           DO NOT KNOW (Figure 1). The Google Drive platform enables automatic input results in a
           Microsoft Excel database.

        -  Draw (using a randomization list EXCEL based on the random function of EXCEL) of 2
           groups:

             -  Group A (training with typical definitions established + photos)

             -  Group B (only definitions)

        -  Sending mail to the board of education, different depending on the group, the internal
           will have as long as they wish

        -  Sending a second questionnaire with pictures of different LAP those of the first
           questionnaire. Answers by checkboxes.

        -  Analysis: a schedule will each questionnaire with a weighting based on the primary /
           secondary diagnosis. A comparison of pre and post training scores will be performed. And
           this difference may be calculated between the two groups A and B. In addition, the
           difficult diagnosis of lesions will be identified.
    
  