
    
      Background:

      HIF-1 is a common mediator of hypoxic and non-hypoxic pathways that affects a transcriptional
      program leading to survival, angiogenesis, migration and invasion of cancer cells. We have
      demonstrated that chronic administration of topotecan inhibits HIF-1alpha expression,
      angiogenesis and tumor growth in human xenografts. Notably, the mechanism by which topotecan
      inhibits HIF-1alpha protein expression is independent of replication-mediated DNA damage,
      suggested a mechanism of action distinct from its cytotoxic effects.

      Objectives:

      This clinical trial is designed to explore the hypothesis that chronic administration of
      topotecan (TPT) inhibits Hypoxia Inducible factor 1alpha (HIF-1alpha) expression and
      angiogenesis in patients with metastatic tumors over-expressing HIF-1alpha.

      Eligibility:

      Adult patients with metastatic solid tumors expressing HIF-1alpha, for whom standard therapy
      does not exist or would likely not be effective, will be evaluated for study eligibility. Due
      to safety concerns, pregnant women and HIV-infected individuals are excluded from this study.
      Prior to enrollment, archival tumor tissue wil be evaluated for the expression of HIF-1alpha
      as assessed by IHC. Only patients who have tumors that express HIF-1alpha and who meet all
      eligibility criteria will be enrolled on this study. Patients will be asked to undergo a
      biopsy to evaluate HIF-1alpha expression before starting treatment and at the end of
      treatment on cycle 2 (day 12 or 13 cycle 2).

      Design:

      Topotecan at the dose of 1.2 mg/m(2) will be administered orally daily x 5 for 2 weeks,
      during a 28 days cycle. Imaging studies including CT and DCE-MRI will be performed at
      baseline, at the end of treatment on cycle 1 (day 9 or 10), end of treatment on cycle 2 (day
      12 or 13) and will provide information on clinical response as well as tumor angiogenesis.
      The repeat scans on day 9 or 10 of cycle 1 will be performed solely for research purposes to
      evaluate for early changes in tumor angiogenesis. Additional correlative studies include
      evaluation of mRNA expression of HIF-1 target genes in tumor tissue, circulating markers of
      angiogenesis, and measurement of circulating endothelial precursor cells (CEP). The goal of
      this trial is to establish whether topotecan inhibits HIF-1alpha and angiogenesis in human
      cancers.
    
  