
    
      The Study Drugs:

      Curcumin is the active ingredient in the spice, turmeric. It is a natural anti-inflammatory
      compound and has shown anti-tumor activity. Surface-controlled water dispersible curcumin is
      designed to be better absorbed by the body than regular curcumin.

      Study Groups:

      The first group of participants will receive the lowest dose level. Each new group will
      usually receive a higher dose than the group before it, if no intolerable side effects were
      seen. Each group will have 3-6 participants. This will continue until the highest tolerable
      dose of curcumin is found. Up to 6 dose levels of curcumin will be tested. Once the highest
      tolerable dose of each arm is found, up to 14 extra participants will be enrolled for extra
      safety testing.

      In some cases, extra participants may be enrolled at dose levels shown to be safe for extra
      safety and/or pharmacokinetic (PK) and pharmacodynamic (PD) testing.

      You will be assigned to a dose level based on when you join this study.

      The dose of the study drug that you receive may be lowered if you have any intolerable side
      effects. If you are tolerating the treatment, your study drug dose may be increased after the
      first cycle to the highest dose level shown to be safe.

      Study Drug Administration:

      Each study "cycle" is 28 days long.

      You will take 1 dose of curcumin on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Starting on Day 2 of Cycle 1, you will
      begin taking curcumin 2 times each day.

      Curcumin is a liquid that comes in a bottle, and you will take it by mouth on an empty
      stomach with a full glass of water (8 ounces). If you are not tolerating the doses and your
      doctor thinks it is needed, you may take curcumin in divided doses several times a day with
      food.

      Study Visits:

      Before your first dose of study drug and during Week 2 of Cycle 2, you will complete a
      questionnaire about your quality of life. It should take about 5-10 minutes to complete.

      Every week of Cycle 1 and then as often as the doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 2
      teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

      Before you begin each cycle:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

      At the end of Cycle 2 and then every 2-3 cycles:

        -  You will have a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, and/or PET scan to check the status of the
           disease. If the study doctor thinks it is needed, these scan may be performed more
           often. You also may have extra types of scans not listed in this consent form.

        -  If the doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to measure
           tumor markers.

      PK Testing:

      Blood (about ½ teaspoon each time) will be drawn for PK testing at the following times:

        -  On Day 1 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn before the dose and then 6 more times over the
           next 6 hours after the dose.

        -  On Day 2 of Cycle 1, blood will be drawn 1 time.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for as long as the study doctor thinks it is in your best interest.
      You will be taken off study early if the disease gets worse or you experience intolerable
      side effects.

      Your participation on the study will be over once you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      Within 30 days after your last dose of the study drug(s), you will have an end-of-study
      visit. At this visit the following tests and procedures will be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your weight and vital signs.

        -  Your performance status will be recorded.

        -  Blood (about 2 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.

        -  You will be asked about any side effects you may be having.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, you will have a chest x-ray, CT, MRI, and/or
           PET scan to check the status of the disease. If the study doctor thinks it is needed,
           you may also have extra types of scans.

        -  If the study doctor thinks it is needed, blood (about 1 teaspoon) will be drawn to
           measure tumor markers.

      This is an investigational study. Curcumin is a commercially available substance, which is
      commonly used as a food additive. Curcumin is not FDA approved for any usage. At this time,
      curcumin is only being used in research.

      Up to 72 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  