
    
      With substance abuse concerns plaguing tribal communities, health preventive approaches for
      American Indian (AI) children need urgent attention. Mainstream programs fall short by
      failing to speak to AI children on their own terms. Not so with the Family Listening/Circle
      Program (FL/CP) which integrates an evidence-based family-strengthening core, with cultural
      values and practices for 4th graders, their parents and elders. Through previous Native
      American Research Centers for Health funding (Indian Health Service & National Institutes of
      Health partnership) the FL/CP was created and piloted by community-based participatory
      research (CBPR) partnerships between the University of New Mexico Center for Participatory
      Research and three tribal communities: Pueblo of Jemez, Ramah Band of Navajo and Mescalero
      Apache Nation. FL/CP fills a gap in substance abuse prevention by recapturing historic
      traditions of cultural transmission, such as family dinner story-telling where elders connect
      with children, supporting enhanced child-family communication and psycho-social coping
      through traditional dialogue, indigenous languages and empowerment where children and
      families create community action projects addressing community substance abuse. With initial
      FL/CP pilot and feasibility research completed, Tribal Research Teams (TRTs) from the Pueblo
      of Jemez, Ramah Band of Navajo and Mescalero Apache Nation are now in place for full program
      implementation and effectiveness testing through a longitudinal quasi-experimental design
      involving a long-term, multi-tribal/academic research partnership. Under this five-year R01
      effectiveness trial, tribal partners are committed to assessing the program's effectiveness
      and disseminating the approach and intervention within Indian Country as a best practice in
      reducing substance abuse health disparities, with TRTs collaborating on all research
      activities, implementation, interpretation/analysis, and dissemination plans. Three specific
      aims are 1) To rigorously test effectiveness of FLCP; with a comparative longitudinal design
      within and across the tribes, with 4th graders to prevent substance initiation/use and
      strengthen families; 2) Through CBPR, support TRTs to transform their research capacities
      into local prevention research infrastructures and partnering; 3)To assess additional program
      effects on other health/education programs and leadership within the tribes. In sum, this
      multi-tribal/academic partnership builds on accomplishments to test the effectiveness of an
      innovative intervention. This grant provides an unparalleled opportunity to reduce substance
      abuse in three tribal communities, strengthen tribal research capacities, and impact
      substance abuse prevention research designs nationally, by illustrating how CBPR processes
      can integrate evidence-based and cultural-centered practices to create effective programs
      that generate community ownership and sustainability.
    
  