
    
      This is a multicenter prospective investigation to assess the clinical outcomes of patients
      with an isolated pelvic ring injury. The study team plans on enrolling 60 subjects. This
      group will include both patients treated with and without surgical repair of the pelvic ring
      injury.

      Concomitant injuries will be accounted in two ways first by tracking the patient's ISS
      (Injury Severity Score), second by tracking lower extremity fractures and lumbar spine
      injuries that require fixation. All patients will be enrolled within 2 weeks of injury to
      allow collection of outcome information asking the patients to score in a manner reflecting
      their perceived pre-injury level of function. The outcome instruments administered will
      include the short-musculoskeletal functional assessment (SMFA), the Oswestry Disability
      Score, Majeed Pelvis Score, and a visual analog pain score.

      Patient demographics including age, income level, educational level, family support, and work
      status will be recorded. Additional demographic information associated with motivation of
      recovery from injury will be collected at the time of enrollment. Associated aspects of the
      injury including neurologic, urologic, or bowel injuries associated with the injury will be
      documented. All operative complications or wound infections involving the care of the pelvic
      ring injury will also be recorded. Injury classification and operative data of surgical
      repair will also be collected. At time of follow-up neurologic deficits, evidence of painful
      hardware, limb length discrepancy will be documented.

      Initial radiographs and CT imaging will be taken in accordance with standard clinical care at
      participating centers. The decision for operative or non-operative management will be made at
      the discretion of the treating surgeon. At 6 months and 1 year follow-up time points, plain
      film radiographs including an AP Pelvis, 40 degree inlet and 40 degree outlet views will be
      made with a calibrated marker as described by Suzuki et al. Calibrated markers are available
      in standard clinical practice in Orthopaedic Surgery outpatient clinic radiology units. Use
      of the calibrated marker requires only that the marker, a metal ball 25mm in diameter, is
      included in the x-ray beam adjacent to the patient at the time of taking the radiograph.
      Radiographs are routine clinical practice at the follow-up time points in these patients.
      Outcome instruments will be administered to the patient at these time points as well.
    
  