
    
      This is an acute, multi-center, observational, prospective feasibility study with up to 80
      patients at up to 5 centers in Europe.

      Data will be simultaneously collected on both the EnSite Precision 2.0.1 and VRP mapping
      systems for the entire duration of the EP mapping and ablation procedure. This study will not
      require significant change to the current clinical workflow of the mapping and ablation
      procedure. The VRP operator will observe both displays in real-time and will enter extensive
      electronic annotations to the VRP data stream to facilitate retrospective analysis. Examples
      of annotations include drug administration, patient movement, and the introduction of devices
      such as an intracardiac Echography (ICE) catheter which are not visible on the EnSite mapping
      system.

      If/when the VRP operator notices events which might be better understood with additional
      data, he/she might ask the physician to hold a catheter in a stable position for an extra few
      seconds and/or move the catheter to another position. Examples of such events include
      catheters appearing outside the 3D model and unrealistic catheter shapes on either display.
      Compliance with such requests is optional and subject to physician preference.

      Retrospective data analysis will focus on characterization of the following:

        -  Occurence rates and potential causes for Shift and Drift.

        -  Frequency and severity of discrepancies between impedance and magnetic coordinates.

        -  Positions of catheters relative to the 3D model.

        -  Positions of catheters relative to each other, comparing to fluoroscopic images when
           available.

        -  Shapes of catheters on the research system as the catheters are moved to different
           locations.

        -  Final geometry apprearance on the VRP.

        -  Voltage and timing maps appearance on the VRP.
    
  