
    
      The overall study design will follow a similar format to that used to develop the ASAS axial
      SpA classification criteria. All consecutive patients referred to a rheumatologist with
      current undiagnosed back pain of ≥3 months duration with onset ≤45 years of age will comprise
      the prospective cohort. The sample size of 500 from North America (minimum of 300 from the
      US) and 500 from outside North America is aimed at ensuring that a sufficient number of
      patients will have axSpA and also permit the option to conduct 5-year follow up to determine
      predictive validity of the classification criteria. The clinical assessment data, including
      the history and physical examination, will be recorded by the rheumatologist in the
      electronic case report form (eCRF). This will be accessed through an online portal.

      The rheumatologist will complete 5 global assessments to determine the presence/absence of
      axSpA. The first will be completed immediately after the first clinical assessment at the end
      of the patient encounter and will incorporate details of the history and physical exam. This
      is aimed at ascertaining which clinical features are considered most important in formulating
      the rheumatologist's opinion regarding the diagnosis of axSpA. The second will be conducted
      once the C-Reactive Protein (CRP), and HLA-B27 data are made available. The third will be
      completed after the pelvic radiograph has been reviewed by the rheumatologist. The fourth
      will be completed after the rheumatologist has reviewed the report of the pelvic MRI scan
      provided by the local radiologist. The fifth will be completed after central review of the
      anonymized radiograph and pelvic MRI scan and feedback to both the rheumatologist and
      radiologist. In ASAS centers outside North America, it may not be possible to have an
      assessment of each separate step as indicated if the rheumatologist already receives
      information on lab and imaging results in the referral later. In that circumstance, only
      global assessments 4 and 5 will be used as external standards. Patients will then be followed
      according to the discretion of the rheumatologist and appropriate standards of clinical
      practice. Patient contact information will be obtained and patient consent obtained through
      the informed consent to allow contact with the patient after 5 years of follow up.
    
  