
    
      This is a Phase 1 first-in-human, non-randomized (individuals will not be assigned by chance
      to study treatments), open-label (individuals will know the identity of study treatments),
      multicenter, 2-part, dose-escalation study to evaluate the safety, pharmacokinetics (study of
      what the body does to a drug) of eribulin-LF administered intravenously to patients with
      solid tumors. Each treatment cycle will be 21 days (Schedule 1) or 28 days (Schedule 1a or
      2). Part 1 is the dose-escalation phase, which will be guided by pharmacokinetics and safety.
      Three to 6 new patients will be enrolled in sequential cohorts (first cohort will receive the
      starting dose and subsequent cohorts will receive increased doses of eribulin-LF). Enrollment
      in each cohort will be staggered; the second and third participant in every cohort will not
      be dosed until the first patient in that cohort completes 2 weeks of Cycle 1. If no
      dose-limiting toxicities (DLTs) have been observed during the first 2 week of Cycle 1 in the
      first patient, the second and third patients in the cohort will initiate treatment.
      Enrollment will be first initiated into cohort 1 of Schedule 1 (dosing on Day 1 of 21 day
      cycle). Interim analysis will be conducted upon completion of this cohort. The following
      decisions will be made based upon the results of the interim analysis 1) proceed with
      escalating to next dose level (cohort 2) of Schedule 1 (dosing on Day 1 of 21 day cycle) and
      initiate cohort 1 of Schedule 2 (dosing on Day 1 and Day 15 of 28 day cycle), or 2)
      discontinue plans to evaluate Schedule 2 and initiate Schedule 1a (dosing on Day 1 of 28 day
      cycle).

      After the last patient in each cohort completes Cycle 1, the safety for DLT determination
      will be evaluated and a decision will be made on whether to escalate the dose in a new cohort
      of 3 to 6 new patients. Dose escalation will halt when the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) is
      reached. The total number of patients to be enrolled in Part 1 will depend on the dose level
      at which the DLT will be achieved. After MTD for each schedule is determined, patients will
      be enrolled into Expansion Part of the study to confirm safety and tolerability of each
      dosing schedule. Nine to 12 patients will be treated with MTD for each schedule for 6 cycles.
      The total study duration for each participant will be approximately 18 months.
    
  