
    
      The impact of stroke is shared between the stroke survivor and their spousal/partner
      caregiver (carepartner). An estimated 30-50% of stroke survivors and carepartners experience
      depressive or anxiety symptoms that negatively affect rehabilitation outcomes and quality of
      life. Yet, interventions to support couples post-stroke are largely insufficient or
      inaccessible. To address this need, we developed a novel remotely-delivered dyadic
      intervention to promote Resilience in Stroke survivor-carepartner Dyads (ReStoreD), in which
      couples learn and practice goal-setting, communication strategies, and positive psychology
      activities like expressing gratitude, finding meaning, and fostering connections. Preliminary
      pilot study results were promising, showing reduced depressive symptoms and increased
      resilience in participants. The purpose of the current study is to conduct a Stage II
      efficacy trial of the 8-week ReStoreD intervention with a sample of 200 dyads (n=400)
      consisting of one individual who has sustained an ischemic or hemorrhagic stroke between 3
      months and 3 years prior to enrollment and a cohabitating carepartner. Using a fully-powered,
      randomized waitlist-control design, we will determine efficacy of ReStoreD to reduce
      emotional distress in both dyad members (Aim 1). We will also examine effects of ReStoreD on
      secondary outcomes (resilience, relationship quality, stress-related stroke, meaningful
      activity engagement) as potential mediators (Aim 2), and explore moderators to determine
      whether certain subgroups respond better to the intervention (Aim 3). All participants will
      complete standardized, validated assessments at baseline, 8 weeks, 16 weeks, and 6-month
      follow up. All aspects of the study, including intervention activities and assessments, are
      conducted remotely, online.

      This is the first rigorously designed efficacy trial to test a positive psychology
      intervention for stroke survivors and their carepartners. When the aims of this study are
      realized, we will 1) have a remotely-delivered, dyadic intervention to support couples
      post-stroke; 2) have a better understanding of the mechanisms involved in the intervention's
      effect on emotional distress, and can use this information to inform future interventions;
      and 3) be able to identify a more specific target population for whom the intervention works
      best. Ultimately, if found efficacious, this intervention will offer sustainable and
      accessible support for couples who are coping with stroke to improve rehabilitation outcomes
      and quality of life.
    
  