
    
      Rasmussen Encephalitis (ER) is a particularly severe chronic inflammatory brain disorder
      resulting in the progressive destruction of a hemisphere. It is a rare disease although at
      present no precise prevalence is available. It begins preferentially in children.

      This inflammatory process is accompanied by a progressive loss of function of the affected
      hemisphere, associated with a pharmaco-resistant partial epilepsy. The diagnosis is based on
      a bundle of clinical, radiological and electroencephalographic arguments. CSF analysis
      directs diagnosis in 50% of cases.

      No anti-epileptic treatment can stop seizures. Only hemispherotomy (surgical disconnection of
      a cerebral hemisphere) allows it but it is associated with definitive motor and cognitive
      deficits.

      Over the last 20 years, new therapeutic trials have focused on immuno-modulatory treatments
      targeted at the T-lymphocyte pathway, including tacrolimus. Although they seem to be more
      effective than immunoglobulins or corticosteroids, it remains transient. In addition, the
      number of published cases is low. In this context, starting in 2009, it has been proposed to
      use adalimumab (Ab anti TNF) based on:

        -  1 / study of a case index

        -  2 / knowledge of the pathophysiology of Rasmussen Encephalitis. To date, very few data
           provide precise information on the efficacy or tolerance of the use of this product in
           the longer term. This information is essential to confirm the place of adalimumab in the
           therapeutic arsenal against Rasmussen encephalitis.

      Thus, in the continuation of the work carried out previously (French study on the cases
      between 2009 and 2015), the aim of this research projet is to complete the follow-up of the
      patients who previously took part in in the first study and to establish the follow-up of the
      patients treated by adalimumab since then.
    
  