
    
      This is a study of changes in voice and laryngeal function with treatment recorded using the
      Spasmodic Dysphonia Diagnosis and Assessment Procedure (SD-DAP). Persons with adductor
      spasmodic dysphonia will complete a questionnaire on the Voice Handicap Index (VHI) and
      ratings of speech effort as well as have their speech recorded and receive a nasolaryngoscopy
      examination prior to their usual treatment with botulinum toxin injection into the laryngeal
      muscles for their voice disorder. They will return for re-examination several weeks later
      after their injection and repeat each of the examinations. The purpose is to determine which
      items on the SD-DAP are sensitive to changes in the severity of their voice disorder. The
      items that show sensitivity would be those that would be useful for assessing voice outcomes
      in clinical trials. Some of the questions this study is trying to answer are

        -  What is the best way to measure the severity of spasmodic dysphonia?

        -  How does treatment of spasmodic dysphonia by botulinum toxin injection affect voice for
           communication in regular daily life in spasmodic dysphonia

        -  Is change in speaking effort related to the change in severity of spasmodic dysphonia
           with botulinum toxin injection?

      Each participant in this study will be asked to do the following:

        -  Provide a copy of medical records and medical history relating to the diagnosis of
           spasmodic dysphonia.

        -  Have an examination by an otolaryngologist with a medical periscope inserted in the
           throat to view the voice box in action. The examination will be so it can be reviewed
           later by several different experts.

        -  Complete questionnaires regarding the severity of their disorder before and after
           receiving their usual treatment; an injection of botulinum toxin into the laryngeal
           muscles.

        -  Repeat a speech recording and laryngeal examination before and after treatment
    
  