
    
      Unequal gender norms and power dynamics are often driven and reinforced by adolescent girls'
      male peers, families, communities, and the broader institutional structures that surround
      them. Without change in gender attitudes and norms at each of these levels, improved outcomes
      for key transitions are much less likely to be sustained. Efforts to nurture change must also
      acknowledge that adolescents' opportunities and capabilities are shaped by complex,
      intersectional forces including ethnicity, caste, religion, and disability, among others.
      This multi-arm randomized control trial aims to improve the evidence base on effective
      approaches to improve multi-sectoral outcomes for girls across the following domains from the
      Gender and Adolescence: Global Evidence (GAGE) framework: education and learning; health,
      nutrition and sexual and reproductive health; bodily integrity; psychosocial well-being;
      voice and agency; and economic empowerment.

      Specifically, the trial has four goals:

        1. To evaluate the impact of Act With Her in Ethiopia (AWH-E) - a gender-transformative
           multi-level program - on young adolescent girls' and boys' capabilities (11-13) in the
           short- and long-run across the six GAGE capability domains using a multi-arm cluster
           randomized control trial across two regions (Amhara and Oromia).

        2. To compare the impact of AWH-E to a more basic gender-synchronized program (AWH-E
           without community engagement and systems strengthening), a standalone girls' group
           program (Her Spaces), and the gender-transformative program with economic support (AWH-E
           + Asset Transfers) on young adolescent capability achievements and transitions in the
           short- and longer- terms across two regions (Amhara and Oromia).

        3. To evaluate the impact of AWH-E on young adolescent capability achievements and
           transitions in the short- and long- term in pastoralist contexts (Afar).

        4. To use mixed-methods research to understand the mechanisms driving the impact, and in
           particular what works, for whom, and why.
    
  