
    
      Heart failure (HF) is a progressive disease that affects 6.5 million Americans and is
      projected to reach 10 million by 2020. Presently, treatments for HF are largely comprised of
      drug therapies targeting pathophysiology and self-administered therapies that require
      patients to learn, accurately recall and routinely execute complex self-care practices. HF
      patients are expected to monitor their weight, diet and manage their medications, and are
      also required to recognize, monitor and report HF related symptoms. However, adopting
      self-care behaviors are often challenging for patients due to concomitant cognitive
      impairments, as shown in 30% to 80% of HF patients; a condition which is often complicated by
      insufficient social support. Multiple studies have shown a direct relationship between
      cognitive deficits and difficulty with self-care. Thus, there is currently an urgent unmet
      need for novel patient-centered interventions that are easy to use by older adults with HF
      that suffer cognitive difficulties and lack social support.

      In the current application, investigators propose to elaborate upon, reconstruct and advance
      to pivotal trial readiness a recently validated mobile application (HeartMapp), designed for
      the ecological momentary assessment and treatment of individuals with HF. Presently,
      HeartMapp includes physiological modules (PM) that support self-monitoring and exercises that
      promote heart health, and cognitive modules (CM) that train participants to enhance cognitive
      functions. The Posit Science Corporation team of developer and neuroscientists will closely
      collaborate with investigators at University of South Florida (Drs. Athilingam and Labrador),
      inventors of the initial version of HeartMapp, to include a clinician-facing dashboard and
      reporting utility comprised of both PM and CM performance and progress tracking metrics. This
      Point-of-Care (POC) device will also aid clinical studies of cardiovascular, lung, and blood
      diseases and disorders by providing continuous monitoring data collected remotely to serve as
      an open channel between patients and clinicians. A recent usability study of the HeartMapp PM
      conducted by co-investigator Dr. Athilingam in 25 HF patients was successful; patients found
      the app easy to use, helpful and engaging. A concurrent pilot clinical trial that examined
      only CM in 17 HF patients demonstrated that CM improved memory, cognitive speed of
      processing, and showed trends for improved everyday function and HF self-care. Across all
      functional outcomes measured, the CM group showed better function post-training relative to
      controls. Similarly, in our prior research, and in the successful development of related
      products at Posit Science that demonstrated a core ability to develop multimodal (i.e.,
      assessment and treatment) applications with compelling user experiences that drive strong
      performance improvements across multiple performance domains.

      The investigators will conduct a single arm, open label, pilot clinical trial to examine
      feasibility and initial efficacy of the HeartMapp+CT (HeartMapp and computerized
      plasticity-based adaptive cognitive training). The study will enroll 32 adults aged 40 and
      older with a diagnosis of HF and over sample by 25% to reduce attrition for a total of 24
      participants. Participants will complete follow-up assessments at 3- and 6-months after
      enrollment.

        -  The primary outcome is to test the feasibility and initial efficacy of using HeartMapp
           with computerized plasticity-based adaptive cognitive training (HeartMapp+CT), which
           will be quantified by measuring app usage and engagement with the apps. Engagement with
           cognitive training will be calculated as percentage of participants who complete 30
           sessions of assigned cognitive training included in HeartMapp. App usability and
           engagement will be assessed by App access by participants; Accessing App components at
           least 80% of the days (72 days out of 90-days) will be used to determine app engagement.

        -  The secondary outcomes are improvement in cognitive function and HF self-care. If an
           effect sizes on Cohen's d of d=0.25 or greater relative to controls for these outcomes,
           HeartMapp will be considered potentially efficacious.

        -  Exploratory outcomes include improvement in quality of life, global health, medication
           adherence, heart rate variability and hospital admission. The investigators will
           calculate effect sizes using Cohen's d on these outcomes to inform future studies.
    
  