
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the major health scourges. In 2002
      COPD was the fifth leading cause of death and estimates show that COPD becomes in 2030 the
      third leading cause of death worldwide. The dominant cause of COPD is tobacco smoking. COPD
      now affects men and women almost equally. The most common symptoms of COPD are
      breathlessness, excessive sputum production, and a chronic cough which causes decrease in
      health related quality of life (HRQL). Dyspnea and movement limitations are also common
      symptoms in patients with COPD and this often leads to reduced levels of physical activity,
      physical capacity and HRQL. The Leicester Cough Questionnaire (LCQ) is a valid evaluation
      tool for HRQL in patients with chronic cough. Currently no specific cough questionnaire
      exists in Swedish.

      Pulmonary rehabilitation including education and exercise training improves health. The
      Physiotherapy department has conducted rehabilitation programs for patients with COPD since
      1995. The COPD-program has several times been updated according to existing evidence.

      Education in anatomy, physiology, physical therapy and self-training is a big part of the
      physical therapist's workday. The education imparts complex knowledge. It is demanding to
      mediate this as education is expected to raise the patient's desire to understand, create
      opportunities to understand and leave a lasting impression. In effective learning repetition,
      own search for information, stimulation, emotional impact and experience are important
      factors. Information technology is developing rapidly and patient's use of this technology is
      increasing. It is therefore essential that education is adapted to new requirements.
      Interactive 3 dimensional (3D) visualization techniques can be used to represent the human
      body. Interactive 3D technique used in patient education has not yet been studied.

      A new education material with 3D technique was developed, by integrating 3D technology in an
      existing evidence-based pulmonary educational program, to enable an increased personalized
      education within a group setting. The investigators believe that this educational model will
      lead to increased adherence to treatment, and suggested lifestyle changes, which in turn
      improves patients' HRQL

      In the current study it will be investigated whether och not there are differences between
      pulmonary educational program in interactive 3D visualization technology and in conventional
      technique in patients with COPD.

      Furthermore the LCQ will be translated and culturally adapted into Swedish and tested for
      validity and reliability.
    
  