
    
      1. Purpose:

           To evaluate the efficacy of a pre-operative 2-minute exercise program in reducing
           surgical residents self-reported neck pain.

        2. Hypothesis:

           A 10 week 2-minute neck strengthening exercise program completed between cases will
           reduce self-reported chronic neck pain caused by the use of surgical instruments and
           increase musculoskeletal health awareness in a group of residents.

        3. Justification:

           Surgical residents will be asked to complete a baseline survey regarding their
           self-rated neck pain. Then they will be introduced to a 2-minute neck strengthening
           exercise to be performed in between surgical cases. They will be asked to evaluate their
           neck pain again 10 weeks later.

           Neck pain experience before and after the introduction of neck exercises will be
           compared.

        4. Objectives:

             1. Define the problem through prevalence data in a sample of surgeons.

             2. Understand qualitatively and quantitatively measures of pain and quality on
                residents.

             3. Evaluate the efficacy of a pre-operative 2-minute exercise program.

             4. Disseminate our results and change the cultural norms of practice.

        5. Research Method:

           All first year general surgery residents at the University of British Columbia will be
           invited to participate. They will be asked to complete a survey regarding neck pain
           experience and introduced to a 2-minute neck muscle exercise video which they will be
           advised to follow for the next 10 weeks. Another follow-up survey will be sent at the
           end of 10 weeks.

        6. Statistical analysis:

      Percentage of residents showing >50% improvement using an alpha of 0.05 statistical
      significance will be the primary outcome measure using the appropriate validated pain
      questionnaire. The attitude of the residents towards their neck health before the
      intervention will be compared to their attitudes at the completion of the study using a
      Pearson's chi squared test as a measure of significant difference. The self-reported
      effectiveness and adherence of the program at the completion of the study will be used as a
      measure of efficacy. All statistical analysis will be conducted in SAS 9.3.
    
  