
    
      3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) produces changes in feelings and thoughts. It
      appears to have a unique pharmacological profile distinct from psychostimulants and classical
      hallucinogenic (psychedelic) compounds. Its unique properties have led to interest in using
      it in combination with psychotherapy. So far, studies in healthy volunteers have examined the
      effects of MDMA in a laboratory setting rather than a psychotherapeutic setting.

      The Phase 1, randomized, placebo-controlled study MT1 was designed to collect safety and
      quantitative data on mood, psychological symptoms, personality traits, and interpersonal
      closeness in therapists learning to conduct MDMA-assisted psychotherapy or MDMA research
      among 120 healthy volunteers. The MT1 study was also designed to expand the knowledge of
      therapists training to conduct MDMA-assisted psychotherapy research. In the MT1 study,
      several participants submitted optional written narratives with impressions that
      participating in MDMA-assisted psychotherapy helped them professionally and personally.

      This Phase 1, open-label, multi-site research study is designed to build upon the MT1 study
      to further assess the psychological effects and safety of manualized MDMA-assisted
      psychotherapy, while supporting the expansion of knowledge for treatment providers who are
      learning to conduct MDMA-assisted psychotherapy or MDMA research. This study is intended to
      look further into the personal and professional benefits spontaneously reported in narratives
      to the site team from the MT1 study participants. This will be done by collecting changes in
      self-compassion, burnout, professional quality of life, psychological inflexibility, and mood
      using validated measures in a larger sample of treatment providers, allowing for effect size
      calculations. Compassion fatigue and burnout are associated with job-related stress and are
      known to impact professional quality of life. In addition, continued training for new
      treatment providers, including the option for their own MDMA experience, is vital as the
      research for MDMA-assisted psychotherapy for PTSD expands in the United States. This study is
      not a registration study.
    
  