
    
      Neuroendocrine tumours (NET) are uncommon cancers with varied presentation. Patients are
      treated in specialist centres, and may sometimes have up to 4 lines of treatment; with the
      attendant complications. To date there has been no study capturing precisely patient reported
      outcomes (PROMs) and changes in QoL post treatment.

      We have worked with the national patient charity and support group (Neuroendocrine Tumour
      Patient Foundation) and UKINETS, to develop a mobile application that will allow patients to
      capture details of their symptoms, as well as changes to quality of life during and post
      treatment. The application has been designed as an aide to patients, capturing details of
      their illness, treatment and interaction with the healthcare team (appointments).

      This study aims to assess whether use of mobile app technology is helpful for patients
      undergoing medical and surgical therapy for neuroendocrine tumours. The trial is non-invasive
      and allows participants to record daily symptoms and raise alerts whilst they are undergoing
      different therapies. Health related quality of life during therapy will be assessed at
      specified times using EORTC validated questionnaires. The study also aims to investigate any
      difference in clinicians' response to PROMs; and the time taken to institute change, in any.

      Participants are able to download the application from their mobile device app store from
      whichever location they wish, provided that they have regular internet access to download the
      app. Participants will be asked to provide daily responses pertaining to their health
      outcomes (PROs) in addition to completing validated quality of life questionnaires (EORTC CLQ
      - C30 and EORTC GINET21) at regular intervals over a 4 year period, prior to their treatment
      starting and throughout their treatment (months 0,3,6,12; and 6 monthly thereafter). This
      data will be stored in a research-specific database of de-identified patient-reported
      outcomes on quality of life and health.There are added features for participants to enter
      their medication information and appointments in the outpatient clinic; functionality to set
      reminders to take their medication; as well as reminders for upcoming hospital visits; and
      links to email addresses to contact their primary care teams. Clinicians are able to access
      the data to identify problems and track response to interventions.

      The data will be stored in an encrypted format on the secure servers of Ampersand Health Ltd,
      who will export the data to the Chief Investigator at King's College Hospital at the end of
      the study.
    
  