
    
      Women with breast cancers that overexpress HER2 are at greater risk for disease progression
      and death than women whose tumors do not overexpress HER2. Trastuzumab, a recombinant
      humanized monoclonal antibody against the extracellular domain of the HER2 protein blocks
      downstream signaling of HER2 and substantially improves the efficacy of chemotherapy in women
      with metastatic and early-stage HER2-positive breast cancers. Because resistance to
      trastuzumab eventually results in progressive disease in the metastatic setting and
      contributes to recurrence following adjuvant trastuzumab-based therapy, it is important to
      develop agents other than trastuzumab that target HER2 signaling through different mechanisms
      of action. Lapatinib is an oral, small molecule, dual tyrosine kinase inhibitor of HER2 and
      EGFR. Lapatinib has shown a lack of cross-resistance with trastuzumab in preclinical studies
      and activity in women with HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer that has progressed during
      trastuzumab treatment. Trastuzumab blocks the downstream signaling of HER2 by binding to the
      extracellular domain of the receptor. Lapatinib binds to the intracellular domains of HER2
      and EGFR and prevents activation of downstream signaling pathways. Because of this different
      mechanism of action, lapatinib may be effective in trastuzumab-resistant disease. The study
      will also provide important safety information on trastuzumab and lapatinib combinations
      immediately following anthracycline exposure, and also provide an initial direct comparison
      of cardiac effects of trastuzumab and lapatinib when incorporated into a standard sequential
      AC followed by weekly paclitaxel (neo)adjuvant regimen.

      Availability of a second agent that can interrupt HER2-signaling pathways through completely
      different mechanisms than those of trastuzumab offers the potential for further improvement
      in the management of patients with HER2-overexpressing breast cancer in both the adjuvant and
      metastatic setting. Co-administration of both trastuzumab and lapatinib with chemotherapy may
      be important in improving outcomes in subsets of HER2-positive breast cancers. However, use
      of two inhibitors of the HER2 pathway will increase costs and may increase toxicity, so it
      will be important to identify the subsets of patients who would benefit from the dual
      therapy. Inhibition of HER2 with a single agent clearly is sufficient for many patients as
      evidenced by the results of the trastuzumab trials. Therefore, co-administration to
      unselected populations of women with HER2-positive breast cancers would not represent an
      optimal approach. Given the activity of lapatinib, it is likely that it will also be
      sufficiently active in inhibiting HER2-pathway activation in some patients to allow for its
      use as the sole inhibitor of the HER2 pathway. Different populations may also derive greater
      benefit from one of the HER2-blocking agents relative to the other. Identification of
      potential predictive factors for pathologic complete response to the combination or to either
      agent administered alone in neoadjuvant trials would provide important information for
      adjuvant trials designed to definitively address these important issues.

      This study will compare 3 combined chemotherapy regimens: AC followed by paclitaxel plus
      trastuzumab and lapatinib, AC followed by paclitaxel plus lapatinib, and AC followed by
      paclitaxel plus trastuzumab given before surgery to patients with HER2-positive breast
      cancer.
    
  