
    
      The aim of the study is to assess if the interventions for MPEs have an impact on fatigue
      levels. There are multiple different possible interventions to treat a pleural effusion and
      the most appropriate is decided on a case-by-case basis after discussion between the patient
      and doctor. The study will have no impact on which intervention the participant receives.

      Fatigue is extreme tiredness unrelieved by rest. It is how the patient feels and so there is
      no specific test for it. However there are a number of tools that help record a patients
      self-reported fatigue levels and how this changes over time. The FACIT-fatigue tool has been
      studied in patients with cancer-related fatigue and has the strongest evidence base and
      validation in this patient group. It involves the patient answering 13 questions related to
      fatigue and its impact on their activities of daily living.

      There are multiple contributing factors associated with malignancy-related fatigue and so
      consent will be gained to gather data on potential confounding factors. This will include

        -  Patient age

        -  Sex

        -  Patient diagnosis (site/type of cancer and whether metastatic)

        -  Comorbidities (esp. lung disease)

        -  Time since cancer diagnosis

        -  Time since last anti-cancer therapy/if currently having chemotherapy or radiotherapy

        -  BEDS&GADS score for anxiety/depression

        -  Patient Outcome Score (POS) indicating whether high symptom burden

        -  Size of pleural effusion & if unilateral/bilateral

        -  Performance status

        -  Blood markers- Haemoglobin level & Creatinine

      The study will involve a single pleural service in Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation
      Trust.

      Both inpatients and outpatients are referred to the pleural service. They are assessed in
      clinic and a decision made on the most appropriate treatment of the Malignant Pleural
      Effusion. The study will have no impact on which intervention is chosen. Once the decision is
      made the patient will be asked by the doctor in clinic if they are potentially interested in
      being involved in the study. If they are interested then they will be seen by the researcher
      who will take them through the Participant Information Sheet (PIS) and give them the
      opportunity to ask questions. If they agree then they will be invited to provide written
      informed consent.

      The researcher is a consultant with training in assessing patients capacity and so it will be
      ensured that all participants are able to give valid written consent. Those unable to give
      consent will be excluded from the study. Reasonable adjustments will be made to cater for
      patients with hearing or visual impairment.

      It will be made clear that the decision to take part in the study or not will have no impact
      on the patient's care. It will also be explained that the patient is free to withdraw from
      the study at any time and under no obligation to give reason for doing so.

      It will be made clear to the potential participants that taking part in the study will have
      no impact on their treatment. There will be no direct benefit to the participant other than
      for altruistic reasons such as knowing that their involvement is contributing to the research
      base which may improve care for patients of the future.

      This study is fairly low burden as it is a short questionnaire about fatigue levels (13
      questions) and permission to gather further data about the patient (age, sex, disease site,
      performance status, last Hb result- see list above). The participant will give permission for
      the researcher to telephone them to repeat the questions after 7,14 & 30 days. The question
      takes less than 5 minutes to answer and so is of low burden.

      There is no direct risk to staff or patient.

      It is possible that the patient becomes more unwell or dies during the 30-day study period.
      It may therefore be upsetting to the patient or family to be contacted if this was the case.
      To try and avoid this then the patient's electronic records will be consulted prior to making
      contact via telephone. However, it may occasionally be possible that the death is not yet
      recorded in the electronic records and so all calls will be handled in a sensitive manner.
      The researcher is a Palliative Medicine consultant with advanced communication skills
      training and many years experience of having discussions with patients approaching the end of
      life as well as bereaved families.
    
  