
    
      Rationale

      Major liver surgery often requires the surgeon to temporarily halt the afferent blood flow in
      order to prevent excessive blood loss. Vascular inflow occlusion (VIO) however predisposes
      the liver to a detrimental inflammatory response once the circulation is restored.
      Altogether, the ramifications that result from this temporary withdrawal of oxygen supply are
      known as ischemia and reperfusion (I/R) injury, and the extent to which this occurs
      determines the functional outcome of the liver after surgery. Recently, it has become clear
      that (over)activation of the immune system forms the mainstay of hepatic I/R injury. More
      importantly, it has been shown in animal models that endogenous self-antigens, known as
      damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), are released from stressed liver cells in the
      earliest stages of reperfusion and, as such, form the most proximal triggers of hepatic I/R
      injury. Clinical data on DAMP release following hepatic I/R are however scarce to date.
      Therefore, the aim of this study is to investigate DAMP release in patients that undergo a
      major liver resection with or without VIO and to correlate the results to the expression of
      acute- phase inflammatory response genes and routine clinical parameters for hepatocellular
      damage.

      Objective

      To investigate the release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) following major
      hepatic resection with or without VIO and to correlate the outcomes to the acute inflammatory
      response and clinical parameters for hepatocellular damage.

      Study design

      The study is designed as an observational study. Because the decision to apply VIO is often
      made during surgery, patients will be allocated to a group postoperatively. Therefore, the
      inclusion of subjects in this study will continue until the calculated sample size of 15
      patients has been reached in each group.

      Study population

      Eligible patients for participation in this study are those diagnosed with a malignant or
      benign hepatic tumor that are scheduled to undergo major hepatectomy (resection of ≥3
      segments).

      Main study parameters/endpoints

      The primary endpoint of this study is defined as the effect of I/R on the release of DAMPs,
      measured in the systemic circulation. Secondary parameters constitute the expression of acute
      inflammatory response genes, AST, ALT, total bilirubin, and INR.
    
  