
    
      PROCEDURE

        1. Under the permission granted by the study centers, the team will obtain the medical
           records of all eligible cases within the past 5 years

        2. The investigators then collect the information of interest variable/parameter which
           obtained by history taking and further examinations and also medical Billing and
           Hospital pay per service. For participants with Health Insurance, the direct spending
           for treatment will be based on INA-CBGs (case-based group) payment. This data then will
           be recorded in an electronic database.

           Parameter for model development :

           Host-based :

             1. Presence of Diabetes Mellitus (Including years of being diagnosed, HbA1c Before DST
                examination and treatment, medication either insulin or oral anti-diabetic)

             2. Presence of HIV ((Including years of being diagnosed, CD4 level Before DST
                examination and treatment, and anti-retroviral medication)

             3. Tobacco cessation (Brinkman Index)

             4. Alcohol consumption

             5. History of Immunosuppressant use (steroid)

             6. Presence of other diseases (cancer, stroke, cardiovascular disease)

             7. History of drug abuse

             8. History of adverse drug reaction during tuberculosis treatment

             9. Adherence of previous tuberculosis therapy

            10. Presence of COPD

            11. Body Mass Index

           Environment

             1. History of Contact with Tuberculosis Patients

             2. Healthy Index of Living Environment (Household crowds)

           Agent

             1. Level of Bacterial Smear Before DST

             2. Extension of Lesion in Chest X-Ray

             3. Presence of Cavitation

           Sociodemographic Factors

             1. Age

             2. Gender

             3. Education

             4. Income Level

             5. Health Insurance

             6. Marital Status

             7. Employment Status

        3. For incomplete information, a confirmation to the health center that was referring the
           cases will be done using the Tuberculosis Registration or questionnaire.

        4. The model building will be done using an Artificial Intelligent Model in R. A selected
           model is an Artificial Neural Network either using Radial Base Function or multi-layer
           perceptron. Several important procedures including :

             1. Determine Significant Parameter

             2. Dealing with Insufficient and Imbalanced data class (over or under-sampling)

             3. Normalization (Batch, Min-Max)

             4. Layer and design

             5. Training and test distribution (70:30)

             6. Model Selection

        5. External Validation will be done to the appointed study center. Precision: (true
           positive + True Negative)/All cases

        6. The Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio Simulation will be done, comparing the best
           model versus the gold standard and GeneXpert yielding a saving per unit of effectiveness
    
  