
    
      Colorectal adenocarcinoma patients, consecutively submitted to surgical treatment performed
      by colorectal surgeons with more than 10 years of professional experience at Hospital Moinhos
      de Vento (Porto Alegre, Brazil), will have their surgical specimens subjected to conventional
      anatomopathological examination for the analysis of the lymph nodes (visual and palpation)
      performed by a highly qualified pathology technician in lymph node clearing technique. The
      lymph nodes identified in this preliminary examination will be counted and submitted to
      pathologic examination with hematoxylin and eosin staining for lymph node metastasis by a
      pathologist with over 10 years of experience. Upon completing this procedure with the
      patients with colon cancer, those with rectal cancer will be randomized and have their
      surgical specimens submitted to the lymph node clearing technique with Carnoy's or GEWF
      solutions, according to the groups below.

        1. Colon Cancer Group - Carnoy Procedure: The surgical resection specimen will be embedded
           in a plastic container with 1000 ml of Carnoy solution for 24 to 48 hours. Carnoy's
           solution is a fixative composed of 60% ethanol, 30% chloroform and 10% glacial acetic
           acid. Following, a technician in pathological macroscopy with 10 years of experience
           will perform a visual and manual assessment of additional lymph nodes for 60 minutes.
           Each additional lymph node identified will be entirely or partially embedded, depending
           on the size, in paraffin and subsequently stained with hematoxylin-eosin.The microscopic
           examination of the slides obtained from the anatomopathological examination with
           Carnoy's solution will be performed by two pathologists with seven and 25 years of
           experience, respectively, both with wide experience in lymph node clearing technique.

        2. Colon Cancer Group - GEWF Procedure: The surgical resection specimen will be embedded in
           a plastic container with 1000 ml of GEWF solution for 24 to 48 hours. GEWF solution is a
           fixative composed of 62.5% ethanol, 21.25% distilled water, 10% formaldehyde and 6.25%
           glacial acetic acid. Following, a technician in pathological macroscopy with 10 years of
           experience will perform a visual and manual assessment of additional lymph nodes for 60
           minutes. Each additional lymph node identified will be entirely or partially embedded,
           depending on the size, in paraffin and subsequently stained with hematoxylin-eosin.

           The microscopic examination of the slides obtained from the anatomopathological
           examination with Carnoy's solution will be performed by two pathologists with seven and
           25 years of experience, respectively, both with wide experience in lymph node clearing
           technique.

        3. Rectal Cancer Group - Carnoy Procedure: The surgical resection specimen will be embedded
           in a plastic container with 1000 ml of Carnoy solution for 24 to 48 hours. Carnoy's
           solution is a fixative composed of 60% ethanol, 30% chloroform and 10% glacial acetic
           acid. Following, a technician in pathological macroscopy with 10 years of experience
           will perform a visual and manual assessment of additional lymph nodes for 60 minutes.
           Each additional lymph node identified will be entirely or partially embedded, depending
           on the size, in paraffin and subsequently stained with hematoxylin-eosin.The microscopic
           examination of the slides obtained from the anatomopathological examination with
           Carnoy's solution will be performed by two pathologists with seven and 25 years of
           experience, respectively, both with wide experience in lymph node clearing technique.

        4. Rectal Cancer Group - GEWF Procedure: The surgical resection specimen will be embedded
           in a plastic container with 1000 ml of GEWF solution for 24 to 48 hours. GEWF solution
           is a fixative composed of 62.5% ethanol, 21.25% distilled water, 10% formaldehyde and
           6.25% glacial acetic acid. Following, a technician in pathological macroscopy with 10
           years of experience will perform a visual and manual assessment of additional lymph
           nodes for 60 minutes. Each additional lymph node identified will be entirely or
           partially embedded, depending on the size, in paraffin and subsequently stained with
           hematoxylin-eosin. The microscopic examination of the slides obtained from the
           anatomopathological examination with Carnoy's solution will be performed by two
           pathologists with seven and 25 years of experience, respectively, both with wide
           experience in lymph node clearing technique.
    
  