
    
      Background:

      Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related death among men and women worldwide (1).
      In 2007, 213,380 new cases of lung cancer were registered; from these cases, 160,390 deaths
      were reported. This number represents 15% of the total cases and 29% of cancer-related deaths
      in the world. Only 13% of the patients with lung cancer survive for 5 years [surveillance
      epidemiology and end result (seer) statistics http://seer. cancer.gov/], therefore it still
      is a serious health problem (2). Clinically speaking, lung cancer is divided into two main
      categories that cover small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). About
      75% of all lung tumors are NSCLC, including squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and
      large cell carcinoma (1). Despite the multimodal treatment using chemotherapy, radiotherapy
      and surgery there is a poor prognosis for locally advanced NSCLC. Survival rates for clinical
      stage IIIA is 64% at one year and between 23% and 30% after five years; for clinical stage
      IIIB 32% and 3% after one and five years, respectively (3). While advancements in the
      treatment of NSCLC have been made, few survival rate improvements have been achieved.

      Tobacco smoking is considered the main cause of NSCLC, but there are other risk factors as
      well, such as the exposure to asbestos, radon, heavy metals, and wood smoke. The latter has
      been described as a human carcinogen and an important risk factor for the development of
      NSCLC. The frequency of exposure to wood smoke in patients with NSCLC is 28% (2). Current
      data indicates than lung cancer associated with tobacco smoking and the lung cancer
      associated with wood smoke exposure present different clinical characteristics, which
      suggests that they might also have different genetic alterations, which are a consequence of
      tumor etiology. Nevertheless, there are no significant molecular researches that make
      possible to determine the differences in the pattern of mutations in oncogenes involved in
      lung tumorigenesis, in relation to the risk factors accounted by the patient. Recent advances
      in the knowledge of cancer biology have led to the identification of various potential
      molecular targets that play a major role in the development and progression of the disease.
      One of the most extensively researched signaling pathways involved in the cell proliferation
      and survival is the one activated by the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR). When the
      epidermal growth factor (EGF) binds to the extracellular domain of EGFR the kinase property
      of the receptor is activated regulating the activation of different signaling pathways. One
      of these pathways leads to the activation of K-RAS, which at the same time activates the
      pathway of MAP kinase, involved in the proliferation, differentiation, migration, and
      survival of the cell (these are fundamental events in oncogenesis). Reports indicate that
      mutations in EGFR can be found in 51% of non-smoking patients (4) and in 10% of smoking
      patients, while mutations in K-RAS occur in 30% to 50% of the lung adenocarcinomas associated
      with tobacco.

      Active mutations in K-RAS not only occur in NSCLC, but they also occur in >50% of the
      colorectal adenocarcinomas, 75% of pancreatic tumors, 48% of lung cancer, and 44% of
      adrenocortical tumors (5). These mutations seem to be an independent risk factor for the
      prognosis of malignant tumors, since more than 90% of them occur at the codon 12 of the K-RAS
      gene (6-8), and they are associated with lack of response to erlotinib (9), a tyrosine-kinase
      inhibitor. Our research team has recently reported that wood smoke is an independent factor
      for the survival and response to a treatment with erlotinib (10). This information strongly
      supports the hypothesis that lung cancer tumorigenesis results from different molecular
      mechanisms according to the smoker's stage (11) or other carcinogenic factors associated with
      the appearance of the malignant neoplasia, such as wood smoke exposure. Therefore, we believe
      that, compared to what has been reported in smoking patients, wood smoke could cause a
      different frequency and pattern of mutations in the K-RAS oncogene. It is of clinical
      relevance to determine whether the patients with NSCLC exposed to wood smoke present any
      differences in the frequency and the type of mutations in the K-RAS gene, with respect to
      both smoking and non-smoking patients.

      Actually, a number of potential biological markers are being investigated with the aim of
      selecting patients who will receive more specific therapies and thus achieve better results
      regarding the response to treatment and overall survival. This is why the ability to detect
      K-RAS mutations associated with risk factors for NSCLC could represent a starting point for
      proposing different treatment approaches and benefiting the patients according to the
      specific characteristics of each tumor.

      General Objective:

      To define the frequency and type of mutations at codon 12 of the K-RAS oncogene that occur in
      patients with non-small cell lung cancer who have a background of wood smoke exposure or
      tobacco smoking.

      Materials and Methods:

      The presence of mutations at the K-RAS oncogene will be evaluated retrospectively in 50
      patients with advanced NSCLC who have a background of wood smoke exposure and 50 patients
      with NSCLC who have a background of tobacco smoking. Additionally, 50 patients with NSCLC
      with or without a background of exposure to any of these risk factors for lung cancer will be
      prospectively evaluated. For the patients that will be prospectively studied, the inclusion
      criteria will be as follows: patients diagnosed with advanced NSCLC stage IIIB/IV who have
      not received previous chemotherapy, radiotherapy or both and who have tumor tissue embedded
      in paraffin blocks or formalin-fixed; these patients must sign an informed consent letter.
      The exclusion criteria will be: patients who refuse to participate in the study or those who
      decide to withdraw from it, patients without tumor tissue or with a poor quality sample. The
      tumor samples, both formalin-fixed or paraffin-embedded, used for the histological diagnosis
      of patients will be obtained from the Pathology Departments of the National Cancer Institute
      and the National Institute of Respiratory Diseases; these samples will be used to gather DNA
      for the analysis of K-RAS mutations. The clinical data of the patients will be obtained from
      their medical files.

      DNA extraction:

      Genomic DNA was extracted by standard procedure from areas of paraffin slides containing >50%
      tumor using the QIAamp DNAFFPE Tissue Kit (QIAGEN), according to the manufacturer's
      instructions.

      Analysis of K-RAS oncogene mutations KRAS gene mutations from the samples were detected by
      Therascreen RGQ PCR Kit (QUIAGEN, Scorpions ARMS method), according to the manufacturer's
      instructions.

      For the statistical analysis of results, continuous variables will be presented as arithmetic
      means, medians, and standard deviations, while the categorical variables will be presented as
      proportions and 95% confidence intervals. Inferential comparisons will be performed by
      Student's t test and Mann-Whitney U test, according to the distribution of data (normal and
      abnormal) determined by the Kolmogorov-Smirnov test. Either the chi square test or the
      Fisher's exact test will be performed to evaluate significance among categorical variables.
      Statistic significance will be determined as a p<0.05 value with a two- tailed test. Both
      significant variables and variables with a borderline significance (p<0.1) will be included
      in the multivariate logistic regression analysis. Comparisons between groups will be carried
      out with the log-rank test.
    
  