
    
      Back pain is one of the most common reasons patients seek medical care, and it can have a big
      impact on patients' quality of life and functioning. Patients and providers are becoming more
      frustrated with common back pain treatments like the long-term use of opioid medications and
      steroid injections, which have been shown to have limited long-term impact on patients' pain
      and day-to-day functioning and can have safety risks.

      The State of Oregon recently changed what back and neck pain treatments they cover for its
      Medicaid enrollees. This started to affect those insured by Medicaid in July 2016 and was
      implemented by January 2018. These changes ended payments for treatments like long-term
      opioid therapy and injections. They also expanded coverage for nondrug treatments, such as
      acupuncture, osteopathic or chiropractic manipulation, physical/occupational therapy, and
      cognitive behavioral therapy. While experts agree that opioid use must be reduced, Oregon is
      among the first states to try such strong measures to promote nondrug treatments and prevent
      the use of long-term opioid treatment for back and neck pain.

      The Oregon Medicaid reimbursement changes for back and neck pain treatment create the
      opportunity for a "natural experiment." In this mixed-methods, observational study, we will
      evaluate the impact of the reimbursement changes by comparing outcomes among patients with
      back pain in Oregon who will have access to these expanded nondrug treatments to similar
      patients seen in comparable clinics in California where expanded services for back and neck
      pain are not covered by the type of comprehensive payer incentive undertaken in Oregon.

      Specifically, we will use electronic health record, Medicaid claims data, and data obtained
      from a longitudinal patient survey to assess the impact of the changes on:

        -  Patients' pain severity, pain related functioning, and satisfaction with care

        -  Patients' use of pain-related health care services

        -  Opioid use

        -  Unintended consequences, such as the use of illicit drugs (While we expect the Oregon
           Medicaid change to result in many positive changes, limiting the use of opioids and pain
           reducing procedures like injections may motivate some individuals to use drugs that were
           not prescribed by their doctor.)

      In addition, we will use qualitative research methods to characterize the facilitators and
      barriers experienced by patients, health care providers, and clinic administrators and staff
      in adopting the Medicaid reimbursement changes and their satisfaction with the constellation
      of available and utilized services.

      Thus, this study has three components: 1) patient survey, 2) administrative data-based study
      (data-only), and 3) qualitative evaluation. This record focuses on the component of the study
      in which subjects are able to enroll - the patient survey.
    
  