
    
      Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) is a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) application that
      we aim to utilise in lung cancer for the first time at a higher magnetic field strength (3
      Tesla). MRS allows nuclear magnetic resonance spectra to be obtained from user-defined
      regions of interest (ROIs) within body tissues. These spectra can be used to quantify
      concentrations of tumour metabolites, providing unique biological information non-invasively
      and without the need for ionising radiation or intravenous contrast material. Proton MRS is a
      well-established technique for characterisation of brain pathology and prostate cancer. MRS
      in the lung is more challenging as it is a moving structure but has been shown to be feasible
      in a previous small study using more basic standard field strength equipment and technique.
      MRS of other moving structures, namely the heart and liver, has been shown to be achievable.

      It is believed that MRS, using a higher field strength (3 Tesla) machine, has not been
      applied before in the evaluation of lung cancer in human subjects. Successful utilisation of
      this technology to quantify metabolite concentrations within lung cancers offers new
      opportunities for non-invasive tumour classification. For example, low tumour oxygen levels,
      a known prognostic indicator, may be identifiable by non-invasive measurement of lactate
      concentration by MRS. Since MRS is an easily repeatable technique without ionising radiation,
      it may also prove useful in response assessment following lung cancer therapies. This is a
      prospective feasibility study, aiming to recruit 15 consecutive patients with lung cancer to
      undergo proton MRS. The feasibility and repeatability of the technique will be assessed by
      analysis of the MR spectra obtained.

      The principal research questions is: Can MRS scans be obtained in lung cancer with a high
      field strength (3 Tesla) MR scanner? The secondary research questions are: Is there any
      indication of reproducibility in the MRS signals obtained? Is there any indication of MRS
      patterns correlating with tumour type and other clinical parameters which might be a useful
      subject for further investigation in lung cancer characterisation?

      Summary of interventions:

        1. During attendance at respiratory clinic, invite patient to participate in study and
           issue Patient Information Sheet (PIS), highlighting contact details for next steps
           (typically 5 min)

        2. Patients with questions may contact a study investigator using the telephone number in
           the PIS to have them answered (typically 5-15 min)

        3. Patients wishing to proceed contact the RIF using the telephone number in the PIS to
           arrange a convenient scan appointment and taxi transfers (typically 5 min) At least 1
           day after clinic attendance

        4. Written informed consent obtained, pre-scan checklist completed and GP letter sent by
           medical member of study team. Research radiographer completes safety checklist with
           patient. Scan undertaken, with maximum 'on table' scan time of 1 hour.

      Implications for research for future service developments:

      If this early study shows MRS of lung cancer to be technically feasible, the investigators
      will apply for external funding for a larger prospective study or studies correlating the MRS
      findings with a panel of clinical, imaging, histopathological and molecular variables. These
      secondary studies would have potential to alter clinical practice in tumour characterisation
      and follow-up. The overall aim of the research would be the development of a non-invasive
      tool to enable diagnosis and characterisation of suspected lung cancers.
    
  