
    
      A hundred patients with the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) physical status I-II,
      aged from 18 to 80 years, gave an informed-written consent to participate.Testing took place
      in the morning after an overnight fast. Patients were scheduled for elective surgical
      procedures. After arrival to the operating theater, the peripheral venous line for fluid and
      drug administration was inserted. The electrocardiogram, heart rate, a noninvasive blood
      pressure, a pulse oximeter and bispectral (BIS) Index were monitored continuously. 100%
      oxygen was given for 3 min by face mask. Anesthesia was induced by intravenous infusion of
      propofol via the syringe pump at a rate of 30 mg/kg/h. Recordings began before propofol
      induction started. After the start of the propofol infusion and BIS Index at 80, patients
      were asked loudly "open eyes" and examined eyelash reflex at 15-s intervals until loss of
      consciousness (unresponsiveness to the verbal command, no spontaneous movements and loss of
      eyelash reflex); and recordings of the heart rate, a noninvasive blood pressure and BIS Index
      were obtained during awake baseline and unconsciousness induced by propofol. Propofol dosage
      and consciousness disappearance time were recorded after propofol-induced loss of
      consciousness. The commands were spoken in a loud voice by the investigator and were repeated
      up to three times, if the subject failed to respond. A subject who obeyed command was
      considered conscious. The BIS index is useful, and a reliable and sensitive indicator for
      assessing the level of consciousness during sedation and hypnosis with propofol so that the
      investigators recorded BIS index to evaluate level of consciousness. To minimize artifacts,
      patients were instructed not to open their eyes, talk, or move during the heart rate, a
      noninvasive blood pressure and BIS Index recordings before the propofol infusion and the
      sedation level was assessed until the patient's unconsciousness.
    
  