
    
      This is a single-center observational cohort study. All together 450 patients undergoing and
      elective PTA (both with and without stenting) who are going to be refereed to the Clinic for
      Vascular and Endovascular Surgery (based on the previous experience) during the two year
      period (January 1st 2020 and January 1st 2022) are planned to be involved in this study. All
      interventions will be performed according to the current standards and the type of the
      endovascular procedure will be at the discretion of operator. All patients will receive at
      the day of treatment 300mg of Aspirin and 300mg of Clopidogrel. The day after the procedure
      platelet function will be assessed by "point-of-care" impedance aggregometry test using the
      Multiplate analyzer. According to the manufacturer proposition, resistancy on Aspirin will be
      defined as arachidonic acid receptor (ASPI) value < 600 and ASPI/thrombin receptor activating
      peptide (TRAP) < 0.5, and for Clopidogrel adenosine diphosphate (ADP) < 500 and ADP/TRAP <
      0.5 . After that patients will receive dual antiplatelet therapy (Aspirin 100mg and
      Clopidogrel 75mg) in the six months period. Follow-up examinations will be scheduled on 1, 6
      and 12 months after the intervention. Adherence to antiplatelet treatment will assessed
      during scheduled or unscheduled examinations. Statistical analysis will be performed using
      the software package SPSS 20 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, Il, USA). Categorical data will be
      represented as numbers and percentages. Chi-square test or Fisher exact test as appropriate
      will be used to compare categorical data. Continuous variables will be represented as mean ±
      standard deviation and as median and interquartile range, depending on the normality of data.
      Student's t test or Mann-Whitney U test as appropriate will be used to compare two population
      groups. We will then assess the ability of ASPI and ADP values to distinguish between
      patients with and without clinical event at 6 months follow up by receiver-operating
      characteristic (ROC) curve analysis and the optimal cut-off ASPI and ADP values will be
      determined by estimating the value resulting in the maximum sum of sensitivity and
      specificity (area under the curve - AUC). Kaplan-Meier curves with log-rank test will be used
      to assess difference in the time-to-event end-points. A multivariable Cox proportional hazard
      model adjusted for clinical and laboratory variables will be performed to evaluate the
      independent contribution of platelet hyper- or hypo-reactivity to the outcomes. A P-values
      <0.05 will be considered statistically significant.
    
  