
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Establish the maximum tolerated dose of single-agent erlotinib hydrochloride in
           pediatric patients with refractory or relapsed malignant brain tumors and in combination
           with radiotherapy in pediatric patients with newly diagnosed brain stem glioma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine dose-limiting toxicities of these regimens.

        -  Define the safety profile of these regimens.

        -  Characterize the pharmacokinetic behavior of erlotinib hydrochloride in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the efficacy of these regimens.

        -  Correlate expression and mutations of epidermal growth factor receptor with treatment
           response.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter, nonrandomized, open-label, dose-escalation study of erlotinib
      hydrochloride. Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 treatment groups according to disease.

        -  Group 1 (refractory or relapsed malignant brain tumors): Patients receive oral erlotinib
           hydrochloride once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity or disease progression.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride until the maximum
      tolerated dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2
      of 3 or 2 of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity (DLT).

        -  Group 2 (newly diagnosed brain stem glioma): Patients receive oral erlotinib
           hydrochloride once daily on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21 days in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity or disease progression. Beginning on day 1, patients also undergo
           radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks .

      Cohorts of 1-2 patients receive escalating doses of erlotinib hydrochloride until the MTD is
      determined. The MTD is defined as the dose resulting in 25% of patients experiencing DLT at 6
      weeks.

      Blood is collected for pharmacokinetic assessments and pharmacogenetic genotyping for
      analysis of enzyme polymorphisms. Tumor tissue may be assessed for epidermal growth factor
      receptor mutations.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 48 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  