
    
      The survival outcome of patients with carcinoma of the cervix and positive paraaortic lymph
      node is poor and the potential benefit of neoadjuvant chemotherapy before extended field
      chemoradiotherapy has never been assessed.

      Paraaortic nodal spread in cervical cancer is a blind spot in the management of cervical
      cancer. It is necessary to evaluate additional treatment.

      While the presence of paraaortic nodal metastases often indicates occult systemic disease,
      the investigators continue to treat them as a loco-regional disease.

      Using neoadjuvant chemotherapy, improvement of overall survival rates is expected in women
      with cervical cancer and para-aortic positive lymphadenopathy without increasing the
      incidence of further toxicity.

      The propose is to determine whether neoadjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin and paclitaxel
      plus standard cisplatin-based chemoradiation with extended fields improves overall survival
      rates compared to standard therapy alone in women with cervical cancer with paraaortic lymph
      node involvement.

      Secondary objectives will be to compare progression free survival, acute and long term
      toxicities, patterns of disease recurrence and patient quality of life between arms This is a
      phase III, multicenter, randomized, open label study, recruiting 310 patients during 3 years,
      with 3 years of follow up period.

      Two groups will be compared : neoadjuvant chemotherapy with Carboplatin and paclitaxel plus
      standard cisplatin-based chemoradiation with extended fields, versus standard therapy alone.

      Randomization will be stratified according to International federation of gynecology and
      obstetrics stages at diagnosis (IB1, IB2, IIA versus IIB-IVA), the size of positive para
      aortic lymphadenopathy and the number of node involved and will be balanced by blocks.

      Women in the experimental arm will receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and
      paclitaxel followed by standard therapy with extended field external radiation therapy and
      concomitant chemotherapy then intracavitary brachytherapy, alone or prior to surgery,
      depending on response to treatment according to the current guidelines.

      Women in the control arm will receive standard therapy with extended field external radiation
      therapy and concomitant chemotherapy then brachytherapy, alone or prior to surgery, depending
      on response to treatment according to the current guidelines.

      Follow up will be the same between arms. But in experimental arm, during treatment phase, a
      clinical examination and biological assessment will be performed before each cycle of
      neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Therefore, at the end of neoadjuvant treatment, just before
      standard treatment magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography-computed
      tomography will be performed.

      Then, all Participants will be followed every 4 months until 2 years after randomization and
      every 6 months during the third year according to current follow-up guideline for cervical
      cancer. Disease response and disease progression will be assessed using clinical examination.
      Quality of life will be estimated at baseline, at the end of neoadjuvant chemotherapy, before
      intracavitary brachytherapy and at each follow-up visit until 3 years after randomization.
    
  