
    
      Clinical research has produced significant advances in the pharmacologic management of
      inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Preliminary research, however, suggest that patient
      non-adherence may be blunting medication effectiveness. The etiology of medication
      non-adherence likely depends on several coexisting factors. We believe that naturalistic
      decision making links patient level/ "micro" variables to services-level/ "macro" variables
      and behavioral outcomes. Every day, natural decisions about medication use are likely made in
      the context of patients' experience of their illness, knowledge about the illness and
      treatments, the physician-patient relationship, personal priorities and values, and other
      influences related to deciding to use medicine. By their very nature, illness related
      decisions are uncertain and risky because outcomes are unknown and patients often have
      limited knowledge and experience of the progression of their chronic illness. During the
      progression of an illness, patients may experiment with and analyze risks and benefits of
      therapies and relying on interpersonal interaction with health-care professionals to
      determine the self-management strategies best suited to patients and their life goals.
      Patient decision-making is thus and iterative process that evolves over time. An
      understanding of medication use decisions requires the description and understanding of those
      decision influences that may affect medication use decision-making over the course of the
      illness. Therefore, the primary purpose of this study is to develop and test a psychometric
      instrument that assesses influences on patients' decisions to use/not use their IBD
      medication.

      The main hypothesis underlying the instrument development project is that patients at risk
      for intentionally modifying their prescribed medication regimen will differ on influences on
      decision-making, health status, and utilization of the IBD clinic services compared to those
      who are intentionally adherent and who continue adherence over time.

      The following questions will be studied:

        -  What influences do therapeutic values, task difficulty, physician-patient relationship,
           information sources, personal beliefs and values have on patients' IBd medication
           adherence?

        -  What are the relationships between decision influences and illness activity?

        -  What associations exist among decision influences, illness activity, medication
           adherence and utilization of IBD Clinic services?
    
  