
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety and feasibility of cellular adoptive immunotherapy using autologous
           cytotoxic T lymphocytes genetically modified to express a CD19-specific chimeric
           immunoreceptor gene and HyTK selection/suicide gene in patients with relapsed or
           refractory follicular non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the in vivo persistence of adoptively transferred cytolytic T cells in
           patients treated with lymphodepleting therapy comprising rituximab and fludarabine.

        -  Assess the development of host immune responses against the CD19-specific chimeric
           immunoreceptor gene and/or HyTK selection/suicide gene.

        -  Determine the safety of low-dose interleukin-2 in supporting in vivo persistence of
           adoptively transferred cytotoxic T cells.

        -  Determine the anti-tumor activity of this regimen in these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a nonrandomized, open-label, pilot study.

        -  Leukapheresis: Patients undergo leukapheresis for collection of peripheral blood
           mononuclear cells (PBMCs). CD3-positive cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) are isolated and
           genetically modified to express a CD19-specific chimeric immunoreceptor and the HyTK
           fusion protein, and are then expanded in vitro.

        -  Lymphodepleting therapy: Patients receive rituximab and fludarabine prior to T-cell
           infusions.

        -  Cellular adoptive immunotherapy and interleukin-2 (IL-2): Patients receive a total of 5
           infusions of genetically modified autologous T cells. Patients may receive low-dose IL-2
           subcutaneously after infusions 3, 4, and 5.

        -  Additional IL-2 therapy: After the completion of the last T-cell infusion, patients with
           evidence of adoptively transferred T cells may receive additional IL-2.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for approximately 65
      days and then annually for at least 15 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: At least 5 patients will be accrued for this study within 3 years.
    
  