
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the chemopreventive efficacy of acitretin, a synthetic retinoid, in patients
           at high risk for basal cell carcinoma (BCC) or squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the
           skin.

        -  Evaluate human papillomavirus (HPV) as a possible etiologic cofactor in the development
           of cutaneous epidermal dysplasia/carcinoma from skin tissues of patients at high risk
           for BCC or SCC of the skin.

        -  Determine the effect of acitretin on a series of potential surrogate endpoint biomarkers
           (SEBs), including specific retinoid receptors; the Fos/Jun family of proto-oncogenes and
           products; the Fos/Jun family of transcription factor complexes known as activating
           protein 1 (AP-1); and HPV DNA in normal (sun-protected), sun-exposed dysplastic and
           carcinoma (SCC/BCC) skin specimens.

        -  Correlate standard clinical and histopathological dermatologic evaluation with
           modulation of SEBs.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age (18-49 years
      vs 50-59 years vs 60-69 years vs ≥ 70 years), number of skin cancers within the past 5 years
      (2-5 vs 6-10 vs 11-20 vs 21-30 vs > 30), most recent skin cancer occurrence (< 12 months ago
      vs ≥ 12 months ago), patient-reported sunburn susceptibility by Fitzpatrick skin type (1 vs 2
      vs 3 vs 4 vs 5 vs 6), and assessment of visible skin damage (minimal vs moderate vs
      extensive). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral acitretin 5 days a week for 2 years in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive oral placebo 5 days a week for 2 years in the absence of
           unacceptable toxicity.

      Tissue samples of normal skin, excised squamous cell or basal cell carcinoma, or excised
      actinic keratoses are obtained at baseline and periodically during study. Tissue samples are
      analyzed for surrogate endpoint biomarkers, including RARγ, RXRα, Fos/Jun family of
      proto-oncogenes and products, AP-1 DNA binding activity, and presence, identification, and
      quantification of HPV DNA. mRNA and protein expression levels of RARγ, RXRα, and Fos/Jun
      family members are analyzed by northern blotting and/or quantitative polymerase chain
      reaction (PCR) methods. HPV is analyzed by PCR.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 6 months for up to 5 years.
    
  