
    
      This study will use a four-group randomized experimental design similar to that used in a
      study currently being conducted by John Otis with VA patients with chronic pain/chronic PTSD.
      The four groups will include Pain Treatment (PAIN) only, PTSD Treatment (PTSD) only, Pain and
      PTSD Treatments (PAIN+PTSD), and treatment as usual (TAU). The investigators hypothesize that
      treating individuals with chronic pain and PTSD (e.g., more than 6 months in duration)
      symptoms through a proven psychosocial model will help to improve psychological,
      socioeconomic and physical symptoms of these chronic clinical syndromes that have been shown
      to be unfortunately recalcitrant to treatment and enormously costly both to society
      healthcare and, more importantly, to the person suffering from enduring pain and traumatic
      stress. We further hope to demonstrate the efficacy of these early treatments in facilitating
      the return to active duty of military personnel suffering from pain and traumatic stress.
      Finally, we hope to positively impact other psychosocial and socioeconomic outcomes such as
      work retention (as measured by self-report work status and retention of work at 6- and
      12-month follow-up), additional health-care utilization (as measured by self-report of number
      of PTSD or pain-related healthcare visits), depression symptoms (as measured by the Beck
      Depression Inventory), health-related quality of life (as measured by the SF-36), and
      perceived disability (as measured by the Million Visual Analog Scale). Evaluations of these
      four groups will be conducted at pre-treatment, immediately at the post-treatment, and at 6-
      and 12-month follow-up periods in order to determine differential outcomes on variables such
      as PTSD and pain symptom presence/severity, self-reported pain and disability, functional
      gains, satisfaction with treatment, return to active duty, retention of pre-trauma work
      capacity at 6- and 12-month follow-up, and additional health-care utilization as measured by
      number of healthcare appointments attended for pain or PTSD symptom management. The initial
      post-treatment evaluation will occur at the end of the ten-week treatment interval for each
      individual's randomization block. For those in the treatment as usual (TAU) group,
      post-treatment assessment will occur ten weeks after pre-treatment assessment is completed.
      Changes in functional activity status, psychosocial functioning, and satisfaction with
      treatment will also be systematically evaluated before, immediately after, and during the
      post-treatment periods. It should be noted that many of the PAIN-only, and TAU subjects may
      receive some type of standard care for PTSD symptoms if they access those services on their
      own. The same could be true for the PTSD-only and TAU subjects. They may also receive some
      type of standard care for pain symptoms that they access on their own. The investigators will
      monitor any such services received in order to attempt to control for possible spurious
      effects of outside treatment in later analyses.
    
  