
    
      The presence of ischemia is a prerequisite for the improvement of clinical outcomes with
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). It is well-known that the discrepancy exists
      between angiographic stenosis severity and the presence of myocardial ischemia. This
      discrepancy cannot completely overcome with even more precise invasive imaging modalities
      such as intravascular ultrasound or optical coherence tomography.

      Currently, fractional flow reserve (FFR) is regarded as a gold-standard invasive method to
      define lesion-specific ischemia and FFR-guided PCI has been proven to reduce unnecessary
      revascularization and to enhance patient's clinical outcomes. Therefore, current guidelines
      recommend FFR measurement for intermediate coronary stenosis when there is no definite
      evidence of lesion-specific ischemia.

      However, previous evidences which well demonstrated the benefit of FFR-guided strategy were
      mostly generated from non-acute myocardial infarction patients.1, 3-5 Recently FAMOUS-NAMI
      trial evaluated 176 patients with acute non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with
      multivessel disease, and demonstrated feasibility of FFR measurement in acute NSTEMI patients
      and also presented that FFR-guided decision making for non-infarct related artery (IRA)
      stenosis was significantly reduced unnecessary stent implantation without any difference in
      major adverse cardiovascular events at 1-year as well as medical cost, compared with
      angiography-only guided decision making process.

      Nevertheless, there have been no evidence in clinical setting of acute myocardial infarction
      (AMI). Since about 30-50% of patients with AMI possess multivessel disease, the ability to
      accurately assess the functional significance of non-IRA stenoses at the time of initial
      primary PCI would potentially facilitate revascularization decisions with potential for
      health and economic benefit. Moreover, avoiding unnecessary stent implantation for non-IRA
      stenoses in patients with AMI with multivessel disease would reduce the possibility of stent-
      or procedure related complications, and enhance long-term prognosis of patients.

      Therefore, the FRAME-AMI trial will compare 2-year clinical outcomes after index primary PCI
      between FFR-guided strategy versus angiography only-guided strategy for management of non-IRA
      stenoses in AMI with multivessel disease patients.
    
  