
    
      Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most frequent monogenic disease in the world, due to a
      unique mutation on the β-globin gene. Most affected individuals live in sub-Saharan Africa,
      yet, the natural history of the disease in Africa remains largely unknown. SCD usually
      presents in childhood and is characterized by the association of a chronic hemolytic anemia
      with episodes of acute vaso-occlusive events and progressive vascular organ damage. SCD is
      now widely recognized as a vascular disease with marked endothelial dysfunction. Hemolysis
      probably plays a key role by reducing NO bioavailability, but other involved mechanisms are
      not fully understood.

      The project aims at better understanding SCD chronic vascular complications and in particular
      to explore extensively the different mechanisms associated with hemolysis. This will be
      addressed through both an epidemiological approach and a hypotheses-driven pathophysiological
      approach. On the one hand, a descriptive and analytic epidemiological study will isolate
      clusters of clinical, functional and usual biological phenotypes in SCD patients and look for
      new mechanistic and biological markers predictive of chronic vascular complications in SCD
      with SS phenotype. Investigators will specifically investigate i) microcirculation functions
      using peripheral arterial tonometry, ii) blood and plasma viscosities, iii) level of plasma
      blood cell derived microparticles, free hemoglobin, and the free heme content of
      erythrocytes-derived microparticles and expression of Duffy erythrocyte antigen, the unique
      erythroid receptor for chemokines. One the other hand, investigators will test novel markers
      and modifiers of hemolysis and heme metabolism and assess their relationship with
      inflammation and vascular phenotypes.These different biomarkers will be compared between the
      selected subgroups of patients with extreme vascular phenotype.

      Methods: The project involves a transversal case control study, nested in the CADRE cohort,
      recently built up by Partner 1 and African collaborators. CADRE is the largest ongoing
      epidemiological cohort, including 4,300 SCD patients and 1,000 controls in five west and
      central African countries, in which various chronic complications of SCD have already been
      registered. The present second phase study will be conducted in the centres of Dakar and
      Bamako. Patients' selection will be performed in the existing database to obtain 6 subgroups
      of 40 SS patients with one of the main vascular chronic complications or none of them, for a
      total of 240 patients. Selected patients will be recalled during one year in parallel in the
      2 recruiting centres. Clinical phenotyping, usual biology, functional microvascular functions
      (peripheral arterial tonometry), and blood/plasma viscosities analyses will be performed in
      the African recruiting centres after training of technicians, PhD and MD students by the
      French partners. Plasma samples, microparticles and extracellular DNA, will be prepared and
      frozen for further analyses in the partner's laboratories. DNA will be collected for each
      subject. A principal component analysis will isolate clusters of clinical complications,
      functional and biological markers and a multivariate logistic regression will quantify the
      effect of these markers on the risk of vasculopathy, with adjustment on all known SCD
      modifying factors.

      Expected results: 1) The identification of high risk SCD patients for chronic vascular
      complications using new biomarkers, 2) A better understanding of chronic vascular disease
      process at the mechanistic and biological (viscosity, hemolysis, erythrocyte derived
      microparticles, inflammatory cytokines and receptors) levels, 3) The identification of
      endophenotypes and constitution of DNA bank for further genetic studies.
    
  