
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose of monoclonal antibody RAV12 when administered
           with standard gemcitabine hydrochloride in patients with previously untreated metastatic
           pancreatic cancer.

        -  To determine the proportion of these patients surviving at 8 months after initiation of
           this regimen.

        -  To provide point estimates for response rate and duration of response in patients
           treated with this regimen.

        -  To define the toxicity profile of this drug in these patients when administered with
           standard gemcitabine hydrochloride.

        -  To estimate, preliminarily, the progression-free survival and overall survival of these
           patients after treatment with this regimen.

        -  To explore the utility of the tumor marker, carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9), in the
           assessment of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of monoclonal antibody RAV12, followed by an
      efficacy study. The study is conducted in two segments.

        -  Segment 1 (dose escalation of RAV12): Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over
           30 minutes on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of course 1 and on days 1, 8, and 15 of each
           subsequent course. Patients also receive RAV12 IV once weekly on days 1, 8, and 15 or
           twice weekly on days 1, 4 or 5, 8, 11 or 12, 15, and 18 or 19 until the maximum
           tolerated dose (MTD) is reached. Treatment repeats every 28 days in the absence of
           disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Segment 2 (efficacy): Once the MTD has been determined, patients receive RAV12 at the
           MTD and gemcitabine hydrochloride as in segment 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Blood samples are obtained for pharmacokinetic sampling during the dose-escalation segment of
      the study. Samples are analyzed to determine plasma concentrations of RAV12, gemcitabine
      hydrochloride, and difluorodeoxyuridine. Blood samples are also examined periodically for
      expression of serum biomarkers (i.e., CA19-9, RAAG12, and HACA) and for DNA analysis of
      Fc-gamma receptor polymorphisms. Archival paraffin blocks or slides from biopsy of primary or
      metastatic deposit or fresh/frozen tissue may be obtained at baseline for additional
      correlative studies. Samples are analyzed by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for expression of
      RAAG12 and for development of a companion RAAG12 diagnostic assay.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed every 8 weeks for up to 3 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: This study will accrue a total of 18 patients in the dose-escalation
      segment and 63 patients in the efficacy segment of the trial.
    
  