
    
      Noncompliance in taking medication is very common among people with schizophrenia, and is a
      frequent cause of relapse of symptoms. A long-acting injectable formulation that ensures the
      slow but steady release of risperidone over a period of several weeks would eliminate the
      need to take medication on a daily basis, and improve compliance. This is an open-label,
      international, multicenter study in patients with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder
      who either completed study RIS-INT-57 or RIS-INT-61 or who dropped out of RIS-INT-61 after
      the completion of 3 injection cycles. Patients have to begin this study within 7 days of the
      final endpoint visit in the RIS-INT-57 or RIS-INT-61 studies. The endpoint visit of
      RIS-INT-57 and RIS-INT-61 serves as the first visit (Visit 1) of RIS-INT-63, and is
      considered the baseline of this extension study. Patients who have completed RIS-INT-57 will
      continue to receive the same dose of long-acting injectable risperidone (25, 50 or 75 mg) as
      they received during the last 3 months of that study. Patients who have completed or dropped
      out of RIS-INT-61 will continue to receive the same or equivalent dose of long-acting
      injectable risperidone as they had received during that study. The blind will not be broken
      for patients from the RIS-INT-61 study, therefore they will continue to receive double-blind
      oral medication for the first 3 weeks of this extension study. The total study duration is
      planned to be at least 1 year. The study hypothesis is that treatment with the long-acting
      injectable formulation of risperidone every 2 weeks for at least 1 year will be safe and well
      tolerated, as assessed by adverse event reporting, the extrapyramidal symptom rating scale,
      laboratory tests, vital signs measurements, physical examinations, body weight measurements,
      electrocardiograms, and injection site evaluations. Patients will receive injections of
      risperidone depot in microspheres (25, 50 or 75 mg) in their muscle at 2-weekly intervals for
      at least 1 year.
    
  