
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. To compare the complete remission (CR) rates by positron emission tomography
      (PET)/computed tomography (CT) following completion of treatment with
      duvelisib-cyclophosphamide (C) doxorubicin (H) vincristine (O) (etoposide [E]) prednisone (P)
      versus (vs) CHO(E)P and with oral azacitidine (CC-486)-CHO(E)P vs CHO(E)P in previously
      untreated peripheral T-cell lymphomas that have < 10% expression of CD30.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the toxicity and tolerability of the treatment regimens. II. To determine the
      overall response rate (ORR), duration of response, progression free survival (PFS), event
      free survival (EFS), and overall survival (OS) of each treatment regimen.

      III. To determine whether designation of follicular helper T-cell phenotype is correlated
      with response to therapy, PFS, EFS, and OS.

      IV. To assess the toxicity profile of the experimental regimens in untreated CD30 negative
      peripheral T-cell lymphomas using Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) and
      patient reported outcomes (PRO)-CTCAE.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 arms.

      ARM A: Patients receive cyclophosphamide intravenously (IV) on day 1, doxorubicin IV on day
      1, vincristine IV on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3 or etoposide IV on day 1 and orally (PO)
      once daily (QD) on days 2-3 for patients <=60 years old, and prednisone PO QD on days 1-5.
      Patients also receive duvelisib PO twice daily (BID) on days 1-21. Treatment repeats every 21
      days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, doxorubicin IV on day 1, vincristine IV
      on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3 or etoposide IV on day 1 and orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      on days 2-3 for patients <=60 years old, and prednisone PO QD on days 1-5. Patients also
      receive CC-486 PO QD on days -6 to 0 of cycle -1 and days 8-21 of cycles 1-5. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM C: Patients receive cyclophosphamide IV on day 1, doxorubicin IV on day 1, vincristine IV
      on day 1, etoposide IV on days 1-3 or etoposide IV on day 1 and orally (PO) once daily (QD)
      on days 2-3 for patients <=60 years old, and prednisone PO QD on days 1-5. Treatment repeats
      every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at 6 weeks after cycle 6 day 1,
      then every 12 weeks for 2 years, then every 24 weeks until 5 years from end of treatment or
      until documented progression of lymphoma. After documented progression of lymphoma, patients
      are followed up every 6 months until 5 years from end of treatment.
    
  