
    
      This is a basic science investigation of potential psychosocial, sensory, and brain markers
      predicting trajectory of short-term and long-term recovery in pediatric CRPS following both
      inpatient and outpatient treatment.

      The usual inpatient treatment lasts on average three weeks and includes physical,
      occupational, and recreational therapy, as well as psychotherapy, while patients keep their
      regular pharmacological treatment. The usual outpatient treatment lasts on average several
      months and includes physical therapy and psychotherapy, in addition to pharmacotherapy. For
      both inpatients and outpatients, the primary anti-neuropathic pharmacotherapy typically
      includes gabapentin, pregabalin, or amitriptyline, or, less frequently, duloxetine. It is
      important to note that this study is not designed to investigate the efficacy of treatment
      per se, instead it aims to predict trajectory during the course of treatment as usual. This
      study is primarily mechanistic and does not include any intervention or modification of
      treatments. Therefore, patients, who are scheduled for regular inpatient or outpatient
      treatment of CRPS, are free to refuse to enroll without any consequences for the scheduled
      treatment.

      The investigated markers will be assessed in patients undergoing inpatient or outpatient
      treatments. To define potentially relevant markers, measurements in patients will be compared
      to the same measurements in healthy children. For this purpose, participants will undergo a
      testing session just before the beginning of their treatment or as close as possible from the
      beginning of their treatment.

      To establish the influence of potential markers on short-term recovery, patients will undergo
      an additional session upon completion of their treatment. To investigate the effect of the
      previously defined markers on long-term recovery, patients will complete a third session at
      six months after treatment. For comparison purposes, healthy control children will undergo
      sessions following the same schedule as the patients. To assess the association between
      symptoms of CRPS in children and social environment, at least one parent of each enrolled
      child will be asked to complete three sessions following the same schedule as their child.

      Each testing session will include self-reported questionnaires for the children and their
      parents and a brain imaging session for the children.
    
  