
    
      Several studies have reported higher level of psychological disorders in people with diabetes
      such as depression and anxiety. A recent meta-analysis suggests that the odds of depression
      in the diabetic patients is twice than in nondiabetic subjects and this difference persists
      even after adjustment for sex, type of diabetes or assessment method. Furthermore, depression
      is significantly associated with hyperglycemia. Several proposals exist to explain this
      association.

      The aim of this project is to study the effect of a psychological intervention based on
      cognitive-behavioural strategies in patients with type II diabetes. The effect will be
      evaluate on both physiological and psychosocial parameters. The hypothesis is that a
      psychological intervention based on cognitive behavioural strategies increases patient's
      belief in his self-efficacy to succeed in diabetes care. The improvement in self-efficacy
      will therefore lead to improve the psychological status, i.e. depression.

      Material and Methods: The investigators will perform a randomized controlled trial (RCT). A
      sample of 80 type 2 diabetic patients will be recruited at Endocrinology Unit of Verona
      Hospital during routine medical examination and then randomly assigned to intervention or
      control arm. In details, patients will be first recruited for participation in the study by
      their physician. Thereafter, patients will be approached by psychologist who will explain
      research and its goals. Control group will receive current standard of diabetes care.
      Intervention group will receive a weekly psychological intervention based on cognitive
      behavioural strategies. Each session will be based on self-monitoring, problem solving and
      goal setting. The first session will be held two weeks after the enrollment and the last one
      will take place at twenty-sixth week. Subjects will be given a food and physical activity
      diary as well as a pedometer. Study participants will weekly fill in the diary starting from
      2nd session until the 19th session for a total of 18 weeks. Subjects will carry the pedometer
      for the same time window.

      The psychological intervention comprises three phases:

      PHASE 1 (1°-2° session):

        -  Psychological testing

        -  Therapeutic alliance formation

        -  Goal definition

      PHASE 2 (3°-19°)

        -  Food and physical activity self-monitoring

        -  Identifying unhealthy behaviours and helping subject to change them

        -  Identifying negative beliefs and replace them with positive and healthy ones

        -  Providing coping strategies to stress and emotions

      PHASE 3 (20°-24°)

        -  Reinforcing behaviour modification

        -  Identifying possible barriers

        -  Activation of personal and social resources

      Outcome measures will be assessed at baseline (pre-treatment), after 26 weeks treatment
      (post-treatment) and at 38 weeks follow up (follow-up).
    
  