
    
      A delay in the development of language can make it hard for individuals to socialise and
      learn. While many children thrive, some children who live with a parent suffering from a
      mental illness develop difficulties with language and communication. Unfortunately, language
      delay is often missed until children are at school. By then, treatment options may be more
      limited and less effective. These children and their families would do better if they had
      more support early on. There is a lack of research in this area so we are cannot tell whether
      an individual child is at more risk or whether they have protective qualities. We need to
      know this to plan treatment and start it early because the earlier the help, the better the
      results.

      Therefore, our study aims to identify children who will be most at risk of difficulties or
      delays in their language. It will also examine the effects of mental illness and other
      factors in mothers in the child's language and communication abilities. This will help us to
      design better treatments for the most at risk children because identifying them when they are
      infants means we can help their cognitive, development and language skills earlier.

      To do this, we use a form of brain imaging called functional Near-Infrared Spectroscopy
      (fNIRS). It is a safe, non-invasive technique that records brain responses. When nerve cells
      in our brains are active, the supply of blood increases to those tissues. Our equipment
      detects these changes in blood flow by shining light onto the scalp. fNIRS has been safely
      used with thousands of infants worldwide. It is a common tool in neonatal and intensive care
      units and there are no side effects of fNIRS.

      We ask your baby to put a cap on which has light sensors. Whilst baby has the cap on, we get
      them to watch 2 six-minute videos which have different sounds playing. Here, we will be able
      to see whether the baby can tell the difference between vocal sounds and environmental sounds
      (like traffic), as well as the differences in emotional speech (i.e. happy, sad and neutral
      speech).

      As well as measuring baby's brain activity, we also ask mum questions about herself and video
      a 6-minute play session between mum and baby. Finally, we carry out a play session to measure
      baby's development. All assessments are done with the utmost care and mum is always present
      to make sure everyone is comfortable.
    
  