
    
      An increasing number of patients are developing multidrug-resistant (MDR) virus, as
      determined by genotypic antiretroviral resistance testing (GART), due to treatment failure to
      suppress viral replication after several rounds of combination antiretroviral therapy. The
      best therapeutic strategy for these patients is uncertain. Two strategies currently being
      used are (1) STI followed by a new antiretroviral regimen and (2) immediate initiation of a
      new antiretroviral regimen.

      Patients are screened for the presence of MDR virus and a plasma HIV RNA level greater than
      10,000 [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: greater than 5,000] copies/ml. Eligible patients attend a
      baseline visit [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: and a subsequent randomization visit] where the
      qualifying GART results are provided. Patients who consent to participate have phenotypic
      antiretroviral resistance testing (PART) done on a specimen from the same blood draw that was
      used for the GART evaluation. After PART results are available, patients are randomized [AS
      PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: If the predicted sensitivities are not available for some or all
      drugs included in the PART, the patient may still be randomized.] to either a 4-month STI
      followed by a new antiretroviral regimen or an immediate new antiretroviral regimen. The
      antiretroviral regimens chosen are based on the patients' history and both GART and PART
      results. [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: Additional GART and PART may be requested after at least
      4 months of antiretroviral treatment.] Patients have the follow-up data collection done at
      Months 1-8 and every 4 months thereafter. Changes in antiretroviral therapy, Grade 4 adverse
      experiences, progression of disease, and deaths are reported as they occur. Patients are seen
      for clinical management as often as deemed necessary. All patients are followed to a common
      closing date estimated to be 24 months after the last patient is randomized. Some patients
      may participate in a Point Mutation Substudy [AS PER AMENDMENT 07/03/01: Plasma Point
      Mutation Substudy and PBMC Point Mutation Substudy].
    
  