
    
      Gastric cancer is the third most common cause of cancer-associated deaths worldwide
      especially in Asia.Early detection and treatment would cure the disease with 5-year survival
      rate greater than 90%.However, the sensitivity of conventional endoscopy with white-light
      imaging (C-WLI) in diagnosis of early gastric cancers (EGCs) is merely 40%. Magnifying
      image-enhanced endoscopy (IEE) techniques such as magnifying narrow band imaging (M-NBI) have
      been developed and 2 RCT report that white-light imaging combine with M-NBI can increase the
      sensitivity to 95%. The strategy that using white-light imaging to detect the suspicious
      lesion and using M-IEE techniques to make a diagnosis of early gastric cancer is recommend in
      screening endoscopy.

      Optical enhancement (OE) which is one of the M-IEE techniques was developed by HOYA Co.
      (Tokyo, Japan) . This technology combines digital signal processing and optical filterers to
      clear display of mucosal microsurface (MS) and microvessel (MV). The advantage of OE is to
      overcome the darkness of NBI which leads to less usefulness for detect-ability in the full
      extended gastrointestinal lumen.Nevertheless, it is difficult to differentiate early gastric
      cancer from noncancerous lesions for beginner, and expertise with sub-optimal inter-observer
      agreement is essential for the use of M-IEE.

      Nowadays, Artificial intelligence (AI) using deep machine learning has made a major
      breakthrough in gastroenterology, which using gradient descent method and backpropagation to
      automatically extract specific images features. The diagnostic accuracy in identifying upper
      gastrointestinal cancer was 0.955 in C-WLI . Polyps can be identified in real time with 96%
      accuracy in screening colonoscopy. AI show an outstanding application in detection and
      diagnosis.

      This study aims to develop a M-OE assistance model in the diagnosis of EGCs by distinguishing
      cancer or not.
    
  