
    
      In this new area of multiples new treatments in advanced PCa that could be proposed to
      elderly patients, evaluating, understanding and analysing the incidence, severity of
      cognitive dysfunctions and their impact on quality of life, autonomy and adherence among this
      group of vulnerable patients with advanced disease is a challenge and is essential to help
      clinicians taking care of their patients. As the deficits may be subtle and not always
      related with complaints, cognitive functions need to be assessed by objective sensitive
      neuropsychological tests and by patient-perceived cognitive self-report questionnaire. In
      addition to the treatments,there is a range of potential confounders that can contribute to
      cognitive impairment, such as co-medications, psychological factors (e.g. anxiety or
      depression), fatigue, or cognitive reserve (i.e. patients with higher education, more
      occupational attainment, or participation in leisure activities report less clinical or
      cognitive changes with aging.

      The evaluation and the comprehension of the cognitive decline in patients treated for a
      cancer are complex and need a multidisciplinary approach in human sciences in strong link to
      clinicians and biologist researchers.

      Therefore, this study propose an original unique comprehensive interdisciplinary approach at
      the interface between public health, clinical research, psychology and biology which would
      have a direct impact on cancer patient care, including a consortium of neuropsychologists,
      oncologists and biologist researchers who are working together within the North West
      canceropole "cognition and cancer" program. In evaluating cognitive functions, mood, quality
      of life and adherence to treatments, fully in the scope of the proposal, will help to improve
      our knowledge in this new field of research in human health among cancer patients with a
      direct impact for the physicians and the patients. The strength of this project is to propose
      (in complement to the study conducted among patients) a comprehensive approach including an
      animal model with behavioural tasks as recommended by the ICCTF (International Cognition and
      Cancer Task Force).

      This study will be the first one to address the question of the impact of the novel oral
      hormonal agents among elderly metastatic prostate cancer patients. This study will assess the
      influence of treatments on patients' cognitive functions on a longitudinal basis and evaluate
      the quality of life and the adherence of patients who had or develop cognitive disorders.
    
  