
    
      Poor adherence to HAART is usually associated with resistant virus. Poor adherence to HAART
      can have serious consequences, including limited treatment options for HIV infected
      individuals if they become infected with resistant HIV. The purpose of this study was to
      examine the effectiveness of modified directly observed therapy (mDOT) and compare it with
      the effectiveness of self-administered therapy (non-mDOT) in HIV infected individuals with
      first virologic failure on an NNRTI-based HAART regimen who were starting a PI-based HAART
      regimen at study entry.

      mDOT was defined in this study as the daily observation of lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) being
      taken on a regular basis. Observation consisted of an mDOT partner being present at the time
      the study participant took the observed dose. Half of the participants in this study were
      required to choose an mDOT partner to supervise adherence for the first 24 weeks of the
      study. Each mDOT partner completed the study-administered mDOT training program and was
      required to record all observed doses in an mDOT diary log. All participants and partners
      received health education through the study. Adherence was measured using Medication Event
      Monitoring System (MEMS) caps and self-report questionnaires.

      This study lasted 52 weeks. Per protocol, participants were to be stratified according to
      their screening viral load and the proposed study treatment. The study treatment each
      participant received was based on their treatment history. At entry, participants were to
      start one of the two PI-based HAART regimens, either FTC/Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate (TDF)
      200/300 mg once daily (QD) and Lopinavir/Ritonavir (LPV/RTV) 400/100 mg twice a day (BID) or
      TDF 300 mg QD and zidovudine (ZDV) 300 mg BID and LPV/RTV 400/100 mg BID. mDOT was used for
      the first 24 weeks of the study, followed by self-administration of study medications from
      week 25 to week 52. ZDV was not provided by the study. All enrolled participants except one
      who did not start study regimen initiated FTC/TDF and LPV/rtv after randomization. No
      participants started ZDV containing regimen on study. Thus, participants in this study were
      stratified by screening HIV-1 RNA only.

      There were eight visits during the study. Medical and medication history, blood collection,
      and clinical assessment were required at all visits. A quality of life questionnaire and an
      adherence tools assessment were collected at most visits. For the mDOT arm, medication diary
      logs and mDOT partner monitoring were reviewed at most visits. An mDOT exit questionnaire and
      exit interview were required at the end of the study.
    
  