
    
      In a first time, we propose to pregnant overweight women to participate a study based on the
      follow up of their pregnancy and of their child during the two first years of life. Women in
      agreement with the study sign a consent form and fill in a questionnaire about their quality
      of live.

      We secondly randomized the women in two groups:

      Group A: in this group an intervention is delivered. It provide education, at regularly
      scheduled sessions (20 weeks, 28 weeks, 35 weeks, and 2 month after delivering) and two
      dietary consulting. The sessions that stress about healthy eating and modest exercise
      assemble several women (no more than 10). Women in agreement with this intervention sign a
      consent form.

      Group B: in this group, pregnant women are managed with standard care (at least one dietary
      consulting is proposed around 26 weeks).

      Risk factors for child obesity are researched by questionnaire (parents smoking habit, mother
      and father level of education, family history of obesity, risk factors for gestational
      diabetes…). Mother weight measured at every clinic visit, is recorded as complications during
      pregnancy (HTA, preeclampsia, diabetes, fetal malformation …) and during delivery. Mother
      glycosylated haemoglobin is measured at birth.

      Variables of interest for the children included at birth: gestational age, sex, neonatal
      pathology, hospitalisations and hypoglycaemia episode. Measurement, and method of infant
      feeding are recorded at birth, and by phone call every 2 months during 6 months, at 9 month,
      1 year, 18 months and 2 years. At 4 months the mother fill in a questionnaire about the
      amount of milk or other foods eaten by the child.

      A visit is planed at 2 years for:

        -  clinical examination of the child,

        -  recording of his nutritional and exercise habits

        -  questionnaire about quality of life of the mother and her health

        -  measurement of her BMI, arterial pressure, glycaemia before and after 75 g oral
           glucose-tolerance test, glycosylated hemoglobin, and lipid test.
    
  