
    
      Improve visual skills through training and perceptual-cognitive learning could be a method
      aimed to repair partial neurophysiological deficits or produce new brain networks. Studies
      suggest that the mechanisms of attention and cortical plasticity have a role to play in
      information retrieval. In addition, he has been shown that Omega 3 in the form of
      phospholipids are the main component of nerve cells and taken orally makes a positive impact
      on behavior disorders such as depression or bipolar disorder. Their consumption would also
      help improve brain function while increasing the ability to concentrate.

      The perceptual-cognitive ability is a very high level treatment of complex visual
      information. However, this ability only has our brain seems to be driven by the fact that the
      brain has great plasticity. This means that there is a neuronal reorganization in learning
      new capacity. 3D-MOT, or 3-Dimensional Multiple Object Tracking is a technique that allows
      the study of the visual system for tracking moving targets in 3D. It is a task of multifocal
      attentional pursuit which assesses the ability to keep the position of different moving
      targets from other similar objects. Performance is measured based on the number of objects
      that have been successfully followed. Previous studies have also shown that most young
      patients can typically take four objects simultaneously. In addition, this tracking
      capability, when speed is used as the dependent variable seems drivable. Therefore, Faubert
      and Sidebottom have shown that young people could significantly increase their speed
      thresholds. Legault and Faubert (2012) have demonstrated that training with the method of
      3D-MOT generates significant improvements in visual-cognitive abilities as the perception of
      movement of the human body, a crucial index to avoid collisions when we navigate in a dense
      crowd for example.

      The purpose of this project is to evaluate the impact of taking Omega-3 phospholipid form on
      perceptual-cognitive abilities, on the learning rate (curve) of young and older adults. The
      sample is composed of 40 young people (20 to 35) and 40 older adults (60-75) divided into two
      groups. The stimulus will be a task of multiple objects or 3D-MOT that consist to
      simultaneously track multiple moving objects among distractors, all will be presented on a 3D
      television screen . The performance of the observer (speed thresholds) will be evaluated
      based on three elements followed without error.
    
  