
    
      A prospective randomized controlled trial comparing the results of CD vs. CD + PMMA packing
      in pre-collapse ONFH was set up.

      Consecutive symptomatic patients aged >14 years with Association Research Circulation Osseous
      (ARCO) Stage I and II ONFH diagnosed using MRI and radiographic imaging were enrolled in this
      study.

      Exclusion criteria were pre-existing collapse, sub-chondral fracture or degenerative changes
      of the hip.

      After obtaining informed written consent, patients are asked to complete the Harris Hip Score
      (HHS), Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC), and a health
      status questionnaire Short Form-36 (SF-36).

      The femoral heads enrolled into the study are randomized using a computer-generated card draw
      system to one of following: core decompression (CD) or core decompression with PMMA cement
      packing (CD + PMMA).

      Allocation concealment was practiced with the use of opaque envelopes. Patients with
      bilateral involvement who had been randomized to one treatment modality for one femoral head
      were automatically selected to receive the other treatment modality for the contralateral
      femoral head.

      Blinding of either surgeon or patient is impossible.

      The patients were followed up after surgery every 3-4 months for the first 2 years after
      which the patients were seen annually. Completed questionnaires and radiographs were obtained
      at each visit.

      Statistical Analysis The date of index procedure (CD or CD + PMMA) was used as start date for
      the purpose of statistical analysis. Progression Free Survival was defined as the time to
      radiographic progression and Conversion Free Survival (CFS) as the time to a THA. In case of
      patients who did not have radiographic progression, the date of their last follow up or death
      was used for the analysis. The SAS software will be used for all the analyses. The Log rank
      and Gerhan-Wilcoxon tests were used to compare Kaplan-Meier survival curves for the time from
      the date of the index procedure to radiographic progression (subchondral collapse) or
      conversion to THA for separate groupings based on age at index procedure (<40 , >40 yrs),
      smoking (Y/N), location (central, medial, lateral), percent involvement (<15% [mild], 15% to
      30% [moderate], or >30% [severe]), index of necrotic extent (<40 or >40), and modified index
      of necrotic extent (<40 or >40). Whenever factors were found to affect the survival curves
      mainly in the initial year the Gerhan-Wilcoxon test was used as the test of significance. The
      Kaplan-Meier curves were also compared for the main cohorts of CD vs. CD + PMMA. Cox
      proportional hazards regression was used to compare factors (age, smoking, location, percent
      involvement, index of necrotic extent, and modified index of necrotic extent) with regards to
      their ability to predict the time to progression or revision to THA. Mixed multilevel
      regression modeling was used to test for group differences in the change in self-rated health
      survey scores over time from baseline over the post-operative period. The hierarchical linear
      modeling approach has a number of advantages over traditional repeated measures approaches
      for modeling change over time, including allowance for missing data and for varying
      measurement times across subjects. Separate models were generated for SF-36, Harris Hip Score
      and WOMAC scores over two-year and over 5-year post-operative time periods.
    
  