
    
      Background:

        -  RFT5-dgA is an immunotoxin comprised of the IL-2Ra-specific murine IgG1 antibody RFT5
           linked to deglycosylated ricin A chain (dgA) via the sterically hindered
           heterobifunctional disulfide linker SMPT
           (4-succinimidyl-oxycarbonyl-a-methyl-a-(2-pyridyldithio)-toluene).

        -  RFT5-dgA is a recombinant immunotoxin that selectively targets CD25 expressing cells in
           vivo. Further, treatment of human PBMC with RFT5-dgA in vitro results in the
           preferential depletion of CD25+ Treg cells.

        -  Depletion of Treg cells can enhance tumor protection to tumor-associated antigens
           expressed as self antigens and the RFT5-dgA immunotoxin had potent antitumor effects in
           SCID mice xenografted with L540 cells which express CD25.

        -  The MTD established in the phase I trial of RFT5-dgA was 15mg/m(2)/course IV.

      Objectives:

        -  The primary objective is to determine whether objective clinical responses can be
           obtained in patients with metastatic melanoma following administration of RFT5-dgA.

        -  Secondary objectives will determine whether changes occur in levels of CD4+CD25+
           regulatory T cells (Treg cells) in peripheral blood from before to after treatment and
           evaluate the toxicity profile of patients treated on this trial.

      Eligibility:

        -  Patients greater than 18 years of age with measurable metastatic melanoma, an expected
           survival greater than three months, who have progressed after receiving standard therapy
           will be included.

        -  Standard clinical laboratory values must be normal for study inclusion and patients may
           not be pregnant, breast-feeding or require anticoagulation.

        -  Patients must be willing to undergo leukapheresis.

        -  Patients with active infections, other major medical disorders, HAMA levels greater than
           1 ug/mL, or who have had prior radiotherapy or who have extensive lung disease will be
           excluded.

      Design:

        -  Patients will receive 3 mg/m(2) RFT5-dgA intravenously every other day for a total of 3
           doses (one course).

        -  Four to five weeks after the last dose, patients will undergo tumor evaluation,
           evaluation of changes in T-regulatory cells (CD4+CD25+cells and Foxp3 expression), and
           toxicity assessment.

        -  One additional course may be administered to patients with stable disease or partial or
           complete response.

        -  Up to 41 evaluable patients may be accrued to determine whether theRFT5-dgA can produce
           a modest response rate targeted to be 20 percent (p1=0.20)

        -  Enrollment reflects the anticipated enrollment. Actual enrollment is unknown due to no
           longer having access to the data as records were destroyed
    
  