
    
      In this study, investigators will study both diabetic and non-diabetic individuals who are
      otherwise healthy more than one year after receiving a liver transplant. They will
      participate in at least one of the following two parts of this study: The first involves
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and the second is using a day-long infusion
      study called a "pancreatic clamp."

      Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is a technique for measuring and mapping brain
      activity that is noninvasive and safe. This technique relies on the fact that blood flow in
      the brain and the activity of brain cells are coupled. Investigators will observe the
      activity of metabolically-relevant areas of the brain by activating potassium channels with
      diazoxide at baseline and at 2-hour intervals vs when given placebo.

      In the pancreatic clamp study, glucose (a sugar) and insulin (a hormone produced in the
      pancreas that regulates the amount of sugar in the blood) are infused with an intravenous
      catheter. Blood samples are collected periodically throughout the procedure to measure blood
      sugar levels and the levels of several hormones that are found in the body which are related
      to glucose metabolism. The rates of endogenous glucose production (a measure of the body's
      production of sugar) will be measured as the main measurement of the study.

      All participants will be screened prior to study enrollment. For the fMRI studies, eligible
      participants will come on two separate occasions for day-long study visits (one day in which
      the brain will be imaged before and after receiving diazoxide (a potassium channel
      activator), and one day in which the brain will be imaged before and after placebo. For the
      pancreatic clamp studies, eligible participants will come on two separate occasions for
      day-long study visits (one study with diazoxide, and one study with placebo). All studies in
      participants with type 2 diabetes will include overnight admissions prior to the study day
      for gradual normalizing of blood glucose through the infusion of insulin. Participants
      without diabetes will not have to stay for an overnight admission. Study participants with
      type 2 diabetes will also be eligible for an additional study in which Nicotinic Acid will be
      infused overnight to lower free fatty acid (FFA) levels. It will be determined whether FFA
      lowering will impact the fMRI studies and clamp studies that will be performed the next day.
    
  