
    
      The intervention to be evaluated are operative hysteroscopy(group A) and ultrasound guided
      aspiration(group C) and blinded vacuum aspiration(group B).these procedures are routinely
      performed in the obstetrics and gynecology department for various indications. For all
      surgical procedures , surgical antibiotics prophylaxis, misoprostol to dilate cervix, and
      anti adhesion barrier gel will be used. The evacuated retention products will be sent for
      pathological examination. RH negative women will receive prophylaxis to prevent RH
      alloimmunization.

      Group A: Operative Hystroscopy:

      The procedure will be performed by a gynecological surgeon, under general anaesthesia with
      the patient in lithotomy position. Antibiotic prophylaxis may be administered, the cervix is
      grasped with pozzi forceps and dilated up to hegar 9 to facilitate insertion of the
      hysteroscopy. The uterine cavity will be distended with saline or glycine, depending on the
      polarity of the resection system.with a maximum irrigation pressure of 110mmHg. The retained
      products will be resected from top to bottom with surgical resector without electric power.
      The use of forceps or curettes to facilitate the removal of material is permitted. If active
      bleeding occurs , elective coagulation by hystroscope is done to stop intrauterine bleeding.
      The deficit of distending media should be calculated at the end of procedure.

      Group B:blinded vacuum aspiration of gestational contents:

      The women were allowed to empty their urinary bladder before induction of anesthesia, but
      catheterization was not performed. After positioning the patient appropriately on the
      operating table, bimanual pelvic examination was performed under anesthesia to assess the
      axis and the size of the uterus. A Sim's speculum was inserted into the vagina; the cervix
      was visualized and grasped using the Vulsellum forceps. The cervical canal was dilated
      gradually with Hegar dilators up to the size corresponding to the weeks of gestation. The
      uterine cavity was evacuated using a plastic cannula attached to an electric suction
      apparatus. Negative pressure of 75 mmHg was used. The aspirate was examined to confirm the
      presence of products of conception. The completeness of the evacuation was checked by gentle
      sharp curettage and final suctioning at the end of procedure.

      Group C: Ultrasound guided aspiration curettage :

      The transducer was held on the abdomen to obtain a longitudinal image of the uterus and
      cervix and provide the surgeon with a visual reference of the gestational sac, cervical canal
      and any instruments passed into the uterus.The progress of the operation was continuously
      monitored as the uterine contents were evacuated under visual control. It was possible to
      keep the dilators and the suction cannula under constant view by slightly tilting the
      transducer as required. Advancement of any instrument was allowed only under direct
      ultrasound control.The completeness of the evacuation was confirmed by the scan in these
      cases.
    
  