
    
      Phase I prospective clinical study to evaluate: the tolerance of clinical subjects with
      Subarachnoid Hemorrhage (SAH) to the maneuvers involved in the generation of Remote Ischemic
      Preconditioning (RIPC), the immediate and delayed hemodynamic effects of the RIPC in the
      cerebral vasculature, in terms of Transcranial Doppler (TCD) velocities, pulsatility index
      variations, Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF) measures, and cerebral arterial flow measurements using
      Magnetic Resonance Imaging with flow measurement capabilities (MRI NOVA). As a secondary
      goal, we will be valuating the impact of RIPC in the incidence of vasospasm, delayed
      neurological deficits, development of ischemic lesions in MRI and clinical outcome.

      Patient Enrollment: Patients who are admitted to the University of California Los Angeles
      (UCLA) Ronald Reagan Medical Center with a diagnosis of aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage
      will be considered for inclusion in this study. As is standard of care for this condition,
      following admission patients' aneurysms are generally treated by one of two methods, surgical
      clipping or endovascular coiling. Following this definitive treatment of the aneurysm,
      generally performed emergently in the first 24 to 48 hours following hemorrhage, patients
      will be consented and enrolled in the study. No patients with unprotected (untreated)
      aneurysms will be enrolled. Patients with a known history of lower limb vascular disease or
      lower limb vascular bypass surgery will be excluded.

      Remote Ischemic Preconditioning (RIPC) Procedure: Following enrollment, patients will receive
      four rounds of lower limb remote ischemic preconditioning, starting at the earliest
      post-hemorrhage day possible following definitive treatment of their aneurysm. The remote
      ischemic preconditioning will typically take place on post-hemorrhage day 2, 3, 6 and 9. Each
      cycle of RIPC will consist of four 5-minute cycles of lower limb ischemia following by
      5-minute periods of reperfusion. A large blood pressure cuff will be wrapped around the upper
      thigh of one leg. The cuff will be inflated to a pressure 20 mm Hg greater than the systolic
      arterial blood pressure measured by the patient's arterial line or upper limb blood pressure
      cuff. The adequate level of inflation will be confirmed by the absence of pulse in the
      ipsilateral pedal artery as detected by Doppler. The cuff will remain inflated for 5 minutes.
      The cuff will then be deflated and the limb will be allowed to re-perfuse for at least 5
      minutes. After the cuff is deflated, the same procedure will then be repeated three times for
      a total of four cycles.

      Evaluation of Tolerance to the RIPC Maneuvers: The patient will be continuously monitored for
      pain and discomfort during the RIPC session. If the patient pain is more than 6 in the
      traditional 1-10 scale or if the patient expresses their desire to stop the maneuver, the
      procedure will be stopped, and the data regarding number and duration of the maneuvers will
      be recorded. A down-escalation of the treatment will be proposed, by reducing the number of
      cuff inflations to 3 or 2, as tolerated.

      Hemodynamic evaluation of the effect of RIPC Maneuvers: Transcranial Doppler (TCD)
      measurements will be performed during the RIPC session. TCD and Cerebral Blood Flow (CBF)
      measurements will be performed at 24 hours and 72 hours after treatment.

      Cerebral arterial flow magnetic resonance imaging (MRI NOVA) will be measured the first day
      after treatment and 72 hours after treatment in patients suitable for transport to the MRI
      scan per Intensive Care Unit (ICU) clinical team criteria.

      Clinical assessments of the patients will be performed daily and at discharge from the ICU

      Treatment of subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) and Vasospasm: Aside from the RIPC procedures, all
      other treatment and monitoring of the patients will be as is standard of care for the
      treatment of patients with subarachnoid hemorrhage in our hospital. Patients will undergo
      neurological monitoring in the intensive care unit. Monitoring for cerebral vasospasm,
      including transcranial Doppler studies, angiograms, cerebral blood flow studies, Computed
      Tomography (CT) scans, Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scans and regular neurological
      examination will be performed as standard. Likewise, prophylaxis and treatment for vasospasm
      or any other complications of subarachnoid hemorrhage will be performed as usual, as is the
      standard of care. Apart from the rounds of RIPC, in no way will the monitoring and treatment
      of these patients differ from patients not enrolled in this study.

      Data Collection: Patients' clinical data will be collected in a password-protected study
      computer database. General patient demographics, past medical history, history of present
      illness, Hunt & Hess grade, admission Glasgow coma score, modified Rankin score, size and
      location of aneurysm, dates of subarachnoid hemorrhage and aneurysm treatment, type of
      aneurysm treatment, transcranial Doppler study values, cerebral blood flow measurements, and
      results of clinical examinations will all be noted and recorded in the study database.
      Additionally, clinical imaging studies performed (including CT scans, MRI scans and cerebral
      angiograms) will be reviewed and their findings noted. Specifically, size and location of
      aneurysm, extent and location of subarachnoid hemorrhage, Fisher grade, and presence and size
      of ischemic brain lesions will be noted. Clinical complications and outcomes will be
      recorded, including occurrence of angiographic vasospasm and delayed neurological deficit and
      condition at discharge and follow-up (Glasgow outcome score and modified Rankin score). Any
      complications associated with the RIPC procedure will be noted and reported appropriately.
    
  