
    
      It is necessary to monitor HIV over long periods of time in order to better understand the
      impact of microbicides and anti-HIV drugs on the progression of HIV infection in those who
      become infected or are unknowingly already infected while receiving these drugs. The purpose
      of this study is to determine the effects of microbicides or oral anti-HIV drugs over time in
      HIV infected women who were previously enrolled in other microbicide trials.

      The study will remain open to accrual for the duration of MTN funding, and will use two
      follow-up visit schedules, one based on the date of diagnosis in the parent study, and one
      based on the initiation of antiretroviral treatment (ART). Participants who have not
      initiated ART at the time of enrollment in this study will follow the schedule based on the
      date of diagnosis. Participants who have already begun ART at the time of enrollment will
      follow the schedule based on the date of ART initiation. Individuals enrolled with a starting
      date based on the date of ART initiation will have their first follow-up visit at Week 2
      before resuming the rest of the schedule. On both schedules, follow-up visits occur at Months
      1, 3, and 6 and every 6 months thereafter. Interim visits may be performed at any time during
      follow-up, and participants will be asked to attend a final study visit prior to their
      termination from the study. Participants may enroll any time after their HIV diagnosis and
      can leave the study at any time.

      A physical exam; medical and medication history assessment; blood and urine collection; and
      pelvic, cervicovaginal lavage, and vaginal swab sampling will occur at all visits. A
      behavioral assessment will occur at select visits, and adherence and social harms assessments
      will occur at most visits. Sexually transmitted infection risk reduction/contraception and
      HIV-1 secondary counseling will occur at most visits. In addition, condoms will be provided
      at all visits to reduce further HIV transmission. ART will not be provided by this study.
    
  