
    
      A three-group trial design is proposed, with an experimental group receiving true acupuncture
      at specific acupuncture points, a sham control group receiving sham acupuncture at
      non-acupuncture Acupoints with superficial needling, both in addition to routine methods of
      care, and a group receiving usual care only.

      Participants and Settings BC patients who have completed taxane-based chemotherapy and are
      currently receiving hormone treatments with the experience of joint pain will be the targeted
      study population. The study will take place in the Southwest Medical University Hospital, a
      large medical centre in Sichuan, China.

      Sample Size 55 per group (165 in total).

      The Intervention Protocol

        1. True Acupuncture Protocol will be used in the True Acupuncture Group (Experimental
           Group)

           The acupuncture intervention is described below based on the STRICTA recommendations for
           reporting acupuncture trials. Patients in the experimental group will receive, in
           addition to standard care, a standardised 30-minute acupuncture session needling
           specific acupoints although there will be flexibility in case some points cannot be
           punctured (e. g. in case of lymphoedema), and alternative points (as in routine
           practice) may be selected by the acupuncture practitioner using their discretion to
           maintain an equal dose of treatment to all patients. Bilateral acupoints will be
           stimulated. These points will include Waiguan (SJ5), Jianjing (GB21), Yanglingquan
           (GB34), Hegu (LI4), Jiexi (ST41) and Taixi (K3). In addition, joint specific acupoints
           will also be used, depending on where the joint symptoms are present. The additional
           acupoints will be:

             1. Shoulder (Bilateral Acupoints): Jianyu (LI15), Jianliao (SJ14), and Naoshu (SI10);
                The following alternative acupoints would be considered in case of some patients
                may have lymphoedema or other problem at particular sites where the above proposed
                acupoints cannot be stimulated: Quchi (LI11), Shousanli (LI10), Tianzong (SI11) and
                Taichong (LR3).

             2. Wrist (Bilateral Acupoints): Yangchi (SJ4), Yangxi (LI5), and Daling (PC7); The
                following alternative acupoints would be considered in case of some patients may
                have lymphoedema or other problem at particular sites where the above proposed
                acupoints cannot be stimulated: Zhigou (SJ6), Jianshi (PC5) and Wailaogong
                (EX-UE8).

             3. Fingers (Bilateral Acupoints): Yanggu (SI5), Houxi (SI3), and Sanjian (LI3);
                Alternative acupoints located on the wrist or forearm would be considered in case
                of some patients may have lymphoedema or other problem at particular sites where
                the above proposed acupoints cannot be stimulated.

             4. Lumbar Area (Bilateral Acupoints): Yaoyangguan (DU3), Jingsuo (DU8), and Shenyu
                (BL23); Alternative acupoint Weizhong (BL40) located on the wrist or forearm would
                be considered in case of some patients may have lymphoedema or other problem at
                particular sites where the above proposed acupoints cannot be stimulated.

             5. Hip (Bilateral Acupoints): Huantiao (GB30), Xuanzhong (GB39), and Juliao (GB29);
                The following alternative acupoints would be considered in case of some patients
                may have lymphoedema or other problem at particular sites where the above proposed
                acupoints cannot be stimulated: Fengshi (GB31) and Biguan (ST31).

             6. Knee (Bilateral Acupoints): Yinlingquan (SP9), Xuehai (SP10), and Liangqiu (ST34).

           The following alternative acupoints would be considered in case of some patients may
           have lymphoedema or other problem at particular sites where the above proposed acupoints
           cannot be stimulated: Heding (EX-LE2), Futu (ST32), Baichongwo (EX-LE3), and Xiyan
           (EX-LE5).

           Acupuncture will be twice a week for consecutive 6 weeks, thus a total of 12 sessions of
           acupuncture will be carried out.

        2. Sham Acupuncture Protocol will be used in the Sham Acupuncture Group (Sham Control
           Group) In addition to the routine methods of care, patients allocated to the sham
           control group will receive sham acupuncture treatment at sham acupoints with superficial
           needling to avoid the generation of specific treatment effects. The sham acupoints
           selected for stimulation will be those located 1-3 cm near the true acupoints used in
           the true acupuncture group. The number of the selected sham acupoints will be the same
           as those used in the true acupuncture group. Meanwhile, to maintain the homogeneity of
           the routine methods of care used across groups, the conventional care for all the
           participants in this study will include at least written education materials in terms of
           the knowledge of joint symptoms and instructions of the use of painkillers and
           non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). During the whole study period, the study
           investigators will also record any other treatments, including other complementary and
           alternative approaches, that participants may receive and view as potential confounders
           in the data analysis stage. Given the design of true and sham acupuncture groups,
           participants, study investigators and outcome assessors will not know the actual group
           assignment of the true and sham acupuncture group, and a partial blinding design is
           therefore utilized for this proposed study.

        3. Usual care wil be used in the waiting-list control group (Waiting-list Control Group)
           Participants in this group will only receive the usual care for the period that they are
           on the waiting list. But the waiting-list control group will offer acupuncture
           intervention after the completion of the RCT.

      Study Duration and Outcome Assessment The total acupuncture treatment duration will be six
      weeks, and the duration of study involvement for each participant will be around 20 weeks
      including baseline assessment, immediate post-treatment assessment after the 6-week
      acupuncture, and two follow-up assessment at 12 weeks and 20 weeks, respectively.

      Ethical Considerations A written informed consent will be obtained from every eligible person
      agreeing to participate after the risks and benefits of the study have been explained to them
      verbally and in writing. Participation in the study is on a voluntary basis, and all
      potential participants will be informed and assured that they have the right to refuse or
      withdraw from the study at any time. Personal information and data will remain confidential
      and anonymous. Side effects arising from acupuncture are rare. However, abnormal phenomena
      such as local tenderness, fainting, stuck needle, bent needle, broken needle, and haematoma
      during or after the procedure may be possible. Such conditions will be resolved quickly when
      the needles are removed, and the client's conditions will be monitored closely and recorded.
      Application for ethical approval from the Human Research Ethics Review Committee has been
      obtained from The Hong Kong Polytechnic University and the hospital where the trial will be
      carried out.

      Data Analysis Analyses will include descriptive statistics to summarise the data, analysis of
      variance to assess between-groups differences, and regression analysis (such as ANCOVA) using
      the baseline pain score as covariate. 95% CIs will also be calculated. In more detail, while
      a t-test is adequate for analysis, analysis of covariance will be used with the baseline pain
      score as a covariate and centre and trial arm as grouping factors. Equivalent analyses will
      be performed for the week 20 data (although it is acknowledged that such analyses would not
      be independent of the 12-week scores, as it is likely the week-12 and week-20 values will be
      correlated). Drop-out cases and non-respondents will be asked to complete 1 item about their
      pain levels from the BPI scale to capture outcomes in as many patients as possible in the
      intention to treat analysis.

      Significance and Implications Using robust methodology the study will investigate and
      interpret the use, delivery and outcomes of acupuncture in the management of a debilitating
      symptom of cancer therapies in order to inform decision-making and policy-making, and
      contribute to the evidence base for the treatment of hormone treatment-related joint
      symptoms. This study will provide information that can lead to improvements in the care of
      cancer patients, have a positive impact on quality of life and may increase the number of
      patients successfully completing hormone treatments. The project is about complementary
      therapies that many cancer patients frequently use, and has the potential to translate into
      benefits for patients fairly quickly. An information booklet on managing joint pains in
      breast cancer patients would also be a key outcome of the study.
    
  