
    
      Research questionnaires will be given along with the clinical intake form to all patients who
      are interested in participating in our study. Subjects will complete an electronic consent
      form and then proceed to questionnaires on a tablet computer (outlined below). The answers to
      the questions will be recorded to a secure electronic database, REDCap, along with the
      results of the overnight sleep study (when available). For the initial analysis, we will
      determine the sleep diagnosis and see which descriptors are most commonly used in association
      with each diagnosis. In addition, we will assess to what extent the sleep disorder impacts
      the patient's perception of his/her quality of life. These analyses will be simple
      correlations for the linear scales and unpaired t-tests to compare different diagnoses.

      REDCap REDCap, is a password-protected secure web application that we will use to build and
      manage our study database. REDCap is a HIPAA-compliant environment. Subjects will have a
      coded study identifier associated with their research documents and questionnaires. Only key
      personnel on this study will have access to the study database.

      Questionnaires:

        -  Work Productivity Impairement Questionnaire-The questionnaire assesses how much
           sleepiness has impacted the subject's ability to work.

        -  Language of Sleepiness Questionniare-The questionnaire will capture what descriptors
           those with sleep issues use prior to their sleep consulation.

        -  San Diego Wisdom Scale (SD-WISE) - The questionnaire assesses subject's wisdom scores.

        -  Functional Outcomes of Sleep Questionnaire - The questionnaire is a subjective measure
           of sleepiness and quality of life.

        -  Beck Depression Index II - The questionnaire assesses mental health (i.e. depression).

      Study Visit Patients that elect to participate in the study will be consented in either the
      sleep clinic conference room or sleep clinic exam room. Subjects will then complete the
      questionnaires on a tablet. The research documents and questionnaires will be hosted on
      REDCap, a secure electronic database. For participants who are not comfortable with the
      electronic format, we will provide paper copies of the questionnaires and enter their data
      manually into REDCap.

      The total study time is estimated to be <20 minutes, which includes the consent process.
      Administration of the questionnaires should take 5-7 minutes. These activities will be
      completed before the subject's sleep consultation.

      After Study Visit:

      We will access subjects' medical records to document their vitals, age, race/ethnicity,
      height, weight, date of birth, phone number, medications, medical and surgical history,
      alcohol history, illicit drug including cannabidiol, allergies, and Epworth Sleepiness Scale
      (ESS) value from the day of their study visit (i.e. first sleep consultation appointment). We
      will also collect data from their sleep study. If the subject completes a Home Sleep Test the
      following will be obtained: time to bed, wake time, apnea hypopnea index (AHI), apnea index
      (AI), hypopnea index (HI), obstructive apnea index (OAI), central apnea index (CAI), mixed
      apnea index (MAI), Cheyne - Stokes respiration, oxygen desaturation index (ODI), oxygen
      saturation, # of breaths, and pulse.
    
  