
    
      Among women who present with symptoms of depression or anxiety within 5 - 12 weeks of giving
      birth, the following research questions will be considered:

        1. Feasibility and Acceptability of the two intervention components - WBI and coaching:

           a) Among women in the coached and non-coached groups: i) What are participant
           perceptions of the usability of the WBI with regard to the layout, navigation and
           functionality at 3 months following randomization? ii) What are the rates of
           satisfaction with the intervention at 6 months? b) Among women in the coached group: i)
           What are rates of completion of the planned telephone contacts? ii) What are participant
           perceptions of the acceptability of the coaching at 6 months? iii) What are coach
           perceptions of acceptability of coaching intervention?

        2. Effectiveness: The EPDS is the primary outcome measure for depression and the GAD-7 is
           the primary outcome measure for anxiety i) Primary outcomes: What is the effect of
           coaching on the severity of depression and/or anxiety symptoms at the 3 and 6 month
           follow-up? ii). Secondary outcomes: What is the effect of coaching at 3 and 6 months on
           maternal functioning, parental stress and at 6 months on use of mental health services,
           and barriers to use of these services?

      Hypothesis: The investigators expect a decrease in scores in the EPDS and GAD-7 in the group
      with coaching when compared to the group without coaching at 6 months.

      The investigators will conduct a pilot single -blind randomized control trial with lay
      telephone coaching with two groups of women, one assigned to the WBI with coaching and the
      other to the self-guided WBI. This RCT would consist of the following steps:

        1. Recruiting a sample of women immediately post-birth(24 hrs) at SMHC and obtaining
           consent to contact them again within 5 - 12 weeks postpartum

        2. 5-12 weeks postpartum: Screen women for eligibility for RCT;

        3. Request informed consent to RCT

        4. Baseline measures (T0);

        5. Follow up at 3 months (T1) and

        6. Follow-up at 6 months (T2). Women who deliver elsewhere in the CIUSSS can be referred to
           the study at 5-12 weeks postpartum. These women then follow steps 2-6

      The participants will be asked to answer online questionnaires at each time point as
      mentioned above and use web-based resources for information and support after giving birth.
      The intervention group will receive telephone support from coaches to help answer questions
      and navigate the website material.
    
  