
    
      Current treatment of localized muscle-invasive bladder cancer is still associated with high
      relapse and death rate as well as the need for complete bladder resection or irradiation.

      In recent years, immunotherapy using PD-1 or PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICI) proved
      successful for patients with metastatic bladder cancer. The checkpoint inhibitors
      atezolizumab (anti PD-L1), pembrolizumab (anti PD-1) and nivolumab (anti PD-1) now represent
      the standard of care in the second line setting of metastatic bladder cancer and are all
      approved by Swissmedic for this indication.

      First results, in 2018, have been presented and published using immune checkpoint inhibitors
      as neoadjuvant treatment for localized muscle-invasive bladder cancer. SAKK has also
      performed a single arm phase II trial using neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy with
      cisplatin/gemcitabine in combination with the PD-L1 inhibitor durvalumab (SAKK 06/17). A
      preplanned interim analysis of the first 30 operated patients revealed a pCR rate of 30%. In
      this study, residual non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) was found in approximately
      15% of cases. While these results are encouraging, the improvement of pCR rate compared to
      cisplatin-based chemotherapy alone is small and further improvement is needed.

      BCG induces an intense local inflammatory response that mediates tumor immunity. Several
      steps are involved in mounting the inflammatory response including attachment to the
      urothelium with uptake by antigen presenting cells (APC) and putative internalization into
      urothelial cells followed by a boost of the innate immune response and induction of adaptive
      responses. Based on these findings, intravesical BCG appears to be a very interesting agent
      to enhance the immune response and act as an adjuvant agent to increase anti-tumor response
      with immune checkpoint inhibition using monoclonal antibodies such as atezolizumab. The
      combination of intravesical BCG and systemic immune checkpoint inhibition is being studied
      for patients with non-muscle invasive bladder cancer in several ongoing phase III trials.

      the investigators therefore propose to add an induction cycle of intravesical recombinant BCG
      (VPM1002BC) (total of 3 weeks) to the backbone of neoadjuvant chemo-immunotherapy with
      cisplatin/gemcitabine and atezolizumab. The trial tests the hypothesis if recombinant BCG can
      enhance systemic and local immune response and thereby increase pCR rate and consequently
      also event-free survival. Improving pCR rate would be a next step to the ultimate goal of
      omitting radical surgery or extensive local radiotherapy to the bladder for these patients.
    
  