
    
      Method:

      Subjects:

      A total of 20 subjects, 10 diagnosed as DSPS patients and 10 matched healthy controls with a
      proven normal sleep-wake cycle.

      Exclusion criteria for the recruitment would be body mass index (BMI) higher than 28 or lower
      than 22, shift-work, or chronic disease and chronic medication use.

      Procedure:

      Experiment 1- A comparison between 10 normal rhythm and 10 DSPS subjects under restricted
      sleep-wake schedule

      Stage 1: 10 day actigraphic monitoring under restricted sleep schedule (using alarm clocks):
      DSPS patients will be awakened at 7:00 a.m., and control subjects will be awakened at 3:00
      a.m.

      Stage 2: A 36 hour monitoring of the following measures: body temperature, melatonin,
      cortisol, Ghrelin, subjective hunger sensation and eating behavior. The subjects will be
      provided with ad-libitum food and will be instructed to eat whatever they like, whenever they
      feel hungry.

      Experiment 2- A comparison between 10 normal rhythm and 10 DSPS subjects under ad-libitum
      sleep conditions

      Stage 1: A 10 day actigraphic monitoring under ad-libitum sleep schedule. Patients will be
      instructed to go to sleep whenever they feel tired and avoid any means of unnatural
      awakening.

      Stage 2: similar to experiment 1.

      Experiment 3- Examination of DSPS patients under melatonin administration and ad libitum
      sleep, after 12 weeks of treatment

      Stage 1: A 10 day actigraphic monitoring under ad-libitum sleep schedule. Patients will be
      instructed to go to sleep whenever they feel tired and avoid any means of unnatural
      awakening. Melatonin will be taken according to the medical instruction (usually at 22:00).

      Stage 2: similar to experiment 1.

      Measurements:

      Subjective hunger sensation will be measured with Visual Analogue Scale ratings for appetite
      assessment (Flint et al. 2000; Oh et al. 2002; Parker et al. 2004).

      Timing of meals and eating behavior will be recorded by the experimenter during the 36-hr
      monitoring.

      Sleep-wake rhythm (normal or DSPS) will be determined using the Actiwatch wrist activity
      monitoring system (Actiwatch, Cambridge Neurotechnology LTD.)

      Plasma levels of Ghrelin: will be sampled every 2 hours for 36 hours. An intravenous catheter
      will be placed on the subject's arm 30 minutes prior to the first blood sampling. Blood
      samples will be collected with chilled Vacutainer EDTA tubes and immediately centrifuged.
      Plasma Ghrelin will be measured using commercial radioimmunoassay (RIA- Phoenix
      Pharmaceuticals).

      Salivary levels of Melatonin and Cortisol: Saliva will be collected by placing wool swab of
      plain Salivettes (Sarstedt, Disposable Products, Regency Park, Adelaide) into the mouths of
      the subjects with chewing for 5 min. Saliva samples will be taken at a total of 18 time
      points over a 36-h period for each subject. The samples will be kept in Salivette tubes in
      the refrigerator at ±4 ºC until the end of each 24-h period. The Salivette tubes will be
      centrifuged for 15 min at 3000 ´g and the samples frozen at -20 ºC until assayed.

      Melatonin treatment: Subjects with DSPS in the treatment group will be treated with melatonin
      according to a standard protocol for 3 months before the experiment.

      Oral temperature: will be measured using standard medical mercury thermometer, placed under
      the tongue for 3 minutes at a total of 18 time points over a 36-h period right after the
      saliva sample collection.

      Analysis Assays of Melatonin and cortisol: Melatonin in saliva was measured by a direct
      radioimmunoassay (RIA). The kit is manufactured by LDN GmbH & Co, KG, Nordhorn Germany
      (Cat-No: DSL-BA-1200) and is specially made for the quantitative determination of melatonin
      in saliva. The cross-reactivity of the assay for N-acetylserotonin, 5-methoxytryptophol, and
      5-methoxytryptamine is 0.80%, 0.70%, and 0.08%. Serotonin, 5-methoxyindole-3-acetic acid is <
      0.01%, respectively. The sensitivity of the assay is 1 ng/L. The intra- and inter-variations
      are 11.3% and 12%, respectively. Salivary cortisol concentrations were measured with a
      competitive solid-stage radioimmunoassay [Coat-A-Count, Diagnostic Products Corp (DPC)]. The
      protocol followed the instructions of Coat-Count Free Cortisol in Saliva kit from DPC.

      Ghrelin assay: Plasma immunoreactive ghrelin levels will be measured in duplicate using a
      commercial radioimmunoassay (RIA) that uses 125I-labeled bioactive ghrelin as a tracer and a
      rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against full-length octanoylated human ghrelin (Phoenix
      Pharmaceuticals, Belmont, CA).

      Setting:

      The experiments will take place at the Institute for Sleep and Fatigue medicine, the Chaim
      Sheba Medical Center, Tel Hashomer.
    
  