
    
      More than a decade after the seminal Institute Of Medicine report, "To Err is Human", failure
      rates in patient safety remain stubbornly high in hospitals. Prior efforts to improve
      hospital quality have had relatively little impact, in part due to limited access to timely
      quality improvement data. The long-term goal of this application is to leverage existing
      technologies to give voice to hospitalized patients and their family members, leading to
      improvements in hospital safety and quality. The overall objective in this application is to
      create and evaluate a tool that gathers patient and family member feedback and makes it
      rapidly available to providers, enabling nimble and responsive safety and quality improvement
      efforts. The central hypothesis, based on the theory of co-production, is that observations
      from patients and families, gathered in a structured way, will provide actionable information
      regarding patient safety and quality. The rationale for doing this project is to test an
      innovative new approach to creating a rapidly available data stream to providers who are
      working on specific improvement efforts, and a mechanism for creating a quality improvement
      approach that is inherently patient-centered. The investigators plan to test the central
      hypothesis and thereby accomplish the objective of this application by focusing on the
      following areas of research for Health IT: Use, Implementation, and Impact on Outcomes, under
      the study type "Pilot and feasibility", pursuing three specific aims: Aim 1. Determine
      feasibility and acceptability of the patient data collection and provider dashboard tool (Use
      and Implementation). The investigators will conduct usability testing prior to study start,
      measure user (patients and providers) engagement over time, and gather feedback about the
      tool at study end. The investigators hypothesize that patient and caregiver characteristics
      will predict tool use. Aim 2. Assess whether reporting patient- and caregiver- observed
      processes of care to providers leads to changes over time (Implementation). The investigators
      hypothesize that performance on structured items of interest will improve over time with
      rapidly available data presented to providers. Aim 3. Estimate tool implementation effect
      sizes, using a pre-post design, on medical errors (Impact on outcomes). The proposed research
      is innovative, in the investigators' opinion, based on a paradigm-shifting conceptual model
      of patient-engaged quality improvement, and because it leverages technology to gather and
      present data in an unprecedented manner. The expected contribution of the proposed research
      will be an adapted tool that will gather meaningful and important data on patient safety and
      present it in an actionable way to providers and hospital leaders, resulting in a powerful
      data stream to fuel rapid improvements in patient safety. Pilot data from this proposal will
      inform the design of a future cluster-randomized trial of the new tool across multiple
      hospital systems. This contribution will be significant because it represents key steps
      towards a new approach to improving patient safety in the hospital.
    
  