
    
      Tobacco use is the leading preventable death contributing to more than 5 million estimated
      deaths per year globally.1 Nicotine is a highly addictive substance and tobacco remains the
      only legal product that, when used as intended, kills. The long term negative effects of
      smoking are well established.

      Ten percent of all current and former smokers live with chronic disease. Among current
      smokers who are ill, the most prevalent conditions are chronic bronchitis, emphysema, and
      myocardial infarction.2 Moreover complications due to smoking from an orthopaedic perspective
      are well established. With respect to orthopaedic trauma literature, smoking impairs
      osteoblastic function, and propagates vasoconstriction resulting in delayed or non -unions.3
      Its use has a 3-6 fold increased risk of intra- operative pulmonary complications, impairs
      wound healing4, healing of bone, soft tissues, and can lead to flap necrosis. 4-7 Furthermore
      smokers are twice as likely to develop an infection and 3.7 times as likely to develop
      osteomyelitis8.

      Smoking cessation programs are essential in achieving a sustainable health care system.
      Health care costs for smokers at a given age are as much as 40 percent higher than those for
      non smokers. 9 The cost of treatment of tobacco related illness in British Columbia in 2004
      was estimated to be 500 million CDN dollars. The total annual cost of treatment for
      conditions related to second hand smoke exposure in North Carolina and Minnesota in 2006
      alone were estimated to be greater than 290 and 225 million US dollars respectively. 10, 11

      The role of the healthcare practitioner has been recognized as of paramount importance in
      smoking cessation. These programs rely on the Transtheoretical Model of patient behavioral
      change. In order to maximize intervention a clinician is to provide counseling, motivation,
      education, monitoring, and empathy to personalized smoking cessation intervention programs
      with extended assistance and follow-up12. Multiple fields of medicine have established
      smoking cessation programs either pre-operatively or during hospitalization. Randomized
      control trials (RCTs) of hospitalized cardiac patients have exhibited decreased rates of non
      fatal infarctions, and re-operation, reduced risk and rates of mortality.13 A systematic
      review revealed 8 pre- operative RCTs that have been performed to date across multiple
      surgical disciplines with a total of 1156 enrolled patients. Their strategies for counseling
      and follow up varied. All had more than 20% loss to follow up and this was limited to a
      maximum of 12 months. However there was a significant decrease in post-operative
      complications and cessation was maintained at the 12 month follow up.14

      Despite the availability of smoking cessation interventions, traditionally they have been
      underutilized, in part due to frustration, lack of clinician training and organizational
      support, especially in Orthopaedic Surgery12. Only a single randomized control trial within
      the setting of an acute fracture clinic has been published to date.15 This multicentred trial
      in Sweden utilized a standardized 6 week cessation program with nicotine replacement therapy
      if the patient in the intervention group desired. It captured only 18% of the potential
      candidates and was limited to a 12 week follow up. Long term cessation rates were not
      evaluated.

      The acute fracture clinic is a unique environment to establish a smoking cessation program in
      order to achieve primary prevention. Previously healthy patients are faced with the impact of
      disability and a unique relationship based on trust is established between patients and their
      surgeons. Given the negative orthopaedic outcomes associated with smoking aforementioned,
      patients present as an engaged audience, faced with the possibility of chronic disability
      (poor surgical/fracture outcome) attributed to the continuation of smoking habits. This
      impetus to abstain for the benefit of fracture outcomes provides a window of opportunity for
      previously unattained early intervention and thus a greater potential for decreased patient
      morbidity and mortality. Furthermore, the acute fracture clinic is a high volume clinic
      whereby as many as 100 patients may visit per clinic per day (patients from regions within
      the Champlain Local Health Integration Network [LHIN] where smoking prevalence is as high as
      30%). Given the unique nature of traumatic injuries, this population consists of a high
      proportion of males, ages 24-34 years old, who are obliged to follow up for fracture care.
      This population (24-35 year old males) is traditionally regarded as unattainable for primary
      prevention smoking cessation strategies.

      Primary prevention strategies are paramount from a public health perspective. In targeting a
      well established smoking cessation campaign in a fracture clinic with the partnership from
      the University of Ottawa Heart Institute's Division of Prevention and Rehabilitation,
      patients will be provided expert cessation strategies before the onset of smoking relating
      disease. The benefits of which extend beyond the patient to their families. The ultimate goal
      of this project is to develop an intervention model that can be cost effective and
      universally applied to all orthopaedic clinics within North America. A great potential exists
      to increase smoking cessation rates, and decrease orthopaedic trauma smoking related
      morbidity, long term smoking related morbidity, mortality and health care costs.
    
  