
    
      Osteoarthritis (OA) is one of the most disabling diseases in developed countries. Pain is the
      most uncomfortable symptom, often difficult to manage because it is aggravated by weight
      bearing and movement of hip and knee joints. Paracetamol, traditional
      nonsteroidal-anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), and cyclooxygenase (COX) -2 specific
      inhibitors may relieve pain of joints origin. NSAIDs and COX-2 inhibitors have many
      potentially serious side effects, especially in elderly patients. The 2008 and 2009
      guidelines now recommend weak opioids or low doses of strong opioids when paracetamol, with
      or without topical NSAIDs, does not relieve pain sufficiently. However, whereas several
      randomized controlled studies have showed analgesic effects in musculoskeletal disease,
      adverse effects are common, and about 50% discontinue opioid treatment because of adverse
      effects.

      Meanwhile, intra-articular (IA) opioid injection has been studied for some time. Opioid
      binding receptors have been identified within synovium of joint space, suggesting that
      analgesic effect of opioid injected into IA space may be locally mediated. When injected at
      the end of arthroscopic surgery, IA opioid could reduce postoperative pain through peripheral
      opioid receptors. It has also been reported to reduce pain through other pathways such as
      inflammatory reaction.

      We suggest the method of application of buprenorphine transdermal patch instead of
      intra-articular injection and the hypothesis that application of opioid transdermal patch on
      painful joint would transport opioid component to joint space by diffusion. This hypothesis
      had been named Jong's hypothesis after Jong Bum Choi, the originator. We had applied
      buprenorphine transdermal patch at painful knee joint in knee OA patients, and they had
      showed good analgesic effect and low adverse effects. The purpose of this research is to show
      the analgesic effects, adverse effects and compliance of buprenorphine transdermal patch
      applied on painful knee joint in knee OA patients and compare knee applied group with
      conventional chest applied group in all parameters.

      In medical records, we will retrospectively enroll about 200 patients with OA who were not
      responds to conventional therapy. Inclusion criteria were as next. 1) Age over 20, 2)
      diagnosis of osteoarthritis of the knee by radiographic evidence of osteoarthritis of the
      knee, as defined by Grades II to IV of the Kellgren and Lawrence scale, 3) Pain score over 4
      in NRS from the relevant joint 4) buprenorphine transdermal patch prescribed in unilateral OA
      of knee. Exclusion criteria were as next. 1) total knee replacement surgery history, 2)
      patients treated with weak or strong opioid analgesics, 3) patients had contraindications to
      treatment with opioid medication, such as history of alcohol or substance abuse, 4) patients
      had clinically significant systemic disease or any reduced organ function, 5) patient was
      using antidepressants, antiepileptic drug, steroids, hypnotics (that may increase respiratory
      depression of buprenorphine). Patients were divided two groups. One group is the patients
      with chest applied buprenorphine transdermal patch, and the other group is the patients with
      painful knee joint applied buprenorphine transdermal patch.

      NRS will be checked before and next visit (at 2 weeks or 1month after prescription of
      buprenorphine transdermal patch). Adverse effects of buprenorphine transdermal patches will
      be checked and recorded. Compliance of buprenorphine transdermal patch was investigated. All
      parameters will be compared in chest applied group with knee applied group.

      The t-test will be used to compare the chest applied group and knee applied group in
      demographic data. The Mann-Whitney test, Chi-squared test, and Fisher's exact test will be
      used to compare two groups in NRS, adverse effects, compliance and dose of buprenorphine. All
      statistical analyses will be performed by use of R software, version 3.5.1. A p-value less
      than 0.05 will be considered to be statistically significant.
    
  