
    
      Iron deficiency (ID) is the most common cause of the anemia throughout the world, with almost
      half of the population in developing countries suffering from ID. Children with iron
      deficiency anemia (IDA) may have functional consequences including impaired motor and
      physical growth. In the case of IDA, the underlying cause should be identified and treated.
      Iron supplementation remains an important strategy for the prevention and treatment of IDA
      and can produce substantial improvements in the functional performance of iron deficient
      individuals.

      The iron-containing preparations available on the market vary widely in dosage, salt, and
      chemical state of iron (ferrous or ferric form). Current treatment strategy for IDA involves
      the oral use of Fe2+ salts (Fe SO4) and Fe3+ polymaltose complexes (FeOH3). Most of these
      preparations vary in their bioavailability, efficacy, side effects, and cost. Animal studies
      have not shown any significant difference in their oral bioavailability. However, in clinical
      practice, bivalent iron salts such as ferrous sulfate (Fe-S), ferrous gluconate, and ferrous
      fumarate are more widely used and are preferred over ferric iron preparations. Fe-S
      preparations usually present good bioavailability (between 10 and 15 %), while
      bioavailability of ferric iron preparations is 3 to 4 times less than that of conventional
      Fe-S. This is due to the extremely poor solubility of ferric iron in alkaline media and the
      fact that ferric iron needs to be transformed into ferrous iron before being absorbed. For
      this reason, among ferrous preparations, Fe-S remains the established and the standard
      treatment of ID due to its acceptable tolerability, high effectiveness, and low cost. The aim
      of the present study was to compare the effectiveness of the different oral iron preparations
      in children with IDA.
    
  