
    
      All patients with Multiple Myeloma seen at Mayo Clinic Arizona who are undergoing evaluation
      for autologous stem cell transplant will be identified for potential candidacy by BMT
      transplant coordinator staff and referred to CRC study staff for final screen of candidacy
      over a period of 12 months. If eligible, ≤ 30 days prior to transplant CRC study staff will
      meet with patient for consent and undergo 1:1 randomization to Tai Chi versus educational
      control arm (N: 70). No earlier than 7 days prior to transplant all patients will attend a 1
      hour session consisting of Tai Chi techniques or receive educational materials depending on
      the patients prior randomization and will start their intervention, subject diary and support
      materials will be provided. Patients will be asked to perform 30 minutes of intervention
      daily (Tai Chi versus educational control) and document minutes and quality of practice in
      their subject diary. On day 1 of autologous stem cell transplant CRC staff will administer
      the baseline questionnaires (NIH PROMIS Short form questionnaires for pain, depression,
      anxiety, social isolation, and sleep). Patients will continue their intervention (Tai chi
      versus educational control) daily throughout autologous stem cell transplant and record
      intervention fidelity in patient diary. On day 14 of transplant the NIH PROMIS
      questionnaires, perceived benefit questionnaire, and the meditative movement inventory for
      the Tai chi group only will be collected. Data collection for secondary outcomes including
      time to engraftment, incidence of febrile neutropenia, days of hospitalization, etc will be
      also gathered. Patients will continue intervention through transplant day 30 (+/- 5 days) at
      which time, CRC staff will collect subject diary, administer NIH PROMIS questionnaires, and a
      perceived benefit questionnaire. Adherence reminders will be executed once per week by CRC
      staff from date of initiation of intervention to completion of study.

      The intervention to be tested, TCEasy, is a standardized protocol that was developed by Dr.
      Roger Jahnke and has been used in several prior studies including a recently completed
      NIH/NCCAM-funded randomized controlled trial (RCT) with breast cancer survivors (U01
      AT002706-03: PI Linda Larkey, PhD, Arizona State University, primary outcome paper currently
      under review). Participants will be given a written instruction manual for the Tai Chi
      exercises to refer to after training has been administered.
    
  