
    
      This is a minimal-risk, behavioral clinical trial for adult parents and their children
      (2;6-4;0). The purpose of this study is to determine if and how parent language skills and
      behavioral awareness influence early language interactions and parent training. Participants
      will include parent-child dyads in three groups: 1) children who are typically developing
      (TD; Study 1 and 2), 2) children at risk for persistent developmental language disorder (DLD;
      Study 1 and 2), and 3) children with autism spectrum disorder and at risk for persistent DLD
      (ASD+DLD; Study 2). The investigators will examine whether parental language skills predict
      early language interaction quality (Aim 1; Study 1), whether parental behavioral awareness
      predicts modifiability during training (Aim 2; Study 2), and whether these predictors vary
      across children-specifically TD children, children with DLD, or with ASD+DLD (Aim 3; Study
      2). The primary outcome measure will be parents' use of language stimulation strategies. The
      secondary outcome measure will be the number of adult-child conversational turns. The
      investigators hypothesize that parent language skills (Study 1) and behavioral awareness
      (Study 2) will be positively associated with the outcomes. However, the strength of the
      association may vary across the groups. The Study 1 protocol will involve a screening session
      and observational data collection sessions (TD and DLD groups). Study 1 will be a fully
      remote model of data collection. The Study 2 protocol will involve five sessions-baseline
      data collection (all groups), three parent training sessions (DLD and ASD+DLD), and follow-up
      data collection (all groups) across approximately five weeks. Study 2 will be conducted in a
      hybrid (in-person and remote) model. The investigators will collect data from demographic
      questionnaires, language and learning assessments, measures of parental behavioral awareness,
      and measures of parent-child language interaction quality (Study 1 and 2). These measures
      will be administered before and after three parent training sessions (Study 2). These
      sessions will follow the Teach-Model-Coach-Review framework (TMCR; 1) to train the Enhanced
      Milieu Teaching (EMT) strategies of responsive interaction, matched turns, language modeling,
      and expansions. After the training, parent-child dyads will complete the structured
      interaction and behavioral awareness tasks again (Study 2). The investigators will conduct
      inter- and intra-group analyses to explore the relationships between the independent (i.e.,
      parent language abilities and behavioral awareness) and dependent (i.e., parent-child
      language interaction quality and parent modifiability during training) variables.
    
  