
    
      1. INTRODUCTION AND RATIONALE

           1.1 MEDICAL BACKGROUND

           Atrial septal defect (ASD) represents approximately 10% of all congenital heart diseases
           and is the third most common form of congenital heart defect. The incidence of
           congenital heart disease in Belgium is 1%, with ASD accounting for 25% of the cases
           (Data from the database of congenital heart diseases UZ Leuven.) Characterized by a free
           communication between the left and the right atrium, it may take the form of an ostium
           secundum defect (in the region of the fossa ovalis); an ostium primum defect (in the
           lower part of the atrial septum and associated with mitral regurgitation) or a sinus
           venosus defect (in the upper atrial septum and associated with anomalous drainage of one
           or more pulmonary veins)

           Patients with atrial septal defect (ASD) initially present with a left-to-right shunt,
           which may cause elevated pulmonary artery pressures at rest and/or during exercise.
           However, this persistently elevated pulmonary blood-flow also causes progressive lesions
           of the pulmonary vasculature, as first described by Heath and Edwards. The earlier
           stages present with medial hypertrophy and/or intimal proliferation and are largely
           reversible after closure of the defect. Later stages, however, are irriversible: the
           origin of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH). Eventually, this volume and pressure
           overload of the right heart may lead to heart failure and/or arrhythmias. As PVR exceeds
           systemic resistance, the shunt is reversed (right-to-left shunt) leading to systemic
           arterial desaturation (and the related consequences: polyglobulia, hyperuricemia,
           decreased renal function and abnormal coagulation): the Eisenmenger syndrome (ES). When
           occlusive fibrotic lesions have developed later in life, closure of the ASD, although
           still feasible, may not result in complete normalization of pulmonary artery pressures.
           Moreover, it has been shown that closure after the age of 40 years is associated with
           worse outcome. It has been suggested that an abnormal increase in pulmonary artery
           pressures during exercise reflects mild pulmonary vascular disease. However, pulmonary
           artery pressures are defined by both cardiac output and pulmonary vascular resistance.
           During exercise, the relationship between pulmonary artery pressures and cardiac output
           is slightly curvilinear because of a natural distensibility of the pulmonary arterioles.
           Using bicycle stress echocardiography, pulmonary vascular resistance can be estimated
           either as a ratio of pulmonary artery pressure and cardiac output at each stage (total
           PVR) or by using linear regression analysis of the pressure-flow plots (dynamic PVR).

           Prognosis of patients with unrepaired ASDs is thought to be shortened and repair can
           avoid right ventricular (RV) failure, pulmonary hypertension, thrombo-embolic events and
           atrial dysrrhythmias. So, when the defect is discovered early, an ASD is usually closed
           in childhood, unless the defect is considered not to be clinical significant. Sometimes,
           as most patients with an isolated ASD are asymptomatic during childhood, an ASD comes to
           medical attention at an older age.

           Patients with a corrected ASD have a poorer prognosis than patients in a control group,
           especially in the presence of PAH, which confers an eightfold increased probability of
           functional limitations. In the Euroheart survey PAH was present in 12% of patients with
           a closed ASD. As PAH is a progressive disease, early diagnosis and treatment may improve
           outcome in these patients.

           A first analysis of data obtained from the registry of ASD showed that in the
           transcatheter closed ASD patients, mPAP was the only independent predictor of atrial
           arrhythmia after ASD repair. Moreover, our first prospective study showed that it is
           possible to identify patients with mild pulmonary vascular disease using stress
           echocardiography and that patients with an ASD closed at later age were unable to
           decrease pulmonary vascular resistance during exercise, resulting in a higher pulmonary
           vascular resistance at peak exercise when compared to a control group. This was
           reflected in a steeper pressure-flow plot when compared to healthy controls. Endothelin
           has shown to influence vasomotor tone, especially during exercise. Moreover, Faoro et al
           showed that bosentan decreased pulmonary vascular resistance as assessed with
           pressure-flow plots during hypoxia. Therefore, this study was designed to evaluate the
           effect of an dual endothelin receptor antagonist on total pulmonary vascular resistance
           during exercise in an older ASD patient population.

           1.2 DRUG PROFILE

           Mechanism of action

           Bosentan is a dual endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) with affinity for both
           endothelin A and B (ET-A and ET-B) receptors. Bosentan decreases both pulmonary and
           systemic vascular resistance resulting in increased cardiac output without increasing
           heart rate.

           The neurohormone endothelin-1 (ET-1) is one of the most potent vasoconstrictors known
           and can also promote fibrosis, cell proliferation, cardiac hypertrophy, and remodeling
           and is pro-inflammatory. These effects are mediated by endothelin binding to ET-A and
           ET-B receptors located in the endothelium and vascular smooth muscle cells. ET-1
           concentrations in tissues and plasma are increased in several cardiovascular disorders
           and connective tissue diseases, including pulmonary arterial hypertension, scleroderma,
           acute and chronic heart failure, myocardial ischaemia, systemic hypertension and
           atherosclerosis, suggesting a pathogenic role of ET-1 in these diseases. In pulmonary
           arterial hypertension and heart failure, in the absence of endothelin receptor
           antagonism, elevated ET-1 concentrations are strongly correlated with the severity and
           prognosis of these diseases.

           Bosentan competes with the binding of ET-1 and other ET peptides to both ET-A and ET-B
           receptors, with a slightly higher affinity for ET-A receptors (Ki = 4.1-43 nM) than for
           ET-B receptors (Ki = 38-730 nM). Bosentan specifically antagonises ET receptors and does
           not bind to other receptors.

           1.3 RATIONALE FOR PERFORMING THE STUDY

           Although an ASD seems an easily correctable defect, patients with a repaired ASD have a
           poorer prognosis than patients in a control group, especially in the presence of PAH,
           which confers an eightfold increased probability of functional limitations. In the
           Euroheart survey PAH was present in 12% of patients with a closed ASD. Whether it is
           useful to treat mild to moderate pulmonary vascular disease after repair of an ASD with
           specific PAH treatment in order to have a positive effect on exercise capacity and even
           outcome outcome still needs to be evaluated.

           As outlined in section 1.1, the investigators were able to identify patients with mild
           pulmonary vascular disease using bicycle exercise echocardiography. Patients with an ASD
           repaired after the age of 40 years appeared to have higher PVR when compared to healthy
           controls. Moreover, in older patients a higher mPAP at diagnosis was an independent
           predictor for the occurrence of late atrial arrhythmias.

           Therefore, the present study will investigate whether bosentan has a beneficial effect
           on PVR as measured with bicycle stress echocardiography in patients with repaired ASD
           and WHO FC II mild pulmonary vascular disease using dynamic PVR as a surrogate endpoint.

           1.3.1 DOSE AND POSOLOGY

           Treatment will be initiated at a dose of 62.5 mg twice daily for 4 weeks and then
           increased to the maintenance dose of 125 mg twice daily for 12 weeks.

           Dosage in elderly patients: No dosage adjustment in required in patients over the age of
           65 years.

        2. STUDY OBJECTIVES

           The primary efficacy objective is to assess the efficacy of the dual active endothelin
           receptor antagonist bosentan in patients with WHO functional class II mild to moderate
           PAH after surgical or interventional closure of an ASD .

        3. STUDY DESIGN

      This is a prospective, monocentric, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, pilot study
      to evaluate the efficacy of dual active endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan in patients
      with WHO FC II, mild pulmonary vascular disease after ASD repair.

      4 STATISTICAL METHODS AND DETERMINATION OF SAMPLE SIZE

      The null hypothesis of the study is that in patients receiving specific PAH treatment no
      change in PVR is observed. This trial aims to demonstrate to efficacy of bosentan to lower
      PVR as assessed by bicycle exercise echocardiography in patients with surgically or
      transcatheter closed ASD.

      5 RANDOMISATION

      Patients will be randomly assigned to treatment groups with equal probability of assignment
      to each treatment arm (allocation ratio 1:1). The randomisation schedule will be generated
      using validated software. The investigators will remain blinded to the randomisation schedule
      until after the final database is locked. The randomisation schedule will be examined only if
      required by an emergency. Any such break should be documented clearly.

      6 SAMPLE SIZE CALCULATION

      As the study design is considered as a pilot trial, it primarily aims at defining means and
      standard deviations in both treatment arms in order to allow for future sample size
      calculations.
    
  