
    
      Patients with cancer have a high risk of pulmonary embolism and deep vein thrombosis (DVT).
      The approach to clinically suspected deep vein thrombosis starts with the evaluation of the
      clinical probability of disease followed by the measurement of the circulating levels of the
      D-dimer. The presence of the thrombus is objectively demonstrated by compression
      ultrasonography. In patients without cancer and clinically suspected DVT, a low clinical
      probability combined with a normal d-dimer result exclude the presence of DVT and compression
      ultrasonography can be withheld. In patients with cancer, signs and symptoms of the cancer
      disease may mimic those of DVT shifting the result of the clinical probability scores towards
      high probabilities. In addition, the presence of cancer is part of the Wells score which
      further increases the chance to end up with a higher overall score and thus higher
      probability. Eventually, patients with cancer are more often classified as at high clinical
      probability than patients without cancer.

      The d-dimer test is poorly specific in the presence of cancer disease and its results are
      often positive as the consequence of the cancer, the cancer treatments or the concomitant
      comorbidities.

      As a result of the poor specificity of the clinical scores and d-dimer test, these initial
      diagnostic steps have limited usefulness in patients with cancer who often need to undergo
      ultrasonography.

      The aim of the current study is to analyze variables that predict the presence of thrombosis
      and may improve the accuracy of the Wells score. In addition, various cut-offs of the D-dimer
      will be evaluated with the goal of improving the sensibility and specificity of the test.

      Study design: prospective cohort of cancer patients with clinically suspected DVT.

      Objectives: to evaluate the clinical and demographic variables that predict the presence of
      DVT and may improve the accuracy of the Wells score in cancer patients. The sensibility and
      specificity of different cut-offs of the D-dimer will be also evaluated.

      Inclusion criteria All ambulatory cancer patients with clinically suspected DVT. All patients
      will be managed with the calculation of the Wells score, the measurement of the D-dimer. The
      presence of DVT will be ascertained by whole-leg ultrasonography performed independently of
      the results of the Wells and D-dimer. A phone contact/visit at 3 months will verify the
      development of venous thromboembolic complications in all patients in whom DVT was initially
      excluded by ultrasonography.
    
  