
    
      Regular physical activity, such as walking, running, or biking, is known to have substantial
      health benefits. Exercise is important not only in weight management, but also in reducing
      the risk of certain diseases and promoting psychological well being. In fact, each year about
      1.9 million deaths are attributed to physical inactivity, making programs to promote
      increased physical activity a public health priority. Public parks are easily accessible
      recreational areas, and they provide beneficial places to implement programs that encourage
      physical activity among community members. Using information on park use and assessments of
      community feedback may help improve park outreach, programming, and features aimed to
      increase physical activity in the community. This study will compare two approaches to park
      programming and will determine which approach is best at increasing physical activity within
      the community. The first approach is CBPR, a research program that involves community members
      in scientific and systematic park assessments that are then analyzed to guide park
      programming. The second approach simply provides park utilization and community feedback data
      to park directors to guide park programming.

      Park participation in this study will last 1 year. Participating parks will be assigned
      randomly to one of three conditions:

        -  Parks assigned to Condition 1 will participate in CBPR, which will include assessments
           of observations and surveys about park programs and facilities. Anonymous members of the
           surrounding community will be involved in the assessments, which will be conducted at
           baseline and Year 1.

        -  Parks assigned to Condition 2 will receive the director-only condition. These parks will
           not take part in any assessments, but park directors will be provided with park
           utilization data, community feedback, and ways to improve park features to increase
           physical activity.

        -  Parks assigned to Condition 3 will receive the control condition and will not take part
           in the assessments or be provided with park utilization data and community feedback.

      Administrative data about parks and park functions will also be collected from all
      participating parks.
    
  