
    
      Study Description: This protocol leverages existing NIMH studies and participants to
      accomplish time-sensitive research on the mental health impact of environmental stressors
      imposed by the COVID-19 pandemic. The study will describe the relationship between stressors
      related to COVID-19 and self-rated measures of mental health symptoms and distress among a
      range of participants including various patient populations and healthy volunteers. The
      utilization of a study website to consent and survey participants online is an efficient and
      timely way to collect research data during this unique public health crisis.

      Objectives: The primary objective is to describe the relationship between stressors related
      to COVID-19 and self-rated measures of mental health symptoms and distress among a range of
      participants including various patient populations and healthy volunteers. The secondary
      objectives are to determine whether existing mental health concerns moderates this
      relationship and to identify risk and resilience factors among study participants regarding
      the mental health impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.

      Endpoints: The primary endpoints are descriptive data on stressors experienced as a result of
      the COVID-19 pandemic, and emotional, behavioral, and clinical symptoms. These endpoints will
      be measured repeatedly using an online platform for up to 6 months. These repeated measures
      will be combined with previously collected phenotype data on NIMH participants as allowed.

      Study Population: The sample size will be up to 10,000 and will include participants 18 years
      and older of both sexes, any gender, and health status. They must be English-speaking. The
      study population will include patient and volunteer participants who have consented for a
      NIMH study in the past as well as new participants from the general population who respond to
      advertisements for the NIMH COVID study but who have not previously been a NIMH study
      participant. The NIMH COVID study participants may or may not be local to the Metropolitan
      Washington DC area but since the study will be conducted entirely online, this is not
      relevant.
    
  