
    
      Sclerostin is a 22-kDa glycoprotein encoded by the SOST gene. This glycoprotein is almost
      exclusively synthesized by osteocytes that are not present near the bone surface but lie in
      the mineralized cortical and cancellous bone (3).

      Sclerostin can exert its inhibitory effects on bone formation by not only inhibiting
      proliferation, differentiation and function of osteoblast cells but also facilitating their
      apoptosis(4).

      Wnt/β-catenin signalling pathway participates in bone homeostasis and diseases.(5,6) But
      beyond that, many lines of evidence derived from cell cultures and animal studies indicate
      that this signalling pathway plays a prominent role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis
      and vascular calcification(VC) (7-10).

      Serum sclerostin levels in CKD patients are remarkably higher than those in the normal
      population, with their values increasing across the CKD stages(4,11).

      However; the studies on the association of serum sclerostin with VC and mortality in renal
      disease patients have yielded conflicting results. Some investigations showed a positive
      correlation, whereas others suggested no or even negative correlation(12).

      VC occurs frequently in CKD patients and its incidence increases across the CKD stages (19).
      Notably, VC is associated with cardiovascular events (CVEs) and poor prognosis in CKD. It is
      well recognized that VC occurs in the early years of kidney disease patients recently, even
      prior to the occurrence of disordered phosphate homeostasis.VC is recognized as a
      pathological process of osteogenesis initiated by inflammatory factors in vessels(20).

      The upregulation of sclerostin in calcified tissues led researchers and clinicians to come up
      with a hypothesis that sclerostin may be related to the pathogenic mechanism of VC in renal
      disease patients, leading to a large number of studies to examine the association between
      sclerostin and VC in CKD patients. However, these studies reported inconsistent results, with
      some studies showing positive association between sclerostin and VC in CKD patients,(21-24)
      whereas others showing negative association (25-28) or no association at all(29).

      As in CKD patients, kidney transplant recipients' (KTRs') VC strongly predicts cardiovascular
      events and all-cause mortality over conventional risk factors.
    
  