
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To monitor outcome to ensure that children and young adults with localized central nervous
      system (CNS) non-germinomatous germ cell tumors (NGGCT) treated with induction chemotherapy
      followed by response evaluation and whole ventricular + spinal canal irradiation (WVSCI) will
      maintain the excellent 2-year progression free survival (PFS) rate as compared to ACNS0122.

      II. To improve disease control by decreasing the number of spinal relapses for patients who
      achieve a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) and receive WVSCI as compared to
      whole ventricular radiation on ACNS1123.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate the response rates to induction chemotherapy and WVSCI for localized NGGCT
      patients who achieve a CR/PR.

      II. To estimate the PFS and overall survival (OS) for localized NGGCT patients who achieve a
      CR/PR and receive WVSCI.

      III. To estimate the PFS and OS for patients with less than a CR/PR after high-dose
      chemotherapy with peripheral stem cell rescue (HDCSCR).

      IV. To estimate the response rate for patients with less than a CR/PR after HDCSCR.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To prospectively compare outcomes based on radiation modality, photon versus proton,
      including cognitive, social and behavioral functioning, auditory, and neuro-endocrine
      function.

      II. To compare spinal column growth and cell counts following radiation as measured by height
      and weight, and complete blood count (CBC) values during and after radiation therapy, based
      on treatment modality (photon versus [vs.] proton therapy) and planned inclusion/exclusion of
      the vertebral body in patients < 13 years of age.

      III. To compare local vs. central review recommendations for second-look surgery and document
      barriers for performing such surgeries as well as their clinical benefit in pediatric NGGCT.

      IV. To prospectively evaluate and longitudinally model the cognitive, social, and behavioral
      functioning of children and young adults with localized CNS NGGCT with testing as per the
      Children's Oncology Group (COG) Standardized Neuropsychological and Behavioral Battery.

      V. To evaluate patterns of disease recurrence/failure with respect to radiation dose
      distribution.

      OUTLINE:

      INDUCTION CHEMOTHERAPY: Patients receive carboplatin intravenously (IV) over 15-60 minutes on
      day 1 and etoposide IV over 90-120 minutes on days 1-3 of cycles 1, 3, and 5. Patients also
      receive ifosfamide IV over 60 minutes and etoposide IV over 60-120 minutes on days 1-5 of
      cycles 2, 4, and 6. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 cycles in the absence of
      disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients who achieve radiographic CR/PR with
      marker normalization proceed to WVSCI. Patients who achieve less than radiographic CR/PR with
      or without marker normalization may proceed to second-look surgery. Patients whose
      second-look surgery reveals mature teratoma or non-viable tumor with marker normalization
      proceed to WVSCI. Patients who second-look surgery reveals viable tumor and/or markers remain
      elevated proceed to HDCSCR. Patients whose physician determines that second-look surgery is
      not needed, proceed with HDCSCR. Patients who achieve radiographic PR without normalization
      of markers may proceed to second-look surgery, but proceed to HDCSCR regardless of whether
      second-look surgery is performed. Patients who achieve radiographic CR without normalization
      of markers proceed to HDCSCR.

      Patients are assigned to 1 of 2 plans based on response to induction chemotherapy.

      PLAN A (WVSCI THERAPY): Within 6 weeks of the end of induction chemotherapy or second-look
      surgery, patients undergo WVSCI once daily (QD) for 5 days weekly (17 fractions followed by a
      boost dose for 13 fractions) for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      PLAN B (CONSOLIDATION THERAPY [HDCSCR]): Within 6-8 weeks of the end of induction
      chemotherapy or second-look surgery, patients receive etoposide IV and thiotepa IV over 3
      hours on days -5 to -3 and undergo peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplant on day 0.
      Patients then undergo radiation therapy QD for 5 days weekly (20 fractions followed by a
      boost dose for 10 fractions) for 6 weeks in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed for up to 10 years.
    
  