
    
      Superantibodies are multifunctional antibodies combining the classical antigen-binding
      function with nonclassical biological activities, such as protease-like activity. In the past
      few years the role of proteolytic SuperAntibody (pSAb) has been evidenced in many biological
      processes in which their role may be either deleterious (autoimmune disease, alloimmune
      response against) or beneficial (sepsis).

      Nothing is known so far regarding the role of pSAb in the setting of solid organ
      transplantation.

      Preliminary data

      The investigator has obtained preliminary results from a retrospective case control study
      indicating that an elevated serine protease activity of circulating IgG (measured by the
      hydrolysis of a synthetic fluorescent substrate:
      Proline-Phenylalanine-Arginine-Methylcoumarinamide (PFR-MCA)), correlates with the absence of
      CAN on protocol biopsy performed 2 years post-transplantation. Interestingly, low level of
      proteolysis IgG, measured 3 months post-transplantation, were also predictive of CAN at 2
      years down the lane.

      Aim of the Research project:

      The aim is to validate in a prospective study, the potential of pSAb as predictive marker for
      CAN

      100 recipients of a renal graft have to be enrolled and followed for 2 years.

      The level of PFR-MCA hydrolysis by circulating Immunoglobulin G (IgG) will be measured before
      the transplantation and every 3 months up to one year and every 6 months thereafter until 2
      year post-transplantation. The development of CAN will be assessed by estimated glomerular
      filtration rate (Modification of the Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) formula), the proteinuria
      and the histological examination of the graft (screening biopsy at 3 months and 1 year will
      be analysed using a computerized color image analysis to quantify interstitial fibrosis).

      The capacity of the pSAb test to predict CAN will be validated and the sensibility and
      specificity of this test will be calculated. The optimal cut-off value will be determined
      from the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. The accuracy of the test will be
      evaluated in subgroups displaying various risk factors for CAN.
    
  