
    
      Investigators will place epidural catheter in the epidural space using loss of resistance
      technique, and will confirm correct placement of the epidural catheter using electrical
      stimulation.

      Epidural catheter placement, electrical stimulation, and confirmation of response is
      followed:

      Patients will be placed in the left lateral decubitus position. The site will be aseptically
      prepared and 1% lidocaine will be infiltrated to the skin. An 18-gauge Tuohy needle will be
      inserted midline of L4/5 interspinous space.

      For the Loss of resistance (LOR) group, after identification of the epidural space, the Tuohy
      needle will be stopped, and a 20-gauge epidural catheter will be advanced through the Tuohy
      needle.

      The same process will be followed for the Epidural electrical stimulation (EES) group. In
      addition, the epidural space will be confirmed by epidural electrical stimulation using a
      20-gauge epidural catheter (RegionalStimTm, Sewoon Medical Co., Ltd, Seoul, Korea, 800 mm)
      with a conductive guidewire (conductive guidewire, Nitinol, 1100 mm).

      After confirming there is no reverse flow of cerebrospinal fluid or blood with aspiration, 3
      mL of 1% lidocaine, with 15 mcg of epinephrine (1:200000), will be injected through the
      epidural catheter as test dose. If there is no response to the test dose, patients will be
      moved to the delivery room. To control labor pain, a one-time injection containing 50 mcg of
      fentanyl, 3 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine, and 6 mL of normal saline (total volume 10 mL) will be
      administered. A continuous infusion of 3 to 10 mL/hour depending on the patient's pain will
      be used of 75 mcg of fentanyl, 8.5 mL of 0.75% ropivacaine, and 40 mL of normal saline (total
      volume 50 mL).

      Blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR), oxygen saturation (SpO2), and neurologic assessment
      findings will be monitored up to 72 hours after labor.

      Pain relief in labor is assessed by a change in the visual analogue scale (VAS) score. A 10
      point VAS, where 0 is no pain and 10 is unbearable pain, is used to assess pain during labor.
      The scale is assessed before epidural anesthesia and after epidural anesthesia. Differences
      in the VAS response we used to assess the efficacy of the epidural anesthesia in decreasing
      labor pain. Comparison of the change in VAS between groups is used to compare pain control of
      the two methods. The success of epidural analgesia is defined by sensory block, without motor
      block, and a decrease in pain score after adequate dosing of epidural medication. Failure of
      epidural analgesia is defined by a lack of sensory block and a less that 2 point difference
      on the VAS after adequate dosing of epidural medications.

      Patient satisfaction will be evaluated by a postpartum interview. Satisfaction is graded
      between a score of 1-5, where 1 represent very unsatisfied and 5 represent very satisfied.
      Patients will indicate a score of 1 to 5.

      One- and 5-minute Apgar scores will be compared to assess the effect of epidural electrical
      stimulation on the neonate. Additional time required for epidural electrical stimulation will
      be determined by the difference (in seconds) from LOR to identification of the epidural space
      through electrical stimulation.
    
  