
    
      Fetal demise occurs in over 25,000 pregnancies annually in the US and over 2.5 million in
      pregnancies worldwide. Certain maternal-fetal-placental abnormalities can have a high risk of
      fetal demise. Despite advances in fetal surveillance with ultrasound and cardiotocography,
      the reduction in fetal mortality lags behind that of the neonate and has shown little decline
      in the past decade. This suggests that the type of fetal monitoring used may not be assessing
      the correct indicators of mortality. In all other age groups, electrocardiographic (ECG) and
      continuous heart rate (HR) monitoring are used in every intensive care unit or emergency
      setting; however, for the fetus, the ECG signal is nearly completely insulated and
      inaccessible. As the result, indirect assessment of cardiac rhythm is obtained using
      echocardiography/Doppler, but echo/Doppler does not have the precision to assess beat-to-beat
      HR variability and cannot assess cardiac repolarization at all. In this study, the
      investigators will evaluate five high risk conditions (major congenital heart disease in the
      fetus, fetal hydrops (immune and non-immune), monochorionic twin pregnancy, prior pregnancy
      ending in fetal demise, and gastroschisis) using Fetal Magnetocardiography (fMCG)which
      detects the natural magnetic signals accompanying the cardiac electrical signal. It is a new,
      safe, and non-invasive recording technique that has been performed for several decades, and
      has recently gained FDA approval for recording cardiac signals at all ages, including in the
      fetus. Normative data has been obtained at the University of Wisconsin - Madison Biomagnetism
      Laboratory in 257 healthy fetuses by co-investigator Ronald T. Wakai, PhD. Over 550 serious
      fetal arrhythmias have been evaluated to date. Fetal MCG has proven invaluable in fetal Long
      QT Syndrome in identifying markers for risk of sudden death such as Torsades de Pointes
      Ventricular Tachycardia (VT), T wave alternans, 2nd degree AV block, and QTc>590 ms. To date,
      fMCG has not been systematically applied to diseases that are not associated with
      recognizable arrhythmias because the impact of silent conduction and repolarization defects
      has been underappreciated. In this grant, the investigators hypothesize that beat-to-beat
      fetal heart rate variability abnormalities and electrophysiologic abnormalities, are present
      in five high risk maternal-fetal-placental conditions associated with fetal demise. The study
      will determine which electrophysiologic abnormalities precede fetal demise or adverse
      pregnancy outcome. Preliminary findings in healthy normal subjects in RO1HL063174 (Wakai)
      show repolarization abnormalities in up to 5%, and some of these are modifiable once
      recognized. Two hundred pregnant subjects will be studied over a 5 year period both at
      referral (~20-27 weeks GA) and later in pregnancy at 30-37 weeks GA. fMCG results will be
      compared to neonatal ECG (nECG) obtained at 0-4 weeks of life. This will determine whether
      specific abnormal heart rate, rhythm and conduction patterns emerge that characterize the
      condition, which will then allow the high risk obstetrician to better predict risk of fetal
      demise in the future.
    
  