
    
      Five evaluable patients with newly diagnosed high grade gliomas who will undergo standard
      concomitant radiation and temozolomide followed by adjuvant temozolomide will be accrued to
      this open-label, single arm, safety study. Oral fingolimod will be given 1 week prior to the
      initiation of concurrent radiation and temozolomide and will be discontinued immediately upon
      completion of the six weeks of therapy.

      The primary objective is to evaluate if fingolimod can be safely combined with radiation and
      temozolomide. This standard chemoradiation causes 40% of patients to develop severe
      lymphopenia two months after initiation of therapy. Investigators expect that when this is
      combined with fingolimod, virtually all patients will have severe lymphopenia two months
      after beginning treatment. Investigators will determine if these patients who routinely
      receive pneumocystis jiroveci prophylaxis develop other severe opportunistic infections that
      would prohibit further evaluation of this novel treatment approach. Primary endpoint is
      incidence of greater than or equal to Grade III infections attributable to fingolimod-induced
      lymphopenia defined by the NIH/NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE)
      within four months of starting fingolimod.

      The secondary objective is to obtain preliminary information regarding the ability of
      fingolimod to reduce radiation-related lymphopenia three months after stopping fingolimod.
      The NIH funded Adult Brain Tumor Consortium (ABTC) followed total lymphocyte and CD4 counts
      in 96 patients after treatment with radiation and temozolomide. The severe lymphopenia (CD4
      count less than 200/mm3) lasted for twelve months in this historical control. Secondary
      endpoint is total lymphocyte counts (TLC) for the proposed study participants. These will be
      compared with patient level data on TLC from an historical cohort obtained from the ABTC.
      Investigators expect that patients receiving radiation and temozolomide plus fingolimod have
      a recovery of lymphocyte counts to 80% of baseline within four months, reference to
      historical control in which sustained lymphopenia lasted for twelve months.

      Investigators will also obtain laboratory analysis on lymphocyte subtypes and cytokine levels
      (CD3, CD4, CD8, IL-7, TGF-Beta, etc.). Routine care for high grade gliomas includes weekly
      Heme-8 and absolute lymphocyte count. Research blood will be obtained at 2 weeks prior to
      chemoradiation and again at weeks 6, 10, 18, 26 and 46. Patients will be on study for
      approximately one year.
    
  