
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is one of the global public health problems. World Health
      Organization (WHO) reported that more than 80 million people all over the world are infected
      with HCV. Approximately 700000 persons die every year from hepatitis C-related complications.
      Egypt is one of the highest prevalence rates of HCV, worldwide.

      Vitamin D possesses anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant, anti-fibrotic and immunomodulatory
      effects. HCV is associated with vitamin D deficiency. Liver plays an important role in
      vitamin D hydroxylation and iron metabolism. It stores iron, synthesizes iron transporting
      protein (transferrin), iron storage protein (ferritin) and an iron regulatory peptide
      (hepcidin). Iron overload is frequently occurred in chronic hepatitis C patients. More than
      one third of HCV positive patients have elevated serum iron, ferritin, and transferrin which
      were linked to bad prognosis. Excess iron is catalyzed by the rapid Fenton reaction producing
      hydroxyl radicals from hydrogen peroxide and superoxide (10), which induces lipid
      peroxidation and cellular damage. Hepcidin is a regulatory peptide that is mainly synthesized
      by the liver cells and plays an important role in iron homeostasis via inhibiting iron
      absorption and preventing iron efflux from macrophages and thus prevents normal recycling of
      the iron needed for erythropoiesis. In addition, hepcidin inhibits HCV replication via
      activation of STAT3. A reduced serum hepcidin has been reported in chronic HCV patients which
      was correlated to the severity of liver histopathological changes and related to iron
      overload in these patients.

      There is an interaction between iron metabolism and vitamin D metabolism. Iron is essential
      for vitamin D activation and vitamin D deficiency is associated with elevated hepcidin level,
      which partly accounts for anemia associated with vitamin D deficiency. Up to our knowledge,
      little is known about the association between vitamin D status and iron metabolism in HCV
      patients.
    
  