
    
      -  Purpose of the study The primary hypothesis of the PRIME-HF study is that, compared with
           usual care, a treatment strategy of initiation of ivabradine prior to discharge for a
           hospitalization with acute HF (primary or secondary) will be associated with a greater
           proportion of participants using ivabradine at 180 days. Secondary objectives are to
           assess the impact of predischarge initiation of ivabradine on:Heart Rate (Change in
           heart rate from baseline to 180 days and Median heart rate at 180 days) and
           Patient-Centered Outcomes (Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire (KCCQ) and Patient
           Global Assessment (PGA)). Tertiary objectives will be to explore the impact of
           predischarge initiation of ivabradine on other assessments of evidence-based
           implementation of ivabradine and beta-blockers at 180 days. Evaluations will incorporate
           data based on whether or not indication status was retained and whether or not an
           ivabradine prescription was provided. Tolerability of ivabradine and adverse events
           during study follow-up will be assessed. Barriers to acquisition of ivabradine will be
           explored.

        -  Background & significance Heart failure is a major public health issue. More than 5
           million Americans have HF and the prevalence is expected to increase as the population
           ages and survival from coronary, hypertensive, and valvular heart disease improves. Data
           from randomized clinical trials have established the efficacy of a number of medical and
           device therapies for patients with chronic Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction
           (HFrEF), but patient outcomes remain poor, especially after a hospitalization for heart
           failure. The 1-year mortality rate after a HF hospitalization is 20-30%, and this number
           has been relatively unchanged over the past decade. These data suggest that there is an
           unmet need for novel treatment strategies and supports the assessment of new approaches
           in the post-acute HF setting.

      There is also wide variation in the implementation of clinical trial evidence into routine
      practice. Previous data highlight a multi-year gap between the generation of new evidence
      through clinical trials and the adoption of the data into routine clinical practice. This gap
      in care translates into many unnecessary deaths and hospitalizations each year for patients
      with HFrEF. While there are multiple reasons for this quality gap, clinical inertia has most
      often been noted as a major barrier. Ivabradine have been approved for use in Europe for
      several years for patients with symptomatic chronic HFrEF (LVEF <35%) and a heart rate >75
      bpm on guideline-directed medical therapy (or intolerance/contra-indication to beta-blocker
      use). Ivabradine was recently approved for use in the United States. However, no US data
      exist regarding the potential adoption of ivabradine into routine clinical care.

      Since ivabradine is a newly approved drug, this study also serves as a strategy trial to
      challenge study sites to explore drug acquisition for a drug that has been proven efficacious
      to the heart failure population and has been added to 2016 ACC/AHA/HFSA guidelines, however,
      has not been adopted rapidly into clinical practice. Ivabradine is not being provided for
      this study. Data are being captured to assess the number of subjects who were able to obtain
      ivabradine pre and post discharge as well as the barriers to acquisition.

      Previous data for patients with HFrEF suggest that the hospital setting may provide a unique
      opportunity for patients to initiate guideline-directed medical therapy. In the Initiation
      Management Predischarge: Process for Assessment of Carvedilol Therapy in HF (IMPACT-HF)
      study, patients with an LVEF<40% hospitalized for HF that were started on carvedilol prior to
      hospital discharge were more likely to be on a beta-blocker at 60 days post-randomization
      compared to those receiving usual care. These improvements in care were achieved without
      increasing side effects or index hospitalization length of stay. Similar to beta-blockers and
      other medical therapies for HF, ivabradine was initially studied in patients with chronic HF.
      The initiation of ivabradine specifically in patients following stabilization for acute HF
      has not been evaluated.

      • Design & procedures The PRIME-HF study is a multi-center, patient-level, randomized,
      open-label study of approximately 450 patients with reduced LVEF of ≤35% and heart-rate ≥70
      bpm who are being discharged from the hospital following stabilization from acute HF and will
      be randomized to a treatment strategy of predischarge initiation of ivabradine or usual care.

      All participants should have a follow-up visit within 7-14 days of hospital discharge. Heart
      rate and systolic blood pressure will be assessed at this clinical visit. For participants
      randomized to predischarge initiation of ivabradine and on ivabradine 5mg BID, the heart rate
      may be used to adjust the dose the dose to 2.5mg BID or 7.5mg BID. For participants
      randomized to usual care, ivabradine may be initiated at the provider's discretion. All
      participants will have a second follow-up study visit 6 weeks (42 +/- 14 days)
      post-discharge. Heart rate, systolic blood pressure and quality of life (KCCQ and PGA) will
      be assessed. For participants already taking ivabradine in either treatment group, the heart
      rate may again be used to adjust the dose of ivabradine. For participants not yet receiving
      ivabradine, it may be initiated at the provider's discretion. All participants will receive a
      90 (+/-7) day post-discharge phone call by site to assess for event status and tolerability
      of ivabradine. All participants will have a final study visit at 180 (+/-14) days
      post-discharge. Heart rate, systolic blood pressure and quality of life (KCCQ and PGA) will
      be assessed. The attending physician may initiate ivabradine per usual care clinical
      practice.
    
  