
    
      As has become apparent in the media, as well as in the clinical practice of nearly every type
      of medicine over the last few years, the nation is currently experiencing an opioid epidemic.
      This is a significant public health issue that has sweeping consequences that reach far
      beyond the medical field. The investigators believe over the last several decades, public
      perception regarding pain, especially post-operatively, has changed for the worse. The nation
      is in need of a paradigm shift in the way pain is managed, and the way the public perceives
      this issue, especially regarding pain expectations. As patients have become more involved
      with medical care as well as more knowledgeable, the investigators often see patients having
      performed online research regarding outcomes and expectations following particular
      procedures, to include post-operative pain. Commonly, even for smaller procedures performed
      in office, patients request opioids. As of yet, there are few data regarding use of long
      acting (Exparel) local analgesia alone in hand surgery, and none combining this strategy with
      pre-operative opioid education. The goal is to build the groundwork for the cessation of
      opioid prescription following carpal tunnel surgery, and produce proof that may be given
      patients to showing this to be an effective strategy. As some sources estimate 400,000 carpal
      tunnel surgeries are performed yearly, it is believed that this alternative pain management
      strategy, if adopted at a national level, would make a significant step towards remedying the
      current crisis. The rationale as to why this will be successful is the duration of action of
      Exparel, which has been shown to be effective for up to 72 hours. By 72 hours, post-procedure
      pain levels tend to have dropped precipitously, if not resolved. Use of pre-operative opioid
      education has also been shown to decrease perception of the need for and use of opioids. The
      investigators plan to study two groups: a control/standard of care group, that are given
      pre-operative opioid education as well as opioids, and a study group, which will have
      pre-operative opioid education, Exparel injection, and no opioids. Exparel will be
      administered as 10cc injected in the operative field, consisting of ~5cc of Exparel, ~5cc of
      bupivacaine, and epinephrine. All injections will be performed in the same manner. Following
      injection, carpal tunnel release will be performed in a similar manner in all patients.
      Patients that meet all of the inclusion and none of the exclusion criteria would be eligible
      for participation. If a patient agreed to participate, they would be randomized to group A
      (standard of care + education), or group B (Exparel + education + no opioids). This would be
      accomplished by drawing an A or B written on a paper ticket out of a bag. Adverse reactions
      and pain levels at 24, 48, and 72 hours will be assessed with telephone or email
      questionnaire, as will use of medication in the opioid group. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using analysis of variance, Mann-Whitney U test, and/or chi square test, as
      appropriate. The public health relevance of this project is to alter patient's perceived need
      for opioid medications post procedure, and decrease the amount of circulating opioids locally
      and nationally. The investigators believe this a meritorious goal, given that opioid related
      overdose deaths have increased eight-fold from 2012 to 2016.
    
  