
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy significantly prolongs
      progression-free survival (PFS) versus adding temozolomide to radiotherapy in patients with
      newly diagnosed glioblastoma (GBM) without MGMT promoter methylation. (Phase II) II. To
      determine if adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy significantly prolongs overall
      survival (OS) versus adding temozolomide to radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM
      without MGMT promoter methylation. (Phase III)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine if adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy significantly prolongs PFS
      versus adding temozolomide to radiotherapy in patients with newly diagnosed GBM without MGMT
      promoter methylation for the phase III part of the study.

      II. To determine if adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy significantly increases
      the 2-year overall survival (OS) rate versus adding temozolomide to radiotherapy in patients
      with newly diagnosed GBM without MGMT promoter methylation.

      III. To evaluate the safety of adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy via
      comparative frequency between arms of specific adverse events of interest and frequency
      summaries for all adverse event types.

      IV. To evaluate the effect of adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy versus adding
      temozolomide to radiotherapy on patient reported outcomes (PROs), as measured by the MD
      Anderson Symptom Inventory - Brain Tumor (MDASI-BT) in patients with newly diagnosed GBM
      without MGMT promoter methylation.

      V. To evaluate the effect of adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy versus adding
      temozolomide to radiotherapy on selected Patient Reported Outcomes-Common Terminology
      Criteria for Adverse Events (PRO-CTCAE) items in patients with newly diagnosed GBM without
      MGMT promoter methylation.

      VI. To evaluate the impact of adding ipilimumab and nivolumab to radiotherapy versus adding
      temozolomide to radiotherapy on neurocognitive function (NCF) in patients with newly
      diagnosed GBM without MGMT promoter methylation.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore biomarkers in pre-treatment archival tumor tissue that may predict efficacy of
      ipilimumab and nivolumab as measured by OS, PFS, and 2-year OS rate, such as but not limited
      to:

      Ia. PDL1 expression Ib. Mutational burden II. To explore (in the two treatment separately)
      whether the MGMT protein expression correlates with clinical outcomes including OS, PFS, and
      2-year OS rate.

      III. To evaluate if MGMT protein expression may be predictive of differential treatment
      effects between the two treatment arms.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM 1: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 5 days per week (Monday-Friday) for a total of
      30 fractions over 6 weeks and simultaneously receive temozolomide orally (PO) daily for 6
      weeks. After radiation, patients may wear the Optune device at the discretion of the patient
      and their treating physician. Beginning 1 month after radiation therapy, patients receive
      temozolomide on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 28 days for up to 12 cycles at the
      discretion of the treating investigator in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      ARM 2: Patients undergo radiation therapy for 5 days per week (Monday-Friday) for a total of
      30 fractions over 6 weeks. Starting on the first day of radiation, patients also receive
      ipilimumab intravenously (IV) over 90 minutes once every 4 weeks (Q4W) for 4 doses and
      nivolumab IV over 30 minutes every 2 weeks until disease progression.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for year 1, then
      every 4 months for year 2, and then every 6 months thereafter.
    
  