
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in inflammatory breast cancer or
      non-inflammatory breast cancer patients with inoperable local recurrence measured by the
      overall response rate.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the efficacy of talimogene laherparepvec in inflammatory breast cancer or
      non-inflammatory breast cancer patients with inoperable local recurrence measured by the
      overall disease control rate.

      II. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate,
      progression-free survival (PFS), and overall survival (OS) in all patients.

      III. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate, PFS, and OS in
      patients without distant metastases.

      IV. To determine the rate of local overall response and disease control rate, PFS, and OS in
      patients with distant metastases.

      V. To determine the safety of talimogene laherparepvec injection to local disease.

      CORRELATIVE STUDIES:

      I. To determine the effect of talimogene laherparepvec on injection sites and distant
      metastatic sites by evaluating immune function and apoptosis with immune cell surface markers
      and cytokines.

      II. To assess changes in the following: serum or plasma levels of interleukin (IL)-2, IL-12,
      tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, and interferon (IFN)- alpha; (Reuben's Lab); phenotype for
      T-cell subsets (CD3, CD4, CD8, CD25) and natural killer cell (NK-cell) subsets (CD16, CD56),
      which will be determined via multiparameter fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS)
      analysis (percentage and absolute numbers) in peripheral blood at Dr. James Reuben's
      laboratory of MD Anderson; serum analysis of herpes simplex virus (HSV) type 1 serology with
      immunoglobulin (Ig)G and IgM (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA]).

      III. To assess distant tumor tissue changes by evaluating necrosis and immune cell
      infiltration (T-/B-/NK-Cell, macrophage, dendritic cell) by immunohistochemistry assay (CD3,
      CD4, CD8, CD20, CD16, CD56, granzyme B, cleaved caspase 3, and Ki-67) when distant tumor
      sample is obtained; if the sample volume is ample, additional immunohistochemistry assays
      will be performed for CD45RO, TIA-1, FoxP3, CD25, OX-40, CD57, CD1a, CD208, myeloperoxidase,
      CD68, COX-2, major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and MHC class II in Dr. Savitri
      Krishnamurthy's laboratory at MD Anderson.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive talimogene laherparepvec intratumorally (IT) on day 1. Cycles repeat every 3
      weeks in cycle 1 and every 2 weeks thereafter in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days and then every 3
      months for up to 1 year.
    
  