
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the feasibility of re-escalating the dose of sorafenib tosylate in patients
           with advanced malignant solid tumors who initially required a dose reduction for
           toxicity, and dose escalation in those patients who are able to tolerate the initial
           dose.

      Secondary

        -  To evaluate the efficacy of this drug in these patients who are able to tolerate a dose
           escalation initially or after a dose reduction compared to those who are unable to
           tolerate a dose escalation.

      Tertiary

        -  To evaluate the percentage and demographic characteristics of patients who are able to
           tolerate 2 dose escalations without a dose reduction.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-finding study.

        -  Course 1: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily at dose level 0 on weeks
           1-4.

        -  Course 2: Patients experiencing no dose-limiting or intolerable toxicities receive oral
           sorafenib tosylate at dose level +1 twice daily on weeks 5-8; while patients
           experiencing dose-limiting or intolerable toxicities receive oral sorafenib tosylate at
           dose level -1 once daily on weeks 5-8.

        -  Course 3: Depending on whether or not patients are experiencing dose-limiting or
           intolerable toxicities, they are escalated to dose level 0 or dose level +2 (patients in
           both dose levels receive oral sorafenib tosylate twice daily) in weeks 9-12, or
           de-escalated to dose level 0 or dose level -2 (patients in dose level -2 receives oral
           sorafenib tosylate once every other day) in weeks 9-12.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive oral sorafenib tosylate at the dose level*
           attained at the end of course 3. Treatment continues in the absence of unacceptable
           toxicity.

        -  Dose level de-escalation for toxicity or dose re-escalation after a toxicity-related
           dose reduction allowed to a maximum level of the initial dose level of the maintenance
           therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 1 year.
    
  