
    
      The physicians and IBD nurses working with IBD patients in the participating centres will be
      informed by the Principal Investigator (PI) with up-to-date information regarding this trial
      and regarding biologicals and biosimilars, with a specific emphasis on the data available for
      Imraldi®. The information will be given at an especially organized meeting for this purpose,
      which will take about two hours. Only physicians attending this meeting will be able to
      participate in the study.

      All IBD patients with a diagnosis of CD or UC, followed by a physician who attended the
      meeting and who are currently on maintenance therapy with Humira® for at least 8 weeks, are
      eligible to be invited to enter the study. The acceptance rate will be measured at baseline
      as the proportion of patients who accept the switch among all patients.

      In the outpatient clinic, the subject of switching from Humira® to Imraldi® can be discussed
      with the patient. All patients on Humira® will be informed about the possibility to switch to
      Imraldi® and to participate in this trial. Irrespective of their intention to switch, all
      patients will be offered a standardized evaluation of their current disease status, with - if
      necessary - adjustment of their therapy. The information is initially given by the treating
      physician and - if necessary - can be further fine-tuned by the IBD-nurse or physician in
      consecutive follow-up visits. All patients will be provided with patient information and
      consent form. Informed consent must be obtained prior to baseline procedures. A unique
      subject identification number will be assigned to each patient and used throughout the study.

      From all included patients (i.e. those agreeing to switch and those declining to switch),
      baseline clinical characteristics (year of birth, gender, year of IBD diagnosis, previous
      treatment and previous surgery, smoking status, Montreal Classification, co-immunomodulatory
      drug use and corticoid co-administration), Humira® treatment details and visual analogue
      scale assessment of parameters regarding switch and overall satisfaction with current
      treatment, will be collected.

      From the patients willing to switch, prospective data on effectiveness and safety and
      subjective satisfaction on different aspects of Imraldi® use, will be obtained at 3
      predefined timepoints: 8 weeks, 6 and 12 months after switch to Imraldi®.

      The patients who switch to Imraldi® will have blood samplings at 4 different timepoints
      (baseline, Week 8, Month 6 and Month 12) for analysis of ADA trough level and anti-drug
      antibodies, peripheral blood count (plus leucocyte differentiation) and CRP. At the same
      timepoints, faecal calprotectin will be measured, CDAI / Mayo clinical subscore will be
      assessed and patient weight recorded. A PGA will be performed, in order to get a subjective
      feeling of disease status/response, in order to avoid unnecessary further examinations.
    
  