
    
      Screening Phase: The subject's parents/guardians/legally authorized representative will be
      approached if the infant's birth weight makes them eligible for this research study.

      Study Phase: During this study, we will use the monitoring methods normally used in the
      Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) and some new monitoring methods to find out all the
      changes that the infant's heart and lungs go through during the first week after delivery.
      During this period the study doctor and staff will:

        1. Collect demographic (age, race, ethnicity) and labor/delivery information.

        2. Perform serial physical exams to evaluate the infant's skin.

        3. Take several blood samples (2-3 drops per sample) to measure the lactate, troponin, and
           creatinine levels. These blood samples will be taken 1-4 times a day.

        4. Perform Echocardiograms (ultrasound of the heart) on a daily or more or less frequent
           basis. In between echocardiograms, we will monitor cardiac output with a non-invasive
           monitor using leads similar to those used for regular heart rate monitoring in the NICU.
           These tests are being done solely for research purposes and will be paid for by the
           study.

        5. Measure the amount of blood flow reaching the infant's brain and kidneys using a
           near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) machine. This test is being done solely for research
           purposes and will be paid for by the study.

        6. Perform Electrocardiograms (ECGs) to monitor how much blood flow is reaching the
           infant's heart. The sticky pads required for this test will be attached to the infant's
           chest as part of his/her routine care. For the purposes of this study, we will
           continuously monitor the machine to record the results.

        7. Measure the amount of blood flowing in one of the arteries in the brain using cerebral
           Doppler ultrasound

        8. Record results from any other monitoring tools the infant's doctor is using as part of
           his/her routine care. This will help us identify patterns that might lead to issues in
           premature babies. We will also be studying the effects of any medications the infant's
           doctor prescribes; especially those used for low blood pressure.
    
  