
    
      Exercises, specifically resistance and aerobic training, have been demonstrated to improve
      cognitive outcomes, along with improved physical capacity and mobility. Both aerobic and
      resistance training trials of different duration have revealed positive results, with the
      most consistent findings being observed after combined interventions of 6 months to one year.
      Although the training benefits of progressive resistance training (PRT) have been well
      documented, PRT has been studied far less extensively in older adults with Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI). Exercise training has proven to be beneficial for cognition even in
      vulnarable populations like in frail older adults, and those with mobility issues. The exact
      mechanism supporting the benefits of exercise for cognition in humans needs to be further
      explored, as numerous studies in animals and humans have demonstrated that aerobic exercise
      may have neuroprotective and neurorestorative effects. The rationale of combining aerobic and
      PRT as multimodal exercise intervention is supported by research that has revealed potential
      beneficial effects. In addition, multimodal exercise interventions have shown positive
      effects on muscle/lean mass, cognition and brain structure, functionality, and brain volume.

      Similarly cognitive training, i.e. computer based cognitive process training, has also shown
      positive results in improving cognition, mobility, and postural control. Several recent
      systematic reviews on the topic support the benefits of cognitive training. In line with
      exercise training, recent research on cognitive training has also supported important
      improvements in brain plasticity post-intervention.

      Finally, Vitamin D3 deficiency in older adults has been linked to cognitive dysfunction,
      dementia, and mobility decline. Besides its very well-known effects on muscle and bone
      physiology, several studies have shown a potential beneficial role of Vitamin D3 on cognitive
      function. Robustly designed trials, with longitudinal follow-up, have been recommended in
      older adults with MCI to investigate the comparative benefits of isolated Vitamin D3
      supplementation, and combined with physical and cognitive training.

      To date, the effect of adding cognitive training and/or Vitamin D3 to a multimodal
      progressive exercise training for improving global cognition, executive function, memory, and
      gait in MCI has not been assessed.
    
  