
    
      Worldwide colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second most common cancer in women and the third in
      men. Early detection and removal of the colon polyps (cancer precursors) reduce the incidence
      of CRC. However, interval colon cancers still occur within 3-5 years after colonoscopy among
      patients of colonoscopists with low adenoma detection rate (ADR), defined as the proportion
      of patients with at least one adenoma. ADR was widely variable, suggesting that some adenomas
      were missed. Twenty six percent of adenomas were missed during tandem examination reported in
      a recent meta-analysis. Missed adenomas accounted for about 58% of interval cancers. Adenomas
      are more likely to be missed in the right colon than in other segments because of their flat
      morphology and hiding behind the accentuated folds and curvatures. Innovations in colonoscopy
      to increase ADR and decrease adenoma miss rate (AMR) hold the potential to reduce interval
      cancers.

      The consensus statements in a recent modified Delphi review confirmed water exchange (WE) as
      a standardized insertion method produced less insertion pain, better bowel cleanliness and
      higher ADR than gas insufflation. It is characterized by infusing water to guide insertion in
      an airless lumen and almost simultaneous suctioning of the infused water during insertion,
      aiming at near-complete removal of the infused water and debris upon cecal intubation.
      Although an RCT with tandem examination showed WE significantly decreased right colon adenoma
      miss rate (rAMR) compared with CO2 insufflation (18.0% [33/183] vs. 34.6% [62/179], P =
      0.0025), a considerable percentage of polyps in the right colon were still overlooked.

      In recent years, the field of machine learning and artificial intelligence has made
      remarkable progress, and an increasing number of publications showed improved polyp detection
      rate (PDR) and ADR using computer-aided detection (CADe). CADe can detect polyps overlooked
      by the colonoscopist due to human limitations of inattention or inexperience. However, one
      major drawback of current CADe systems is false alarms (FAs), or false positives (FPs).
      Usually triggered by bubbles and fecal debris, FAs might distract the endoscopists with
      potential unfavorable effect on ADR. One study reported a FP rate of up to 60%.

      In an overview on applying deep learning algorithms and WE in colonoscopy to improve adenoma
      detection, the authors noted that WE could enhance the performance of artificial intelligence
      (CADe) by improving bowel cleanliness and thus the exposure of polyps. In a follow-up review,
      the authors reported that artificial intelligence might mitigate operator-dependent factors
      that limited the potential of WE, while WE might provide the platform to optimize the
      performance of artificial intelligence by increasing bowel cleanliness and improving
      visualization, Therefore, the strengths of WE and artificial intelligence may complement the
      weaknesses of each other to maximize adenoma detection.

      One of our recently completed studies compared right colon ADR evaluated by a blinded
      endoscopist using either air insufflation or WE for insertion, with all the colonoscopies
      video recorded (NCT02737514). We developed and applied a CADe system to detect the polyps in
      the videos. The current report is a proof of principle study to test the hypothesis that WE
      could yield a significantly higher additional PDR (APDR) and reduce false alarms rate (FAR)
      as compared to air insufflation in the right colon.
    
  