
    
      SUAY is a practical clinical trial designed to test the effectiveness of an intervention
      aiming to improve the targeted and safer use of antipsychotic medications by guiding
      clinician-prescribing behavior of antipsychotics for children aged ≥ 3 and < 18 years and
      encouraging psychosocial therapy for eligible youth. The intervention includes a medication
      best practice alert in Epic, consultation with a child and adolescent psychiatrist, and extra
      support for patients and families to improve behavioral health service access. The trial will
      be conducted in 4 non-academic health systems. Each health system will randomize prescribers
      to one of two study arms, intervention and control. During patient encounters, entering an
      antipsychotic for a potentially eligible patient will cause either the control or
      intervention medication alert to fire in the electronic medical record. The control arm
      medication alert will point prescribing clinicians to relevant Choosing Wisely®
      recommendations. The intervention arm medication alert will inform prescribers that:

        1. Antipsychotics are not recommended 1st line treatment for non-psychotic disorders;

        2. A child and adolescent psychiatrist (CAP) will review antipsychotic usage by youth;

        3. Expedited access to bridging therapy, behavior health navigation, and/or a proactive
           consultation with a CAP may be ordered.

      The intervention medication alert will point prescribing clinicians to both Choosing Wisely®
      recommendations and to SUAY clinical prescribing guidelines. SUAY guidelines were developed
      by a national expert consensus panel in a prior phase of the study.

      Analytic data will be collected from automated data sources at the health systems. The
      primary outcomes are percent of children ordered an antipsychotic medication at 6 months of
      follow up, and total person-months of antipsychotic orders placed for participants during the
      study period.
    
  