
    
      Rationale for this study:

      Capecitabine is approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) as 2nd or 3rd line
      chemotherapy for patients with metastatic breast cancer who previously have failed both
      anthracycline and taxane chemotherapy. Capecitabine produces objective tumor response of
      around 20% with a median duration of response of 32 weeks in these patients (1). These
      results indicate that improvements in the treatment of anthracycline and taxane resistant
      breast cancer are needed. Exisulind (sulindac sulfone, FGN-1, APTOSYNTM) is a sulfone
      metabolite of sulindac, a widely used nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory (NSAID) drug. Sulindac
      sulfone lacks inhibitory activity on the two isoforms of cyclooxygenase, COX 1 and COX 2, and
      is devoid of gastrointestinal and renal toxicity that is associated with NSAIDs. Exisulind
      selectively stimulates programmed cell death in a variety of neoplastic cells including
      colon, prostate, and mammary epithelial cells without affecting normal cells (2,3). Exisulind
      inhibits the growth of breast cancer cell lines in vitro and also inhibits chemically-induced
      mammary carcinogenesis in rats (4,5). The drug is also synergistic with a diverse group of
      cytotoxic compounds including cisplatin, taxanes and retinoids (6). Exisulind exerts its
      effects by inhibiting a novel phosphodiesterase that belongs to the PDE5 family which
      specifically degrades cGMP (7). Inhibition of this enzyme results in a rise in intracellular
      cGMP levels and leads to apoptosis through yet unknown mechanism. Exisulind also inhibits
      transcription factor NF-kB (8). The NF-kB pathway is activated by cellular stress including
      exposure to inflammatory cytokines, cytotoxic agents and oxidative stress (9). It is believed
      that activation of NF-kB protects from cell death, therefore, inhibition of this
      transcription factor may contribute to the proapoptotic, chemotherapy potentiating effect of
      exisulind.

      Exisulind selectively promotes apoptosis in neoplastic cells whereas chemotherapeutic drugs
      induce programmed cell death in a non-selective manner. We hypothesize that combination of
      the 2 drugs will increase response rates by selectively augmenting the cytotoxic activity of
      chemotherapy. Furthermore, continuous maintenance treatment, between chemotherapy doses, with
      a minimally toxic drug that selectively induces apoptosis of cancer cells may improve
      response duration and ultimately may translate into improved survival and better quality of
      life. Each drug alone has an established maximum tolerated dose in humans. However, the
      combination of exisulind and capecitabine has not been tested. This phase I-II study is
      proposed to test safety and efficacy of this combination in patients with metastatic breast
      cancer.
    
  