
    
      A compound free of the toxic effects of nucleoside chain terminators such as zidovudine (AZT)
      may have an advantage over currently available treatments for HIV infection. Such a compound
      has further advantages if it is active against AZT-resistant isolates. Nevirapine (BI-RG-587)
      has shown in vitro inhibitory activity against HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (RT). The
      molecular mechanism of the RT inhibitory effect is hypothesized to be non-competitive
      inhibition due to its binding to an RT site distinct from those for the RNA template primer,
      the deoxynucleotide triphosphate or the RNase H catalytic site.

      This is a staggered dose escalation cohort trial which examines the safety, tolerance,
      pharmacokinetics and activity of Nevirapine (BI-RG-587) in patients with HIV infection.
      Groups of 10 patients must have completed 4 weeks of therapy without requiring dose
      interruption before the next dosage level can be initiated. All 10 patients must be enrolled
      at a lower dosage level before the next dosage level can be initiated. Patients discontinue
      antiretroviral therapy, after signing informed consent, 28 days prior to receipt of a first
      dose of Nevirapine. Screening lab tests, including p24 antigen and plasma viremia, and CD4+
      cell count determination are performed 21 days prior to drug dosing in Part I. Patients are
      notified of screening laboratory measures that exclude them from study participation. Upon
      such notification patients have the option to resume prior antiretroviral therapy or to
      repeat those values in one week. Part II consists of two 8-hour intensive blood sampling
      periods plus frequent trough value blood samplings. Safety, trough value blood sampling, and
      activity assessments are performed in Part III. An assessment of dose-tolerance and of
      activity is made in Study Week 12 in order that patients may continue Nevirapine chronic
      therapy for an additional 12 weeks. The Final Visit in Part IV takes place on Study Week 24
      to complete the trial. Patients who complete 24 weeks are offered the option to continue on
      Nevirapine chronic therapy at the initial or an altered dose on a separate open-label
      protocol.
    
  