
    
      PICC occlusion in patients requiring long-term central line access for chemotherapy is a
      recurrent issue. Occlusion is usually managed by administration of fibrinolytic agents, and
      subsequent removal and re-insertion if unsuccessful.

      Locally, the current clinical practice is to use heparinised saline at a concentration of
      10U/ml as a locking agent in between use of the PICC line to prevent occlusion. Citrate 4%
      has antithrombotic and antibacterial properties, which makes it potentially superior to
      heparin as a locking agent. Citrate chelates ionised calcium in blood, inhibiting
      calcium-dependent clotting pathways. Also, as a chelating agent, it results in inhibition of
      growth of micro-organisms. Citrate-based anticoagulation is often preferred over heparin
      because of its safety and rapid systemic clearance. Citrate also is safe for heparin induced
      thrombocytopenia patients.

      The effects of each agent have been compared in renal patients with central lines on
      haemodialysis. These studies have demonstrated that 4% citrate is at least equivalent
      (MacRae, 2008) or even superior (Grudzinski, 2007) to heparin 5000U/ml in preventing catheter
      occlusions, and superior in preventing infection (Weijmer, 2002).

      This study is a prospective, randomized, non-blinded study. 1 group will be assigned the
      standard arm with use of heparinised saline (10U/ml) lock in between each catheter use. This
      is consistent with the standard procedure of PICC care in the investigators' centre. The
      second group will be assigned the intervention with use of 4% citrate lock (Dirinco
      Citra-Lock 4%) in between each catheter use.

      Patients will be followed for up to 6 months or until the catheter is removed, or until the
      study ends. A standardised data tracking form will be used to assess baseline characteristics
      as well as number of times urokinase was used. Nursing documentation regarding each PICC
      flushing (standard documentation as per hospital protocol) will be evaluated for number of
      discrete attempts made to troubleshoot lines without use of urokinase. Positive blood culture
      results will be recorded for each patient.
    
  