
    
      Patients with acute pouchitis are typically treated with metronidazole or ciprofloxacin for
      10-14 days. Most patients with pouchitis respond to these or other antibiotics. Patients who
      experience frequent relapses and those with chronic pouchitis will require long term
      maintenance antibiotics. Probiotics may be considered as an alternate to chronic antibiotic
      therapy for maintenance of remission in chronic antibiotic-dependent pouchitis. In practice,
      we would institute maintenance therapy for patients who relapse at least 3 times within one
      year, or within 1 month of discontinuation of antibiotics. Among patients receiving
      maintenance antibiotics who develop loss of clinical benefit after prolonged treatment,
      rotation of three or four antibiotics in 1-week intervals may be beneficial. Patients who do
      not improve with single antibiotics may respond to combination therapy with two antibiotics.
      If not, they can be treated with topical or oral budesonide. Other options include topical
      mesalamine (enemas or suppositories), oral sulfasalazine or mesalamine, other topical or oral
      steroids, and possibly oral bismuth, azathioprine, 6-mercaptopurine or infliximab. However,
      there is little evidence base for these therapies in the literature, and many of these
      therapies are expensive and/or potentially toxic. A therapy that does not suppress the immune
      system, and that has little or no toxicity would be attractive for patients with
      antibiotic-refractory pouchitis.

      AST-120 is manufactured by Kureha Corporation, Japan. The agent was approved in Japan in 1991
      for the treatment of patients with chronic kidney disease(CKD). It is comprised of highly
      adsorptive, porous, spherical carbon particles and is packaged in 2 g sachets for oral
      administration designed for the treatment of gastrointestinal diseases. AST-120 consists of
      black microspheres approximately 0.2-0.4 mm in diameter with high adsorption ability and
      large surface area. Composed mainly of carbon (approximately 96%), the clinical utility of
      AST-120 is thought to reside in its ability to adsorb small molecular weight toxins,
      inflammatory mediators, and harmful bile acid products from the gastrointestinal tract,
      preventing local toxicity and their systemic absorption. AST-120 has a selective adsorption
      profile for certain acidic and basic organic compounds, and has a significantly lower
      adsorptive capacity than activated charcoal for digestive enzymes.

      In this study, patients with active pouchitis after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) for
      Ulcerative Colitis with primary symptoms such as increased stool frequency and abdominal
      pain, and refractory to antibiotics (do not respond to antibiotic therapy for a minimum of 14
      days) will be enrolled. Patients must have active pouchitis confirmed by endoscopy and biopsy
      within 4 weeks of study entry. The diagnosis of active pouchitis will be defined by a PDAI
      score >7 points, with a combined assessment of symptoms, endoscopy and histology.

      Eligible patients will receive AST-120 sachets at 2g three times daily (TID) to be taken
      between meals at 10:00 am, 3:00 pm and immediately before going to bed for 4 complete weeks.
      AST-120 is a tasteless, odorless, oral preparation. To take the product, patients will tear
      open the sachets, drop the contents directly on their tongue and wash it down with 8 ounces
      of water. Patients will be evaluated at baseline and week 4 or early termination by the study
      physician, including endoscopies with histology and routine laboratory tests. Patients will
      be checked on a weekly basis by the study coordinator by phone for symptom response,
      compliance, and development of adverse events. Quality of Life Assessments (Cleveland Global
      Quality of Life and Short Inflammatory Bowel Questionnaire) will be conducted at baseline and
      week 4 or early termination. A patient is defined as having completed study treatment if
      he/she has received investigational product and is followed for safety through the last
      on-site visit of the 4 week treatment course.

      Any co-prescribed medicine must be given at least 30 minutes before AST-120 administration.
      The following drugs for pouchitis can be co-prescribed/maintained during AST-120 treatment
      and their utilization will be recorded as secondary endpoints:

        -  Antidiarrheal therapy with loperamide (Imodium)

        -  Nutritional agents and Probiotics at the same dose as previously prescribed, if the dose
           has been stable for 2 weeks at study entry.

      Antibiotics must be stopped by the time of entry into the study. However, antibiotics
      prescribed to treat infection other than pouchitis will be allowed and recorded.

      The need to prescribe any of the following drugs during the study will constitute treatment
      failure:

        -  Oral or topical corticosteroids

        -  Oral or topical 5-ASA

        -  Nutritional agents (SCFA enemas or suppositories, glutamine, dietary fibers)

        -  Probiotics

        -  Narcotic-based antidiarrheal agents

      In addition patients will be considered to have failed treatment if they have a PDAI score
      improvement of < or = 2 points at the end of the trial. Patients will be discontinued from
      the study if they become pregnant or if warranted by treatment-emergent safety concerns or
      if, in the opinion of the investigator, it is in the patient's best interest to discontinue
      the study.

      A first cohort of 10 patients will be treated; based on outcome (efficacy and safety: no
      significant Adverse Event (AE) associated with study drug and at least 3/10 patients
      responding) a second cohort of 10 patients may be enrolled.
    
  