
    
      Schizophrenia is a disabling mental disorder that causes hallucinations and delusions in
      those affected by it. Research has proven that certain treatment methods are more effective
      in treating schizophrenia than others. However, not everyone with schizophrenia responds to
      treatment in the same way, and not all physicians use the same treatment methods. Educating
      individuals with schizophrenia about all treatments available instead of only the treatments
      they are receiving may improve the quality of care and lead to better correlation between
      treatment and quality standards. This study will evaluate the effectiveness of an interactive
      educational website in enhancing discussions about treatment issues and improving the
      congruence between expected quality of treatment and treatment received among people with
      schizophrenia.

      Participants in this open label study will be randomly assigned to either use the interactive
      website or read written materials and watch a video. All three sources will contain
      information about evidence-based treatment recommendations. Both groups will complete a brief
      interview before performing their assigned tasks. Upon completion of the interview,
      participants in the written materials/video group will be given the reading material and will
      watch a 20-minute video. Participants in the web-user group will sit with a laptop computer,
      answer questions about themselves and their treatment, receive feedback on care that may be
      inconsistent with current recommendations, and receive suggestions on how to discuss this
      with their physicians. Participants in clinical settings will be asked to allow their next
      clinician visit to be audiotaped to assess outcomes. A phone interview will be conducted with
      all participants 2 months following the intervention to assess treatment satisfaction and
      other outcomes. Medical records will be reviewed to collect treatment information 6 months
      before and after the intervention.
    
  