
    
      The lumbar puncture procedure is considered a complex procedure. Junior doctors hold
      uncertainties in performing the procedure and perform below stakeholders expectations. This
      conflicts with the potential need for immediate performance on critical patients.

      The traditional training for junior physicians has been guided by the expectation that
      experience will lead to mastery. This assumption has been disproved by simulation based and
      observational studies calling for more educational research including its impact on patient
      outcomes. A contrast to the maxim of "see one, do one, teach one" is mastery learning (ML).
      ML implies that learners should practice and re-test until they reach a designated mastery
      level, making the final level the same for all, although the time taken to reach that level
      may vary.

      Novices trained by simulation based training with mastery learning (SBML) achieve a higher
      performance level than more experienced physicians only having received clinical training.
      However, the translational effect into the clinical context is unknown as the training and
      assessment of competence was performed in the simulation based setting, not integrating
      aspects as patient communication and positioning. For the lumbar puncture, the complexity of
      the procedure pertains to both technical and non-technical aspects as patient interaction,
      communication, the corporation with the assistant and environmental conditions.

      Hence, there is a need for more knowledge on the effect of simulation-based training with
      mastery learning for junior doctors' performance in the clinical setting which should include
      the effect on patient-related outcomes.

      As novices describe a fear of doing harm and hold performance related uncertainty, they may
      be susceptible to experience a stress sensation. Stress during performance of clinical
      procedures reduces the working memory and is associated with impaired performance. Expert
      performers' reports that stress during the procedure performance might be transmitted to the
      patient. Patients experiencing stress during the procedure holds a significantly increased
      risk of a prolonged duration of post dural puncture headache.

      Stress- stimuli, experience, and responses are complex, as the judgment on whether a
      situation is perceived as pleasant or threatening depends on the individuals' appraisal,
      which is based: on previous experience; previous learning; the setting and expectations of
      the outcome. Stress stimuli arise when the appreciation of the situation is negative.
      Performers holding a strategy for their performance during stress are less prone to
      experience a stress sensation. Hence, the integration of a strategy for performing the
      procedure, based on the experts' process goals might benefit novices' risk of experiencing
      stress during procedure performance. The effect on such stress reduction to the patient
      experience of stress and the risks of procedure-related side effects has never been
      investigated.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the effect of simulation-based training with mastery
      learning on novices' lumbar puncture performance, patient related outcomes and stress
      experienced by the physicians and patients during the procedure. The effect and outcomes will
      be compared with intermediate and expert lumbar puncture performers.
    
  