
    
      This proposal consists of a small, randomized clinical trial to determine the impact of two
      novel interventions on swallowing-related outcomes in patients with mild-moderate Alzheimer's
      Disease and Related Dementias (ADRD) and identify subgroups of patients most likely to
      benefit from these interventions. Patient-caregiver dyads will be randomized to lingual
      strengthening, saliva substitute use, a combination of the two, or only usual care. Saliva
      and swallowing-related outcomes will be collected at baseline and following the 8 week
      intervention period.

      Consent and Randomization: Eligible dyads will be approached, consented and randomized at
      clinical care sites within University of Wisconsin Hospital and Clinics. Eligible
      participants' capacity to consent will determined by their primary clinical provider or team.
      Research staff will consent participant (or legally authorized representatives) prior to
      their swallow study. Each dyad will have equal chances of randomization to either usual care
      or one of the intervention arms plus usual care, with randomization stratified by the
      participant's dementia severity determined by the Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) scale to
      ensure equal distribution of mild (CDR=1) and moderate (CDR=2) patients. A biostatistician
      will randomize participants and notify the research and clinical teams of the assignment.

      Baseline Assessment: Following randomization, the baseline assessment will be completed
      during the inpatient stay or outpatient clinic visit. Staff will collect data on
      sociodemographics, comorbidities (using the Charlson comorbidity score approach) and
      medications (including anticholinergics and neuroleptics). The Montreal Cognitive Assessment
      (MoCA) will be administered at this time. Oral health status will be graded using the Brief
      Oral Health Status Examination, a valid and reliable scoring instrument developed for
      non-dental health care providers in long term care. Dentition will be characterized by the
      number of posterior occlusal pairs of teeth and denture use. Smoking history and active use
      during the study will be recorded.

      Usual Care: Usual care group participants will receive standard swallowing interventions as
      recommended by the clinical Speech-Language Pathologist. Such treatment would likely consist
      of dietary (e.g., thickened liquids or pureed foods) or postural compensatory strategies
      (e.g., chin down posture while swallowing). All dyads in intervention groups will also
      receive usual care, as indicated per their primary clinical team.

      Interventions:

      Saliva substitute: Each patient-caregiver dyad will be provided with a commercially available
      gel-based saliva substitute, Biotene® Oral Balance Gel. Participants will be instructed to
      apply an amount equivalent to about 1 cm of gel with a finger to the tongue and most
      intensely affected areas of the oral cavity three times a day for 8 weeks. Caregivers will be
      trained in how to assist the patient with application and support will be provided through
      weekly follow-up phone calls.

      Lingual strengthening intervention: Device training for dyads assigned to lingual
      strengthening will occur following randomization during the inpatient stay or outpatient
      clinic visit. Isometric tongue strengthening will be completed using the Iowa Oral
      Performance Instrument (IOPI) over an 8-week program. An air-filled pressure bulb is placed
      on the surface of the oral tongue and pressed against the hard palate during exercise. Each
      patient is given a target pressure value to aim for as determined by the baseline one
      repetition maximum (1RM) lingual pressures. During week one of the regimen, the target value
      of each repetition will be 60% of the 1RM. For the remaining seven weeks, the target value
      will be increased to 80% of the 1RM. At weeks three, five, and seven, the baseline will be
      re-measured by phone and the 80% target value re-calculated. The final assessment point will
      be after completion of lingual strengthening. Training will be provided to both participants
      and caregivers on the device and lingual strengthening protocol and support will be provided
      to dyads through weekly follow-up phone calls.
    
  