
    
      High-dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplant is considered standard of
      care for patients with relapsed and/or refractory aggressive lymphomas. High-dose
      chemotherapy, with or without ASCT, may also be used as upfront chemotherapy according to
      lymphoma histotype (e.g. primary central nervous system lymphomas, mantle cell lymphomas),
      advanced stage disease, extranodal involvement, and high IPI. Chemotherapy-induced
      myelosuppression results in various degrees of neutropenia, anemia, and thrombocytopenia and
      related complications can lead to hospitalization, impaired quality of life, death, and
      increased healthcare costs.

      While myeloid growth factors have reduced neutropenia and the incidence of neutropenic fever,
      and erythropoietic agents have reduced anemia and transfusions, chemotherapy-induced
      thrombocytopenia (CIT) still remains an unmet treatment need.

      Thrombocytopenia is significantly associated with increased bleeding risk, platelet
      transfusions need, chemotherapy dose reductions and treatment delays, which usually
      compromise therapeutic efficacy. Platelet transfusions are also limited by cost, supply, and
      associated risks, such as transfusion reactions, transmission of infection, alloimmunization
      and platelet refractoriness. Alternative strategies are evaluating pharmacologic options to
      stimulate platelet production and to overcome CIT.

      The predominant reason for a low platelet count in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy is
      a deficiency in platelet production. Megakaryopoiesis, the process of development of
      mega-karyocytes and production of platelets, involves a highly complex cascade of events,
      from differentiation of immature progenitors to maturation of megakaryocytes and release of
      platelets into the bone marrow sinusoids. Cytokines present within specialized bone marrow
      niches contribute to survival, proliferation, and differentiation of megakaryocytes. In
      addition to TPO, an essential growth factor for platelet production, there are several other
      growth factors and cytokines, such as IL-1, IL-3, IL-6, IL-11, and SCF, that contribute
      towards megakaryopoiesis at different stages of development and maturation. In the last
      decade, a number of these cytokines have been evaluated for the prevention and treatment of
      thrombocytopenia. Unfortunately, none has yet provided a commercially available agent with a
      high therapeutic index.

      Despite very promising thrombopoietic activity, the clinical development of first-generation
      recombinant TPOs was halted due to immunogenicity concerns. This led to the development of
      TPO agonists with no homology to TPO that can bind the TPO receptors and activate
      signal-ling, leading to increase in platelet production.
    
  