
    
      Background: Women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus are at increased risk for
      developing type2 diabetes mellitus or metabolic syndrome in their later life. Infants of
      mothers with GDM are more susceptible to stillbirth and more serious health concerns. With
      limited time for visits and the predicament of education, applying web-based intervention has
      become a convenient tool for health management.

      Objectives: The approved project aimed to develop an e-heath management platform(eHMP) for
      women with high risk of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and to evaluate the longitudinal
      effects between groups of eHMP intervention. The eHMP integrate GDM health care knowledge,
      self-awareness of health, self-monitoring of health status (i.e., recording weight and
      measurement data of metabolic syndrome risk factors and monitoring changes in data trends);
      participation in discussions or browsing forums; healthy lifestyle guidance and counseling;
      reminder systems, a token system of earning points in exchange for prizes.

      Methods: Pregnant women aged 18-45 years with high risk of metabolic syndrome who have a
      singleton pregnancy, are eligible to participate in this study. Women who agree to
      participate in the study will be given a participant information sheet and consent form.
      Participants will be recruited from the Pregnancy diabetes Clinic, at Chang Gung memorial
      hospital and introduced to the eHMP using the mobile phone in the clinic. Participants will
      also be given the URL to access to the program and they can learn the modules at home by
      using their home PCs, mobile phones, or tablets. They were followed up for three times: 28
      weeks' gestation, 36-40 weeks' gestation and 6-12 weeks postpartum. SPSS version 20.0
      software was used to compile and analyze the research data, including questionnaires and
      blood test for metabolic index.
    
  