
    
      The number of individuals surviving for more than five years following a cancer diagnosis is
      steadily rising. Cancer is often a long-term condition. Individuals living beyond a cancer
      diagnosis are required to participate in a range of self-management activities, including
      (and not limited to) managing symptoms and comorbidities, self-monitoring for recurrence,
      adjusting to life beyond cancer/managing psychological sequelae, taking medications,
      attending follow-up appointments, and addressing unhealthy behaviours.

      Treatment burden is the workload of healthcare for patients, and the effect that this work
      has on patient functioning and well-being. In the 1960s, Thomas Creer recognised that patient
      participation in their own healthcare was important in achieving disease control in
      paediatric asthma. Since then, "self-management" has been extensively researched and
      conceptualised. In the 1980s, Corbin and Strauss characterised three strands of "work" for
      people with chronic conditions: medical management, for example adhering to medication
      regimens and attending appointments; behavioural management, such as adopting healthier
      lifestyle practices; and the emotional management of adapting to a long-term condition.

      Increasing patient participation in self-management has mostly been viewed as a positive
      strategy through which to improve health outcomes, reduce medical paternalism, and delegate
      some tasks away from over-burdened health and social care systems. Treatment burden is a
      relatively recent concept which highlights the potentially deleterious effects of increasing
      patient workload. Treatment burden is becoming increasingly relevant as more people survive
      into old age, often with combinations of comorbidities (including cancer) for which there are
      multiple available therapeutic agents and complex self-management regimens.

      In diabetes, renal failure, heart failure, and stroke, there is increasing evidence that
      increased treatment burden is associated with reduced quality of life, non-adherence to
      therapeutic regimes, and wasted resources. Treatment burden is modified by patient capacity:
      those with lower self-efficacy, low levels of social support, financial difficulties, and
      competing personal workload can experience increased treatment burden. In cancer, certain
      large and distinct demographic groups, particularly rural dwellers and the socially deprived,
      have poorer survival after a cancer diagnosis. The mechanisms of these inequities have not
      been adequately explained.

      It is feasible that treatment burden could modify interactions with health services,
      engagement with survivorship activities, and ultimately, cancer outcomes.

      Treatment burden is a relatively recent concept which is under-explored in in cancer
      survivors.

      The objectives of this study are:

        1. To investigate patient perceptions of treatment burden after prostate and colorectal
           cancer.

        2. To determine sources of treatment burden in prostate and colorectal cancer survivors,
           their interactions, and the perceived consequences of treatment burden.

        3. To utilise key concepts from the interviews to build a video narrative, featuring video
           excerpts from participants to ensure that their voices reach a wider audience, including
           professionals. We will use these narratives to improve cancer services through
           co-design.

      Qualitative interview will be conducted with approximately 40 patients, with or without
      linked caregivers. They will be transcribed verbatim, and analysed using Framework and
      thematic analysis.
    
  