
    
      In China, the smoker population is about 300 hundred million. Tobacco has become one of the
      world's public health problem. 30 percent of global surgery patients have smoking history. It
      is reported that smoker patients (>400 cigarette/year) will suffer more postoperative
      complications than non-smoker patients after lobectomy (38.2% vs 12.5%). Smoking is an
      independent risk factor of postoperative complications of cardiothoracic surgery. Evidences
      showed that smoking had a negative effect on airway management which plays an important role
      in postoperative recovery for thoracic surgery. Therefore, we hypothesise that
      intervention-related study to find a way to reduce postoperative complications for smoker
      patients is significantly meaningful in improving the overall outcome after pulmonary surgery
      as 80 percent of patients with lung cancer are smoker in China. Recently, a series of
      strategies on airway management have been proposed by clinical doctors. As one of the
      important parts of airway management, pulmonary rehabilitation has been demonstrated by
      evidence-base medicine to reduce the pulmonary complications after thoracic surgery and
      increase the breathing capacity. According to the reported literatures, the effect and
      long-term results of pulmonary rehabilitation on smoker patients have not been studied, so we
      designed this randomized controlled trial to determine whether pulmonary rehabilitation would
      be effective to smoker patients who underwent lobectomy which was associated with significant
      loss of lung function.

      According to the reported papers in China, main observation index in experimental group was
      about 25.7, and in control group was about 10%. At the level of α=0.05 (Bilateral), power of
      test (1-β)=0.80, ratio=1:1. The estimated minimum required sample size of each group was 93
      cases, the statistical loss rate was set as 10%. The overall sample size of this study was
      about 200 cases.
    
  