
    
      Despite the success of potent combination therapies in patients with limited or no prior
      antiretroviral therapy, clinical experience demonstrates that these regimens are less likely
      to achieve durable suppression of HIV-1 replication in patients with extensive prior
      treatment with nucleoside analogues. The response to treatment of patients who have failed
      multiple previous regimens has been disappointing. Thus, there is an urgent need for new
      approaches to the treatment of such patients. Recent studies have shown that it is effective
      to add investigational drugs to optimized background drug regimens that have been selected
      based on resistance testing. This study will assess the virologic and immunologic activity of
      amdoxovir (DAPD) versus placebo in combination with enfuvirtide (T-20, or ENF) plus optimized
      background (OB) antiretroviral therapy for highly treatment-experienced patients.

      Patients in this study will continue to take their current (failing) antiretroviral regimen
      until they are registered to the study. Patients will be randomized to receive DAPD or
      placebo. Patients will receive DAPD or placebo together with ENF plus an OB regimen
      containing at least three but not more than five antiretroviral agents. The OB regimen will
      be selected based on the results of a screening HIV-1 drug resistance test and is expected to
      remain stable for at least the first 24 weeks of the study. Only ENF and DAPD will be
      supplied by this study, but they will not be provided to participants beyond the end of the
      study.

      ENF is injected into the abdomen, deltoid, or the anterior aspect of the thigh. Patients will
      be taught how to self-administer ENF. Medical staff will observe self-injection of the first
      dose of ENF and at clinic visits scheduled for Weeks 1, 2, and 4. During Week 4, patients
      will undergo pharmacokinetic testing. This requires that patients come to the clinic for
      approximately 12 hours so that blood can be tested at different times after taking the study
      drugs.

      After Week 4, there are follow-up visits every 4 weeks until Week 48. Blood work,
      ophthalmologic exams, and urinalysis are done at all clinic visits, except for Week 1.
      Participants may continue to receive study treatment beyond Week 24 for up to 48 weeks total,
      unless they experience a confirmed loss of virologic and immunologic response. Regardless of
      treatment, all patients are followed for 48 weeks.

      In March 2004, participants in this study were unblinded. Participants on DAPD placebo were
      given the option of discontinuing the placebo and replacing it with an active antiretroviral,
      if one is available. Participants on active DAPD were given the option of continuing DAPD
      through Week 48, or discontinuing it and replacing it with another antiretroviral agent. All
      participants may continue to receive ENF through Week 48.
    
  