
    
      Undetectable or low circulating levels of HIV virus in blood are the result of people who
      have been diagnosed with a HIV-infection and who have adhered to a HIV AntiRetroviral Therapy
      (ART) regimen. However, the ART has not eradicated the virus from the body and individuals
      who cease ART can rapidly revert from a well-controlled state to showing high levels of HIV
      virus in the blood. The HIV virus has been shown to have a unique ability to hide within the
      human gene inside human cells and in tissues, remaining 'silent' and rapidly reactivate [or
      wake up] if ART is stopped. Efforts are underway to explore novel ways to entirely eradicate
      HIV from individuals, so that people who are HIV-infected can stop treatment and still have
      undetectable HIV viral load and remain well despite not being on HIV treatment.

      There are a number of ways to measure the silent HIV reservoir, including a common
      research-based laboratory test called Cell-Associated UnSpliced (CA-US) HIV RNA. This is an
      early marker of the HIV virus reactivating. It is often used to test how well new drugs
      developed to eliminate the silent virus might work.

      Recently as investigators involved in another clinical study, an unexpected observation was
      noted in a group of HIV study participants on ART between the CA-US HIV RNA levels and time
      of blood collection. Levels of CA-US HIV RNA appeared to be lower when blood samples were
      collected earlier in the morning. However, at the time of this observation, as investigators
      were unable to establish whether this discrepancy could be due to (i) the diurnal variation
      or (ii) unknown stress factors that may have been experienced by the study participants. It
      has previously been demonstrated that individuals with untreated HIV infection there is a
      variation in HIV RNA levels and the time of day. However, the effects of external factors
      such as time of day or stresses on CA-US HIV RNA levels in individuals while on ART have not
      been previously examined.

      This study hopes to explore and answer the questions (i) Does the diurnal variation play a
      role in regulating the levels of CA-US HIV RNA in blood of individuals diagnosed with HIV and
      receiving ART and (ii) Does stress affect the levels of CA-US HIV RNA.

      Understanding some factors that affect levels of CA-US HIV RNA may provide a new perspective
      on ways to eliminate the silent virus.
    
  