
    
      BACKGROUND:

      The metabolic syndrome identifies the clustering of lipid abnormalities, hypertension,
      hyperglycemia and abdominal obesity. It is a common and strong contributor to heart disease
      and diabetes and disproportionably affects older persons. Animal and small clinical studies
      have suggested that psychosocial stress is a risk factor for the metabolic syndrome.
      Underlying mechanisms may be through activation of the hypothalamopituitary-adrenal (HPA)
      axis causing hypercortisolemia, and, partly in turn, elevated inflammation and decreased sex
      hormone levels. However, longitudinal data showing that psychosocial stress indeed
      contributes to the onset and sequelae of the metabolic syndrome in the population at large,
      are lacking.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The primary objectives are to conduct data-analyses and biological sample analyses to examine
      the effect of psychosocial stress, as indicated by mood problems (depressive symptoms) and
      stressful social circumstances (poverty, negative life events, occupational stress, lack of
      emotional support), on the onset and sequelae of the metabolic syndrome. Secondary objectives
      are to examine underlying biological mechanisms in the effect of psychosocial stress on the
      metabolic syndrome. The investigators will use available data from two ongoing longitudinal
      community-based studies among older persons: the Health Aging and Body Composition (Health
      ABC) study (n=3,075, mean age=74 years, 52%=female, 42% African American) and the InChianti
      study (n=1,453, mean age=69 years, 56%=female). In both studies psychosocial stress and the
      metabolic syndrome are well defined, longitudinal data on sequelae (CVD events and diabetes
      onset) and onset of the metabolic syndrome are available, and potentially underlying
      biological variables were, or will be, assessed including 24-h urinary cortisol, serum sex
      steroid hormones (estradiol, testosterone, SHBG, DHEAS) and inflammatory markers (IL-6,
      IL-10, TNF-alpha, CRP, and various soluble cytokine receptors). The results of this study
      will help in designing future intervention trials that evaluate whether reducing stress
      and/or its physiological consequences, either by pharmacological treatment or behavioral
      intervention, could reduce incidence of the metabolic syndrome in the older general
      population.
    
  