
    
      The proposed study is a randomized multicentric phase III study. The Patients included in the
      study will undergo a chemoradiotherapy neoadjuvant treatment.

      Patients will undergo a clinical-instrumental restaging at 7-8 weeks and will be randomized
      in two groups in case of major or complete response:

        1. Surgery 9-11 weeks after the end of neoadjuvant treatment

        2. Second clinical and instrumental re-evaluation after 11-12 weeks and then surgery 13-16
           weeks after the end of chemoradiotherapy.

      Only patients who underwent preoperative chemoradiotherapy and achieved a complete or major
      response at the clinical-instrumental restaging 7-8 weeks after the end of neoadjuvant
      treatment will be included in the study.

      The control arm of the BRIDGE-1 study is represented by patients undergoing surgery 9-11
      weeks after the end of chemoradiotherapy, whose major/complete response has to be assessed
      with clinical-instrumental exams to be performed 7-8 weeks after the end of
      chemoradiotherapy.

      The experimental arm of the the BRIDGE-1 study is represented by patients undergoing surgery
      13-16 weeks after the end of chemoradiotherapy, showing a major/complete response at the
      clinical-instrumental exams to be performed 7-8 weeks after the end of chemoradiotherapy.
      These patients will undergo a new clinical and instrumental evaluation, 11-12 weeks after the
      end of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy treatment, prior to be submitted to the delayed surgical
      procedure.

      Patients will be recruited in the two different arms, according to a randomized assignment,
      realized through an electronic table, in order to assure the efficacy of this study. Patients
      will be divided according to gender, age, stage and tumour site (low, medium and high) in
      each centre.

      When a patient will be assigned to a specific arm, the randomization procedure will recruit a
      similar patient in the other arm.

      CLINICAL STAGING AND RESTAGING EVALUATION TNM clinical and pathological stages are reported
      according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer 7th Edition, adenocarcinoma histological
      grading according to WHO classification.

      Staging and baseline clinical evaluation

        1. Patient history

        2. Digital rectal examination

        3. Recto-colonoscopy + biopsy (in case of impossibility to perform colonoscopy due to
           stenosing lesion, rectoscopy + biopsy and double-contrast barium enema or colon CT or
           colonoscopy within 6 months from surgery are suggested)

        4. Pelvic MRI for loco-regional staging

        5. CT of the thorax and abdomen for distant metastases staging

        6. PET-CT (optional)

        7. CEA test

        8. Quality of Life (QoL) questionnaires compilation

      Restaging at 7-8 weeks

        1. Digital rectal examination

        2. Pelvic MRI

        3. PET-CT if performed during staging

        4. Rectoscopy (in case of major/complete response)

        5. CEA test

        6. Quality of Life (QoL) questionnaires compilation

      7.3 Restaging at 11-12 weeks (for patients randomized in the delayed surgery arm)

        1. Digital rectal examination

        2. Pelvic MRI

        3. PET-CT if previously performed

        4. Rectoscopy

        5. CEA test

      As secondary outcomes, acute and late toxicities, quality of life, bowel function, rectal
      continence and sexual activity will be evaluated in this study.

      PREOPERATIVE CHEMORADIOTHERAPY TREATMENT Chemoradiotherapy treatment schedule considers a
      total radiotherapy dose of 55 Gy in 5 weeks, delivered with a 3D concomitant boost or
      Intensity Modulated Radiation Therapy (IMRT) Simultaneous Integrated Boost (SIB) technique.

      Concomitant chemotherapy considers administration of Capecitabine for the whole radiotherapy
      course.

      SURGICAL APPROACH Surgery will be performed according to standard techniques using the " open
      " approach, laparoscopic or robotic, according to surgeon's preference and including both
      anterior resection of the rectum and abdominoperineal rectal resection with mesorectal total
      excision (Total Mesorectal Excision, TME).

      The possibility of sphincter salvage will be evaluated collectively by the members of the
      multidisciplinary team at the time of diagnosis, at first re-evaluation and in case of second
      re-evaluation.

      PATHOLOGICAL EVALUATION Resected rectal specimens will undergo gross examination in order to
      macroscopically evaluate the status of the mesorectal margin.

      After marking with indian ink the mesorectal margin, cutting axially the colorectal segment
      on its anti-mesorectal side and fixating it in formalin, transverse sections of the surgical
      specimen will be serially cut.

      In case of macroscopic evidence of disease, sampling of the most infiltrated area and of the
      tumoral area with the minimum distance from the mesorectal margin, which will be included,
      will be performed.

      In case of macroscopic absence or in the suspect of residual disease, the initial tumour site
      will be completely included in the specimen, localizing it from clinical reports with the
      potential aid of endoscopic tattoos and/or tissue alterations by the treatment (scar
      retraction or increase of tissue consistency).

      In case of negative reports of the first histological sections, each inclusion will undergo
      three levels of histological section series.

      The histopathological evaluation of the response to the therapy will be scored according to
      the following classifications: Mandard A.M., et al; Washington MK et al/College of American
      Pathologists; in presence of positive nodes, the Nottingham Rectal Cancer Prognostic Index
      (NRPI) score will also be used.

      ADJUVANT CHEMOTHERAPY The protocol does not establish criteria for the administration of
      adjuvant systemic treatment.

      The single center maintains the discretion to administer postoperative chemotherapy.

      FOLLOW-UP The follow-up program recommended in the study is described in the national
      guidelines in effect.

      Patients will undergo a clinical evaluation 1 month after surgery, every third month during
      the first year and then every sixth month up to the fifth year.

      During follow-up visits the following tests will be performed and evaluated :

        1. Physical examination and digital rectal exam ;

        2. CEA and routine blood chemistry screen ;

        3. Colonoscopy (at 1 year, if negative repeat after 3 years, if still negative repeat after
           5 years) ;

        4. Thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT 3 months after surgery and then every sixth 6 month for the
           first 2 years, then annually (unless different clinical indication, i.e. suspicious
           lesions requiring short-term monitoring), in rotation with abdominal US ;

        5. Complete abdominal US, each 6 months for the first 2 years, the annually (unless
           different clinical indication, i.e. suspicious lesions requiring short-term monitoring),
           in succession with Thoracic-abdominal-pelvic CT ;

        6. Adverse events report (CTCAE v.04)

        7. Quality of life (QoL) questionnaires to be filled during first follow up visits and then
           at 6 and 12 months.
    
  