
    
      To address the unmet need of optimizing the treatment and management for adolescent
      suicidality, the investigators propose to evaluate if Outpatient Crisis Intervention Clinic
      (OCIC) leads to better treatment outcomes than inpatient treatment. To achieve this goal, the
      investigators propose a multi- site study to evaluate if OCIC, compared with inpatient care,
      can lead to a lower risk of a suicidal event (primary outcome) as well as higher treatment
      satisfaction (TS) and satisfaction with life (SL) (secondary outcomes) of both the legal
      guardians/parents and patients. Furthermore, the investigators will assess which clinical and
      socioeconomic factors at baseline may affect the treatment outcomes. With the results from
      the proposed study, the investigators will be able to reduce the family and clinician
      decisional uncertainty about the best treatment setting for suicidal adolescents in the
      target population. The results will significantly help patients, families, and clinicians
      with this decision-making process and improve outcomes for suicidal adolescents. The study
      has been designed to accomplish the following Specific Aims (SA):

      SA1: Measure the differences between OCIC and inpatient treatment in the time to first
      recurrence of a suicidal event (a suicide attempt, interrupted attempt, hospitalization
      because of suicidal risk, an emergency/urgent evaluation because of suicidal risk, and a
      death by suicide) and the number of suicidal events over 90 days and 180 days for suicidal
      adolescents after their baseline Emergency Department (ED) visits.

      Hypothesis (H) 1.1: Assignment with randomization to OCIC from the ED will lead to a longer
      time to the first recurrence of a suicidal event compared to inpatient treatment after 90
      days and 180 days from the baseline ED visit for suicidality. H1.2 Assignment with
      randomization to OCIC will lead to a lower number suicidal events over 90 days and 180 days
      when compared to inpatient treatment. H1.3 Heterogeneity of Treatment Effects [HTE]: The
      investigators will examine to what degree the following specific clinical features and
      sociodemographic features differ for patients who respond to OCIC or inpatient psychiatry
      treatment. Response is defined by a delay in first recurrence of a suicidal event and a lower
      number of suicidal events over 90 days and 180 days. Clinical features: 1) Severity of
      suicidal ideation at baseline and over 180 days; 2) number of suicidal events at baseline
      only; 3) Substance use at baseline and over 180 days. Sociodemographic features at baseline:
      1) Age 2) Gender 3) Gender Identity 4) Type of Insurance (public insurance/no
      insurance/private) 5) Ethnicity (Hispanic/Non); 6) Race (African-American (AA) versus
      non-African American); 7) Living with one biological parent, two biological parents, a
      stepparent, a relative, or other SA2: Assess the treatment satisfaction (TS) and satisfaction
      with life (SL) across OCIC and inpatient treatment.

      H2.1: Overall, patients and legal guardians/parents in the OCIC group will have higher TS (at
      the completion of treatment in OCIC or inpatient psychiatry) and better SL than the inpatient
      treatment group over 90 and 180 days.

      SA3: As an exploratory aim, assess the demographics and potential barriers to treatment for a
      third comparator of the "no show" group who were randomized to OCIC or inpatient treatment
      but never showed up or left the inpatient unit against medical advice (AMA).

      H3.1: The no show group (the third comparator) who did not arrive for any OCIC appointments
      or left AMA from inpatient treatment will differ from the other comparators with respect to
      the following barriers to treatment: 1) Age 2) Gender 3) Type of Insurance (public
      insurance/no insurance/private) 4) Ethnicity (Hispanic/Non) 64; 5) Race (African-American
      (AA) versus non-African American) ; 6) Living with one biological parent, two biological
      parents, a stepparent, a relative, or other H3.2: The no show group will have significantly
      shorter time to first recurrence of a suicidal event and a larger number of suicidal events
      over 90 days and 180 days in comparison to the other patients.
    
  