
    
      Introduction: Gout has been associated with a number of comorbidities including
      cardiovascular disease (CVD). Mounting evidence suggests that hyperuricaemia and gout are
      associated with a high risk for CVD. Gout is closely related to hypertension, dyslipidaemia,
      obesity and metabolic syndrome, all well-known factors contributing to the development of
      CVD. Gout management guidelines all agree that comorbidity screening is relevant and thus
      should be implemented in contemporary gout management. However, no specific strategy for
      management of CVD risk factors, in a gout population, exists.

      Objective: The objective of the Urica Cor Intervention (URICORI) trial is to evaluate the
      effectiveness of a one-year, intervention of modifiable risk factors for CVD administered in
      a rheumatology outpatient clinical setting, compared with conventional treatment for
      modifiable risk factors for CVD in people with gout.

      Design: The study is a randomised, open label, blinded endpoint trial, with balanced
      randomisation (1:1) conducted in four rheumatology outpatient clinics in Denmark. The
      investigators aim to recruit 266 people with gout, fulfilling the current EULAR ( European
      League against Rheumatism)/ ACR (American College of Rheumatology) gout classification
      criteria. Eligible patients will be randomised to receive either conventional (control group)
      treatment for CVD risk factors administered by their general practitioner according to
      national guidelines (NG) versus the URICORI programme, administered at the rheumatology
      department, targeting the same CVD risk factors according to NG. Both groups will be treated
      for gout at their local department of rheumatology.

      End Points: primary end point is a composite endpoint. By inclusion in the URICORI programme
      all participants will be considered a member of one of four categories derived from the
      Systematic Coronary Risk Estimation (SCORE) screening programme designed to assess the 10
      year risk of fatal cardiovascular disease in European low risk population. As a consequence,
      participants will be classified as responder after 12 months if all national treatment
      targets for LDL cholesterol, HbA1c, Blood pressure (systolic and diastolic), according to
      their SCORE risk profile, is met and no commencement of smoking. If not, participants will be
      classified as non-responders.

      Key secondary end points: Change from baseline of LDL cholesterol, HbA1c, systolic blood
      pressure, diastolic blood pressure, smoking status and change from baseline in serum urate.
      Exploratory end points: Proportion of participants achieving treatment target for LDL
      cholesterol, HbA1c, systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, change in smoking
      status (commencement and cessation) and proportion of participants achieving serum urate <
      36.0 mmol/l or serum urate < 0.30 mmol/l for tophaceous disease.

      After year 1 and year 5, the first occurrence of any serious cardiovascular event
      (cardiovascular death, nonfatal myocardial infarction, nonfatal stroke or urgent
      revascularization due to unstable angina) during the URICORI trial will be registered. Death
      and hospitalisation during the URICORI trial will also be evaluated after year 5. Events will
      be determined by medical record review and evaluated by the endpoint adjudication committee.
      The Outcome Measures in Rheumatology (OMERACT) endorsed Core Domain Set for us in trials in
      gout will measured during and after the one-year URICORI intervention trial.

      Ethics and dissemination: The local ethics committee in the region of southern Denmark and
      the Danish data agency in the region of southern Denmark will approve this protocol prior to
      commencement.
    
  