
    
      This is a prospective observational cohort study, which focus on the prognostic value of
      6-minute walk test (6MWT) in patients who will undergo laparoscopic gastrointestinal surgery.

      Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) is an optimized program which help patients accelerate
      recovery and improve outcomes by integrating evidence-based protocols and guidelines. With
      the rapid development of ERAS, the preoperative clinical data of patients are paid more and
      more attention to evaluate the risk of perioperative complications and choose an appropriate
      time for surgery. A better perioperative evaluation method will lead to lower morbidity and
      mortality rates of postoperative complications and shorter time of hospital stay. So, it is
      important to find an appropriate evaluation method to predict the outcomes of patients
      undergoing surgery.

      6MWT is a low-cost, easy to operate and well-tolerated test to evaluate exercise tolerance to
      predict cardiopulmonary function. It has widely used in cardiopulmonary surgery as a
      prognostic marker. Even though massive studies showed that decreased perioperative 6-minute
      walk distance (6MWD) related to postoperative complication in patients underwent cardiac or
      pulmonary surgery, there are only small numbers of studies with small number sizes presenting
      correlation of decreased 6MWD and postoperative complication in abdominal surgery. Even some
      studies of upper abdomen got the opposite result. Furthermore, the critical value for 6MWD is
      still controversial. Based on these conditions, this study was designed to investigate if
      6MWT cloud be used as an accurate assessment with the prognostic value in patients who will
      undergo laparoscopic gastrointestinal surgery to improve the ERAS program.

      The investigators decide to enroll 200 patients awaiting elective laparoscopic
      gastrointestinal surgery in this study at Peking Union Medical College Hospital. After
      informed consent was obtained, the patients will be comprehensively evaluated from
      demographic characteristics, complications of systems and organs, laboratory tests results,
      6MWT, metabolic equivalents (METs), psychological states assessed by hospital anxiety and
      depression scale. Outcomes will be assessed according to the Clavien-Dindo Classification of
      Surgical Complications. Operative name, operation date, operative method, blood loss,
      situation of blood transfusion, operation time, duration of anesthesia, whether return to ICU
      or not (treatment time and tubulization time), drainage flow of within 24 hours after surgery
      will be recorded. Other outcome measures include the mortality rate within 30 days after
      surgery, second operation without plan, rehospitalized rate without plan, postoperative
      hospitalization time, patient satisfaction.

      Descriptive analysis, univariate analysis, multivariate analysis and establishment of
      complication prediction model will be used to analyze the correlation between preoperative
      6MWD and outcomes.
    
  