
    
      Conventional Hemodialysis - 3 treatments per week for approximately 4 hours- will be
      performed in a dialysis clinic using any hemodialysis machine. Short Daily Hemodialysis - 5
      or 6 treatments per week for approximately 2-4 hours per treatment- will be performed in the
      patient's home, using any hemodialysis machine. Partecipants randomized to SDHD will undergo
      an intensive home hemodialysis training program expected to take 2-6 weeks to complete.
      Qualified healthcare professionals will train each SDHD subject's partner to perform dialysis
      using any hemodialysis machine as chosen by clinicians. At baseline visit, before the first
      study treatment in either the SDHD or CHD arm, the following data will be collected:
      demographic information, ESRD history, EuroQol EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, vital sign, blood
      laboratory test results, KT/V parameters, 24 hour timed urine collection test results,
      comorbid conditions, vascular access type, current medications. After hemodialysis start,
      patients will be followed up to 12 months with data collection at 1,3,6 and 12 months. At
      each visit, the following data will be collected: EuroQol EQ-5D-5L questionnaire, vital sign,
      blood laboratory test results, KT/V parameters, 24 hour timed urine collection test results,
      adverse events, vascular access type, current medications. During this study, the following
      parameters will be strictly monitored: treatment costs, medications, number of
      hospitalization admissions, number of days in hospital and reasons for hospitalizations,
      additional costs informations.

      Home hemodialysis could be an integrated therapeutic option favoring the de-hospitalization
      of patients requiring hemodialysis. Aim of this study is to offer the patient a better
      quality of life, to create the conditions for an improvement in blood pressure, phosphate
      control, of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, and to reduce costs for the National
      Health Service.
    
  