
    
      BACKGROUND:

        -  Children treated with cranial radiation therapy (CRT) for brain tumors are at high risk
           for developing neurocognitive late effects consisting of significant declines in overall
           IQ and specific cognitive impairments, particularly in attention, memory, and processing
           speed. Academic functioning, daily activities, and quality of life (QOL) also are
           impacted, and children often require special educational services.

        -  Despite adaptations in radiation therapy (delay of radiation, reduced dose, specialized
           techniques), cognitive deficits still develop. Interventions targeting cognitive
           rehabilitation are limited yet sorely needed.

        -  A potential and novel intervention for cognitive rehabilitation that has not been
           explored in children with cancer involves physical activity (PA). Compelling evidence
           from both human and animal studies indicates that PA affects the same brain mechanisms
           and cognitive functions damaged by CRT and chemotherapy.

        -  Previous PA intervention studies in children with cancer have been found to be feasible,
           safe, and beneficial to health but have not examined cognition outcomes. Therefore, we
           will conduct a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the effects of PA on the
           cognitive functioning of children treated with CRT for brain tumors. In addition, we
           will enhance the intervention by combining it with Acceptance and Commitment Therapy
           (ACT) techniques to maximize participants' motivation to engage in PA.

        -  The immediate intervention group (the intervention group ) will engage in the enhanced
           PA intervention program for the first 12 weeks followed by 12 weeks of PA maintenance on
           their own, while the delayed intervention control group (the control group ) will engage
           in their usual physical activity for the first 12 weeks followed by the enhanced PA
           intervention program for the second 12 weeks.

      OBJECTIVES:

      -To assess the effects of a 12-week enhanced physical activity (PA) home intervention on
      visual memory (CogState One Card Learning Accuracy score) in children treated with CRT for
      brain tumors compared to a control group engaged in usual physical activity during the first
      12 weeks.

      ELIGIBILITY:

        -  Children ages 8 - 18 years previously diagnosed with a brain tumor in childhood who are
           at least 1 year post-completion of CRT and who are not on an active anti-tumor treatment
           will be eligible.

        -  Children should have reported or documented cognitive difficulties in attention,
           learning and memory, or processing speed per the child s parent or legal guardian.

      DESIGN:

      -This is a prospective single-institution trial. Children will be randomized to one of two
      groups: Group 1 (n=30): The immediate intervention group (the intervention group ) will
      participate in the enhanced PA home intervention group for the first 12 weeks; followed by 12
      weeks of PA maintenance on their own.

      Group 2 (n=30): The delayed intervention control group (the control group ) will engage in
      their usual physical activity (no intervention) for 12 weeks; followed by the enhanced PA
      home intervention for 12 weeks.

        -  Neurobehavioral, circulating growth factors, and cardiorespiratory evaluations will be
           conducted at baseline (T0) and after the first 12 weeks at home (T2) in both the
           intervention and control groups. The acute effects of the in-lab PA will be assessed
           immediately following the baseline treadmill fitness test (T1) using selected cognitive
           measures in both groups. PA for both groups will be measured throughout the period at
           home via activity monitors.

        -  After the completion of the first 12 week period at home and the follow-up evaluations
           (T2), the intervention group will be asked to maintain their PA levels on their own for
           the next 12 weeks while the control group will participate in the enhanced PA
           intervention at home for 12 weeks. A final cognitive evaluation will be conducted in
           both groups after the completion of the second 12- week period (T3). The primary outcome
           measure is the Cogstate One Card Learning Accuracy Score. The effects of PA on other
           neurobehavioral outcomes and circulating growth factors also will be examined.
    
  