
    
      The investigators purposively selected ten health facilities in Siaya County, western Kenya
      based on malaria case loads. All villages whose midpoint was located within a 3 kilometer
      radius of each of the ten health facilities were included in the study. Contiguous villages
      were merged to form two clusters around each health facility. Clusters were randomly assigned
      to the control or intervention arm such that there was one control and one intervention
      cluster around each health facility. Approximately 30,000 and 60,000 people resided in
      intervention and control arms, respectively.

      Once a year during the peak malaria transmission season in July, starting at baseline, the
      investigators selected a simple random sample of compounds within the study area for a
      cross-sectional survey to determine risk factors for malaria acquisition and parasite
      prevalence. Every person in each selected compound was consented into the cross-sectional
      survey. Community health volunteers (CHV) were trained to perform malaria rapid diagnostic
      tests, collect dried blood spots on filter papers, and provide treatment and referral
      recommendations for participants. Three times a year, in September, January, and April, for
      two years, CHVs visited every household in the intervention arm and tested and treated every
      consenting household member who was positive for malaria by rapid diagnostic test. Throughout
      the study period, malaria case counts from individuals located within the study clusters were
      recorded at each of the study health facilities. During the first two cross-sectional surveys
      we randomly selected 660 individuals to enter into an incidence cohort, 330 per arm. Cohort
      members were definitively treated for malaria at recruitment with artemether-lumefantrine,
      and were asked to visit a study health facility once a month for blood draws for malaria
      testing.

      Every month, 18 households were randomly selected for entomological monitoring; 12 in the
      control arm, and 6 in the intervention arm. Pyrethrum spray catches were performed in each
      household. Live catches were performed one week in each month of the study. During live
      collection weeks, as many households were visited as possible, and prokopak aspirators were
      used to collect mosquitoes from the inner walls of houses.

      Prior to the first round of mass screening and treatment and then again after the first
      round, 36 focus group discussions were conducted to evaluate community acceptance of
      community-based mass screening and treatment.
    
  