
    
      Axial motor dysfunctions in Parkinson disease (PD) are least responsive to dopaminergic
      therapy and incline many patients towards a sedentary lifestyle. This places PD patients at
      increased risk for the negative consequences of physical inactivity. When PD patients develop
      postural imbalance and gait difficulties, including falls, they are generally referred to
      physical therapy for optimal management. Although these patients do benefit from physical
      therapy, there is a critical gap in clinical practice on what to do next once the physical
      therapy sessions are over. Clinical experience shows that most patients return to a sedentary
      lifestyle indicating an urgent need for post-physical therapy in-home physical activity
      programs in PD with postural imbalance and gait difficulties to preserve mobility functions.
      Recent advances in physical activity research tout non-exercise physical activity approaches
      to promote healthy lifestyle modifications. Non-exercise physical activities are activities
      of daily living, like cleaning, shopping, and standing, other than intentional exercise. For
      PD patients with postural imbalance and gait difficulties, normal upright standing and
      weight-shifting (stepping) for longer periods of time may be an ideal form of non-exercise
      physical activity. It activates lower extremity muscles and encourages postural activity. To
      promote this type of non-exercise physical activity, the study team applies a "dynamic
      standing table", which periodically cues users to make steps. Dynamic standing would
      represent a minimal level of physical activity compared to sitting, which is pervasive in PD
      subjects with postural imbalance and gait difficulties. Use of the dynamic standing table can
      easily be incorporated with routine desktop activities, such as computer use, reading, or
      watching TV and may promote physical activity. The purpose of this study is to determine
      whether a post-physical therapy in-home physical activity program using the dynamic standing
      table (as an adjunct to post-physical therapy standard of care-weekly physical activity group
      sessions) is effective in sustaining the mobility benefits of physical therapy compared with
      post-physical activity standard of care alone in individuals with Parkinson disease and
      postural imbalance and gait difficulties. The study team is testing the exploratory
      hypothesis that post-physical therapy gains in mobility functions in PD patients with
      postural imbalance and gait difficulties will be preserved better with in-home dynamic
      standing table use compared to a control group. After consulting with regulatory specialists,
      this device was determined to be 510k exempt and falls under part 890 Physical Medicine
      devices Subpart F- Physical Medicine therapeutic devices. Sec. 890.5370 Nonmeasuring exercise
      equipment.
    
  