
    
      The prevalence of surgical site infections in groin vascular surgery is 3-44%. The factors
      causing these infections are well identified: disruption of lymphatic vessels, proximity of
      genital organs, presence of prosthetic material, etc. The risk of developing an infection of
      the surgical site is also influenced by the patient's comorbidities and by the surgical
      context.

      Closed-incision negative-pressure therapy are medical device that are suspected to reduce
      groin wound complication in vascular surgery. The mechanisms of action for negative-pressure
      therapy include protecting the wound bed, splinting soft tissue, reducing oedema,increasing
      perfusion and enhancing development of granulation tissue.

      Presently, there are no guidelines for the use of this device or not in groin incision and
      this decision is left to the surgeon's discretion.

      The main objective is to demonstrate the superiority of closed-incision negative-pressure
      therapy over the application of a traditional gauze dressings to reduce the rate of major
      complications (i.e. requiring an extension of hospitalization time) during bilateral vascular
      groin surgery. To do this, each device is applied on one groin incision and the side, left or
      right, is randomized.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. To demonstrate the superiority of closed-incision negative-pressure therapy over the
           application of a dry dressing in reducing the score of complications (major and minor)
           during vascular groin surgery. The complication score is the number of complications
           observed during the consultation conducted on day four after the surgery, among the
           following:

             -  Major :

                  1. Presence of pus

                  2. Bloody and/or lymphatic discharge

                  3. Disunity

                  4. Necrosis

             -  Minor :

                5) Bruising 6) Hematoma 7) Wound extension

        2. To compare the rate of major complications between closed-incision negative-pressure
           therapy and dry dressing application in different clinical settings.

      3. To demonstrate the superiority of closed-incision negative-pressure therapy over the
      application of a dry dressing in reducing the score of complications 2-3 months after
      surgery.
    
  