
    
      Current osteosarcoma treatment regimens include cisplatin and high-dose methotrexate (HDMTX),
      which are nephrotoxic and ototoxic, and the damage to kidneys and cochlear hair cells may be
      irreversible. Preventing these toxicities will improve the outcome in long-term survivors and
      may also prevent short-term treatment delays and dose reductions that can compromise the
      efficacy of the treatment regimen and allow for administration of higher cumulative doses of
      cisplatin. This pilot study evaluates pharmacologically-based approaches to prevent the
      nephrotoxic effect of HDMTX by prolonging the infusion duration and thereby lowering the risk
      of drug precipitation in renal tubules; and to selectively block the uptake of cisplatin into
      renal tubular cells and cochlear hair cells by inhibiting the organic cation transporter 2
      (OCT2) with the proton pump inhibitor (PPI), pantoprazole. Participants with previously
      untreated biopsy-proven, localized or metastatic osteosarcoma will receive six cycles of the
      standard Methotrexate, Adriamycin (doxorubicin),cisplatin (MAP) chemotherapy regimen, which
      includes high-dose methotrexate, doxorubicin and cisplatin. The first 2 cycles are
      administered neoadjuvantly followed by surgery to remove the primary tumor, when feasible.

      A novel randomized, crossover, 2 x 2 factorial clinical trial design allows all patients to
      receive the new interventions to prevent toxicity and to serve as their own controls. New,
      sensitive urinary biomarkers of acute kidney injury serve as primary endpoints for evaluating
      treatment-related renal damage. Ototoxicity will be monitored using audiograms. The effect of
      these interventions on tumor response (radiographic and histologic) and toxicity (including a
      patient reported outcome survey and nutritional status) will be closely monitored. Other
      secondary objectives include evaluating bone-specific alkaline phosphatase as a biomarker of
      tumor burden and constructing a tissue microarray to evaluate expression of proteins that are
      responsible for resistance to the current drugs used to treat osteosarcoma and assess
      expression of proteins that are targeted by new anticancer drugs under development for
      childhood cancers.
    
  