
    
      A new person is diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease or other dementia every 65 seconds, and
      most persons living with dementia (PWD) spend the late stages of dementia in nursing homes
      (NHs) where shortages of staff and lack of dementia care skills limit quality of care. Care
      of PWD is complicated by behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) such as
      aggression, vocal outbursts, wandering, and withdrawal that occur as PWD lose cognitive and
      communication abilities and cannot express their unmet physical and psychosocial needs. BPSD
      present to NH staff as resistiveness to care (RTC) that increases staff stress and costly
      time to complete care, often leading to staff turnover, injury, and inappropriate use of
      psychotropic medications to control BPSD. Although Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services
      (CMS) mandates and penalties have reduced NH antipsychotic medication use slightly,
      contraindicated use in NH residents remains a pervasive problem, causing harmful side effects
      and reducing the quality of life for PWD.

      The PI and other researchers have empirically verified that RTC occurs when NH staff use
      elderspeak (speech similar to baby talk) that features inappropriately intimate terms of
      endearment (diminutives such as "honey"), belittling pronoun substitutions that imply
      dependence ("we" need a bath), and harsh task-oriented commands ("sit down"). Elderspeak
      conveys a message of disrespect and incompetence to residents who react with withdrawal or
      BPSD. Our R03 study established that when staff use elderspeak instead of normal adult
      communication, residents with dementia are more than twice as likely to exhibit BPSD
      (measured by coding RTC behavior in videos). Our subsequent R01 clinical trial verified that
      staff reduced their use of elderspeak communication after attending the three-session
      Changing Talk (CHAT) program and that this reduced RTC.

      CHAT training is effective in changing staff communication practices and reducing RTC but
      requires an onsite trainer, limiting accessibility and feasibility for dissemination.
      Increasing access to this effective training, which improves communication and acts as a
      nonpharmacological intervention to reduce BPSD, is the next logical step. To facilitate
      dissemination, interactive online modules (CHATO) with the same CHAT content were developed
      and pilot-tested, establishing preliminary effects and increased participation by busy NH
      staff. We anticipate that this online training will increase access to training and the
      translation of evidence-based content and skill practice at reduced cost extending reach
      nationally to include small and rural NHs. Support for NH administrators will optimize staff
      engagement, implementation, and maintenance of CHATO skills in practice.

      This competitive renewal resubmission builds on R01 NR011455, "Changing Talk to Reduce
      Resistiveness to Dementia Care" demonstrating the 3-session CHAT intervention decreased staff
      elderspeak and reduced resident RTC.13 Online CHATO modules provide asynchronous, independent
      access for busy NH staff. Linear mixed modeling will be used to compare CHATO and CONTROL
      group change in BPSD and psychotropic medication use (from CMS and Nursing Home Compare
      data). CHATO is an innovative nonpharmacological intervention that reduces BPSD. Online
      delivery will increase cost effectiveness.

      SPECIFIC AIMS:

        1. AIM 1. Test effects of CHATO on BPSD and psychotropic medication use in 120 NHs.
           Hypothesis: Reductions in BPSD and psychotropic medication use (extracted from CMS
           Minimum Data set and Nursing Home Compare Quality Measures) will occur for individual
           residents and within NH facilities in the CHATO vs CONTROL group.

        2. AIM 2. Test strategies to engage staff and maximize CHATO effects. We will conduct a
           mixed-method process evaluation evaluating implementation strategies and supports to
           assist NHs in approach, motivation, and incentives to improve dissemination. NH
           characteristics and implementation strategies used will be analyzed in relation to
           participation rates, knowledge gain, and changes in primary outcomes. Interviews and
           focus groups will be conducted by our external evaluator. Hypothesis: Primary outcomes
           will vary by secondary outcomes; identifying most effective NH characteristics and
           strategies for implementation.

        3. AIM 3. Evaluate cost and sustainability. Data envelopment analysis will identify CHATO
           costs in relation to BPSD reductions. NHs will complete a 1-year follow-up survey to
           report on their adoption and maintenance. Hypothesis: BPSD reductions will vary in cost;
           identifying the most efficient means of dissemination and NH sustainability will vary
           depending on adoption factors.
    
  