
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the safety of primary and boost vaccinations with lethally irradiated
           allogeneic pancreatic tumor cells transfected with sargramostim (GM-CSF) gene vaccine in
           patients with surgically resected adenocarcinoma of the head, neck, or uncinate of the
           pancreas.

      Secondary

        -  Correlate specific in vivo parameters of immune response (e.g., mesothelin, prostate
           stem cell antigen, and mutated k-ras-specific T-cell responses) with clinical response
           in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the efficacy, in terms of overall and recurrence-free survival, of this
           regimen in these patients.

        -  Correlate serum GM-CSF levels with longevity of an allogeneic vaccine after semi-annual
           boosting in these patients.

        -  Determine the psychosocial (e.g., demographics, quality of life, hope, trust, social
           support, decision control, and advanced directives) and symptom (e.g., pain, anorexia,
           fatigue, and mood state) profiles in these patients and explore changes over time.

      OUTLINE: This is a open-label study. Patients are stratified according to prior vaccination
      with allogeneic sargramostim (GM-CSF)-secreting pancreatic tumor cell vaccine (yes [stratum
      I] vs no [stratum II]).

        -  Stratum I: Patients receive booster vaccination comprising allogeneic GM-CSF plasmid DNA
           pancreatic tumor cell vaccine subcutaneously (SC). Treatment repeats every 6 months in
           the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Stratum II: Patients receive priming vaccinations SC once a month for 3 months and then
           receive booster vaccinations as in stratum I.

      Patients complete self-reported psychosocial (including quality of life, hope, and trust) and
      symptom (including pain, fatigue, anorexia, and mood) questionnaires at day 0 and day 28.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed at day 28 and then annually for 15
      years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 100 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  