
    
      Subjects- 105 subjects were recruited for participation in this study, thirty-five in each of
      three hearing loss groups. Subjects were assigned to the three groups according to the
      severity of their hearing losses. Group 1 (mild) subjects exhibited normal sloping to
      moderately severe SNHL, with Pure Tone Averages (PTAs) at 500, 1000, and 2000 Hz of less than
      35 dB HL. Group 2 (moderate) consisted of subjects with mild sloping to moderately severe
      SNHL with PTAs of 35 to 50 dB HL. Group 3 (severe) subjects exhibited moderately-severe,
      sloping to severe-profound SNHL, with PTAs of greater than 50. All subjects had sloping
      hearing loss defined as at least a 20 dB average difference between 3000 Hz and 500 Hz. (Due
      to subject drop-out, the final data consisted of 32 subjects in the mild group, 33 in
      moderate group, and 29 in the severe group)

      Hearing status was assessed by means of audiometric pure-tone and speech recognition testing
      in a group of previous hearing aid users. Normal middle ear function was verified by means of
      immittance measures. All subjects exhibited absence of significant air-bone gap at any
      frequency (<10 dB) and normal tympanograms defined as compensated static admittance between
      0.25 and 2.5 mmho measured from the positive tail with tympanometric peak pressure between
      -150 and +100 daPa. All subjects were service-connected veterans who are eligible for care
      and amplification through the VA Audiology service. All subjects were previous wearers of
      binaural hearing aids, with a minimum daily usage requirement of 4 hours/day. All subjects
      were previous users of output compression hearing aids from the same manufacturer.

      All subjects participated in approximately eight to ten hours of testing over the course of
      four visits. At the first visit, subjects received a hearing test, unaided speech
      understanding in noise measures, and aided speech understanding in noise with their current
      hearing aids. Additionally, earmold impressions were obtained for the experimental hearing
      aids. At the second visit, subjects completed the first set of subjective measures for the
      unaided and current (own) hearing aid conditions. Subjects were then fit with digitally
      programmable user-selectable directional/omnidirectional hearing aids in the first of two
      experimental settings (randomly selected between directional/omnidirectional and
      omnidirectional only), which they used for approximately one month before returning for the
      next test session. At the third visit, subjects again completed the entire test battery for
      the experimental hearing aid worn during the last month. The experimental hearing aid was
      then programmed for the other condition (directional/omnidirectional or omnidirectional
      only). At the fourth and final visit, subjects completed the entire test battery for this
      final hearing aid condition. Additionally, at the final visit, subjects completed a
      preference questionnaire.

      Speech understanding in noise tests:

      The Connected Sentence Test (CST) and the Hearing In Noise Test (HINT) were administered to
      all subjects. An investigator in the room with the subject scored the test. The investigator
      was blinded to the experimental settings of the hearing aids to control for experimenter
      bias. The CST is a test of speech intelligibility for everyday speech presented at a fixed
      SNR. The test consisted of 24 pairs of speech passages produced conversationally. The
      subject's task was to repeat all words of each test sentence. Each passage included 25 key
      words that were scored correct or incorrect. Subject scores from 1 pair of passages were
      averaged to obtain an intelligibility score for each experimental condition. Data from
      Pearsons et al. indicate that real-world SNRs in relatively noisy environments range from
      approximately +4 dB to -1 dB. Consequently, the tests were administered at a +3 dB SNR, which
      represented a relatively difficult real-world listening situation. This SNR was chosen to
      minimize floor and ceiling effects for all subject groups based on a previous investigation
      in our laboratory, given the steep performance-intensity function that has been reported for
      the CST.

      The HINT was administered as a second test of sentence intelligibility in noise. For this
      investigation, two blocks of ten sentences were used for each condition. Listeners were
      required to repeat sentences spoken by a male talker in the presence of a speech-shaped
      noise, which was presented at a fixed level of 65 dBA. The level of the speech stimuli was
      adjusted adaptively until a Speech Reception Threshold (SRT) was determined. The SRT was
      defined as the SNR necessary for a listener to recognize the speech materials correctly 50 %
      of the time. Correct identification of each sentence was based on proper repetition of all
      words of the sentence, with minor exceptions. These exceptions related to the fact that small
      substitutions in verb tense and the articles "a" and "the" were allowed without scoring a
      sentence as incorrect. Presentation level of the sentences was adjusted based on the
      subjects' responses (an incorrect response raised the level; a correct response lowered the
      level for the next sentence). The level was varied in 4 dB steps for the first 5 trials, and
      2 dB steps for the final 15 trials.

      Speech in noise test environment:

      The arrangement of the speakers for the speech-in-noise testing is shown in figure 1. Both of
      the speech-in-noise tests were administered in a conference room (5.05 X 4.71 X 2.60 meters)
      with moderate reverberation (average reverberation time Rt60: 482 ms, measured for octave
      frequencies from 250 through 4000 Hz, under experimental conditions with 2 people in the
      room). Each subject was seated in the center of the room with an eight-speaker configuration
      for the presentation of the speech and noise stimuli. Speech will be presented from a
      point-source loudspeaker (Tannoy System 600, fused-concentric driver) at a 0ยบ azimuth.
      Uncorrelated noise was delivered from the seven bipolar loudspeakers (Definitive Technologies
      BP-2X) spaced equally about the listener [approximately 25, 76, 128, 180, 232, 284, 335]. The
      use of bipolar loudspeakers allowed for a more diffuse source position in comparison to
      standard, front-firing loudspeakers. All speakers were equidistant (1.5m) from the subject's
      head. Speech and noise levels were controlled using a Pentium IV class computer and an
      eight-channel level controller (Ashly VCM-88).

      Hearing aid fitting protocol:

      Hearing aid gain was determined using the National Acoustics Laboratory-Revised (NAL-R)
      prescriptive targets and verified using real-ear (Fonix 6500) measurements. Hearing aid
      frequency-gain parameters were adjusted so that the measured real ear aided response matched
      the target response as closely as possible for octave frequencies from 500 to 4000 Hz for
      both omnidirectional and directional modes. The matches to target are reported in the
      results. The processing strategy of the experimental hearing aids was set as output
      compression to match each subject's previous hearing aids. Targets were matched for a 65 dB
      SPL composite noise input. A real ear saturation response was obtained with a 90 dB SPL
      broadband input to ensure that high-level stimuli did not exceed listener discomfort levels,
      and the hearing aid output was adjusted accordingly. In order to maintain a double-blind
      experiment, the hearing aid programming, fitting, and real ear measurements were performed by
      one investigator who recorded how the hearing aid was set (omnidirectional or directional)
      for each visit. This investigator kept these data until the subject completed all aspects of
      the study. Furthermore, the investigator who programmed and fit the hearing aids was not
      involved in further data collection with that subject.

      Since all subjects were previous users of binaural amplification, a brief orientation to the
      use of the experimental hearing aids should be sufficient. Subjects were issued a remote
      control with a volume control and three program buttons. Program 1 was set with the default
      setting (directional or omnidirectional). In order to ensure subject safety, an
      omnidirectional program was included in program two across both conditions; however, subjects
      were instructed only to use program two in situations where it was necessary to hear sounds
      from all angles equally (e.g. crossing the street in traffic, etc.). Program three on the
      remote control was set to mute, so that subjects could use only the first two programs.
      Subjects were be given identical instructions for both settings (omnidirectional and
      directional) and the investigator who gave the instructions did not know which setting was
      currently in the subject's hearing aids. Subjects were told that the hearing aids are likely
      to work best in noise if they could position themselves so that the signal of interest is in
      front of them and the interfering noise behind. Subjects were instructed on cleaning, care,
      battery usage, and volume control adjustment. Subjects were asked to wear the experimental
      hearing aids as much as possible during waking hours, minimally 6 hours/day. Subjects were
      asked to log their daily hearing aid use on a log sheet that will be provided to verify that
      they met the 6 hour/day. Additionally, subjects recorded how much time each day was spent in
      each of the two programs.

      Subjective measures:

      PHAB- The investigator who administered the subjective measures was masked as to the
      experimental settings of the hearing aids. All subjects completed the Profile of Hearing Aid
      Benefit (PHAB) questionnaire for each condition: unaided, previous aid, experimental
      directional, and experimental omnidirectional. The PHAB is a 66-item inventory that was
      developed for research usage to generate a measure of hearing aid benefit. Subjects completed
      the 66 items once for unaided listening and once for each aided condition. The test
      instrument was scored based on the benefit provided for aided versus unaided conditions.

      SADL- All subjects completed the Satisfaction with Amplification in Daily Living (SADL)
      questionnaire for each of the three aided conditions. The SADL was designed to quantify
      satisfaction with hearing aids. This scale consists of 15 items in four subscales: positive
      effects of amplification, service and costs, negative features, and personal image. Subjects
      respond to questions about their general opinions of wearing hearing aids. For the current
      study, the 3 questions on cost and service were omitted, because the subjects did not pay for
      the hearing aids, only wore the experimental hearing aids for one month before completing the
      survey.

      Preference questionnaire- At the conclusion of a subject's involvement in the study, he/she
      was asked which hearing aid was preferred for quiet and noisy environments as well as if
      she/he had an overall preference for any of the three hearing aid conditions.
    
  