
    
      The main purpose of the study was to determine the maximum tolerated dose/recommended dose
      for expansion (MTD/RDE) of alpelisib in combination with everolimus, and of alpelisib in
      combination with everolimus and exemestane, and additionally to describe safety, preliminary
      efficacy and the magnitude of the alpelisib-everolimus interaction. The study was conducted
      in patients with metastatic and/or recurrent solid tumors including renal cell carcinoma
      (RCC), pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (pNET), and advanced solid tumors previously treated
      with an mTOR inhibitor, to evaluate everolimus and alpelisib, and in postmenopausal females
      with HR-positive HER2-negative advanced breast cancer to evaluate everolimus, alpelisib and
      exemestane.

      This was a Phase Ib, open-label, multi-center, dose-finding study. The initial dose level of
      alpelisib was 300 mg every day (qd) and everolimus was initially administered at 2.5 mg qd.
      The dose-finding study (escalation phase) was followed by an expansion phase where safety and
      preliminary efficacy of the doublet (alpelisib and everolimus) as well as of the triplet
      (alpelisib, everolimus and exemestane) were assessed in selected subject populations.

      Alpelisib, everolimus and exemestane were administered orally once daily on a continuous
      dosing schedule and dosed on a flat-fixed dose and not by body weight or body surface area,
      starting on Day 1 in a 28-day cycle.

      In the doublet escalation phase, alpelisib was administered at 300 mg or 250 mg in
      combination with 2.5 mg everolimus. In the triplet escalation phase, alpelisib was
      administered at 200 mg in combination with 2.5 mg everolimus and 25 mg exemestane.

      In the doublet expansion phase, alpelisib was administered at 250 mg in combination with 2.5
      mg everolimus. In the breast cancer expansion phase, alpelisib was administered at 200 mg in
      combination with 2.5 mg everolimus and 25 mg exemestane or alpelisib was administered at 250
      mg in combination with 25 mg exemestane.

      No fixed treatment duration was specified. Patients in the study were planned to receive the
      treatment until disease progression (assessed by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors
      (RECIST v1.1)), unacceptable toxicity, death, or discontinuation from study treatment for any
      other reason.
    
  