
    
      Chronic or recurrent abdominal pain in children is a very common complaint in children and
      adolescents, and is most often associated with the presence of a functional gastrointestinal
      disorder (FGID). It is likely that the clinical symptoms in FGIDs are the result of an
      interaction between biologic, psychologic, and social factors. The psychologic factor most
      implicated is chronic stress or anxiety. Stress may influence gastrointestinal function and
      symptoms through altering the balance of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). Imbalance in the
      ANS has potential effects on gastrointestinal mechanosensitivity, motor function (e.g.
      stomach emptying and accommodation), and electrical rhythms. All of these can be associated
      with abdominal pain. Theory and early evidence from studies done with healthy adult
      populations suggest that ANS imbalance can reduce the body's ability to respond electrically
      to food/water consumption. However, the relationships between chronic stress/anxiety, ANS
      balance/imbalance, and electrical activity in the stomach before and after eating/drinking
      remain to be fully explored in children with FGIDs. The current study is a two-part pilot
      study designed to assess these relationships. Part I involves assessment of anxiety/stress
      (i.e., BASC parent- and self-reports) along with ANS balance (i.e., heart rate variability)
      and electrical activity in the stomach (i.e., electrogastrography) measured in the fasting
      state and following a test meal. Part II involves the same assessments with rapid water
      loading replacing the test meal. Results will be analyzed by specific FGID, as well as for
      the group as a whole. We expect to enroll 75 children ages 8-17 in each part, including 30
      healthy controls and 45 children with an FGID. Elucidating these relationships is a necessary
      first step in developing more effective treatments for children with recurrent abdominal pain
      and, ultimately, reducing the personal and societal costs of this common pain entity.
    
  