
    
      The primary aim of this pilot study is to characterize the proactive and reactive locomotor
      response of Veterans with upper limb loss (ULL) to a trip during walking. The investigators'
      recent VA-funded investigations have suggested that persons with ULL experience a high
      prevalence of falls and demonstrate postural control mechanisms that may impair stability.
      Specifically, nearly half of individuals with ULL at or proximal to the wrist level
      experience at least one fall per year and almost a third will experience two or more falls.
      Further, use of a prosthesis increases the likelihood of falling by six times, 25% of
      reported falls resulted from tripping, and nearly a third of individuals who experience a
      fall suffer a fall-related injury. Falls can have considerable economic burden on the VHA and
      lead to long-term diminished quality of life. The investigators' biomechanical studies
      suggest that persons with unilateral ULL display greater postural sway during standing than
      able-bodied individuals which increases when wearing a prosthesis, and right/left asymmetry
      in locomotor stability dynamics that may increase the risk of falling toward the impaired
      limb side and during sound limb side strides. These findings emphasize the need for
      additional research to better understand the mechanisms Veterans with ULL use to control
      balance and how wearing a prosthesis affects these strategies. As the investigators' previous
      research was concerned with steady-state characterization of postural control, the
      investigators now plan to build on this work by studying the effects of ULL and wearing a
      prosthesis on locomotor stability when responding to a trip disturbance during walking. In
      this context, locomotor stability is defined as the ability to recover from a perturbation
      and return to steady-state gait.

      The investigators will address the study aims by analyzing trip-induced proactive and
      reactive locomotor strategy differences in two study comparisons: 1) Veterans with unilateral
      transradial level ULL against matched able-bodied controls (with and without one arm bound),
      and 2) Veterans with unilateral transradial ULL when wearing their customary prosthesis
      against not wearing their prosthesis. Controlled, yet unexpected, simulated trips will be
      delivered through the investigators' custom-built treadmill which permits programmable belt
      velocity disturbances and allows participants to continue walking following recovery. The
      investigators will characterize the proactive and reactive locomotor stability mechanisms
      through a set of biomechanical (spatiotemporal, angular momentum, arm and trunk kinematics,
      recovery step length and time) and electromyography (upper and lower limb muscle activation
      timing and effort) variables. Biomechanical variables will be quantified using an optical
      motion capture system, and electromyography will be collected with a wireless sensor system.
      All data will be synchronized with each other and a time pulse denoting the onset of the
      treadmill perturbation. The investigators expect that Veterans with ULL will demonstrate
      altered locomotor stability mechanisms compared to controls, and these differences will exist
      between wearing and not wearing their customary prosthesis. Results from this study will help
      us characterize the underlying mechanisms of locomotor stability in Veterans with ULL and
      identify the factors associated with their increased prevalence of trip-related falls. Such
      knowledge is a critical first step to addressing this public health problem through
      stability-targeted rehabilitation interventions aimed at reducing falls, fall-related
      injuries, and associated VHA costs in this Veteran patient group. The investigators will use
      the outcomes from this pilot study to guide future VA Merit Award proposals to develop and
      assess physical training intervention methods and wearable and prosthetic technology to
      improve stability in Veterans with ULL. The VHA is an ideal venue to pursue this work as one
      of its main priorities is to elevate the standard-of-care for Veterans with limb loss.
    
  