
    
      Patients diagnosed with an acute aortic dissection/intramural hematoma (also known as a
      DeBakey I or Stanford type A dissection/ intramural hematoma) are being asked to take part in
      the DARTS study. The investigators are exploring the feasibility and clinical benefits of the
      AMDS to treat patients with acute DeBakey type I dissections and/or intramural hematomas
      (IMH) involving the ascending aorta and aortic arch through open surgical repair.

      In a healthy aorta (the vessel that supplies blood to most of your body) the blood flows
      freely through the main lumen (a space inside the vessel where blood flows). In this case a
      tear has separated the inner layer of the aorta wall and created a secondary channel (false
      lumen) in addition to the main channel (true lumen). The blood is now flowing through both
      channels.

      Although the first segment of the aorta can be replaced, this conventional operation only
      treats the segment immediately above the heart. Because of the complexity of the patients
      medical condition and technical limitations, the remainder of the separated channel in the
      hard to reach area is normally left untreated.

      Following this initial lifesaving surgery, the part of the separated channel that is not
      treatable by standard surgery may expand, weakening the wall of the aorta further which can
      cause rupture and death. To prevent this, 40-50% of patients require additional invasive
      surgeries. It is normal procedure for the cardiac surgeons to repair your tear by putting a
      graft in the first portion of the aorta immediately above the heart.

      The investigators are examining a new device called the Ascyrus Medical Dissection Stent
      (AMDS) that works in conjunction with the standard operation and graft to treat the secondary
      channel in the hard to reach areas of the aorta.

      The AMDS is a stent made of Teflon fabric sewn to a tubular Nitinol (nickel and titanium)
      stent. The stent is not covered with any cloth material and when placed in the aorta allows
      blood flow to the sides of the aorta. The stent is placed inside the aorta and allowed to
      expand to open up the aorta. It will help to reattach the separated layer of the aortic wall
      back to its original position. The safety of the AMDS and its function of closure of the
      false lumen will be the focus of the study.
    
  