
    
      Women account for 1 in 4 people living with HIV (PLWH) in the United States, and while
      African American (AA) women comprise only 14% of the US female population, African American
      women account for greater than 60% of women living with HIV (WLWH). Unhealthy alcohol use
      interrupts critical steps in the HIV prevention and care continuum (HPACC) and thus
      contributes to significant health disparities among at-risk and WLWH. The investigators have
      developed theory-based, in-person and computer-delivered brief interventions (CBI) for at
      risk and WLWH with alcohol use, demonstrating drinking reduction. However behavioral and
      structural barriers to optimal uptake of alcohol interventions and engagement in the HPACC
      remain, including mental health comorbidity and low knowledge, access, and use of HIV
      prevention practices such as HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP). The goals of this proposal
      are two-fold: 1) to build on the investigators' current community partnerships to determine
      how to optimally implement evidence based alcohol treatment for at risk and WLWH in
      Baltimore, and 2) to determine whether the addition of information, motivational and peer
      navigator support related to comorbid mental health, and HIV prevention practices can enhance
      CBI and improve alcohol and HPACC outcomes among at risk and WLWH. To achieve these goals the
      investigators will use a Community Based Participatory Research (CBPR) approach, engaging
      patient and community stakeholders during all aspects of study development, and community
      pilot testing. In collaboration with the investigators' Community Advisory Board (CAB), the
      investigators will: 1) adapt the investigators' current CBI to address gaps in the HIV
      prevention and care continuum (CBI-CC). The investigators will conduct focus groups with both
      at risk and WLWH to tailor intervention manuals. 2) The investigators will conduct a pilot
      randomized controlled trial (RCT) of CBI-CC and peer navigation among 60 at-risk or WLWH with
      unhealthy alcohol use. The investigators hypothesize that the CBI-CC will result in reduction
      in drinking and heavy drinking days, increase linkage to substance use, and mental health
      services and HIV pre exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), and increase use of HIV prevention
      practices including condoms and PrEP. Through this U34 planning grant the investigators will
      partner with key stakeholders in the community to build capacity to deliver effective,
      evidence-based interventions at the nexus of alcohol and HIV for at risk and WLWH with
      alcohol misuse, and improve engagement in the HIV prevention and care continuum.
    
  