
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Assess the objective tumor response rate in patients with stage IIIB or IV non-small
           cell lung cancer treated with gemcitabine hydrochloride, carboplatin, and AZD2171 as
           first-line therapy.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the proportion of patients who are progression-free at 6 months after treatment
           with gemcitabine hydrochloride and carboplatin with vs without AZD2171.

        -  Compare the duration of response for responding patients treated with these regimens.

        -  Compare the time-to-progression and time-to-treatment failure.

        -  Compare the 1-year overall survival.

        -  Compare the clinical toxicities.

        -  Assess the safety and tolerability of these regimens in these patients.

      Tertiary

        -  Collect blood and tumor specimens for future evaluation of pharmacogenetic and proteomic
           markers of tumor response and toxicity to therapy with these agents.

        -  Bank paraffin-embedded tissue blocks/slides and blood samples for future histochemistry
           evaluation and DNA extraction.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior
      adjuvant therapy (yes vs no) and ECOG performance status (0 vs 1). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8,
           carboplatin IV over 30 minutes on day 1, and oral AZD2171 once daily on days 1-21.
           Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 6 courses. Patients achieving stable disease,
           partial response, or complete response after 6 courses of therapy receive AZD2171 alone
           as above. Treatment with AZD2171 repeats every 21 days in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive gemcitabine and carboplatin as in arm I. Treatment repeats
           every 21 days for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
           toxicity.

      Patients undergo blood collection periodically during study for pharmacologic correlative
      studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 102 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  