
    
      Rates of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) are high among combat Veterans with estimates
      of PTSD within Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans at nearly 17% of active duty and over 24% of
      reserve service members that screen positive for PTSD. Studies from the current and prior
      wars have demonstrated that mental disorders, in particular PTSD, are associated with higher
      rates of: 1) physical symptoms, 2) chronic physical illness and 3) overall mortality. Rates
      of comorbid PTSD and chronic pain are exceedingly high among Veterans with reports of 30%-50%
      in both Vietnam and OEF/OIF Veterans, that suggest a shared pathophysiology. Excessive
      release of peripheral pro-inflammatory cytokines has been implicated in the generation of: 1)
      pathologic chronic pain states and 2) in PTSD. Perception of an aversive stimulus/threat
      activates peripheral inflammatory cytokine release, while exogenous administration of an
      inflammatory stimulus (that also cause release of peripheral inflammatory cytokines)
      increases the limbic (insular cortex and amygdala) response to aversive/threat stimuli as
      measured by functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI). Work by the investigators' group
      shows that PTSD influences the: 1) nociceptive response, 2) intrathecal cytokine release and
      3) peripheral cytokine release in response to a painful stimulus when compared to responses
      of Veteran combat controls (CC). Vagus nerve stimulation has been shown to decrease: 1)
      peripheral inflammatory cytokine release, 2) pain, and 3) anxiety.

      Recent work by the group has shown that non-invasive vagal nerve stimulation (nVNS; using
      extradermal stimulation) decreases peripheral inflammation in healthy control subjects and
      may similarly decrease hyperinflammation observed in PTSD. In pilot work, the investigators
      have obtained initial fMRI evidence (preliminary data) suggests that in healthy controls,
      nVNS decreases insular response to painful stimuli, which is known to be dysregulated in
      PTSD.

      The investigators plan to use nVNS as a probe in PTSD and CC to observe the effects of vagal
      nerve modulation on: 1) CNS neural circuit function during pain and pain anticipation
      stimuli, and 2) peripheral inflammatory biomarker measures. The long-term goal of this line
      of research is to use nVNS as a probe to obtain pilot data of: 1) peripheral inflammatory
      biomarkers and 2) fMRI derived brain imaging response to pain, to advance the understanding
      of fundamental pathophysiology of co-morbid pain and PTSD and to ultimately provide, targeted
      neuromodulation based interventions for Veterans with pain and PTSD. The investigators will
      study two groups [(PTSD, CC), (both without chronic pain diagnosis)], under two conditions
      (either nVNS or Sham stimulation), over three time points (pre-nVNS/Sham), (7 days
      post-nVNS/Sham) and one month after treatment (one month post VNS/Sham). The first objective
      of this proposal, is to measure peripheral inflammation in response to nVNS treatment in
      order to delineate peripheral inflammation based biomarker profiles of treatment
      responsiveness to nVNS in PTSD and CC. The second step is to measure brain region response to
      a pain and pain anticipation stimuli task before and after nVNS treatment in order to
      demonstrate: 1) a neural profile of treatment responsiveness to nVNS and 2) the neural
      profile of nVNS effects on pain in PTSD and CC. Participants will receive a 7-day long
      nVNS/Sham trial where inflammatory biomarkers, neuroimaging tools, PTSD symptom severity and
      functional life quality will be assessed before and after the 7 days. Additionally, PTSD
      symptom severity and functional life quality will be assessed one month after study onset.
      The direct contrast of pre and post nVNS/Sham will provide an objective and sensitive
      assessment of neuromodulation with nVNS and lay the groundwork for further neuromodulation
      based study in PTSD. Such outcomes may provide additional evidence of potential treatment
      efficacy, thus ultimately provide therapies that enhance VA clinical practice guidelines.
    
  