
    
      This study will be conducted in our tertiary care cardiac center. The cohort will consist of
      newly admitted comatose adults (>18 years of age) who have suffered an OHCA and are treated
      with standard TTM to 36°C. Just before admission to the intensive care unit (ICU), CCAP
      undergo CT scan of head. Our plan is to add CTP of whole head at the time of their standard
      of care CT scan of head. CCAP will then be transferred to ICU for further standard management
      including TTM.

      Immediately after acute care, CCAP usually undergo a CT scan of the head, as per standard
      protocol, to assess for any intracranial pathology. CTP will be performed at the same time as
      this standard-of-care CT scan of head. CTP images will be acquired according to a
      standardized stroke imaging protocol in order to ensure whole brain coverage. The CTP data
      will be transferred to the study imaging core lab at the department of Radiology, University
      of Manitoba, Winnipeg for interpretation. The CTP results will not be available to the
      treating physicians and the routine care of the patient will continue as per local practice.

      CTP analysis will be performed in the imaging core lab using a semiautomatic deconvolution
      algorithm on a vendor neutral software package. CTP will be assessed both quantitatively as
      well as qualitatively.

        -  Quantitative assessment: Brain death will be defined as CBF <5 mL/100g/min and CBV <2
           mL/100g in the brainstem.

        -  Qualitative assessment: Brain death will be defined as matched decrease of CBF and CBV
           in the brainstem. The perfusion maps for CBF and CBV will be assessed for binary outcome
           of 'dead' or 'not-dead', according to our previously published methods.

      The perfusion maps will be assessed by the two independent neuroradiologists, who are blinded
      to each other's assessment and to the clinical history of each patient. If the two
      neuroradiologists disagree, a consensus agreement will be achieved for the final analysis.
      Consensus decision reflects the real-life scenario faced in such situations. CTP parameters
      (CBF and CBV) will be qualitatively assessed for the presence or absence of matched decrease
      of CBF and CBV.
    
  