
    
      The proposed clinical trial will be a Phase II, open label, single site study in subjects
      with somatostatin receptor positive tumours. Radioactive Lu-DOTA-TATE doses are fixed within
      a range of 1.85 - 5.55 GBq ± 10%, with individual doses based on specified risk factors.
      There will be two groups of subjects enrolled in this study. Group A subjects (primary
      therapy) will have progressive somatostatin receptor positive tumours and have never received
      Lu-DOTA-TATE. Group B subjects (maintenance therapy) will be those subjects who have
      previously received Lu-DOTA-TATE under the Special Access Programme (SAP) and will maintain
      their treatment schedule when they are entered into the study.

      All subjects in Group A will be treated in an induction stage using 10-14 week dosing for up
      to 4 treatments. If an individual patient shows stable or improving disease status with no
      significant toxicities after the 4 induction treatments, they will be assessed 12-20 weeks
      after the last therapeutic treatment for entry into the maintenance stage. Patients will be
      re-assessed for stable or improving disease status with no significant toxicities 12-20 weeks
      after every other treatment of the maintenance stage for consideration of further maintenance
      treatments (re-evaluations), up to a maximum of 8 treatments per patient if there have been
      no significant toxicities or progression. At each treatment, an amino acid solution is
      infused prior to and during the Lu-DOTA-TATE infusion to protect the kidneys. Subjects will
      be followed for 6 months and 1 year (± 4 weeks) following their last treatment dose to
      determine progression-free survival, and for 2, 3, and 5 years (± 4 weeks) following their
      last treatment dose to determine overall survival. All subjects meeting evaluation criteria
      will be analysed for safety, and all Group A subjects who have received at least two
      treatments of Lu-DOTA-TATE will be evaluated for efficacy. Those Group B subjects with
      adequate baseline data for comparison collected retrospectively from a chart review study
      (REV-LUT-001) may also be evaluated for safety and efficacy. Additional optional
      characterization of tumour samples from subjects who have had surgery before or during the
      study may be performed to characterize NET tumour biology changes following Lu-DOTA-TATE
      treatment.
    
  