
    
      Sustainable development is considered to be a major development strategy to meet rapid
      economic and social development in China. China is one of the biggest manufacturing hubs in
      the world. With the rapid development of economy, the health of manufacturing workers is
      closely related to productivity. In some low-income developing countries, studies have
      focused on improving the health of manufacturing workers to improve productivity .Most of the
      studies focused on improving the nutritional intake of workers has a significant effect on
      improving work efficiency and productivity .

      As the global aging is becoming an critical issue for both health and economics, the health
      of the working population over the age of 45 is of greater concern in low - and middle-income
      developing countries. China has a workforce of 980 million people (aged 15 to 60). Urban
      workers and blue-collar workers account for nearly 310 million. With the aging population
      increased, presbyopia is becoming more and more serious, and it also affects the labor group
      that needs to work in close proximity. Studies have proved that refractive correction for tea
      pickers with old vision can effectively improve the yield of tea pickers and increase
      personal income.Because Guangdong area textile industry is developed, textile worker
      population is large. Most front-line textile workers need to work in close proximity for a
      long time, and the problem of aging productivity is increasingly obvious. At present, no
      relevant studies have explored whether presbyopia affects the work efficiency of textile
      workers who work in close proximity.

      In this study, a randomized controlled clinical study will be conducted on front-line textile
      workers with presbyopia to explore whether refractive correction can improve labor income and
      relieve symptoms of visual fatigue for textile workers aged 40 years or above who work in the
      front-line.
    
  