
    
      Research has demonstrated that persons with acquired brain injury (ABI) often have difficulty
      recognizing emotions. This includes emotions portrayed in facial expressions, as well as
      inferring emotions based on social context. The ability to identify emotions in others is an
      essential component for the engagement of successful social interactions. It has been
      suggested that a decreased ability to recognize emotions may result in inappropriate
      behaviors and have a detrimental impact on social relationships. Despite the significance of
      this problem, very few studies have addressed this need in the ABI population.

      Comparisons: Three groups receiving computer-based training programs. Two of the groups are
      trained to learn how to identify emotions of happy, sad, angry and fearful. The third
      training experience presents participants with a variety of learning tasks from managing
      money to grocery shopping.

        1. Facial Affect Recognition (FAR) group: This group is shown faces on the computer and
           asked to identify the emotion being expressed. Subjects are also asked to describe
           situations that they associate with the emotions being trained, as well as mimic facial
           expressions in a mirror.

        2. Stories of Emotional Inference (SEI) group: This group is asked to read stories on the
           computer that describe the interaction of events with characters' beliefs, wants and
           behaviors. From this information, subjects are asked to infer the emotions of the
           characters throughout the stories.

        3. Cognitive Training Group (CTG): This group is given educational experiences in a variety
           of life skill areas including banking and applying for a job. This training is aimed at
           resolving some of the frustrations experienced by persons with ABI. Subjects may learn
           various computer skills including, Word, Excel, Internet Search or Games.

      Before and after training, emotion recognition will be measured with pictures of faces; vocal
      recordings; stories that give the contextual cues to emotion; and hypothetical situations. In
      addition, participants' cognitive skills, social behavior and integration will also be
      assessed.
    
  