
    
      Introduction. The myofascial trigger point (MTrP) is a clinical entity related to different
      clinical pictures of pain. Dry needling (DN) would be the most appropriate therapeutic option
      for its treatment, although it has mild-moderate adverse effects, such as post-needling
      soreness (PNS). The exercise could be a strategy for its management, but no recommendations
      on the most effective mode have been found.

      Objectives

        1. To determine the effectiveness of the exercise, differentiated according to the dominant
           mode (concentric, eccentric, isometric), in order to reduce the PNS of latent MTrPs.

        2. To analyse the variables that, a priori, can influence the evolution of pain.

      Methods Study design A randomized clinical trial. Scenario Private or home-based consultation
      in Global Physiotherapy, Madrid, Spain.

      Participants. Voluntaries, with no symptoms in the triceps surae muscle,>18 years old, who
      present at least one latent MTrP in medial gastrocnemius. Subjects with: other pathologies of
      lower limbs, active MTrP in the medial gastrocnemius muscle, contraindications to DN, prior
      application of DN and/or other therapies in MTrPs during the three months previous to the
      study (in gastrocnemius muscles) will be excluded.

      Intervention After DN of the medial gastrocnemius muscle, participants will be randomly
      allocated to four groups (three experimental groups and one control). In the experimental
      groups, subjects will be instructed to perform exercise protocols, differentiated according
      to the dominant contraction (concentric, eccentric, isometric) in muscle the gastrocnemius
      previously treated.

      Outcome measures. Pain intensity, by analog visual scale (VAS). Pressure pain threshold
      (PPT), by analog algometer. Demographics and anthropometrics.

      Protocol. Before and immediately after DN, the PPT will be evaluated in the latent MTrP. Pain
      intensity will also be assessed using VAS at two times: the first referred to pain during DN
      and the other referred to PNS two minutes after DN. The subjects will then be randomly
      divided into: a control group without any intervention after DN, and three experimental
      groups with different exercise protocols (differentiated by the dominant contraction: 3 sets
      x 15 reps, 3s each contraction, 30s of rest between sets) . The pain intensity will be
      recorded again by VAS, after the exercise session and at 6h, 12h, 24h, 48h, 72h after DN. PPT
      will also be assessed 2min after DN, after the exercise session and at 24h, and 48h after DN.
    
  