
    
      SOURCE OF DATA Patient visiting the Outpatient Section of the Department of Periodontology,
      Krishnadevaraya College of Dental Sciences and Hospital will be screened and randomly
      recruited for the study as per inclusion and exclusion criteria. The eligible subjects will
      be informed of the nature and benefits of the participation of the study and a written signed
      consent will be obtained. The study population will consist of twenty (n=20) subjects who
      will be age (30 to 40 years) and sex matched.

      Sample Size The study was performed according to split- mouth design, and all teeth in the
      mouth were treated randomly using either the left or the right side of the maxilla and
      mandible for control , and the opposite side for the therapy. Each patient was entered into a
      clinical protocol consisting of two different treatment modalities.

      Group I (n=10) - Test group ( diode laser + flap surgery) Group II (n=10) - control group
      (flap surgery)

      SURGICAL PROCEDURE GROUP I (TEST GROUP) Patient will be asked to rinse with 0.2%
      chlorhexidine mouthwash. Following the administration of local anaesthesia 2% lignocaine
      hydrochloride ( with 1: 80,000 epinephrine) , Laser application will be carried out , with
      the help of 810 nm (A.R.C LASER FoxTM) diode laser with a flexible optic tip of 300µm . The
      sulci will be lased with a repeated beam ( 0.2 sec on 0.3 sec off) at an output power of 1.0
      W.

      Intracrevicular incision will be placed with the help of 15c Bard Parker surgical blade ,
      full thickness mucoperiosteal flap will be elevated .

      Debridement of granulation tissue will be done and flap will be suture back in position using
      3-0 black breaded silk suture, the site will be covered with non eugenol periodontal dressing
      for protection.

      Postoperative instructions will be given to the patient. 2 ml blood will be collected at
      baseline(sample 1) , at 5 minutes (sample 2) and within 20-30 minutes (sample 3) of starting
      the procedure.

      GROUP II (CONTROL GROUP) Patient will be asked to rinse with 0.2% chlorhexidine mouthwash.
      Following the administration of local anaesthesia 2% lignocaine hydrochloride ( with 1:80,000
      epinephrine) ,intracrevicular incision will be placed with the help of 15c Bard Parker
      surgical blade , full thickness mucoperiosteal flap will be elevated .

      Debridement of granulation tissue will be done and flap will be suture back in position using
      3-0 black breaded silk suture, the site will be covered with non eugenol periodontal dressing
      for protection.

      Postoperative instructions will be given to the patient. 2 ml blood will be collected at
      baseline(sample 1) , at 5 minutes (sample 2) and within 20-30 minutes (sample 3) of starting
      the procedure

      Collection of blood samples Six millilitres (6 ml) of blood samples will be drawn from the
      patient through an antecubital vein using strict aseptic technique via a 22- gauge sterile
      plastic cannula and sent for for qPCR analysis to quantify total bacterial load.

      PCR ANALYSIS The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a laboratory technique for DNA
      replication that allows the "target" DNA sequence to be selectively amplified. The PCR
      involves the primer mediated enzymatic amplification of DNA. In this study Quantitive
      polymerase chain reaction is done.

        -  DNA from the blood samples will be extracted using the QIAamp DNA Blood Mini Kit
           according to the manufacture's recommendations.

        -  In order to quantify the total bacterial load, qPCR will be carried out using a
           universal primer to the 16S ribosomal RNA gene.

        -  Analysis was performed in a total volume of 6 ml blood.

        -  Samples for qPCR will be dispensed into well plates, sealed and centrifuged.

        -  Amplification will be done , settings for qPCR will be as follows: 95 degree centigrade
           for 10 minutes followed by 40 amplification cycles at 95 degree centigrade for 1 minute,
           52 degree centigrade for 1 minute , 72 degree centigrade for 1 minute.

        -  After each cycle , PCR products will be monitored for the increase in fluorescence of
           SYBR green.

        -  All measurements will be performed in triplicate for both test and controls.

        -  For the negative control , ultrapure water will be used replacing the clinical sample.

        -  To determine the specificity of the amplified products, a melting curve will be obtained
           from 60 degree centigrade to ninty five degree centigrade, with continuous florescence
           measurement at each 1% increase in temperature.

        -  Data acquisition and analysis will be performed using the ABI 7500 software.

      Statistical analysis Data will be subjected for normality test. Best on the data parametric
      or non parametric test will be performed. P value < 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant.
    
  