
    
      By the time Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) and related disorders are diagnosed, the brain has
      sustained substantial insult that limits the efficacy of current treatments. Preventive
      interventions are urgently needed but the majority of prevention studies require large
      numbers of participants, long follow-up periods, and frequent study visits. It is not
      feasible for many geriatric patients to attend clinics for treatment on a daily basis due to
      mobility and transportation restrictions, associated costs, and lack of rural clinic
      locations. Interventions delivered remotely, or administered within an individual's home,
      allow for preventative treatments to be made accessible to a wider range of individuals.
      Thus, the overall goals of this project are to assess the feasibility and impact of designing
      and implementing an at-home intervention aimed at preventing long-term cognitive decline and
      improving cognition in individuals currently at-risk for developing AD. These high-risk
      individuals that will be targeted in this proposal are: (1) older adults with Mild Cognitive
      Impairment (MCI), (2) older adults with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), and (3) older adults
      with MCI and MDD.

      The proposed intervention combines cognitive remediation (CR) and non-invasive brain
      stimulation - transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS), to be delivered in the
      participants' home environment. Twenty couples (40 participants) will be recruited, with one
      member defined as the "patient" and the second member defined as the "caregiver" to the
      patient. These caregivers will facilitate the delivery of the study intervention (i.e.,
      CR+tDCS). Participants with a diagnosis of MCI or MDD or both, who have a caregiver, will
      receive open-label, active CR+tDCS over a period of 8 weeks. Both CR and tDCS have been shown
      to induce neuroplasticity and improve cognition. The aim of this pilot study is to assess the
      feasibility of delivering these combined interventions at home.
    
  