
    
      Early detection of response to spinal cord injury (SCI) therapeutic intervention programs is
      vital, as it will enable early termination of intervention in non-responding patients,
      prevent unnecessary financial burden, and allow for early changes of the programs. In this
      project, the investigators propose that resting state functional MRI (rsfMRI) can be used to
      detect early brain functional network changes that occur during intervention, and that the
      changes will be predictive of recovery in chronic SCI patients. The long-term goal of this
      study is to establish rsfMRI as a new imaging biomarker that is predictive of progress
      towards recovery in response to therapy. International Standard of Neurological
      Classification for Spinal Cord Injury (ISNCSCI) scoring system is the most widely used
      clinical classification system of SCI that describes neurological injury level and degree of
      functional preservation. It is also used to monitor the progress and response to
      interventions such as functional electrical stimulation (FES) therapy. However, monitoring
      responses using ISNSCI is challenging, because its ability to describe the degree of
      functional loss is limited. Therefore, there is a need in the field of SCI for a biomarker
      that is more sensitive to changes in function. The investigators will recruit 2 groups of 24
      chronic SCI patients. In one group, the investigators will characterize the baseline time
      profile of rsfMRI outcome measures acquired during a 4-weeks passive cycling program, where
      movement is driven only by the cycle's motor (no electric stimulation). RsfMRI data of the
      patients acquired at weeks 0, 2, and 4 will be used perform functional parcellation of the
      sensorimotor cortex using independent component analysis (ICA) and spectral clustering
      analysis (SCA) approaches. BNC will be calculated between pairs of sensory and motor brain
      parcels. Sensory and motor ISNCSCI scores will also be measured at weeks 0, 2, and 4. The
      investigators will then test the hypothesis that the investigators will observe stable
      baseline measures of sensory and motor cortex BNC and ISNCSCI scores of the patients during
      the 4-week passive cycling program, with minimal to no change in values. In the second group,
      the investigators will characterize the time profile of the cortical reorganization in
      chronic SCI patients that occurs during the four-week FES cycling. Specifically, the
      investigators predict that the investigators will observe early functional network changes in
      the sensorimotor cortex of SCI patients (measured using BNC) at week 2 of the four-week FES
      cycling program, which will be predictive of changes in ISNSCI scores (neurological outcomes)
      at week 4. Finally, the longitudinal intra-subject reproducibility of the two parcellation
      methods will be investigated. If successful, the study will: 1) provide a new and effective
      clinical tool to study plastic cortical changes that occur after SCI, 2) provide a new
      non-invasive imaging biomarker that is predictive of progress towards recovery in response to
      therapy, and 3) extend our knowledge about the functional reorganization that takes place
      during and after therapeutic intervention.
    
  