
    
      This is a multi-centre, open label, single-arm, phase II clinical trial in untreated patients
      with WM. Patients will require a biopsy to confirm the pathology and molecular testing for
      MYD88, CXCR4 and P53 mutations. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be performed to
      document WM and MRD. Participants will be classified into clinical risk categories based on
      the International Prognostic Scoring (IPS) System for WM. Symptomatic, previously untreated
      patients will receive SOC bendamustine and rituximab for 6 28-day cycles. Bendamustine will
      be given intravenously at 90 mg/m2 on days 1 and 2 of each cycle. Rituximab will be given on
      day 1 of each cycle (375 mg/m2 intravenously for the first cycle and 1400 mg subcutaneously
      OR 375 mg/m2 intravenously for subsequent cycles (as per institutional procedures)).

      Concomitantly, participants will receive 100 mg of the investigational product,
      Acalabrutinib, orally for 1 year (365 days) at 100 mg BID. Patients will have pre-treatment
      computed tomography (CT) scans, and CT scans at 7, 12 and 18 months. Best objective response
      will be documented using the criteria from the Sixth International Workshop on Waldenstrom's
      Macroglobulinemia. Assessment of metabolic uptake by positron emission tomography (PET) scan
      is not considered appropriate for WM as WM usually do not take up fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG).
      Patients with WM will also have disease assessed using measurements of serum IgM, serum
      protein electrophoresis (SPE), immunofixation (IFA), and viscosity assessments measured
      serially. A bone marrow aspiration and biopsy will be done before treatment and at response
      assessment at cycle 6 and will be repeated if positive. Durability of response will also be
      assessed at 18 months.

      Participants will be followed by extended follow-up by telephone for up to 6 years to obtain
      data on the secondary endpoints.
    
  