
    
      The purpose of this study is to determine if using a one time pre-operative dose of IV
      acetaminophen has an effect on post-operative nausea, vomiting, and pain. This is a
      randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled prospective study on patients from the Katzmann
      Breast Center undergoing outpatient breast surgery (including excisional biopsy, lumpectomy,
      sentinel lymph node biopsy, axillary node dissection, or ductal excision).

      IV acetaminophen (paracetamol) has been in Europe and other countries. In the U.S. the FDA
      approved IV acetaminophen (Ofirmev) in November of 2010. Since then, it has been used in many
      different ways, but most commonly in the first 24 hours post operative recovery period.

      There will be two arms included in this study. Patients in Arm One will receive a one gram
      dose of IV acetaminophen in the pre-operative area. Patients in Arm Two will receive a dose
      of the placebo (IV normal saline). The medication will be disguised in the same bag as the
      normal saline, so no one (including the patient) in the pre-operative area will know which
      arm the patient is in. This prospective, randomized, double blind study will compare
      post-operative nausea, vomiting, and pain rates in patients from both arms.

      The primary endpoint of this study will be to compare post-operative pain in patients
      receiving a pre-operative dose of IV acetaminophen to patients receiving the normal saline
      placebo. Secondary endpoints will include post-operative nausea and vomiting, recovery times,
      and overall satisfaction of pain management throughout their experience (assessed on post
      operative day one). If this study shows that IV acetaminophen given in the pre-operative
      setting decreases post-operative nausea, vomiting, and/or pain and/or shortens recovery time,
      and improves patient satisfaction in regards to their pain management, it could also become a
      routine medication given to all patients in the pre-operative setting.
    
  