
    
      Gallstones constitute an entity known from antiquity, which have been found even in Egyptian
      mummies. In elder Greece, Tralliano discovered that gallstones are formed in the liver.
      Vesalio and Falopio described gallstones inside de gallbladder after a human body dissection
      and in 1882 Langenbuch performed the first cholecystectomy with good results, becoming the
      gold standard technique for cholelithiasis.

      Nowadays, this pathology represents a public health problem in developed countries due to its
      high prevalence, which is getting higher, estimated between a 10 and a 15% of the population.

      However, gallstones are asymptomatic in the 80% of the cases. In 5 years, a 10-20% of these
      patients will become symptomatic. The global risk of generating symptoms is about a 2% per
      year, meanwhile biliary tract complications in asymptomatic patients represent a 0'3% per
      year.

      There are two main types of gallstones. The most common of them (70%) are cholesterol stones,
      composed of >50% of cholesterol. The other 30% are black pigment stones, with less than 20%
      of cholesterol in their composition.

      The common ways on gallstone formation are: cholesterol supersaturation (due to a liver
      oversecretion); defects on gallbladder absorption, secretion and motility mechanisms; and
      higher percentage of deoxycholic acid in the biliary acids due to a slower intestinal
      movement. All of that leads to supersaturation and cholesterol nucleation.

      Black pigment stones are formed of calcium bilirrubinate. The formation mechanism is not
      clearly defined, but there is an increment in not conjugated bilirubin levels, which is less
      soluble in water. These gallstones are more frequent in patients who show higher levels of
      this bilirubin, such as those with hemolysis, Gilbert syndrome or hereditary spherocytosis.
      They are also common in patients with Crohn disease (specially in those with ileal resection)
      and cystic fibrosis, in which exists an enterohepatic circulation alteration, driving to an
      increase on biliary salts and non-conjugated bilirubin levels.

      Our work hypothesis is that bile composition in patients with gallstones on the gallbladder
      is different from those who doesn't show lithiasis.
    
  