
    
      This study aims at the possible effect of subliminal intragastric administration of fatty
      acids on responses to positive emotion induction, based on our earlier findings that
      subjective administration of fatty acid decreases neural responses to negative mood induction
      (Van Oudenhove et al, J Clin Invest 2011). After screening for exclusion criteria and the
      participants sign the informed consent form, an intravenous catheter is placed in the
      forearm, and a naso-gastric tube inserted through the nose. Then the test subject is
      connected to the equipment in order to record the activity of the autonomic nervous system,
      via three electrocardiogram electrodes. By using the nasogastric tube we serve a fatty acid
      solution (Dodecanoic acid, "fatty acid" condition) or a physiological saline solution (
      "control" condition) intragastrically. The intragastric administration of low doses of this
      food ingredient has already been used in several previous studies by our research group and
      has proven perfectly safe. A positive or neutral emotional state will be induced by the
      combination of looking at emotional facial expressions and listening to classical music
      pieces that were previously validated for this purpose; This combination of incentives has
      already been used in previous studies of our research group. Responses will be measured by
      means of validated self-report scales and measurements of the vagal tone. We also take blood
      samples on a regular basis by the intravenous catheter for determination of gastrointestinal
      hormones, given our hypothesis that this may explain the effect on emotions. After removal of
      the nasogastric tube, the influence of subliminal administration of fatty acids and emotional
      state on food intake measured by means of a validated and previously drink test used in which
      participants "ad libitum" to drink a chocolate milkshake while the emotion-induction by means
      of classical music pieces continue. Finally, the intravenous catheter is removed.
    
  