
    
      The purpose of this study is to assess an "adaptive" approach to smoking cessation
      pharmacotherapy. The protocol is designed to compare adaptive vs. standard approaches to two
      common smoking cessation pharmacotherapies (Varenicline and Nicotine Patch). The adaptive
      treatment approach provides the addition of Bupropion in the pre-quit period for participants
      who are not "responding" to initial treatment. Little is known about the adaptive use of
      Varenicline or Nicotine Patch, in which Bupropion is added to Varenicline or Patch for those
      who do not respond to one of these medications in a pre-quit treatment period. This study
      attempts to address these knowledge deficits. The study (N=300) is a double-blinded
      randomized placebo-controlled trial designed to compare biochemically-confirmed abstinence
      rates in smokers randomized to Varenicline Adaptive Protocol vs. Varenicline (N=150) and for
      comparison, Nicotine Patch Adaptive Protocol vs. Nicotine Patch (N=150). The "Varenicline
      Adaptive Protocol" is conducted by starting treatment with Varenicline 4 weeks prior to the
      quit day and following each participant's response to this pre-treatment medication. After 2
      weeks, if the patient shows a reduction greater than 50% in cigarettes smoked per day, then
      the patient is considered to be a "Varenicline responder" and is continued on Varenicline
      alone out to 12-weeks post quit day. If the patient does not spontaneously decrease smoking
      in the pre-quit period by more than 50% cigarettes per day, the patient is considered to be a
      "Varenicline non-responder" and Bupropion is added to the Varenicline. For comparison, an
      identical protocol is used with nicotine patch vs. nicotine patch adaptive treatment. The
      study uses only FDA-approved medications: Varenicline, Nicotine Patch, Bupropion, and placebo
      controls. To pattern clinical practice, participants will be able to choose whether they
      would like to use a patch or Varenicline-based treatment. After choosing, however, they will
      be randomized to adaptive vs. non-adaptive version of that treatment. Placebo medications are
      matched throughout the study. Participants will be blinded to all medications. All
      participants will receive behavioral treatment including a single 40-minute visit with a
      medical provider. The study is designed to provide researchers and clinicians with a better
      understanding of how to use adaptive pharmacotherapy protocols to improve smoking cessation
      rates.
    
  