
    
      INTRODUCTION

      There has been a lot of increased interest in the recent years in the prevalence and
      diagnosis of congenital uterine anomalies (Chan et al 2011; Saravelos et al 2008). This has
      been further intensified by the introduction of several new classifications for these
      malformations, including the most recent ESHRE-ESGE classification (Grimbizis et al, 2013).

      Most of the clinical interest, and what affects daily clinical practice is the diagnosis and
      treatment of the septate uterus, which is the commonest anomaly amenable to treatment (Homer
      and Li, 2000). Since the new ESHRE-ESGE classification, which has introduced a new objective
      method for diagnosis of this anomaly, by measuring the percentage of fundal indentation and
      considering to be a septate uterus when it is >50%.

      To our knowledge there have been no prospective studies as yet assessing women undergoing ART
      in order to demonstrate whether indeed the 3D US morphological characteristics (including the
      percentage of fundal indentation) are correlated to either clinical pregnancy or clinical
      miscarriage. Indeed, this is of upmost importance, as for example the decision to operate on
      a so-called septate uterus should be based on whether it has a true impact on clinical
      outcomes. This is all the more most topical in the present era of IVF/ICSI, and the new
      classifications for uterine anomalies, as certain authors have criticized the new ESHRE-ESGE
      classification as significantly over-diagnosing the septate uterus which risks causing
      unnecessary interventions (Ludwin et al, 2015). Meanwhile other 3D US morphological
      characteristics such as characterisation of the subendometrial layers/junctional zone and
      Cesarean scan niches my also prove to be correlated with clinical outcomes.

      AIMS Aim: To determine whether and to what extent different 3D US morphological
      characteristics of the uterus impact the clinical outcomes of women undergoing IVF/ICSI.

      PLAN OF INVESTIGATION Subject recruitment: Women with infertility will be recruited from the
      Assisted Reproductive Technology Unit of Hammersmith Hospital, London. It is often our
      routine clinical practice to offer 3D US to patients undergoing treatment and we are
      anticipating that over 90% of patients undergoing treatment will be willing to have this
      evaluation as part of their routine treatment.

      Study design: Prospective cohort observational study.

      Inclusion criteria: Described Elsewhere

      Exclusion criteria: Described elswhere

      Power calculation: To our knowledge no previous prospective study has been performed within a
      similar context, therefore a power calculation is not easily applicable. However, given that
      most recent similar retrospective study comparing arcuate versus normal uteri in women
      undergoing IVF/ICSI included 161 subjects, we will also aim to collect over 150 subjects.

      Procedure: All ultrasound examinations will be performed using the GE Voluson series
      ultrasound machines, with a standard 3D transvaginal probe (model RIC5-9-D; 6.6 MHz central
      image frequency). The examination with 3DUS will be identical to the routine 2D examination
      including an acquisition of a 3D volume which takes a few seconds. The images will be shown
      instantly to the operator and can be stored digitally onto the hard disc attached to
      ultrasonography machine for subsequent analysis. For the purpose of homogeneity and to reduce
      operator bias, no more than three experienced operators will perform all 3DUS examinations.

      Outcome measures: Described elsewhere

      Data processing and analysis: The researchers will ensure the confidentiality of sensitive
      data by minimizing the number of personnel who handles subject data. The computer data will
      be encrypted as required to maximize security. Data processing for statistical analysis will
      be performed using the Statistical Packages of Social Sciences for Windows (SPSS, Inc). Data
      will be presented by percentage, mean and standard deviation, median and range where
      appropriate. Comparisons between groups will be carried out by Student T test for continuous
      variables, ANOVA for mean value comparisons, Chi-square/Fisher's exact test for categorical
      data. Stepwise logistic regression analysis may be performed as part of systematic analysis
      for primary outcomes. P-values of <0.05 will be considered significant.

      Monitoring and interim analysis: As the study is perceived to be safe and poses no additional
      hazard, a Data Monitoring Committee and interim analysis is not considered necessary. There
      are no known adverse effects of routine ultrasound. No extra pain or discomfort is associated
      with the 3D US.

      Consent: All subjects will be asked to consent for the performance of 2D/3D US which forms
      part of routine care in our unit.
    
  