
    
      Typhoid fever is a major cause of morbidity worldwide. The disease predominantly affects
      school-aged children, is more prevalent in urban areas, may last for several weeks and can
      lead to serious complications. Management of this disease is further complicated by the
      emergence of multi-drug resistant strains. Vaccination of high risk populations is considered
      the most promising strategy for the control of typhoid fever. The Vi polysaccharide vaccine
      has been targeted for accelerated introduction into public health programs due to the
      following reasons: it has been shown to have consistent efficacy results even in areas of
      high typhoid incidence; is given as a single dose; lacks patent protection and requires less
      strict cold chain requirements. A cluster-randomized trial involving the Vi polysaccharide
      vaccine and an active control (hepatitis A) was designed to determine the effectiveness and
      the feasibility of providing Vi vaccine under actual programmatic conditions in 3 urban slums
      in Pakistan. The vaccines used in this study are internationally produced and locally
      licensed. A complimentary, targeted, basic typhoid prevention health education program for
      the entire population at the initiation of the project will be provided and the actual
      Vi-demonstration project will be preceded by a 12-month typhoid surveillance activity.

      Secondary objectives of this trial are:

        -  To monitor the adverse events following a routine Vi mass vaccination campaign;

        -  To assess the knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and practices among parents and health care
           providers regarding typhoid illness, treatment and prevention; and

        -  To study typhoid fever risk factors in the population.

      A nested, prospective matched case-control study is included in the trial in order to study
      typhoid risk factors among children in Karachi.
    
  