
    
      The study is designed as a prospective observational series including patients with active
      ulcerative colitis despite standard step-up treatment including biologicals. Sixty
      consecutive patients who are refractory to medical treatment will be recruited to evaluate
      the effect of the appendectomy on the disease course.

      Eligible patients will be counselled at the outpatient clinics. Patients with presumed
      therapy-refractory inflammation will undergo ileocolonoscopy, which is part of standard daily
      practice. When informed consent is given, the presence of a PARP will be documented, and
      additional biopsies of the appendix and coecal base will be taken, to determine histological
      inflammation grade. Active disease is required for inclusion, and is defined as a combined
      clinical and endoscopic Mayo-score of ≥5 with an endoscopic subscore of 2 or 3. After
      inclusion, a laparoscopic appendectomy will be performed within 9 weeks. Patients will be
      followed every 3 months after laparoscopic appendectomy to assess the patients' clinical
      condition and the non-invasive Mayo score. According to standard practice evaluating therapy
      change, a sigmoidoscopy will be performed within 6 months and a full ileocolonoscopy at 12
      months, including biopsies of the colon and coecal base, to assess mucosal appearance and
      complete the Mayo score.

      Postoperatively, patients will receive the similar medical treatment as given
      pre-appendectomy. If medication can be tapered post-appendectomy, this will be done according
      to the experience of the treating physician and current guidelines. Patients will complete
      health related quality of life questionnaires (EQ-5D, EORTC-QLQ-C30-QL and IBDQ) via email or
      a telemedicine application (MyIBDcoach) at inclusion and at 3, 6 and 12 months follow-up.

      The pre-operative endoscopic biopsies of the appendix will be used to determine if
      histological inflammation in the appendix resection specimens can be reliably predicted.
      Histological findings in the resection specimens will be correlated to clinical and
      pathological response after appendectomy. Furthermore, in 20 patients who are planned for
      colonoscopy (10 patients with non-active UC and 10 non-UC patients with polyps) additional
      appendix biopsies will be taken to use as a reference control group. Therefore, a total of 80
      patients will be recruited for this study.
    
  