
    
      Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a clonal malignant disorder which is characterized by the
      expansion of leukemic blasts in the bone marrow and the peripheral blood, which goes along
      with a suppression of normal hematopoiesis including granulopoiesis, erythropoiesis and
      thrombocytopoiesis. The prognosis is largely determined by cytogenetic and molecular risk
      factors, age, performance status and antecedent myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS). With the
      exception of old and frail patients, most AML patients are eligible for intensive
      chemotherapy, which is given in curative intent consisting of induction and consolidation
      therapy. However, despite intensive therapy, the long-term outcome of AML patients remains
      poor, with less than 30% of patients achieving long lasting remission and even cure. This
      poor outcome is largely due to refractoriness to induction chemotherapy as well as relapses
      during and after completion of intensive induction and consolidation therapy. Regarding
      refractoriness, about 20-30% of AML patients under the age of 60 years and about 50% of older
      patients fail to attain complete remission (CR) following cytarabine plus anthracycline based
      standard induction therapy. In addition, patients having achieved CR are at a high risk of
      relapse, particularly within the first two years after completion of chemotherapy. Allogeneic
      hematopoietic cell transplantation (allo-HCT) is currently the only treatment strategy to
      offer the prospect of cure in relapsed/refractory (r/r)-AML; but outcome after allo-HCT is
      largely determined by the remission state before allo-HCT. With the aim to induce a CR before
      allo-HCT, salvage chemotherapy regimens are administered in r/r-AML. Typically, these salvage
      regimens are based on high dose cytarabine (HiDAC), which is frequently combined with either
      mitoxantrone (HAM regimen) or fludarabine plus idarubicin (idaFLA regimen). However, there is
      still no commonly accepted standard salvage regimen and overall CR rates remain low with less
      than one third of the patients achieving a CR. Apart from already known clinical unfavorable
      prognostic parameters in relapsed AML such as short first CR duration, older age and previous
      allo-HCT, FLT3-ITD has consistently been identified as an unfavorable molecular marker in
      both relapsed and refractory AML. Recently midostaurin has been approved by the FDA and EMA
      for the treatment of newly diagnosed AML with activating FLT3 mutations. But still roughly
      one quarter of patients, who received midostaurin, was refractory to induction therapy and
      relapse rate at 2 years excited 40%. Thus, new treatment options are urgently needed,
      particularly in r/r-AML with FLT3-ITD.

      The oral second-generation bis-aryl urea tyrosine kinase inhibitor quizartinib is very
      specific for FLT3, has a high capacity for sustained FLT3 inhibition and an acceptable
      toxicity profile. Furthermore, single agent quizartinib doubled the response rate as compared
      to standard of care in a randomized study in r/r-AML. Although survival was also improved in
      this study the difference was only marginal.

      In this protocol we evaluate the efficacy of quizartinib in combination with HAM (high-dose
      cytarabine, mitoxantrone) as compared to historical controls based on the matched threshold
      crossing approach followed by randomized prophylactic versus MRD-triggered continuation
      therapy with quizartinib including consolidation (chemotherapy as well as allo-HCT) and
      maintenance.
    
  