
    
      Fifty healthy patients between the ages of 18 and 50 will be used for this clinical trial.
      The anatomical site used for this clinical trial is the maxillary mucobuccal fold above the
      canine eminence. This site has been selected because it is an anatomical structure that is
      easily found for all subjects and is reproducible from one side of the patient to the other.
      One side of the patient's maxillary mucobuccal canine area will be dried with dental 2x2
      sponge gauze, then 20% Benzocaine will be applied with an SV for one minute. The site will
      then be punctured using a short 27-gauge needle inserted to the depth of 3mm.

      Immediately after the removal of the needle, the patients will be asked to rate their pain
      according to the Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) model. The VAS is a measurement instrument 100mm
      in length anchored by word descriptors at each end. The subject marks on the line the point
      that they feel represents their perception of their current state.

      On the contralateral side, a 2x2 will be used to dry the mucus, and then 20% benzocaine will
      be applied using the DASD for one minute, followed by a puncture of the oral mucosa with a
      27-gauge needle to the depth of 3mm. Immediately after the removal of the needle, the subject
      will rate their pain according to the same method described above. The application of the
      topical anesthetic by the DASD and SV will be administered by a single investigator for all
      subjects. After administration of topical anesthetic the subjects will be divided randomly
      among six separate investigators who will insert the needle into the mucosa. Neither the
      investigator giving the injection nor the subjects will be told whether the DASD or SV was
      used to administer the topical anesthesia. This will insure a double blind trial. A new
      27-gauge needle will be used for each injection site to standardize each injection.

      Statistical Analysis

      Each patient will be treated prior to injection with a topical anesthetic applied either
      using the SV device or the DASD device. A paired t-test will be used to determine if a
      statistically significant difference exists between pain scores recorded for each of the
      injection sites. For the VAS model, the patient's vertical mark is measured from the left
      hand side in millimeters. The paired t-test will test if the mean difference between SV
      treated sites and DASD, treated sites to determine which of the two hypotheses are true. The
      Null Hypothesis (Ho) is that the mean of the differences in pain scores is zero. The
      Alternative Hypothesis (Ha) is that the mean of the differences in pain scores is not equal
      to zero . A probability value of 0.05 will be used to determine if the difference is
      significant.
    
  