
    
      Syphilis is a major issue worldwide causing 5.6 million new cases of syphilis worldwide, of
      which over 900,000 are pregnant women. It is also responsible for congenital infections
      causing fetal loss or stillbirth or, in a live-born infant, neonatal death, prematurity and
      low birth weight. Penicillin is the currently used treatment. However, lack of penicillin and
      alternatives to treatment often hinder treatment and prevention efforts.

      Cefixime is an FDA-approved, orally administered third-generation cephalosporin that is
      currently used for the treatment of a wide range of infections, including urinary tract
      infections. Our goal is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral cefixime as an
      alternative treatment for syphilis infection.

      One hundred adult patients (≥18 years old) with syphilis infection will be recruited.
      Eligible participants will have laboratory-confirmed syphilis infection with a positive
      Treponema pallidum Particle Agglutination (TPPA) assay and RPR (Rapid Plasma Reagin ) titer ≥
      1/8. Participants will be randomized (1:1) to receive either the standard of care Penicillin
      or Cefixime.

      During the study, participants will visit the clinic 5 times; at baseline visit, demographic,
      clinical information and laboratory test results for syphilis will be recorded and treatment
      will start. Depending on the study group, the treatment plan will be oral Cefixime 400mg,
      twice per day for ten consecutive days or one dose of intramuscular Penicillin. Patients will
      be required to visit the clinic two weeks after treatment initiation to verify adverse
      effects. Follow up visits will occur at 3, 6 and 12 months after treatment initiation. In
      each visit, participants will be asked about current symptoms, interval sexual history,
      concomitant antibiotic use and possible adverse reactions. Subjects will also have a
      venipuncture blood specimen collected for syphilis testing (RPR). Subjects who have a 4-fold
      decrease (from study entry RPR) in RPR titers from baseline at 6 months will be considered a
      positive treatment response.
    
  