
    
      The principal investigator hypothesize that CDH newborns have disturbed cardiac performance
      and increased pulmonary pressures during neonatal life and at different pediatric ages. The
      principal investigator also postulate that those with decreased cardiac performance by STE
      and/or with PH have higher concomitant neonatal or pediatric morbidities and altered
      neurodevelopmental profile, that CDH patients have some remaining degree of LV hypoplasia at
      pediatric/adolescent age and that novel echocardiography techniques will detect anomalies not
      uncovered by conventional imaging.

      This study is a prospective study. Cohorts will be simultaneously recruited at different
      neonatal and pediatric ages to create various age groups of the CDH populations.

      Groups will be synchronized with the current follow-up programs to ease feasibility.

      Patient Population will be CDH patients admitted to the NICU at the MCH or followed in the
      clinic. Patients will be recruited during hospitalization or at the different age groups
      corresponding to their regular CDH follow-up.

      Echocardiography will be targeted to acquire: RV and LV function by STE, 3D derived RV/LV
      volumes and performance , conventional systolic/diastolic RV and LV function parameters (such
      as: ejection fraction by Simpson's Biplane, tricuspid annular plane systolic excursion and
      tissue Doppler velocities), cardiac outputs and pulmonary pressure estimates. For patient's
      safety, responsible clinician will be alerted when a clinically significant anomaly is
      detected on the research echocardiography. Same echocardiography protocol will be applied to
      controls.

      Associated to echocardiography data, The principal investigator will complete a chart review
      to extract important neonatal/pediatric demographic and clinical data. Variables extracted,
      among others, will include perinatal details (mode of delivery, maternal conditions, APGAR
      scores), sex, birth weight, clinical course and major morbidities. Bayley Scales of Infant
      and Toddler Development - Third Edition, a standardized evaluation for motor, cognitive and
      language abilities, is done on all patients with CDH at 18 months PMA at the MCH. When
      available for age groups beyond 18 months of age, these scores will be recorded. As well,
      assessment tools describing functional and developmental status will be filled with parents
      (or legal guardian) and/or pre-adolescents/adolescents. These tools will be the: Ages &
      Stages Questionnaires 3 (a parent report of developmental skills for ages of 2 to 60 months ,
      the Clinical Adaptive Test /Clinical Linguistic Auditory Milestone Scale (CAT/CLAMS), which
      has a high correlation with the Bayley Scales of Infant Development and is a
      neurodevelopmental assessment tool of infants and toddlers) and the Pediatric Quality of Life
      Inventory Survey (a pre-adolescent and adolescent report on quality of life and functional
      status).

      Patients with CDH will be compared to controls (1:1) recruited contemporaneously. Clinics
      targeted for control groups include the dermatology, orthopedic, trauma follow-up and
      neurology clinic for benign seizures episodes.
    
  