
    
      Background: Major depressive disorder can be diagnosed in between 5% and 26% of terminally
      ill patients. This disorder causes suffering, and is associated with suicidality, increased
      pain, and increased caregiver burden and caregiver depression. Treatment of depression in
      cancer patients in hospice and palliative care is complicated by shortened life expectancy.
      Currently-approved antidepressants take several weeks to be effective. Methylphenidate has
      been reported in case series and very small randomized trials in patients without cancer as a
      rapidly effective treatment for depression in medically ill patients. There are no randomized
      controlled trials to test this agent in terminally ill cancer patients.

      Objectives: (1) To determine the effectiveness and safety of methylphenidate for depression
      treatment in cancer patients receiving hospice and palliative care, (2) to explore whether
      successful treatment of depression is associated with improved quality of life, and (3) to
      explore whether effective treatment of depression influences caregiver depression and
      caregiver burden.

      Methods: We will conduct an 18-day randomized, double-blind, fixed-dose (10 mg bid),
      placebo-controlled clinical trial of methylphenidate for depression in eligible veteran and
      non-veteran cancer patients with advanced cancer in the following settings: inpatient and
      outpatient hospice, inpatient and outpatient palliative care, and inpatient and outpatient
      cancer clinics. We will determine whether improvement in depression is mediated by decreased
      pain and document the safety and tolerability of methylphenidate in these patients. We will
      explore whether improvement in depression results in improved quality of life for these
      patients, and decreases caregiver depression and burden.

      Eligible patients who answer yes to the question "are you sad or depressed" will be invited
      to participate. They will complete measures of depression [Structured Clinical Interview for
      Diagnosis (SCID), Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) as primary outcome,
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) as secondary outcome], quality of life, pain,
      and cognition at baseline. MADRS scores must be greater than 19 and SCID positive for
      depression at study entry. Subjects will be randomized to either methylphenidate plus an
      SSRI, or placebo plus an SSRI. Subjects may continue any previously prescribed SSRI, or will
      be prescribed citalopram if untreated. Participants will be evaluated with the same measures
      as baseline on days 3, 6, 12 and 18 of the study. In an open label portion of the study,
      methylphenidate-treated patients whose depression has improved will be followed up to 2
      months. Cox proportional hazard analysis will be used to analyze the primary outcome. An
      estimated 104 subjects will be entered over five years. Caregivers will complete measures of
      depression and caregiver burden at days 0 and 18.
    
  