
    
      The investigators intend to include all patients > 65 years old, in dialysis treatment
      (hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis), as well as patients with CKD stage 5.

      The recruitment will be done as follows:

      The patients will be screened according to inclusion criteria. Afterwards each patient will
      be invited to a first meeting that explains the aim of the study, giving the opportunity for
      discussion and consideration, and presenting the consent information. After giving the
      consent the patient will be invited to a second meeting with blood tests, data registration,
      medication registration, undergoing MMS and handing over the questionnaires forms.

      Randomization:

      After the initial assessment and compliance with the eligibility criteria, participants will
      be randomized into an intervention group (medication list will be evaluated by STOPP/START
      criteria) and a control group (medication list will not be evaluated by STOPP/START
      criteria). Randomization numbers will be generated by a random number generator. A series of
      numbered, sealed, opaque envelopes will be used to ensure confidentiality. Each envelope will
      contain a card with information about the group allocation. The group allocation is concealed
      from the researcher and patients at baseline registration.

      Each patients will get questionnaires for: Quality of life using Kidney Disease Quality of
      Life - Short form 36 (KDQOL-Short form 36 ) and EuroQoL-3D (EQ-3D), beliefs about medicine,
      Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS), Morisky medication adherence scale and visual
      adherence scale (VAS), sleeping related questionnaires (Epworth, Berlin, Pittsburgh). A Mini
      Mental Status (MMS) test will be done regarding cognitive function.

      Each patients will get the opportunity to have a polysomnograph for one night.

      With STOPP/START criteria the medication list will be evaluated for the patients who are
      randomized in the intervention group.
    
  