
    
      Increasing attention has focused on the role of sleep in public health. Approximately 1/3 of
      Americans sleep ≤6h per night, an amount that has been deemed sub-optimal by the American
      Academy of Sleep Medicine and Sleep Research Society, the National Sleep Foundation, American
      Thoracic Society, and the American Heart Association. These consensus statements echo
      findings from many reviews on this topic. This is alarming, given epidemiologic and
      experimental research showing that reduced sleep time is associated with a variety of
      negative health outcomes including obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and mortality.
      As such, short sleep represents an unmet public health problem. The community-level daytime
      impacts of insufficient sleep are still not well characterized, though.

      Previous studies have associated habitual short sleep duration with important adverse
      cardiometabolic outcomes, including weight gain, obesity, diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      stress, etc. They suggest that those that report short sleep may be more likely to experience
      functional impairments and are less likely to engage in behaviors consistent with a healthy
      lifestyle. A proposed mechanism of these relationships is that insufficient sleep duration
      triggers metabolic disturbances and increased immune response, resulting in appetite
      dysregulation, adverse cardiovascular outcomes, and resultant disease states. In addition to
      cardiometabolic effects, behavioral and functional consequences of short sleep have been
      well-documented. For example, short sleepers are more likely to exhibit difficulties
      initiating and/or maintaining sleep, daytime sleepiness, drowsy driving, and other
      impairments as a result of sleep loss. Laboratory studies have extensively documented
      neurocognitive and behavioral effects of sleep loss, including increased objective
      sleepiness, impaired vigilance using computer-based psychomotor assessments, and deficits in
      working memory, decision-making, and executive function, as assessed using standardized
      neuropsychologic and neuroimaging techniques. Although much of the focus on sleep as a public
      health issue has been on insufficient sleep at night, relatively little has focused on the
      role of daytime sleepiness. The investigator's previous work has shown that the prevalence of
      daytime tiredness is approximately 18-19% among working-age adults in the US. This is in line
      with other studies, which have estimated the population burden of excessive daytime
      sleepiness to be between 10-25%. Daytime sleepiness is a well-documented result of sleep
      deprivation, but it can also be a result of sleep apnea, sleep fragmentation, and other
      causes. The role of daytime sleepiness as an important dimension of sleep that impacts public
      health has not been sufficiently explored. The present study aims to examine daytime
      sleepiness in a large community sample in terms of social/behavioral/environmental predictors
      and health-related outcomes.
    
  