
    
      InfiniteVision Optics has developed a new IOL system, the Precisight IOL. This IOL consists
      of a combination of two lenses: a base lens which is placed permanently into the capsular
      bag, and a front lens which sits on top of the base lens outside the capsular bag. The major
      advantage of this system is the adjustability of the primary IOL implantation which is done
      by front lens exchange. In case of either postoperative refractive adjustments or patient
      dissatisfaction with the visual performance, the front lens can be easily exchange by a less
      invasive surgery, avoiding a total IOL explantation. The implantation of the Precisight IOL
      is similar to the implantation of a traditional intraocular lens with no expected additional
      risk.

      For all new IOLs, the IOL-constants are determined and provided by the manufacturer. They are
      calculated on the basis of eye models and clinical testing. In this study the biometric data
      of each patient's eye will be documented together with the implanted lens power and the
      postoperative stable refraction for calculation of the optimized IOL-constants.

      In the present study, 125 subjects will be enrolled. Patients with a deviation from target
      refraction of more than 0.5 D spherical equivalent at the 2-3 month follow-up visit will
      undergo a secondary intervention for exchange of the front lens. These patients will be
      followed up for 1 year after front lens exchange.

      Subjects will be screened during a pre-operative visit. Before the surgery visit, the
      subjected must have signed the Informed Consent Form.

      After the surgery, patients will be followed up for one year. The visits will be scheduled at
      1 day, 7-14 days, 2-3 months and 5-7 months and 1 year after surgery. Patients who underwent
      a surgery to exchange the front lens will be also followed up 1 day, 7-14 days, 2-3 months
      and 5-7 months and 1 year after the exchange surgery.

      Investigator site staff will document the data in electronic Case Report Forms (eCRF). The
      data will be pseudonymized, i.e. only the year of birth and a code will be entered in the
      eCRF. Adverse events will be recorded in an eCRFs. Unexpected and serious adverse events are
      to be reported to the manufacturer.

      Data cleaning will be done one month after last patient out and study report finished three
      months after last patient out. Subjects must be withdrawn from the study (i) at their own
      request, (ii) in case of intraoperative complication impacting the safety of the patient or
      (iii) in case of any postoperative complication if the continuation of the study has an
      impact on the safety of the patient. The study may terminate before completion if a high
      relative number of individual subject withdrawals due to the patient's requests and/or
      clinically relevant complications are observed. The IRB will be informed in due course
      accordingly.

      The findings of this study will be published by the investigators in a scientific journal and
      presented at scientific meetings.
    
  