
    
      Hyperlactatemia is a serious complication of NRTI treatment for HIV. Most physicians
      temporarily discontinue antiretroviral therapy in patients with serious hyperlactatemia, then
      restart antiretrovirals after lactate levels normalize. Two options for restarting
      antiretrovirals are to switch to different NRTIs or switch to an NRTI-sparing regimen. The
      latter option is probably safer, but a growing number of the HIV-infected population has
      already been exposed to all available classes of antiretrovirals and may lack this option.
      This study will investigate the ability of antioxidants and B vitamins to prevent the
      recurrence of hyperlactatemia in patients who restart the same NRTI-containing regimen.

      Patients have 2 clinic visits (screening and pre-entry) prior to entry into the study. Prior
      to these visits, patients must fast and refrain from exercise for at least 8 hours. At the
      screening visit, blood is drawn for a lactate level. Women of reproductive potential have a
      pregnancy test. At the pre-entry visit, blood is drawn for a second lactate level.

      Within 30 days of the screening visit, patients return to the clinic to enter the study.
      Patients should not eat or drink, except medications and water, for at least 8 hours prior to
      this visit. Upon study entry, the following are performed: a physical exam; blood draw for
      routine lab tests, HIV viral load, CD4 count, and repeat lactate; urinalysis; and a pregnancy
      test. All patients receive the following regimen through Week 48: vitamins C, E, B1, and B2.
      One week after starting the vitamin regimen, patients are restarted on the same
      antiretroviral regimen that they were receiving at the time of hyperlactatemia. Within 30
      days of study entry, the patients should be on the exact same doses of antiretrovirals that
      they were receiving at the time of hyperlactatemia, taking into account any necessary dose
      escalations. Evaluations are performed at Weeks 2, 4, 6, and 8 and every 4 weeks thereafter
      until Week 24. After Week 24, evaluations are then performed at 8-week intervals through Week
      48. Antiretrovirals are not supplied by the study.
    
  