
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) is a common form of sleep-disordered breathing (SDB)
      characterized by repetitive episodes of cessation of breathing during sleep due to upper
      airway collapse. It causes sleep fragmentation, disabling daytime sleepiness, impaired
      cognitive function and poor quality of life. In addition, OSAS is associated with non-fatal
      and fatal cardiovascular consequences including sudden death as well as to an increased risk
      of road traffic accidents. OSAS is a common disease, affecting approximately 2% of women and
      4% of men residing in Western communities.

      Risk factors for OSAS include obesity, aging, particularly males, abnormal craniofacial
      morphology, nasal obstruction, and genetic factors. OSAS is associated with several
      cardiovascular consequences and social consequences such as motor vehicle accidents, impaired
      cognitive performance, and depression. Various epidemiologic studies have shown an
      association between OSAS and hypertension. In a cross-sectional study, OSAS was associated
      with increased prevalence of self-reported heart failures and strokes. OSAS has been shown to
      be independently associated with coronary artery disease after adjustment for traditionally
      considered risk factors.

      According to the American Medical Association in 2013, obstructive sleep apnea syndrome
      (OSAS) is a common disorder that affects everyone in all ages, especially middle-aged and
      elderly people. In fact, evidence showed that OSAS rates had been increasing due to the
      escalation of obesity rates. Thus, the goal of the OSAS treatment is to alleviate the airway
      obstruction during sleep. The standard first-line OSAS treatment involves continuous positive
      airway pressure (CPAP) devices, which deliver compressed air into the airway in order to stay
      open. In most cases, many patients cannot tolerate CPAP and often are unable to adhere to the
      instructions for many reasons. Patients began to feel discomfort and claustrophobic as well
      as skin irritation and noise. Although small studies lack data of other OSAS treatments, this
      case resulted in insufficient evidence to determine the efficacy of these strategies. In
      regards to limited data, the evidence is not yet resolved on the effectiveness of the
      treatment. There is very limited evidence on the clinical outcomes of the OSAS intervention,
      and most of the data focus on immediate results that are exceedingly direct and provide no
      long-term benefits. Likewise, evidence in evaluating the relative efficacy of weight loss,
      oronasopharyngeal exercise and tongue retraining device interventions for OSAS treatment was
      insufficient. Low-quality evidence indicated that the above interventions improved sleep
      measures and should be recommended for patients with OSAS.

      Purpose:

      The aim of the study was to assess the effect of PSG data, Epworth Sleepiness scale (ESS),
      WHOQOL-BREF questionnaire (EQ-5D), 6-minute walking test (6MWD), rate of perceived exertion
      scale (RPE), flow-volume loop (FV-Loop), tongue and grasp muscle strengths, anthropometric
      data and daily note record between two groups (control group: CPAP therapy and experimental
      group: subgroup have WE, TIMT and TMT therapies) patients with moderate to severe obstructive
      sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS).

      Hypothesis:

      The investigators hypothesize that more moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnea syndrome
      patients in a home-based recovery activity intervention program will have improved PSG data,
      quality of life, exercise ability, pulmonary function, muscle strength, anthropometric data
      and daily note record than patients receiving CPAP alone.
    
  