
    
      Consequences of psychosocial stress can be seen in personnel's health such as long lasting
      imbalance between consumptive and restoring physiological processes (allostatic load, AL)
      that increase the risk of physical diseases and mental health problems and poor health
      behaviours. Chronic work stress induces adverse emotional and physical responses, which are
      triggered by perception of demands that exceed the person's capacity to cope (Folkman et al.
      1986).

      Health behaviour can be improved both by increasing personnel's' resources and removing
      stress-causing factors (Lamontagne et al. 2007). Mindfulness based cognitive therapy aims at
      increasing stress resources by developing emotional and behavioral experiences. It combines
      aspects of cognitive approach including dialectic behavior therapy and Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy (ACT). Mindfulness and acceptance-based interventions have positive
      consequences for physical activity and quality of life (Kangasniemi et al. 2015, Khoury et
      al. 2015). Novel results suggest that the approach is effective to reduce work stress also
      (Aikens et al. 2014). A four month intervention with virtual life habit coaching,
      individualised exercises and mindfulness-based techniques will be performed. The aim is to
      achieve significant and long lasting changes in life habits and stress of employees.

      The extensive measurements including both self-evaluated and objective measurements together
      with multifaceted viewpoint provide profound knowledge of occupational health. They also
      create a comprehensive picture of preschool setting as an arena for healthy lifestyle and
      well-being. A new issue is the concert of different kinds of work load factors, and their
      interacting role in biomarkers for work stress. If proven effective, the health behaviour
      intervention tested in preschool environment, can be modified to suit also other occupational
      settings. The health economic evaluation, together with aforementioned measurement, offer
      information for different stakeholders on whether interventions are economically worthwhile
      for participating municipalities and occupational health care. The results of study are
      beneficial also for policy-makers in different sectors.

      Aims and hypotheses Primary hypotheses

        1. The intervention has a positive effects on long-term physiological adaptation to stress,
           biological health risk factors, recovery, and sickness absences among personnel.

        2. The interventions directly enhance personnel's health behavior including eating habits,
           physical activity and experienced stress.

      Secondary hypotheses

        1. The physiological change in stress regulating systems caused by work related factors
           (psychosocial, cognitive, and physical) is associated with personnel's change health
           risk load (AL) and recovery.

        2. Subjective psychological and cognitive factors of stress, recovery and even mental
           health symptoms are individually related to physiological responses, which can be
           characterized more precisely by the combined assessment of hormonal, neuronal responses
           and new methods of system biology.

        3. The intervention will have positive economic effect (costs and benefits).

        4. The intervention will have positive changes in self-efficasy
    
  