
    
      There are a standard set of risk factors which are used to decide how strong treatment should
      be for a child with ALL. These risk factors include the child's age when the leukemia is
      diagnosed, how high the white blood cell count (WBC) is in the blood, whether or not leukemia
      cells are seen in the spinal fluid (referred to as Central Nervous System or CNS status), and
      whether or not the leukemia has certain abnormalities in their chromosomes (genetic material
      in the cell). Another risk factor is the amount of leukemia in the marrow that can be
      measured by a special laboratory test called "MRD" (Minimal Residual Disease) after the first
      month of treatment.

      Over the last several years, new factors have been identified which help predict how well a
      child's leukemia may respond to treatment. These new risk factors include additional
      abnormalities in the genes of the leukemia cell, as well the amount of leukemia (MRD level)
      at second time point (about 2-3 months after starting treatment).

      In this trial, the investigators will use the new risk factors along with old risk factors to
      decide how strong the treatment will be. The goal is to better identify those participants
      who might benefit from stronger treatment in order to improve their chance for cure. The
      investigators also hope to better identify participants who have a high chance of being cured
      with standard treatment in order to reduce their chance of side effects while maintaining the
      chance of cure.

      This trial also aims to study the dosing of a drug called pegaspargase. Pegaspargase is a
      chemotherapy drug that is an important part of ALL treatment but it is also can cause many
      side effects. With the standard dose of pegaspargase, levels of the drug in the blood are
      higher than may be necessary to effectively treat leukemia.

      On this research study, the investigators will be comparing the standard dose of pegaspargase
      with a new way of dosing the drug based on levels of the drug that we can measure in the
      blood. With the new way of doing, treatment will begin with a lower dose. If the levels are
      high, the dose will be decreased one more time; however, if at any time the levels are too
      low, dosing will be switched back up to the standard dose. The goal of this research study is
      to learn whether this new way of dosing (starting at a lower dose and changing the dose based
      on drug levels in the blood) will decrease side effects but still be as effective as the
      standard dosing of the drug.
    
  