
    
      Golimumab effect in the modulation of gut microbiota in Ulcerative Colitis. Pilot Study.

        1. BACKGROUND Recently, a consistent body of evidence indicates that the gut microbiota
           ability to modulate and direct the host immune response is considered one of the pivotal
           factors that modulate the delicate balance between health and disease in digestive
           diseases. In the case of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the gut microbiota has a
           central role in maintaining the microbiological homeostasis of the patient. Recent
           studies describe the existence of different patterns of intestinal microbiota from
           patients with IBD and healthy individuals . The alteration of the microbiological
           pattern not associated with disease is known as dysbiosis and is directly related to the
           degree of inflammation of the intestinal mucosa, and, thus, the clinic status: a greater
           dysbiosis, greater clinical correlation with disease state, so that the gut microbiota
           is a direct marker of the state of colonic inflammation .

      The state of dysbiosis is measured through different microbiological indices of the total
      population of bacteria in the colon. Changes in rates of these indices are the parameters
      that are measured to characterize the gut microbiota of the patients. In the case of
      ulcerative colitis (UC) studies have shown that intestinal microbiota is a central factor in
      maintaining the balance between deep remission and the presence of a flare-up. Despite
      advances, in-depth knowledge of how the gut microbiota interacts with the intestinal mucosa
      and alters the intestinal barrier and the molecular/genetic mechanism is still unknown. Some
      genes and associated cofactors have been identified but the exact mechanism of interaction
      has not yet been described. The data indicate that, presumably, the mechanism of regulation
      is a multifactorial process.

      In this way, a deep understanding of gut microbiota and its interactions with the host and
      the colon will be of great interest, in order to shape the future of IBD treatment,
      especially of UC. Thus, IBD patients' intestinal microbiota could be either a therapeutic
      target itself (fecal transplantation) or be consider as an adjustable adjuvant with
      immunomodulators The group of anti-TNF drugs are the most recently incorporated in the
      therapeutic arsenal of UC, in some cases changing the natural curse of the disease. However,
      it is still unknown how these drugs modulate the intestinal microbiota and how they interfere
      with it, although, probably, they develop a role. Recent results from studies by our group,
      indicate that on entering clinical remission, gut microbiota is modified to patterns less
      related with dysbiosis. Given the increasing importance of the use of anti-TNF drugs, it is
      of great interest to discriminate between the patterns associated with dysbiosis and those
      related with healthy mucosa, and how they are modified as a result of the use of anti-TNF
      drugs. In this way, previous results of our group analyzing the changes of intestinal
      microbiota associated with Adalimumab anti-TNF drug treatment have shown that during the
      progression of the patient into remission, the mucosal dysbiosis pattern changes. On the
      other hand, our group has also observed that after drug treatment failure, the gut microbiota
      returns to a pattern closer to dysbiosis. For that reason, gut microbiota could be considered
      as an excellent indicator of the real drug effectiveness in the patient.

      Regarding Golimumab, a recently introduced anti-TNF drug therapy in UC, it is still unknown
      how it is able to modulate the intestinal microbiota to remission-related patterns, since to
      date there are not available studies about the relationship between Golimumab and this
      phenomenon.

      The use of prebiotics and probiotics has shown some effectiveness as adjuvants in the
      treatment of UC . For that reason, further characterization of the gut microbiota patterns is
      very important to develop new strategies for adjuvant ability to modulate it, especially in
      patients receiving anti-TNF drugs and do not achieve complete remission. Similarly to recent
      studies, we suggest that the modulation of gut microbiota could optimize the response
      outcomes in patients treated with Golimumab.

      In conclusion, based on current trends in the literature, we suggest that modulation of the
      intestinal microbiota and the characterization of remission-related patterns, will have a
      huge impact on the management of patients with UC. Moreover, the modulation of gut microbiota
      together with the anti-TNF drug effectiveness could be the most promising field in the
      management of inflammatory bowel disease.

      2. HYPOTHESIS AND OBJECTIVES 2.1 Hypothesis

        1. Intestinal microbiota profile change according to UC activity.

        2. The Intestinal microbiota profile correlated to clinical remission is represented by
           stable intestinal microbiota biodiversity.

        3. Assess if Intestinal Microbiota is a useful tool to measure Golimumab effectiveness in
           patients naïve to anti-TNF treatment and patients recurrent to anti-TNF treatment.

      2.2 Objectives

        1. To correlate clinical remission under Golimumab treatment with normal intestinal
           microbiota profile biodiversity

        2. To characterize the pattern of intestinal microbiota associated with the use of
           Golimumab and temporal dynamics of microbial change.

        3. Assess the effect of golimumab on the degree of colic dysbiosis in the treatment of
           Ulcerative Colitis naive to Golimumab.

      3. MATERIAL AND METHODS 3.1 Type of study/design Multicenter transversal pilot Study 3.2
      Study population The proposed study will include 15 UC anti-TNF naïve patients from Hospital
      Universitari Dr. Josep Trueta. Investigators will consider remission when patients have an
      endoscopic Mayo score ≤1, and activity index score, Mayo= 0 points.

      3.3 Interventions NOTE: "The assignment of a patient to a particular therapeutic strategy is
      not predetermined in advance by the study protocol, instead clinical practice. Plus, the
      decision to prescribe a particular drug is clearly unlinked from the decision to include the
      patient in the study. Patients will not undergo any intervention, whether diagnostic or
      monitoring, other than the usual clinical practice, and epidemiological methods shall be used
      for the analysis of the data collected"

      3.3.1 Treatments GOLIMUMAB induction with 200mg at week 0, and 100mg at week 2. Under 80kg,
      the follow up treatment will be 50mg/month, and 100mg/month in patients over 80kg, as
      clinical practice.

      3.4 Variables 3.4.1 Demographic variables

        -  Age expressed in years (y)

        -  Sex Male (M)/ Female (F)

        -  Body Mass Index

        -  Ethnic: Caucasian/ African/ Asiatic/ American

        -  Tobacco: YES / NO / EX-Smoker

        -  Age of UC diagnosis expressed in years (y)

        -  Familiar Antecedents (YES/NO) which kind of disease?

        -  Localization Left (L)/ Righ (R) / extended (E) 3.4.2 Clinical variables

        -  Mayo clinic score (Clinical colitis activity index) (Schroeder KW et al. NEngl J Med
           1987; 317: 1625-9). Score range: 0-9 points

        -  CRP (C-reactive protein): blood C-reactive protein concentration (mg/L)

        -  Faecal calprotectin: stool sample expressed in concentration of calprotectin in ug for g
           of feces (ug/g)

        -  Standard Analysis:

      Hemoglobin: blood hemoglobin concentration (g / dl) Platelets: blood platelets concentration
      (x103/ ul) Leucocytes: blood leucocytes concentration (x103/ ul) Albumin: blood albumin
      concentration (g / dl) Creatinine levels: blood creatinine concentration (mg/ dl) 3.4.3
      Endoscopic variables • Mayo (Endoscopic score of Ulcerative Colitis) (Schroeder KW et al.
      1987). Mayo Endoscopic Score is based only on Endoscopic Findings. Mayo Score range from 0 to
      3.

      o Note: Investigators will send the image to a centralized digital platform, where Mayo score
      will be assessed by 2 independent professionals in order to minimize inter-observer bias.

      3.4.4 Microbiological variables

        -  Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs)

        -  Abundance and bacterial load. 3.5 Methods The proposed study will include 15 UC patients
           over 18 years with informed consent signed, under treatment with anti-TNF according to
           clinical practice. All of them will have been screened for opportunistic infections.
           Patients will be anti-TNF naïve patients.

      Stool samples will be collected before starting Anti-TNF treatment (M0), and then every 3
      months (M1, M2, M3 and M4) to complete the study. The monitoring period will be one year.
      Investigators will collect demographic variables (age, sex, tobacco, age of diagnosis,
      localization,…), clinical data (Mayo clinical score, CRP, albumin, hemoglobin, creatinine,
      leucocytes, platelets…), microbiological variables at M0, M1, M2, M3 & M4. Also, 4
      calprotectin sampling (at baseline, at week12, at 6 months and at the end of the study as a
      clinical practice) and Mayo endoscopic index (at baseline and at the end of the monitoring
      period as a clinical practice). Follow-up visits will also take place within routine clinical
      practice. For better follow-up the evolution of the patient, investigators will perform
      additional tests included in routine clinical practice as a rectosigmoidoscopy at week 12
      after starting Anti-TNF treatment.

      Investigators will consider remission when patients have an endoscopic Mayo score ≤1, and
      activity index score, Mayo clinical score =0 points.

      Moreover, depending on the evolution of the patient, additional tests will also be performed
      as routine clinical protocol during the monitoring period.

      NOTE: Any test performed during the study and / or additional testing is routine clinical
      practice according to clinical judgment and criteria of the physician.

      3.5.1 Sample processing

      DNA Extraction:

      Before microbiological analyses, genomic DNA of 16s RNA gene will be extracted using
      NucleoSpin® Soil Kit (Machery-Nagel GmbH & Co., Germany). DNA concentration will be
      determined with Qubit® BR (Invitrogen) Kit.

      Bacterial 16S rRNA Gene Amplification by Pyrosequencing For pyrosequencing purposes, the 16S
      rRNA gene was partially amplified from extracted genomic DNA using the universal bacterial
      primers GC-357F 5'- CGCCCG CCGCGCCCCGCGCCCGGCCCGCCGCCCCCGCCC- CCT ACG GGA GGC AGC AG-3'
      (341Y357) and 907R 5'-CCG TCA ATT CCT TTG AGT TT-3' (907Y926). PCR was performed with a
      GeneAmp PCR System ® 2700 (AppliedBiosystems)). Then we purify the PCR product with kit
      Ampure (Agencourt AMPure, Beckman Coulter Inc), and quantify the PCR products with Qubit® BR
      (Invitrogen) Kit. The pyrosequencing will be performed with a 454 Life Genome Sciences
      Sequencer FLX.

      Sequence Editing and Analysis High-quality consensus sequences will be obtained and manually
      refined with the Bioedit software package. Alignments were carried out with ClustalW24
      software. Consensus sequences were compared with those in GenBank and the Ribosomal Database
      Project by using BLASTN 2.2.10. Sequences will be grouped by number of operational taxonomic
      units or phylotypes with the DOTUR program26 using the farthest neighbor method at a
      precision level of 0.01, i.e., 99% minimum similarity for any pair of sequences to belong to
      the same phylotype, on a distance matrix with the Jukes-Cantor correction calculated with the
      DNADIST program of the Phylip software package.

      3.6 Statistical analysis Statistical analysis will be performed with the SPSSx version 11.0.
      Significance of distances between groups was checked using an analysis of variance. Pearson_s
      x2 test was used to compare the prevalence of genus and species.

      Clinical and laboratory data will be correlated with the values of quantitative microbial
      indices using Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) curves.
    
  