
    
      Endoscopic Retrograde Pancreatography Cholangiography (ERCP) is the standard procedure for
      the treatment of pathologies that affect the bile duct. Approaching to the ampulla followed
      by deep selective biliary cannulation is the first step in order to apply any therapeutic
      method for bile duct pathologies. In patients with a normal anatomy it is estimated that
      about 11% of therapeutic ERCPs will be considered difficult biliary cannulation (duration of
      cannulation> 5 minutes, more than 5 attempts, > 1 cannulation of the main pancreatic duct).
      When early conventional precut has been compared to guidewire cannulation, cannulation
      success is in favor of precut with 86.7% compared to 66.7%; with a lower post-ERCP acute
      pancreatitis event rate: 6.1% vs 9.1%.

      Objective: To determine the rate of biliary cannulation by comparing two techniques
      (fistulotomy versus standard biliary cannulation technique with guidewire) according to the
      endoscopist experience in ERCP.

      Material and methods: A randomized prospective clinical trial will be conducted in the
      gastrointestinal endoscopy department of the CMN SXXI specialties hospital between the period
      of August 2019 and March 2020. 2 groups will be assigned as following: in group A the primary
      approach to access the bile duct will be conventional cannulation (CC) with guidewire, and
      group B for fistulotomy (F). On the other hand, there will be 2 groups of endoscopists (high
      experience> 200 ERCP) [HE] and low experience (<200 ERCP) [LE]. In total 4 groups: CCHE,
      CCLE, FHE, FLE. All patients undergoing ERCP with suspected or confirmed of
      choledocholithiasis, malignant and benign stenosis of the bile duct, men and women between 18
      and 90 years will be included. Exclusion criteria: patients with previous ERCP,
      gastro-duodenal anatomy altered by previous surgery, suspicion or diagnosis of ampullary
      neoplasm, duodenal cancer, periampullar diverticula types 1 and 2, pregnant women,
      coagulopathy with INR greater than 1.5. Elimination criteria: patients with incomplete ERCP
      due to adverse anesthesia events. The reason and indication of the ERCP study will be
      determined, a data collection sheet will be used compiling: clinical data such as age, sex,
      concomitant diseases, symptoms, biochemical data, imaging studies (abdominal ultrasound,
      abdominal CT and MRCP), findings on ERCP (characteristics of the papilla, presence of
      periampullar diverticula); details of the cannulation technique such as the number of
      attempts, time to access the bile duct. A comparison will be made between both techniques and
      both groups HE and LE. The success rate of biliary cannulation and complication for both
      groups of doctors and maneuvers used will be documented.

      Statistical analysis: Continuous variables will be described with mean, median or standard
      deviation according to their distribution; and categorical variables will be described as
      percentages. Categorical variables will be compared using Chi-square or Fisher's exact test,
      while quantitative variables will be compared using T-Student or Mann Whitney U test. A P
      less than 0.05 will be considered statistically significant (for T-Student and Mann-Whitney U
      will be 2-tailed). A sample size of 80 patients for each group was calculated.
    
  