
    
      The investigators designed a randomized, control trial of an AUC-based educational and
      feedback intervention designed to reduce the proportion of inappropriate TTEs in the
      cardiology and internal medicine outpatient practices at Massachusetts General Hospital. A
      random number generator divided 24 cardiology fellows and 88 internal medicine residents into
      control and intervention arms.

      During the study, physicians in the intervention arm receive the following multi-faceted
      educational intervention on TTE appropriateness: 1) a lecture at the beginning of the study
      period, which describes the AUC for echocardiography and highlights common clinical scenarios
      for which outpatient TTEs are ordered, 2) an electronic "pocket card" via email that provides
      tips on appropriate ordering of TTEs, and 3) an individualized monthly feedback report that
      categorizes TTEs ordered over the preceding month. The feedback reports contain the number of
      TTEs ordered during the month and how many are classified as appropriate, inappropriate, or
      uncertain based on the 2011 AUC. A description of all inappropriate TTEs and the rationale
      for the inappropriate classification is provided. The physicians in the control arm have
      their TTE orders tracked and classified, but do not receive any feedback on their ordering
      behavior. While study participants are not blinded to which arm of the study they are in,
      they were blinded to which arm of the study their colleagues are in.

      Prior to the start of the intervention, all study participants receive a knowledge assessment
      survey. The survey includes five case-based questions designed to assess knowledge of the AUC
      for TTE and also questions regarding attitudes toward diagnostic testing. Each participant
      also receives a post-study knowledge assessment survey.

      The primary outcome measures in this study are the rate of inappropriate and appropriate
      TTEs. Secondary outcome measures include the number of TTEs ordered, common appropriate and
      inappropriate TTE indications, and pre- and post-study knowledge assessment scores among the
      study physicians.
    
  