
    
      All patients secrete fluids into the upper airway from the base of our tongue and other
      related structures. These "subglottic" secretions are normally cleared by swallowing, but
      when a person requires mechanical ventilation that process is blocked by the breathing tube
      and the subglottic secretions tend to accumulate. The removal of these subglottic secretions
      is very important because bacteria that normally inhabit the back of our throats can enter
      and ultimately colonize collected pools of subglottic secretions. This process is called
      "micro-aspiration" and has been shown to be strong risk factor for the development of
      Ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP). Previously, doctors and nurses would attempt to limit
      these secretions by passing small suction tubes through the breathing tube, but this was
      found to be ineffective and increased the risk for bleeding and lung injury.

      A new development in the management of patients requiring mechanical ventilation is the Hi-Lo
      endotracheal tube. This device has "suction ports" on either side of the tube that allow for
      the removal of accumulated subglottic secretions.The standard of care is to use this Hi-Lo ET
      tube and to remove subglottic secretions every 4-6 hours. The Hi-Lo tube is designed to
      minimize any suction related trauma. Moreover, recent studies of this ET tube have shown that
      regular suctioning reduces the incidence of VAP. When these "colonized" secretions were
      treated with antibiotics, it reduced the number of VAP and shortened the time on the
      breathing machine. The observation that treatment of bacterial colonization of subglottic
      secretions reduced the time on the breathing machine is potentially very important
      clinically. In this study, we propose that the development of bacterial colonization directly
      contributes to respiratory failure and leads to longer times on the ventilator. The primary
      aim of the study could lead to reduce the time that patients need mechanical ventilation.

      Recent studies have identified a group of "protective proteins" called the heat shock
      proteins (HSP) that appear to protect patients from developing pneumonia. The protective
      effect of these proteins is even more pronounced in patients that require mechanical
      ventilation. Under stressed conditions, HSPs are secreted or released into the subglottic
      secretions and the level of secretion is sufficient appears to prevent bacteria from
      "colonizing" the upper respiratory tract.

      In addition to looking at rates of bacterial colonization of these secretions, a portion of
      these secretions to measure the amount of HSP and whether reduced secretion leads to
      prolonged time on the ventilator.
    
  