
    
      Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is the most common inflammatory joint disease. It is usually
      treated with synthetic and biologic disease modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs). Up to 35%
      of patients can achieve clinical remission by the combination these therapies; however, there
      is considerable uncertainty regarding the management of patients once this clinical state is
      achieved. The discontinuation of biological agents in patients with persistent clinical
      remission may be beneficial for the patients and the health care system reducing the risks of
      long term adverse events and saving costs, respectively. Up to 60% of patients were reported
      to flare after cessation of anti-tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) therapy despite
      continuation of synthetic DMARDs and up to now there exist no validated biomarkers that
      predict which patients will suffer a flare and which patients will remain in remission.

      Sonography is more and more used as a biomarker in RA. Subclinical inflammation was
      previously associated with an increased risk for short term clinical relapse and structural
      deterioration.

      The hypothesis of this prospective study is that ultrasound verified subclinical inflammation
      at the time of bDMARD withdrawal predicts a disease flare at week 16. The investigators plan
      to recruit RA-patients with persistent clinical remission according to SDAI and no current
      corticosteroid therapy. At baseline, bDMARD is stopped, synthetic DMARDs are continued.
      Patients undergo 9 study visits within 52 weeks. Ultrasound examinations of 14 joints as well
      as clinical and laboratory assessments with calculation of SDAI scores are performed at each
      visit. Patients are considered to have a disease flare if disease status changes from
      remission to active disease according to clinical scores. Patients with a flare of the
      disease are excluded from the active phase of the study and are treated according to current
      guidelines.
    
  