
    
      Rationale T-cell therapy is an experimental personalized immunotherapy where TILs are
      isolated from the patient's own tumor tissue, expanded in vitro to billions of cells and then
      administered to the individual patient with the purpose of eliminating the remaining cancer
      cells. Lymphodepleting chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide and fludarabine phosphate is
      administered to the patient before TIL infusion to reduce the number of irrelevant immune
      cells.

      In two consecutive pilot trials at National Center for Cancer Immune Therapy (CCIT-DK), it
      has been shown that adoptive cell therapy (ACT) with TILs for patients with advanced ovarian
      cancer (OC) is feasible and tolerable. In the most recent of these trials ACT was combined
      with a CTLA-4 inhibitor, Ipilimumab and a PD1-inhibitor, Nivolumab.

      Between 90-100% of infused T-cells in these previous ovarian cancer ACT trial expressed
      LAG-3. The interaction between LAG-3 on T-cells and MHC-II on tumor cells inhibits T-cell
      function.

      In this phase I/II study 18 patients with advanced ovarian -, fallopian tube-, and primary
      peritoneal cancer will be included. Included patients undergo surgical removal of tumor
      tissue for tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) manufacturing. Lymphodepleting chemotherapy is
      administered prior to TIL infusion. Hereafter the patients are treated with the programmed
      cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibody Nivolumab and the anti-lymphocyte activation gene 3
      (anti-LAG-3) antibody Relatlimab. The study will be devided into 3 steps.

        -  Step One (6 subjects): Patients are treated without prior administration of cytotoxic
           T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) antibody Ipilimumab pre-tumor harvest.

        -  Step Two (6 subjects): If Step One proves feasible and tolerable patients in Step Two
           will receive one dose of Ipilimumab pre-tumor harvest.

        -  Step Three (6 subjects): Patients are treated either with or without prior Ipilimumab
           pre-tumor harvest depending on the tolerability data from Step Two.

      All patients are treated with lymphodepleting chemotherapy for 7 days followed by infusion of
      TILs. For safety reasons no IL-2- will be administered in this study

      The aim of this study is to demonstrate that ACT and a combination of Relatlimab-Nivolumab
      does not increase the toxicity compared to the same treatment regimen including Nivolumab
      monotherapy. The study will elucidate whether the combination Relatlimab-Nivolumab lead to
      objective responses and improves progression free survival (PFS). It is anticipated that
      combining Relatlimab and Nivolumab with Adoptive T cell therapy (ACT) for advanced OC is safe
      and feasible. Further, it is hypothesized that the combination will lead to improved immunity
      in tumor and blood as well as improved antitumor efficacy.

      Objectives

        -  To evaluate the tolerability and safety of the treatment

        -  To characterize antitumor immune responses and clinical efficacy
    
  