
    
      Bortezomib has become commercially available in the European Union in May 2004 for the third
      line treatment of patients with multiple myeloma. The registration was based on two phase II
      studies while more research was ongoing. Some experience was already gained with the use of
      this product in the Netherlands by means of a compassionate use program before the initial
      registration. However, the data available from the use of bortezomib in daily clinical
      practice is limited. Therefore, there is a need to closely study the use of bortezomib in
      daily clinical practice. During the course of the study, the registration of bortezomib was
      extended. In April 2005, bortezomib was registered for second line treatment of multiple
      myeloma. Consequently, safety and effectiveness data from patients in this line of treatment
      could be collected in this project as well (arm A). Data of a large phase 3 trial showed that
      response rates differ between patients treated for multiple myeloma in the second line and
      patients treated in the third line. Therefore the protocol was amended to compare the
      response rates in two arms, dependent on the number of previous treatment lines for multiple
      myeloma: The protocol was also amended to determine the time to progression and response rate
      in both patients who received thalidomide earlier versus patients who didn't (arm B). ARM A:
      Patients with relapsed multiple myeloma who have received not more than 1 previous line of
      treatment and show progression on that therapy; ARM B: Patients with relapsed or refractory
      multiple myeloma who have received at least 2 prior lines of treatment and show progression
      on most recent therapy. This project is a 'post authorization study (PAS)'. This means that
      only routinely available medical data is collected, with the patients' permission, and no
      additional interventions or diagnostic procedures should be done specifically for this study.
      Because the study is observational, dosage, administration and duration of treatment is at
      discretion of treating physician.
    
  