
    
      The aim of the study is to determine if the use of NIV, for children admitted to hospital
      with an acute exacerbation of asthma, reduces their work of breathing, need for adjunctive
      medication, length of hospital stay, and need for intubation and mechanical ventilation.
      Study design will be prospective, randomized and controlled. The tightly fitting face mask
      necessary for NIV makes it impossible to make this a blinded study.

      The principal enrollment criteria will be children over 2 years of age presenting to the ER
      with acute asthma. After diagnosis, all children are treated with standard therapy (systemic
      steroids plus 3 doses of inhaled salbutamol and 1 dose of inhaled ipratropium over a 1 hour
      period then hourly salbutamol). The principal decision between discharge track and admission
      track will be made at 2 hours after first steroid dose. Admission criteria are based on
      sequential PRAM scores.

      After initial asthma treatment and observation in the emergency room, to determine which
      patients can be discharged home, those who need admission will be asked to join the study,
      then consented and randomized. There will be three treatment groups:

        -  BiPAP: standard steroid dose, hourly salbutamol and BiPAP at 15/5 cm H2O by face mask
           with rate 10 to 15/min, oxygen as needed.

        -  CPAP: standard steroid dose, hourly salbutamol and 8 to 10 cm H2O constant pressure by
           face mask, oxygen as needed.

        -  Conventional therapy: standard steroid dose plus hourly nebulized salbutamol, nebulized
           ipratropium q 6 hrly, magnesium sulphate 50 mg/kg IV (4 doses q 6 hrly), loading dose of
           aminophylline 6 mg/kg IV if no progress, oxygen as needed.

      All children will be admitted to a small 3 bed respiratory unit. They will be closely
      monitored and objectively scored every 4 hours using the PRAM asthma clinical severity score
      (Pediatric Respiratory Assessment Measure). Projected patient enrollment will be at least 30
      in each arm. Estimated study duration is 6 months.
    
  