
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall and cancer-specific survival of patients with prostate cancer
           treated with bicalutamide alone followed by bicalutamide with either goserelin or
           bilateral orchiectomy vs observation followed by bicalutamide with either goserelin or
           bilateral orchiectomy.

        -  Compare the time to first and second clinical progression in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Compare the quality of life, including potency, of patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating center, tumor differentiation grade (G3 or Gleason more than 6 vs other
      values), T category, comorbidity (i.e., chronic disease) (yes vs no), potency (yes vs no),
      type of chosen hormonal ablation (goserelin vs orchiectomy), PSA level (less than 10 ng/mL vs
      10-20 ng/mL vs 20-100 ng/mL), and N status (N0 vs NX). Patients are randomized to one of two
      treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive oral bicalutamide once daily. At first symptomatic disease
           progression, patients also receive goserelin subcutaneously once every 28 or 84 days or
           undergo bilateral orchiectomy. At second disease progression, patients discontinue
           bicalutamide.

        -  Arm II: Patients are observed until first symptomatic disease progression. At first
           disease progression, patients receive bicalutamide with either goserelin or bilateral
           orchiectomy as in arm I. Patients discontinue bicalutamide as in arm I.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline, every 6 months for 6 years, at each disease
      progression, and then annually thereafter.

      Patients are followed annually.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 1266 patients (633 per treatment arm) will be accrued for
      this study within 5 years.
    
  