
    
      Objectives of the study

        1. To test the accuracy of anatomical and functional non-invasive cardiac imaging in the
           diagnosis of IHD. To this purpose the "anatomical" information provided by CTA is
           obtained in every patient together with the "functional" information provided by stress
           radionuclide cardiac imaging (SPECT or PET), to assess myocardial perfusion, and/or by
           stress MRI or ECHO imaging to assess myocardial contraction. Non-invasive results are
           tested against invasive reference standards. The latter consists of invasive coronary
           angiography integrated by invasive measurement of fractional flow reserve (to assess the
           hemodynamic relevance of intermediate coronary stenoses).

        2. To test the accuracy of integrated models, including clinical variables, risk factors
           and circulating biomarkers, to predict significant obstructive coronary artery disease
           in patients with chronic angina-like symptoms. To correlate biohumoral profiles with the
           coronary anatomical-functional phenotype as obtained by non invasive imaging in the same
           patients. To reach these goals the clinical characterization of patients (collected
           before non-invasive imaging) and the laboratory characterization (that includes novel
           biomarkers of cardiovascular risk) are compared with patient characterization derived
           from non invasive "anatomic-functional" imaging and with invasive diagnosis of
           significantly obstructive coronary disease.

        3. To develop an advanced clinical and imaging reporting tool in cardiology. An informatics
           platform is developed to synthetically and clearly present the integrated clinical and
           imaging diagnostic profile of individual patients. A multimodal imaging reporting tool
           is developed including tools for "image fusion" of different imaging modalities (CT,
           SPECT, PET, MRI).

        4. To define the most cost-effective work-up for the diagnosis and characterization of IHD.
           To this purpose the costs and the procedural risks (including radiation exposure) of
           non-invasive and invasive diagnostic procedures are prospectively collected.
           Cost-benefit and cost-effectiveness analyses is conducted alongside the EVINCI-study
           clinical trial.
    
  