
    
      Uric acid (UA) is a terminal product of purine metabolism with strong antioxidant properties.
      UA has sizeable concentrations in biologic fluids only in humans and primates because they
      have a non-functional mutation of the enzyme uricase that, in other animals, transforms UA to
      allantoin. It has been hypothesized that this mutation has emerged evolutionarily because
      through this mechanism, humans can counteract the excessive oxidative stress that occurs in
      many critical pathologic conditions. Partially in contrast with this theory, high levels of
      UA have been associated with a number of negative health outcomes, including cardiovascular
      as well as all-cause mortality. Although it is possible that the UA elevation is merely a
      marker of critical health because it is an inducible antioxidant, researchers have questioned
      whether UA has beneficial or detrimental effect on health status. For example, we recently
      demonstrated that higher UA levels are cross-sectionally associated with higher levels of
      pro-inflammatory markers, and predict the increase in inflammatory markers over a 3-year
      follow-up. Understanding whether UA exerts a protective or detrimental effect on health is
      important in deciding whether mild hyperuricemia should or should not be aggressively
      treated.

      Unfortunately, observational studies cannot fully address this question. In fact, we cannot
      exclude that the cross-sectional and longitudinal association between UA, inflammatory
      markers and negative health outcomes, may simply reflect the fact that UA is an inducible
      antioxidant that is produced in response to increasing oxidative stress. To verify the
      hypothesis that UA activates inflammation, we plan to conduct two complementary randomized
      controlled trials, each one including 10 treated and 10 control subjects. In the first
      trials, subjects with low UA will be administered 500 mg of UA intravenously. In the second
      trials, subjects with moderately elevated UA will be administered a single acute dose of
      Rasburicase. Then inflammatory markers will be measured at multiple points in time, for a
      total of 32 hours. We hypothesize that an acute increase in the circulating levels of UA will
      be followed by increasing levels of inflammatory markers. At the same time, an acute
      reduction of UA levels will be followed by a progressive reduction of inflammatory markers.
      This study should provide information that will help clinicians to decide whether to or not
      to treat mild hyperuricemia.
    
  