
    
      Despite its demonstrated efficacy in treating selected patients with acute respiratory
      failure, the application of NPPV is still plagued by a substantial failure rate, ranging from
      below 10% to above 40%. Mask intolerance ranks as one of the most common causes of failure.
      This is related to ill-fitting masks, mask discomfort (despite a properly fitted mask),
      excessively tightened straps, excessive air leaks around the mask or through the mouth, and
      claustrophobia.

      The most commonly used masks in the acute care setting are either oronasal masks that cover
      the nose and mouth, or nasal masks that cover the nose alone. Both mask types usually consist
      of clear plastic dome-shaped mask with a soft silicon gasket to create an air seal with the
      skin. While this approach is usually successful, it may lead to patient discomfort and/or an
      air leak secondary to the difficulty in creating an effective seal over the bridge of the
      nose and over mobile structures such as the mandible. The Total Face Mask ™ (Respironics,
      Inc., Pittsburgh, PA) uses a different approach to avoid some of these limitations.
      Considerably larger than a standard oronasal mask, it covers the entire face and creates an
      air seal using a silicon gasket around the parameter of the face. In this way, gasket
      pressure is more evenly distributed, and discomfort over the bridge of the nose or chin is
      eliminated, and air leaking reduced. In addition, because one mask size fits virtually all
      patients, the Total Face Mask ™ facilitates the fitting process and permits more rapid
      initiation of ventilatory assistance. Clinical experience to date suggests that
      claustrophobia is not a common problem with the Total Face Mask ™ despite its size, and that
      its contribution to dead space is comparable to that of most oronasal masks.

      The following protocol aims to compare use of the Total Face Mask ™ to the Comfort Full
      oronasal mask (also by Respironics, Inc., Pittsburgh, PA)or RT040 oronasal mask
      (Fisher&Paykel Inc., Wellington, NZ) in the acute care setting for patients meeting standard
      indications for NPPV.
    
  