
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the feasibility of daily olaparib given in the neoadjuvant setting in women
      with primary advanced high grade non-mucinous epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary
      peritoneal cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Estimate efficacy of olaparib given in the neoadjuvant setting using response rate (by
      Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors [RECIST] in subjects with measurable disease).

      II. Estimate proportion of subjects able to proceed immediately to interval tumor reductive
      surgery (without chemotherapy).

      III. Determine progression-free survival (PFS). IV. Determine complete pathologic response
      rate at the time of surgery. V. Determine the toxicity of daily olaparib given in the
      neoadjuvant setting. VI. Evaluate the toxicity of chemotherapy given after neoadjuvant
      olaparib. VII. Measure longitudinal symptom burden of study subjects treated with neoadjuvant
      olaparib and chemotherapy after olaparib.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Explore deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) copy number and level of ribonucleic acid (RNA) and
      protein expression in homologous recombination-related pathways before and after treatment
      with olaparib in women with primary advanced high grade non-mucinous epithelial ovarian,
      fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer.

      II. Correlate molecular results to clinical endpoints including response and survival.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats every
      28 days for up to 2 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.
      After treatment, patients either undergo surgery then receive standard chemotherapy for up to
      4 cycles or receive standard chemotherapy within 14 days for up to 4 cycles then undergo
      surgery in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity at the discretion of
      the treating physician.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days.
    
  