
    
      Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the leading causes of cancer related death
      worldwide, and its incidence continues to rise even in the Europe and the United States.
      Recent advancements in early diagnosis and treatment modalities have significantly improved
      survival in HCC patients, but, only a small portion of them can receive curative treatments.
      Treatment decision making in HCC is guided by tumor stage, which can be also affected by
      tumor status at presentation.Thus, intrahepatic tumor status can be pivotal for treatment
      decision making and for determining prognosis in HCC patients, especially in possible
      candidates for curative treatment.

      The current AASLD guideline recommends that HCC patients with typical HCC ≥1 cm by liver
      dynamic computed tomography (CT) do not require further investigation to confirm the presence
      of HCC, and that appropriate treatment can be initiated based on tumor stage. However, other
      intrahepatic HCC lesion which is not detected by liver dynamic CT can be additionally
      detected only by Primovist-enhanced MRI.Although few studies have evaluated the usefulness of
      Primovist-enhanced MRI in HCC patients,most of these studies have been limited by the lack of
      an evaluation of shift in HCC stage and by the inclusion of patients with suspicious
      intrahepatic HCC lesions that had been already detected by liver dynamic CT. Furthermore,
      given the poor prognosis of HCC patients with recurrence after curative treatments such as
      liver transplantation, surgical resection, or radiofrequency ablation (RFA),accurate staging
      workup is essential for intrahepatic HCC, especially in patients with a very early or early
      Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) staged HCC. To date, however, no evidence based
      recommendations have been made regarding the benefit of add-on examination of
      Primovist-enhanced MRI during initial staging workups in HCC patients who are candidates for
      curative treatment after diagnosis by liver dynamic CT.

      In this prospective multicenter study, therefore, we will assess the usefulness of
      Primovist-enhanced MRI during the initial staging workups of HCC patients with very early or
      early stage disease, but with no suspicious intrahepatic HCC lesions by liver dynamic CT. We
      will examine whether Primovist-enhanced MRI could provide additional information on BCLC
      stage, by directly comparing to liver dynamic CT in these patients. Furthermore, we assess
      whether add-on Primovist-enhanced MRI after a diagnosis of HCC by liver dynamic CT could aid
      treatment decision making in these patients.
    
  