
    
      Rationale: Pivanex is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that induces tumor differentiation
      and/or apoptosis. Pivanex has been well tolerated in clinical trials and has shown
      preliminary evidence of efficacy in patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Docetaxel is an
      approved drug for second-line treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Preclinical studies
      indicate that the combination of Pivanex and docetaxel is synergistic.

      Purpose: This open-label randomized trial will evaluate whether combination therapy with
      Pivanex and docetaxel provides clinical benefit over docetaxel alone in patients with
      chemotherapy resistant non-small cell lung cancer.

      Objectives:

        -  Compare the survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer treated with
           combination therapy with Pivanex and docetaxel vs. docetaxel alone

        -  Compare the time to disease progression, tumor responses, and safety profile of patients
           with non-small cell lung cancer treated with combination therapy with Pivanex and
           docetaxel vs. docetaxel alone

      Outline: This is a randomized, open-label, multicenter study in patients with non-small cell
      lung cancer who have previously been treated with no more than one prior platinum containing
      chemotherapy regimen. Patients are stratified by ECOG performance status (0-1 vs. 2),
      response to prior platinum based chemotherapy (progression vs. CR/PR/SD) and prior taxane
      therapy (yes vs. no). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm A: Patients receive the combination of Pivanex intravenously on Days 1-3 and
           docetaxel intravenously on Day 4. Treatment repeats every 21 days until disease
           progression or treatment withdrawal.

        -  Arm B: Patients receive docetaxel intravenously on Day 1. Treatment repeats every 21
           days until disease progression or treatment withdrawal.
    
  