
    
      Ischemic heart disease is worldwide the single most frequent cause of death. The number of
      patients surviving acute myocardial injury is increasing due to improved acute treatment.
      However, after the initial repair, the tissue undergoes a remodeling phase to compensate for
      the damaged area. This re-modeling phase can change the structure end geometry of the heart
      resulting in lower ejection fraction, leading to cardiac dysfunction, which eventually leads
      to heart failure. Ischemic heart disease is most commently caused by arteriosclerosis of the
      coronary artery.

      If chronic ischemic heart disease is left untreated, it will lead to symptoms to the patient.
      These symptons occur when the myocardiel oxygen demand exceeds the oxygen provided, due to
      coronary occlusion.

      If the heart suffers from ischemia, the tissue reacts strongly to the hypoxia. The body will
      as a compensatory mechanism create new vessel to provide the tissue with oxygen. This is
      known as the biological process of angiogenesis. This complex process involves different
      angiogenic and pro-fibrotic transcription factors that initiate the restoration of
      capillaries by sprouting from the existing endothelial cells in response to hypoxia.

      Integrin αvβ3 is a transmembrane cell surface receptor that is markedly upregulated in states
      of angiogenesis. It facilitates migration and proliferation and thereby allowing cells to
      respond to extracellular environment. Integrin αvβ3 is thus a key player in the angiogenic
      process. The integrin αvβ3 has a binding site for an RGD peptide (Arg-Gly-Asp motif) and this
      can be targeted by PET tracers.

      RGD-based PET tracers have been shown to accumulate at the site of myocardial necrosis in
      both human and animal studies. The uptake before interventions may correlate to recovery of
      cardiac function and thus serve as a prognostic marker after intervention.
    
  