
    
      Psychopharmacological modulation of the catecholaminergic system can enhance some aspects of
      cognitive function. For example, COMT inhibitors can slightly improve working
      memory/executive function. Similarly, modafinil, a catecholaminergic agonist that increases
      extracellular dopamine in the prefrontal cortex was also shown to improve delay-dependent
      working memory. Differences in the response between individuals might be related to a number
      of factors, including variations in the genes. The recent finding that a polymorphism in the
      catechol-o-methyl-transferase (COMT) gene, which produces a 4 fold change in enzyme activity,
      accounts for 4% of the variance in performance of working memory tasks in humans suggest that
      COMT genotype may predict response to COMT inhibitors or to other agonists that increase
      catecholaminergic function in the frontal cortex.

      In the present investigation our goal is to examine, in normal controls and patients with
      schizophrenia, the effect of modafinil, a drug that increases DA output in the frontal
      cortex, on cognitive function and brain physiology. We predict that both normal controls and
      patients with schizophrenia with the val/val genotype will have a significant improvement in
      working memory compared with individuals possessing other genotypes. Furthermore, in
      conjunction with other NIMH imaging protocols, we predict that modafinil will produce a
      similar genotype-dependent effect on the neurophysiological correlates related to working
      memory assayed with fMRI. The present protocol will provide new insights on the importance of
      this genetic polymorphism in the regulation of aminergic-controlled cognitive function in
      normal individuals. Furthermore, this protocol will test whether modafinil offers a new
      treatment -based on genotype - for cognitive impairment in schizophrenia. The FDA granted a
      waiver for the use of Modafinil in this study.
    
  