
    
      Background:

      Pressure ulcers are a serious, costly, and life-long complication of spinal cord injury
      (SCI). Pressure ulcer prevalence has been estimated at between 17 and 33% among persons with
      SCI residing in the community. Epidemiological studies have found that 36-50% of all persons
      with SCI who develop pressure ulcers will develop a recurrence within the first year after
      initial healing (Carlson et al., 1992; Fuhrer et al., 1993; Goldstein, 1998; Niazi et al.,
      1997; Salzberg et al. 1998). Recurrence rates have ranged from 21% to 79%, regardless of
      treatment (Schryvers et al., 2000; Goodman et al., 1999; Niazi et al., 1997). Pressure ulcer
      treatment is expensive. Surgical costs associated with pressure ulcer treatment can exceed
      $70,000 per case (Braun et al., 1992). VA administrative (National Patient Care Database,
      NPCD) data indicate that 41% of inpatient days in the SCI population are accounted for by
      either primary or secondary diagnoses of pressure ulcers or 23% of SCI inpatient days if
      restricted to primary diagnoses of pressure ulcers. Pressure ulcer recurrence has been
      associated with many factors including previous pressure ulcer surgery (Niazi et al., 1997).
      Although little data exist describing the factors associated with recurrence following
      surgery, some investigators reported recurrence rates of 11%-29% in cases with post-operative
      complications and 6% to 61% in cases without post-operative complications (Mandrekas &
      Mastorakos, 1992; Relander & Palmer, 1988; Disa et al., 1992). In a retrospective study of 48
      veterans with SCI, investigators reported a 79% recurrence rate following surgery (Goodman et
      al., 1999).

      Objectives:

      The purpose of this project was to identify effective interventions for reducing recurrent
      pressure ulcers, a severe costly complication in veterans with SCI. The effect of an
      educational and structured telephone counseling follow-up program on prevention and health
      care utilization were being evaluated. Hypotheses included the following: 1) After discharge
      from the hospital for treatment of a severe healed pelvic pressure ulcer, patients receiving
      the education and structured telephone counseling intervention would be significantly less
      likely to develop a new or recurrent severe (e.g., Stage III or IV), pelvic (defined for this
      study as occurring in the sacrum, coccyx, trochanter, or ischium) pressure ulcer than those
      receiving customary care. 2) Admissions and inpatient days for severe pelvic pressure ulcers
      will be significantly lower for veterans receiving the education and structured telephone
      counseling intervention when compared to those receiving customary care.

      Methods:

      Veterans admitted to 6 VA SCI Centers for medical and/or surgical treatment of a Stage III or
      IV pelvic pressure ulcer (sacrum, coccyx, trochanter or ischium) were randomly assigned to
      (1) an Intervention Group consisting of education plus structured telephone counseling
      follow-up or (2) a Customary Care (Control) group. Intervention Group subjects received a
      cognitive behavioral intervention based on the Trans-theoretical Stages of Change Model,
      which is designed to help individuals identify ways of improving health behaviors. On
      admission, interviewers collected information on demographics, health status/well being,
      locus of control, pressure ulcer knowledge, readiness-to-change, and health
      beliefs/practices. Some of these measures were re-administered prior to randomization and at
      9 and 18 months post-discharge. Health care utilization was monitored for all participants
      for the length of the study. The primary outcome (dependent) variables were (1) the
      occurrence or non-occurrence of another pelvic pressure ulcer within 18 months of discharge
      following healing and, (2) for individuals who develop pressure ulcers during the study
      period, time to recurrence. Intervention Group participants were expected to have fewer
      pressure ulcer-related admissions and, if admitted, a shorter hospital stay. Secondary
      outcomes included health care utilization, pressure ulcer prevention knowledge, medical and
      psychological health status, health beliefs and practices, and quality of life. Multi-variate
      logistic models are being used to examine factors associated with recurrence and to evaluate
      the impact of recurrence on health care utilization.

      Status:

      A total of 64 patients were randomized in this study, 33 to customary care and 31 to the
      intervention group. Most were male, white, married and had their SCI at the thoracic level
      resulting in paraplegia. Mean time to recurrence was 114.50 days for the total randomized
      subjects. All data from all 15 questionnaires are being analyzed and will be put into a
      manuscript for publication at a future time.
    
  