
    
      The study is a naturalistic study conducted by collecting data from in-patient units at Modum
      Bad (psychiatric hospital). The sample includes different patient groups with a variety of
      psychological disorders. Further, sample is gathered from units using different treatment
      approaches (short-term psychodynamic treatment, cognitive-behavioral treatment, metacognitive
      therapy, compassion-focused therapy, relational psychodynamic therapy, existential therapy
      and stabilizing trauma-therapy).

      The following specific research questions will be explored:

        1. The role of common factors:

             1. What are the relative influences of different common factors such as agreement on
                task and goals, treatment credibility and 'the real relationship', across
                treatments and diagnoses?

             2. Do some common factor variables stand out regarding ability to explain variance in
                outcome and across outcomes?

             3. Do measures of common factors have a consistent effect on outcome across treatment
                models and diagnoses, or does the explanatory value of common factors vary across
                diagnose and treatment model?

        2. The role of specific change mechanisms (affective, cognitive and meta-cognitive):

             1. To what extent do specific change mechanisms predict change in various outcome
                domains?

             2. Are these specific change mechanisms equally important predictors, or do they vary
                across treatment or diagnose?

        3. Are there interaction effects between common factors and specific factors across
           treatment models, patient diagnoses and outcome domain?

      Self-report data will be collected three times a week on mechanisms of change and symptoms,
      established by psychotherapy theory and research evidence as important for psychological
      change. The data collection consists of three different forms administered once per week on
      different days. The forms are separated by topic; symptoms, contextual factors, and change
      processes. The questions in the forms are selected from short instruments with good
      psychometric qualities. The data collection procedure has at present been tested on five
      patient cohorts with good results.
    
  