
    
      This is the first clinical trial to test the benefits of eating broccoli on pain and physical
      function in knee osteoarthritis (OA).

      Many fruits and vegetables in the normal human diet contain substances that may improve human
      health or disease. There is increasingly strong laboratory data that indicate that exposure
      to these substances at the levels found in the diet influence the way in which osteoarthritis
      develops. Sulforaphane (SFN) is a naturally occurring substance found in vegetables such as
      broccoli and is known to have helpful effects on cartilage cells. Sulforaphane derived from
      broccoli, has a potential role in limiting pain and cartilage destruction in OA.

      The investigators have shown that:

        -  SFN can stop inflammation in mice with OA

        -  SFN blocks the production of the enzymes which break down cartilage in OA, both in cell
           cultures and in pieces of cartilage

        -  SFN enters the joint in participants provided with a high broccoli diet ahead of a knee
           replacement and alters the types of proteins present in the joint fluid

      The investigators aim to discover for the first time in man, whether a broccoli-rich diet
      will improve pain and physical function in participants with knee osteoarthritis. The study
      will provide the much-needed preliminary data that will allow the investigators to design a
      clinical trial to prove that broccoli can be recommended as a helpful food for people with
      OA.

      The trial will compare broccoli soup (rich in SFN) with a soup, which does not contain
      broccoli (control), but looks and tastes the same. Sixty-four participants with moderate
      osteoarthritis will either have the broccoli or the control soup, chosen at random. The
      participants will eat the soup once-a-day, for 4 days-a-week for 3 months. The investigators
      will measure pain and physical function at the start of the trial, at 6 weeks and at 12 weeks
      and look at the changes in these. The investigators will also take blood samples and collect
      urine to measure SFN levels.
    
  