
    
      The leg ulcer is a frequent and recurrent chronic disease of the lower limb, causing an
      impairment in the quality of life of patients and at a significant cost to society. Medical
      compression is essential for the healing of a leg ulcer. However, the leg ulcer is often
      associated with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), the prevalence of which in this population
      varies depending on the detection method used and the stage of arterial disease. The
      association of a leg ulcer with PAD can occur two problems: the indication for compression
      and the validity of vascular explorations to detect arterial involvement and assess its
      severity.

      The first issue concerns the use of compression in the presence of an PAD, which is the
      subject of controversy. Indeed, compression can improve tissue perfusion by reducing edema,
      but it carries a potential risk of ischemia and worsening of the ulcer, which probably
      increases with the progressive stage of PAD. Thus, medical compression is sometimes
      contraindicated, but the PAD severity threshold setting the contraindication varies from one
      recommendation to another.

      The second problem concerns the validity of the detection and quantification methods of the
      PAD. Arterial involvement is probably underestimated by the clinic alone, in these patients
      whose mobility is sometimes reduced or who have trophic disorders of mixed origin, and the
      use of additional examinations (Doppler ultrasound, ankle or toe systolic pressures, TcPO2 or
      other vascular explorations) is necessary. There is no specific studies in the context of leg
      ulcers nevertheless hemodynamic measurements remain important to guide the indication (and
      the contraindication) for compression and the choice of the type of compression, suitable for
      each patient.

      It seems important to evaluate this management charge by a practice investigation, in real
      life. Thus, the aim of this study is an observation of the real-life survey type of vasculars
      specialists in France caring for patients with a leg ulcer for which compression treatment
      would be indicated and arterial disease of the lower limbs. This is a prospective cohort with
      inclusion of consecutive or pseudo-consecutive patients by vascular specialist. Patients will
      be followed to ulcer development and tolerance of compression during 6 months.
    
  