
    
      Maintenance therapy refers to systemic therapy that may be given for patients with advanced
      NSCLC after 4 to 6 cycles of first-line chemotherapy. However, patients are only candidates
      for maintenance therapy if they have responded to their previous treatment or have stable
      disease and their tumors have not progressed. Pemetrexed, docetaxel and gemcitabine have been
      approved for chemotherapy maintenance in the NCCN Guide. Chemotherapy maintenance can be
      partly extend patient's TTP, but the toxicity and the side effects of chemotherapy will
      decrease the QOL, and even lose the opportunity to receive subsequent therapy. Besides, high
      cost of chemotherapy will cause greater economic pressure on patients. Our preliminary
      studies have shown that traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) can prolong survival time and
      improve QOL, but high-level evidences are needed.

      The investigators perform a multicenter, randomized, double-blind controlled, prospective
      study in advanced non small cell lung cancer patients with stage Ⅲ～Ⅳ.Advanced NSCLC patients
      after first-line chemotherapy will choose maintenance therapy according to the patient's
      wishes, including targeted therapy maintenance, chemotherapy maintenance and maintenance of
      TCM therapy. Patients who choose chemotherapy maintenance are randomized over observational
      group (TCM granules plus chemotherapy maintenance),and control group (TCM placebo plus
      chemotherapy maintenance). The treatment should be continued until evidence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity, and after that regular follow-up will be arranged. The
      primary efficacy assessments are: PFS (progression-free survival）; Secondary efficacy
      assessments are: (1) OS(overall survival); (2) Objective response rate; (3)
      TTP（Time-to-Progression）; (4) QOL (Functional Assessment of Cancer therapy-lung, FACT-L4.0
      scales;Lung Cancer Symptom Scale,LCSS); (5)other efficacy assessments are: 1) TCM symptoms
      changes; 2) Toxicity, side effects and security of the treatments will be assessed at the
      same time.The investigators expect that integrated TCM combined with chemotherapy maintenance
      has a better efficacy on prolonging progression-free survival time, overall survival,
      improving QOL of patients than that of chemotherapy maintenance. Therefore our study can
      provide evidences for optimizing and promoting integrated TCM combined with Western Medicine
      treatment.
    
  