
    
      The aim of this study is to compare the effectiveness of a CNS-directed treatment program
      versus a standard medical and physiotherapy care program on outcomes in participants with
      Frozen Shoulder (FS). It will consist of a randomized double-blind clinical trial (both
      participants and evaluators). The sample will consist of subjects with primary or idiopathic
      FS.

      Once the sample is selected, participants will be randomly assigned to receive either a
      CNS-centered treatment program or a standard physiotherapy program. The CNS-centered
      treatment program will last for 10 weeks, conducted in 60-minute sessions on a weekly basis.
      In addition, participants in this group will complete a home treatment program for 30
      minutes, five times a week. On the other hand, subjects assigned to the standard
      physiotherapy group will receive a 10-session treatment program, such as the CNS-centered
      treatment group. This standard treatment will include one corticosteroid infiltration
      provided in the early acute stage followed by a multimodal physiotherapy program including
      analgesic modalities (e.g. TENS, cryotherapy) and exercise and manual therapy techniques
      addressing the specific mobility deficits of each patient. Physiotherapists will be
      instructed not to include interventions that were similar to those used in the group
      receiving the CNS-focused protocol (e.g. using mirrors or imagined movements) and to include
      a home program that involves a training load comparable to that in the other group. Adherence
      to both interventions will be monitored using an individual treatment diary where the time of
      day and duration of each clinic and home session will be recorded To evaluate the results of
      the interventions, the subjects will be assessed at the beginning, at the end of the
      treatment program (week 10) and at 3 and 6 months of follow-up.
    
  