
    
      Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that results in multiple hallmark
      symptoms, such as balance impairments, postural instability and muscular deficits. These
      symptoms, in combination with a deficient sensory-perceptual integration system, put
      individuals with PD at a higher risk of falls and fractures, compared to healthy older
      adults. With the expected rise in PD diagnosis, this will place an unprecedented burden on
      the Canadian healthcare system due to increased hospitalizations, surgeries, placement into
      long term care facilities, and rehabilitation. Improving symptom severity and delaying
      disease progression through rehabilitation strategies that improve balance and muscular
      deficits, can decrease falling risk in individuals with PD, potentially alleviating the
      projected burden on the healthcare system. For these reasons it is imperative to have the
      ability to directly measure the degree to which individuals with PD are at risk of
      experiencing falls through objective techniques.

      Purpose: Therefore the purpose of this study is to examine the effects of two different forms
      of resistance training (RT) to improve the muscular deficits experienced, as well to improve
      the balance impairments experienced as it has been suggested that RT is able to do this not
      only in healthy older adults but in those with PD as well. The two RT programs that will be
      investigated are a conventional strength training (ST) program and a high velocity strength
      training, known as power training (PT) program.

      Objective/Aim: The objective of this study is to identify if ST or PT is a more effective
      rehabilitation program to improving muscle strength and power, balance measures and reducing
      the risk of falls. Due to the nature of the PT intervention it is hypothesized that these
      individuals will experience the greatest improvements in outcome measures.

      Methods/Design: This study will be a double blind randomized controlled trial. Participants
      will be blinded to group allocation except for the control group, however those in the
      interventional group will only be informed that they are participating in a RT program. The
      primary investigator will only collect measures that are considered to be objective at follow
      up time points. Pre-intervention measures will all be collected prior to randomization into
      group allocations. The assessor of disease severity will also be blinded to group allocation.

      Participants will be randomized to one of three groups: i) a control group (to account for
      normal disease progression for the duration of the intervention); ii) ST group and iii) PT
      group.

      The intervention will be a total of 12 weeks long, where participants will come in two days
      per week for an hour long session each day, for a total of 24 session.

      Participants randomized to the ST group will complete three sets of 8-10 repetitions at 70%
      of their one repetition maximum (1-RM), as determined during their pre-test. Those randomized
      to the PT group will complete three sets of 12-15 repetitions at 40% of their 1-RM, as
      determined during their pre-test. Both programs involve individualized exercise prescriptions
      based on the results of their predicted 1-RM. This program will be designed by a Canadian
      Society for Exercise Physiology Certified Exercise Physiologist, who has the knowledge and
      ability to safely test and prescribe exercise to individuals with chronic conditions. Both
      programs will be progressive in nature, in that as each individual is able to complete the
      last set, for two consecutive training sessions at the higher end of the range of repetitions
      (i.e. for the ST group 10 or more repetitions), the next session their weight will be
      increased by 5%. Upon completion participants will complete all outcome measures again. These
      measures will be completed during a wash out period at 3 months and 6 months post
      intervention to investigate the potential long term effects of these rehabilitation programs,
      and if either is more advantageous in the long term.
    
  