
    
      This study was conducted in two large, academic long-term care facilities located in
      Connecticut and Ontario, Canada. The two facilities have a combined total of 1,229 beds.
      Patients residing in areas of the facilities related to short-term care (e.g., subacute care,
      hospital-level care, or rehabilitation) were not included in the study population.

      Each of the facilities had an existing computerized provider order entry system without a
      computer-based clinical decision support system. At the time of the study, approximately 90%
      of new medication orders were entered using the system. All medication prescribing was
      performed by contracted staff; in one of the study facilities this included 27 physicians,
      nurse practitioners, and physicians' assistants. In the other facility, medication
      prescribing was performed by 10 physicians.

      Across the two long-term care facilities, 26 resident care units, each with existing computer
      provider order entry, were randomized to having a clinical decision support system
      (intervention units) or not (control units). Bed size of the resident care units ranged from
      20 to 60 beds. An effort was made to match the units according to bed size and general
      characteristics of the residents on the units. We block randomized within categories
      including: dementia units, units where mental health and behavioral problems were common
      among the residents, units where the residents had complex medical needs, and units where the
      residents had profound deficits in physical function.

      On intervention units, prescribers ordering drugs were presented with alerts in the form of
      warning messages; these alerts were not displayed to prescribers when ordering medications
      for residents of control units. Although efforts were initially made to limit crossover of
      prescribers between intervention and control units, over the duration of the study, there
      were providers working simultaneously on both types of units, both on a temporary (coverage)
      basis and also permanently.

      The clinical decision support system was designed by a team of geriatricians, pharmacists,
      health services researchers, and information system specialists; the process of developing
      the clinical decision support system and its components has been described previously. The
      design principles were: 1) messages should be evidence-based; 2) messages should be perceived
      as useful and informative by practitioners; and 3) the system should have only modest impact
      on the time required for the practitioner to complete an order. The team reviewed the types
      of preventable adverse drug events based on previous research, as well as widely accepted
      published criteria for suboptimal prescribing in the elderly available at the time of this
      study. We also reviewed all serious drug-drug interactions from standard pharmaceutical drug
      interaction databases and included alerts for a limited number of more than 600 potentially
      serious interactions that were reviewed. Reasons for exclusion of alerts for specific drug
      interactions included that the medications were not on formulary at the facility, or that the
      medications were generally never used in elderly patients or in the long-term care setting.

      The clinical decision support system was designed to provide alerts in response to selected
      drug orders whenever the order: 1) involved selected high-severity drug interactions; 2) was
      for a patient with selected abnormal lab test results that suggested a possible danger
      related to use of the ordered medication; 3) could lead to adverse effects that require
      special monitoring in order to identify them early; 4) related to a medication that should be
      ordered within certain dose ranges to reduce the risk of adverse effects in elderly patients;
      or 5) should be accompanied by prophylactic measures to proactively address situations where
      there was a high likelihood of adverse drug effects (e.g., constipation with opioid use).
      Alerts included specific instructions for laboratory monitoring, as well as less explicit
      recommendations for reconsidering drug orders and monitoring for possible side effects. A
      summary of the alerts is provided in the appendix.

      The computerized provider order entry system in place at the time of the clinical decision
      support system implementation was capable of linking laboratory test orders and results and
      current drug orders in real-time. However, the system had several important limitations, as
      described previously. It was not capable of combining dose and strength information to
      determine the total daily dose associated with a drug order; therefore, some alerts displayed
      when they may not have been necessary (e.g., the medication order was already within the
      recommended dose range). The underlying software was not capable of distinguishing multiple
      orders for the same drug in different forms or strengths, or orders that had been cancelled
      and re-ordered within the same prescribing session. These orders were interpreted as multiple
      orders for drugs in the same category and triggered a number of inappropriate alerts about
      drug interactions. For example, an order for erythromycin that the prescriber initiated,
      cancelled, and then re-ordered within the same ordering session would be interpreted as an
      interaction signaling the need for an alert for increased risk of QT prolongation. Despite
      the fact that some triggers were likely to produce a substantial number of these unnecessary
      alerts, we opted to include them in the system if the potential impact of the type of drug
      interaction in question was considered clinically important.

      For residents on the intervention units, the alerts were displayed in a pop-up box to
      prescribers in real-time when a drug order was entered. The pop-up boxes were informational;
      they did not require specific actions from the prescriber and did not produce or revise
      orders automatically. On the control units, the alerts were not displayed to the prescribers.

      Our study was limited to adverse drug events occurring in the long-term care setting.
      Drug-related incidents were identified through review of medical records in monthly segments
      performed by trained pharmacist investigators for each eligible long-term care facility
      resident. These investigators, who were not aware of whether the resident was located on an
      intervention or a control unit, examined the records for possible drug-related incidents,
      such as new symptoms or events that might represent an adverse drug event, changes in
      medication regimens (including acute discontinuations or initiations of medications that
      might be used to treat a drug-induced event), abnormal laboratory values, and all emergency
      room transfers and hospitalizations. In addition to periodic reviews, medical records were
      specially targeted for review based on information derived from selected computer-generated
      signals including abnormal serum drug levels, abnormal laboratory results, and the use of
      medications considered to be antidotes for adverse drug effects. Administrative incident
      reports generated within each participating facility were also reviewed for any indication of
      a drug-related incident.

      The primary outcome of the study was an adverse drug event, defined as an injury resulting
      from the use of a drug. This definition is consistent with definitions used in previous
      studies. Adverse drug events may have resulted from medication errors (e.g., errors in
      ordering, dispensing, administration, and monitoring) or from adverse drug reactions in which
      there was no error.

      As described previously, the between-pharmacist investigator reliability for identifying
      relevant incidents in medical records was assessed through independent review of the same 10
      medical records by each of the two pharmacists. Each identified the same incident in the 10
      medical records; one pharmacist identified an additional incident in one record that had not
      been pre-specified as an incident warranting review.

      The possible drug-related incidents were presented by a pharmacist investigator to pairs of
      physician-reviewers (JHG, JJ, PR, LRH, and CB). These physician-reviewers independently
      classified incidents using structured implicit review according to the following criteria:
      whether an adverse drug event was present, the severity of the event, and whether the event
      was preventable. In determining whether an adverse drug event had occurred, the
      physician-reviewers considered the temporal relation between the drug exposure and the event,
      as well as whether the event reflected a known effect of the drug. This structured implicit
      review process has been used in numerous prior studies relating to adverse drug events across
      various clinical settings. Physician reviewers were not aware of whether a drug-related
      incident being reviewed had occurred in a resident of an intervention or a control unit.

      The severity of adverse events was categorized as less serious, serious, life-threatening, or
      fatal. Adverse drug events categorized as less serious included a non-urticarial skin rash, a
      fall without associated fracture, hemorrhage not requiring transfusion or hospitalization,
      and oversedation. Examples of events categorized as serious included urticaria, falls with
      associated fracture, hemorrhage requiring transfusion or hospitalization but without
      hypotension, and delirium. Examples of life-threatening events include hemorrhage with
      associated hypotension, hypoglycemic encephalopathy, and acute renal failure. Adverse drug
      events were considered to be preventable if they were judged to be due to an error and were
      preventable by any means available and not just in relation to the clinical decision support
      system. For the purpose of the analysis of the effect of the intervention, any event
      characterized as serious or greater in severity, was categorized as more severe. All other
      events were considered less severe.

      Preventability was categorized as preventable, probably preventable, probably not
      preventable, or definitely not preventable; results were collapsed into preventable
      (preventable and probably preventable) and nonpreventable (probably not preventable and
      definitely not preventable) categories in the analysis.

      When the physician-reviewers disagreed on the classification of an incident regarding the
      presence of an adverse drug event, its severity, or its preventability, they met and reached
      consensus; consensus was reached in all instances where there was initial disagreement.
    
  