
    
      1. Cystoid macular edema is a common complication of uveitic intraocular inflammatory
           diseases and is characterized by intraretinal edema involving the outer plexiform layer.
           Intraocular inflammation or uveitis may be associated with non infectious or infectious
           etiologies. The early symptoms of CME include a decrease or blurry central vision. With
           long standing CME there is a substantial risk of photoreceptor degeneration and ensuing
           long term decrease in the quality and level of visual acuity (VA). Furthermore it has
           been shown that in patients with uveitis, the morphologic features of macular edema and
           macular thickness correlated with final VA. Current therapeutic interventions have had
           at best modest results in patients with CME who have had decreased VA. This may the case
           with systemic interventions also.

        2. Vascular endothelial growth factor is a very strong inducer of blood vessel permeability
           and has been linked to the ocular manifestations of uveitis including CME by experienced
           researchers both in experimental and clinical settings. In animal tests, VEGF has been
           shown to be 50,000 times more potent than histamine, the molecule commonly associated
           with blood vessel leakage related to allergies. Also in animal tests, it has been shown
           that VEGF is required for the blood vessel permeability associated with neovascular AMD
           and diabetic retinopathy that have been shown to have an inflammatory component. In
           addition to its anti-angiogenic property of inhibiting abnormal blood vessel growth,
           pegaptanib has been shown in animal tests to inhibit blood vessels from leaking into the
           retina. Uveitis has been shown to be associated with ocular neovascularization both
           clinically and well as in the clinical studies. Thus, by preventing blood vessel leakage
           as well as abnormal blood vessel growth pegaptanib may be a viable approach for the
           treatment of CME. Although pegaptanib use has been associated with mild transient
           anterior segment inflammation CME itself has not been linked to its use. Besides,
           pegaptanib has been demonstrated to effect a sustainable decrease the macular edema in
           maculopathies, both age related and diabetic.

        3. There is currently a need for considering alternative forms of local (ocular) therapy
           for CME to triamcinolone (sub tenon and intraocular). The serious adverse effects with
           intraocular corticosteroid use are well documented and include cataracts (nuclear and
           subcapsular), glaucoma, endophthalmitis (may be significantly higher than pegaptanib in
           patients who are treated exactly as per protocol) as well as sterile inflammatory
           reactions.
    
  