
    
      Intravenous fluid is usually needed (and sometime in important amount) to increase
      intravascular volume during cardiac surgery and to prime the cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)
      circuit. In this context, albumin has been frequently used as the ideal fluid choice.
      Although albumin has the disadvantage to be much more expensive than crystalloids and not to
      be free from immunological reactions, this solution provides a more sustained volume effect
      that a similar volume of crystalloid which may result in smaller volumes of resuscitation
      fluid being administered. It also better preserves the on-bypass oncotic pressure and reduce
      extravascular lung water. These considerations are important especially during pulmonary
      thromboendarterectomy surgery (PTE), a high-risk procedure which aims to resect
      thromboembolic material. Reperfusion lung injury (RLI) and/or acute respiratory distress
      syndrome (ARDS), are the most encountered postoperative pulmonary complications and are
      significant risks factors of morbi-mortality. As data suggest that RLI and ARDS are
      high-permeability phenomenon, cautious is required to avoid fluid accumulation/overload
      during this complex procedure. In addition, this surgical procedure has a relatively high CPB
      duration which can induce a systemic inflammatory response syndrome, damage the endothelial
      glycocalyx and vascular barrier where crystalloids may extravagates and accumulates in the
      lungs. On the contrary, albumin solution used during the priming of CPB can favorably
      preserve oncotic pressure, have a protective effect on endothelial glycocalyx and better
      maintain vascular barrier competence, preventing interstitial edema and potential pulmonary
      complications.

      In March 2019, the investigators initiated a new priming fluid policy strategy aiming at
      replacing our traditional pure crystalloid fluid administration for an albumin one in order
      to decrease the relatively high-rate of pulmonary complications observed in the investigators
      patients.

      The objective of this propensity-matched study was to evaluate the effectiveness of this
      intervention
    
  