
    
      MAIN STUDY Follow-up visit No. 4 is currently being scheduled, and is planned between 2011
      and 2016.

      Objectives:

        -  Conduct a fourth visit, in 2011-2016, enabling a follow-up at 17 years of the cohort
           population.

        -  Enrich the sample collection with new biobanks and clinical phenotyping of the cohort by
           conducting selected specific investigations and supported by specific scientific
           hypotheses and protocols

        -  Evaluate the long-term (follow-up, monitoring) of clinical, biological, morphological
           data by analyzing:

             -  The influence of aging (average age of parents in 1993: 45 years and in 2010-2012:
                62 years).

             -  The incidence and changes in prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors comprising
                the metabolic syndrome (MS), and their familial segregation, since as early as the
                second visit, in some one hundred families, at least one family member presented a
                MS according the definition of the NCEP-ATPIII. Approximately 20% of adults had
                high blood pressure (hypertension), and 50% had a body mass index above 25 kg/m2.

             -  The genetic and environmental determinants, through a multifaceted approach
                including familial segregation and candidate genes, the progression of
                cardiovascular risk and the incidence of cardiovascular diseases (vascular and
                coronary diseases, heart failure).

      Methodology, Organization:

      All Cohort members will be contacted to participate in this fourth visit. The data collected
      will be identical to those collected during the previous visits. However, they will be
      enriched with new clinical phenotyping conducted at the CIC (principal investigator Prof.
      Zannad): collection of blood and urine samples (DNA, RNA, lymphocytic extracts, plasma
      biobank, urology biobank), and morphological investigations (electrocardiogram,
      echocardiography, carotid echotracking, arterial stiffness, systolic pressure index,
      abdominal aortic ultrasound). Based on previous participation rates, the recruitment of 2,000
      participants (500 families) is possible.

      Expected Results:

      This reconvening, for the follow-up at 17 years of the Stanislas Cohort, unique in its
      familial nature and having already contributed in a very significant manner in terms of
      knowledge generated, will enable in addition to the long-term continuation of its initial
      objectives (gene-environment interactions and cardiovascular diseases : Sophie
      Visvikis-Siest) to identify more specifically the natural history of the evolution of
      cardiovascular risk factors, including metabolic syndrome and its components as well as the
      incidence and transition mechanisms toward common cardiovascular diseases, notably vascular
      and coronary diseases and heart failure.

      ANCILLARY STUDY

      Detailed description of the ESCIF ancillary study - Dr. BONNEMAINS :

      Objectives :

        -  to compare cardiac functional indices measured in MRI with the GRICS technique with
           equivalent indices measured with echocardiography.

        -  to assess inter-observer reproducibility of echography and MRI.

      Organization :

      76 subjects from the Stanislas cohort will be included prospectively in two groups according
      to the echocardiographic strains and tissue Doppler velocities acquired during
      echocardiography : 38 subjects with normal indices, and 38 with altered indices. Each subject
      will be proposed an MRI examination with the GRICS technique the same day to assess the same
      indices.

      Study design = interventional: MRI. Prospective Number of groups: 2 Enrollment: 76 Last
      inclusion in the ESCIF study : 23/09/2014

      SUBSTUDY : PHRC I 2013 - BioSe-PreIC - Dr HUTTIN : diagnostic performance of circulating
      biomarkers in early screening of heart failure Design : non interventionnal study

      Main objective : Determine the contribution, in addition (ontop of ) of the subject's
      clinical characteristics, of circulating biomarkers assays (Gal-3, PIIINP, ST2) in a general
      population to screen early stages of heart failure (Stage B: asymptomatic patients with
      structural abnormalities) validated by trans-thoracic echocardiography (diastolic function
      and left ventricular mass)

      Inclusion crieria :

      Subjects participating to the 4th visit of the STANISLAS cohort

      Subjets over 40 years old

      Non-inclusion criteria :

      Blood sample or echocardiography unavailable

      Known cardiopathy

      Modarate to severe sympptoms linked to heart failure

      Présence of an abnormal diastolic function (E/Ea ratio above 8) and/or left ventricular
      hypertrophy (left ventricular mass above 125 g/m² for men and 110 g/m² for women).
    
  