
    
      In general, hypocaloric plans for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus are consumed in five
      or six small meals per day. Eating more often is presumed to reduce hunger and thus energy
      consumption. However, the effects of meal frequency on human health and longevity are
      unclear.

      Therefore, this study will be carried out in which the differences in the impact of
      nutritional therapy between a hypocaloric conventional 6 times meal versus a 3-meal
      low-calorie plan will be demonstrated.

      The procedures will be as follows:

      50 patients with DM2 from the Institute's Diabetes Clinic who are overweight or obese and
      between 40 and 70 years of age and who are found to have oral hypoglycemic agents, HbA1c less
      than 9% and less than 10 years old will be recruited of evolution.

      Clinical evaluation:

      A complete medical history and physical examination will be performed in order to confirm the
      presence of the inclusion criteria and rule out the presence of exclusion criteria. An
      anthropometric and body composition assessment (waist and hip circumference, height, weight
      and percentage of fat) as well as blood pressure measurement will be made. A history of
      coronary heart disease, menopausal status and use of hormone therapy, smoking, alcohol
      consumption and physical activity (through a questionnaire of physical activity validated in
      the Mexican population) will be conducted.

      Nutritional assessment:

      Patients will be divided into 2 groups without any distinction.

      The first group of 25 patients will undergo a caloric restriction with a caloric restriction
      of 15% of their usual daily intake with a 40% macronutrient distribution in Carbohydrates,
      20% Protein and 40% Lipids in three times of (TC6) over a period of 12 weeks in which the
      following variables will be measured: (Weight, Glucose Variability: Monitor, HbA1c, blood
      glucose, Lipid Profile, Oxidative stress, FGF-21, Blood Pressure and Hunger-Satiety Levels.)

      At the first visit, the clinical evaluation will be elaborated, which consists of a complete
      physical examination in which vital signs will be measured, neck and head examination,
      examination of the thorax and abdomen, exploration of upper and lower extremities. As well as
      a complete nutritional assessment that includes; Assessment of body composition using
      bioimpedance with body composition analyzer jawon iOi 353, Reminder of food consumption of
      72hrs to collect information on the diet of each patient. Based on the information collected
      will proceed to prescribe the individualized TC6 plan and will be given a 24/7 reminder
      format to be filled by the patient for a week, in addition to giving the indication to
      perform home glucose measurement once a day In random scheme.

      To evaluate attachment to the nutritional plan, the patient will be cited 15 days later to
      perform daily consumption assessment using the 24/7 reminder format filled out by the patient
      and a 72hrs reminder performed through an interview. Likewise, levels of Hunger-Satiety will
      be measured with the tables of the institute Joslin validated for Mexican population.

      If the patient adheres to the diet, blood samples will be taken for the measurement of the
      variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid Profile, Insulin, FGF-21) and after that place the Medtronic
      model Ipro2 continuous glucose monitor with In order to monitor the patient's blood glucose
      for 7 days.

      At the end of the 7 days, the patient will be asked to remove the sensor and re-evaluate
      dietary attachment.

      The TC6 plan will be continued for 6 weeks, and at the end of this period the patient will be
      recalled to re-perform blood samples to measure the variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid Profile,
      Insulin, FGF-21) Blood pressure and levels of Hunger-Satiety.

      The TC6 regimen will be continued for a further 6 weeks. At the end of the period the patient
      will be asked to re-perform blood samples to measure the variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid
      Profile, Insulin, FGF-21), Weight, Blood Pressure and Hunger-Satiety levels.

      The second group of 25 patients will undergo a caloric restriction with a caloric restriction
      of 15% of their usual daily intake, with a 40% macronutrient distribution in Carbohydrates,
      20% Protein and 40% Lipids in three times of (TC3) over a period of 12 weeks in which the
      following variables (Weight, Glucose Variability: Monitor, HbA1c, blood glucose, Lipid
      Profile, Oxidative, FGF-21, Blood Pressure and Hunger-Satiety levels are measured.) At the
      first visit, the clinical evaluation will be elaborated, which consists of a complete
      physical examination in which vital signs will be measured, neck and head examination,
      examination of the thorax and abdomen, exploration of upper and lower extremities. As well as
      a complete nutritional evaluation that includes, assessment of body composition using
      bioimpedance with jawon iOi 353 body composition analyzer, food consumption reminder of 72hrs
      to collect information on each patient's diet. Based on the information collected will
      proceed to prescribe the individualized TC3 plan and will be given a 24/7 reminder format to
      be filled by the patient for a week, in addition to giving the indication to perform home
      glucose measurement once a day in random scheme.

      To evaluate attachment to the nutritional plan, the patient will be cited 15 days later to
      perform daily consumption assessment using the 24/7 reminder format filled out by the patient
      and a 72hrs reminder performed through an interview. Likewise, levels of Hunger-Satiety will
      be measured with the tables of the institute Joslin validated for Mexican population.

      If the patient adheres to the diet, blood samples will be taken for the measurement of the
      variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid Profile, Insulin, FGF-21) and after that place the Medtronic
      model Ipro2 continuous glucose monitor with in order to monitor the patient's blood glucose
      for 7 days.

      At the end of the 7 days, the patient will be asked to remove the sensor and re-evaluate
      dietary attachment.

      The TC3 plan will be continued for 6 weeks, and at the end of this period the patient will be
      recalled to re-perform blood samples to measure the variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid Profile,
      Insulin, FGF-21) Blood pressure and levels of Hunger-Satiety. The TC3 regimen will be
      continued for a further 6 weeks. At the end of the period the patient will be asked to
      re-perform blood samples to measure the variables (HbA1C, Glucose, Lipid Profile, Insulin,
      FGF-21), Weight, Blood Pressure and Hunger-Satiety levels.
    
  