
    
      The purpose of this study is to explicitly and aggressively drive an optimal response to
      neuroplasticity- based cognitive remediation in schizophrenia in order to maximize treatment
      response. We will investigate factors that have generally been ignored in computer-based
      cognitive remediation programs-those related to social cognition-- and will delineate their
      relationship to motivation, functional outcome, and the neural substrates of reward
      anticipation and emotion processing. Current research indicates that, unless we fully
      understand and harness these factors, we will not achieve meaningful treatment gains for
      individuals with schizophrenia.

      Our specific aims are:

        1. To perform an RCT in which 100 schizophrenia subjects are assigned to either 60 hours of
           neuroplasticity- based computerized targeted cognitive training (TCT) that focuses
           exclusively on "cold cognition" (a program which trains early sensory processing,
           attention, working memory and cognitive control in auditory and visual domains), or to
           60 hours of training that combines the TCT program with 20 minutes per day of adaptive
           computerized social cognition training (SCT) exercises.

        2. To compare the outcomes of these two groups of subjects on measures of neurocognition,
           social cognition, motivation, and functional outcome.

        3. To assess subjects six months after the intervention to determine the durability of
           training effects.

        4. To identify changes in brain activation patterns in key neural regions as a result of
           TCT alone vs. TCT+SCT: during reward anticipation, and during emotion recognition.

      The timeliness of this approach is supported by recent evidence demonstrating only weak
      associations between traditional cognitive remediation approaches and functional outcome in
      schizophrenia, but a strong, direct relationship between social cognition and functional
      outcome. Thus we must now examine the clinical, functional, and neural effects of a
      well-designed state-of-the-art cognitive training program that combines neurocognition with
      social cognition training.
    
  