
    
      Care Pathways:

      Usual care: Participants will be treated for their heart failure symptoms as is usual at each
      participating institution. NTproBNP results will not be revealed to the care providers.

      NTproBNP levels of participants randomized to the biomarker guided discharge algorithm will
      be posted on the participant's medical records. The results will be used by the care
      providers for decision making according to the predetermined care pathway.

      Lower risk group: Participants who's admission NTproBNP is below 3,000 pg/ml will be placed
      into the lower risk group. Discharge planning will start within 24 hours of hospital
      admission. Symptoms will be treated aggressively. If the NTproBNP level drops to 1,500 pg/ml
      or below on Day 2-3, the participant will be discharged home. If the NTproBNP level does not
      drop to below 1,500 pg/ml, the participant will continue on treatment for another day or two
      and be discharged home when medically stabilized.

      Medium-higher risk group: Participants who's admission NTproBNP is 3,000 pg/ml or above will
      be placed into the medium-higher risk group. Symptoms will be treated aggressively. If the
      NTproBNP level drops to below 3,000 pg/ml on Day 2-3, the participant will follow the lower
      risk pathway until discharge. If the NTproBNP level remains above 3,000 pg/ml, aggressive
      treatment of symptoms will continue. Biomarkers will be repeated on Day 6-7. If the NTproBNP
      level has dropped by at least 30% from admission and the participant is medically stabilized,
      the participant will be discharged home. If the NTproBNP level has not dropped by at least
      30% from admission, treatment will continue until the participant is medically stabilized.
      This last group will be discharged home on telehealth with daily monitoring.

      All participants will complete a Quality of Life questionnaire at admission and at the 30 day
      post discharge follow up.
    
  