
    
      The investigators will conduct a non-interventional, observational cohort study to assess the
      visual outcome of patients who have completed one of three recent randomized controlled
      trials in Polypoidal Choroidal Vasculopathy (PCV) EVERESTII, PLANET, PCV Treat and Extend
      (T&E) study. After completion of the randomized controlled trails (2 years for EVEREST II and
      PLANET; 1 year for T&E study), patients will be released from clinical trial protocol. At
      approximately 6 years (2019-2024), patients will be contacted by research coordinators and
      invited to attend a follow-up examination.

      Study Design:

      Non-interventional, observational, cohort study

      Clinical coordinators will contact patients of:

        -  EVEREST II (2013-2015)

        -  PLANET (2014-2015)

        -  PCV T&E (2018-2019) at ~72 +/- 6 months after their initial baseline visits (2019-2024)
           Study Visits and Procedures Participants will only be expected to attend 1 evaluation
           clinic which will last approximately 3 hours

      Contact of prior trial participants Participants from prior randomized control trials
      (EVEREST II, PLANET and PCV T&E) will be contacted by phone and invited to attend 1
      post-trial evaluation clinic.

      Historical Information A history will be elicited from the participant and extracted from
      available medical records.

      Data to be collected will include: age, gender, ethnicity and race, past medical history and
      medications being used, as well as ocular diseases, surgeries, and treatment.

      An assessment of visual related quality of life will be performed using the impact of visual
      impairment (IVI) questionnaire.

      Testing Procedures The following procedures will be performed (using the study technique and
      by delegated personnel) as part of usual care, it does not need to be repeated specifically
      for the study if it was performed within the defined time (within 14 days prior to visit).

        1. Best-corrected Visual Acuity (BCVA) will be measured using the ETDRS VA protocol
           following manifest refraction.

        2. Optical Coherence Tomography/ OCT Angiography: OCT and OCTA will be performed. Both
           standard and enhanced depth imaging scans will be performed.

        3. Ocular examination on each eye including slit lamp, measurement of intra-ocular
           pressure, lens assessment, and dilated ophthalmoscopy.

        4. Fundus Photography

        5. Fundus fluorescein and Indocyanine Green angiography: FFA and ICGA will be performed.

      Disease characteristics of the study eye assessed by the investigator including:

        -  Activity of PCV based on ICGA.

        -  Presence of activity clinically as evidence by presence of hemorrhage, edema.

        -  Presence of activity as evidence by intra retinal or sub retinal fluid on OCT. The
           clinical data from the exit of trial to this visit will be accessed from medical records
           both paper- based and electronic formats.

      All the data collected from this visit, data from the prior trial and the clinical course and
      treatment from the end of the trial to this visit will be anonymized and sent to the
      Singapore Eye Research Institution (SERI) for analysis. Only the principal investigator and
      study team at site and SERI will have access to the anonymized collected information.
    
  