
    
      This is a single institutional, randomized phase II study to assess the neurocognitive
      outcome of conformal WBRT with or without hippocampal avoidance in patients with multiple
      brain metastases.

      Patients will be randomly assigned 1:1 to receive conformal WBRT with or without hippocampal
      avoidance using permuted blocks within strata that are defined by Graded Prognostic
      Assessment (GPA) score and baseline neurocognitive status. All patients and co-investigators
      except the principal investigator and attending radiation oncologists will be blinded for
      treatment groups.

      The whole brain planning target volume (PTV) will receive 30 Gy in 10 fractions. Treatment
      will be delivered once daily, 5 fractions per week, over 2 to 2.5 weeks. Breaks in treatment
      should be minimized.

      Hippocampal Avoidance WBRT:

      The dose is prescribed such as 90% of cranial content PTV is covered by the prescription
      dose.

      Maximum dose to 2% of the PTV (D2%) is 37.5 Gy, and minimum dose to 98% of the PTV (D98%) is
      25 Gy. Minimum dose to 100% of the hippocampal avoidance regions is 10 Gy, and dose to any
      point within the hippocampal avoidance regions cannot exceed 17 Gy.

      Conformal WBRT:

      The dose is prescribed such as 95% of cranial content PTV is covered by the prescription
      dose.

      Maximum dose to 1% of the PTV (D1%) is 36 Gy, and minimum dose to 99% of the PTV (D99%) is 27
      Gy.

      Follow-up & Assessment

      Side effect evaluation:

        -  Acute (≤ 90 days from WBRT start) toxicities (CTCAE ver.4)

        -  Late (> 90 days from WBRT start) toxicities (CTCAE ver.4)

      Functional evaluation: at baseline, 2-, 4- ,and 6-month, every 3 months for 12 months until
      intracranial disease progression or death after WBRT

        -  Neurocognitive function

        -  Self-reported cognitive functioning (two items from EORTC Quality of Life
           Questionnaire-C30 Taiwan)

        -  Health-related quality of life specific for brain neoplasms (EORTC Quality of Life
           Questionnaire-Brain Neoplasm Taiwan)

      Efficacy evaluation:

        -  Follow-up brain MRI at 4-, 9- ,and 12-month until intracranial disease progression, or
           death.

        -  Overall survival
    
  