
    
      The study is an RCT in which the ACT-intervention is compared to treatment as usual. The
      trial started in 2010, and randomisation of patients continued until 2014, and follow-ups was
      completed in 2016.

      According to analysis of power, a total of 120 patients needed to be included, 60 in each
      arm. Patients eligible for the interventions were invited to participate after their
      clinician reported them to the head investigator. The head investigator sent a letter to the
      patients with information on the study. The clinician then asked the patient if the letter
      had been read. If the patient wanted to participate, he/she was invited to an information and
      assessment meeting. The head investigator made sure that the patient understood the
      information, and what each study arm might mean for the patient when participating. Consent
      to participate was collected both verbally and in writing. At this meeting the patient
      received an envelope which contained the randomisation outcome. The patient then received
      information regarding the continued treatment according to which research arm he/she was to
      participate in.

      The participants randomised to treatment as usual continued with the treatment as planned
      before enrolment.

      Participants in the intervention arm started the group intervention consisting of 12 sessions
      over a period of three to four months. The intervention also included one individual meeting
      with the group-leaders before and one after the intervention. The intervention is a
      manualised application of the book "Lev med din kropp" [Live with your body]. Participants
      who were in need of further care after the intervention were offered continued treatment
      accordingly at the clinic.

      If a participant chose to terminate the intervention, or deteriorated during the intervention
      to the point that other treatment was needed, further treatment was agreed upon in dialogue
      with the patient. If needed, further assessment and physical examination was conducted in
      accordance to the clinics standard procedures.

      Data was collected at four times for all participants. At treatment start and end, and
      follow-up at 12 and 24 months after inclusion. At each time, the participants were prompted
      to fill in five different self-assessment forms.
    
  