
    
      This was an unblinded, parallel-group, superiority trial that randomized participants in a
      balanced (1:1) allocation ratio. We made no changes to our protocol after we began
      enrollment. Nor did we conduct any interim analyses. Each morning of the study period,
      including weekends and holidays, investigators listed all consecutive patients who were newly
      referred for SE by participating hospitalists. After hospitalists completed their initial
      evaluation of each patient, which included a history, physical exam, and review of medical
      records, investigators asked them to choose their indications for SE from a closed list.
      Given these indications, investigators then asked if HCUE could help them to assess their
      patients; if not, investigators excluded such patients. Finally, hospitalists were asked for
      their current management plans, which included medication regimens, diagnostic tests,
      specialty consultations, and timing of hospital discharge. If hospitalists remained masked to
      any preliminary SE results, investigators assigned participants who gave written informed
      consent to an intervention group. We used a computer-generated list of random numbers for the
      allocation sequence, and we concealed the sequence in an on-site computer system that only
      released allocations to investigators after they entered participant identifiers.

      Hospitalists either awaited SE results for participants randomized to usual care or they
      performed HCUE for participants randomized to HCUE-guided care. Hospitalists performed HCUE
      with a MicroMaxx 3.4 hand-carried ultrasound machine equipped with a cardiology software
      package and a 1 to 5 MHz P17 cardiac transducer (Sonosite, Inc., Bothell, WA). The details of
      the HCUE protocol are described elsewhere. In brief, without assistance from nursing staff,
      hospitalists positioned participants on standard hospital beds and recorded 7 best-quality
      images up to 6 seconds in duration. Then hospitalists replayed the images for immediate
      interpretation. They made linear measurements with a caliper held directly to the ultrasound
      monitor and translated them into qualitative assessments based on simplified standard values.

      The primary outcome was the length of stay on the short stay unit or general medicine ward
      service of the referring hospitalist. The duration began when the patient was admitted to the
      hospitalist service and ended when the patient was discharged home or transferred to a
      different service in the hospital. We chose this duration, rather than the length of stay of
      the entire hospitalization, because we wanted the primary outcome to reflect how HCUE
      affected hospitalists' management decisions in the hospital, including the transfer of
      participants to other services.
    
  