
    
      Individuals with Alzheimer's and other forms of dementia often go through a period of
      significant behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD). It is estimated that up
      to 90% of persons with dementia (PWD) experience behavior problems at some point. BPSDs can
      be challenging for both unpaid family caregivers as well as paid caregivers. Family
      caregivers provide the bulk of care for PWD and number over 15 million. One of the most
      common types of BPSDs is agitation with a prevalence of up to 87%, based on a recent
      systematic review. Agitation can lead to impaired daily functioning, prolongation of
      hospitalization, reduced time to institutionalization, and is associated with higher
      mortality. Additionally, agitated behavior is associated with increased injury to both
      patients and caregivers. Based on the 2018 Alzheimer's disease drug development pipeline
      report almost 70% of clinical trials related to BPSD are dedicated to agitation behavior.
      Finding ways to address agitation is necessary to improve overall quality of life for PWD and
      their caregivers. Currently, there are no medications available specifically for the
      treatment of BPSDs. The use of benzodiazepines, antipsychotics and mood stabilizing agents
      are common, but the risks and side effects often outweigh any benefits.

      Several small studies have investigated the use of cannabinoids in the treatment of pathology
      and symptomology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), as well as treatment of the agitation component
      of BPSD. A handful of these studies showed that the symptoms of BPSD were decreased with the
      use of cannabinoids. However, due to small sample sizes, study design, and short trial
      duration of these studies, the efficacy of these agents on BPSD cannot be confirmed. In
      addition, cannabinoids have demonstrated anti-oxidant and anti-inflammatory effects, and both
      processes have been indicated as major contributors to the neurologic effects of AD. Some
      evidence exists that agitation is related to this neuroinflammatory process. This study will
      examine the effects of cannabinoids on the behavioral and psychological symptoms of
      individuals with a dementia diagnosis.
    
  