
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To compare the effects of palliative care intervention (PCI) vs standard care on overall
           quality of life and psychological distress in patients with resectable stage I-IIIA
           non-small cell lung cancer.

        -  To compare symptom control in these patients.

        -  To compare geriatric assessment outcomes, as measured by OARS (Older Americans Resources
           and Services) Instrumental Activities of Daily Living, MOS Activities of Daily Living,
           MOS (Medical Outcomes Study)Social Activities Limitation Scale, Hospital Anxiety and
           Depression Scale scores, and Karnofsky performance scale, in these patients.

        -  To compare the effects of the PCI vs standard care on resource use.

        -  To identify subgroups of patients who benefit most from the PCI in relation to
           sociodemographic characteristics, treatment factors, and geriatric assessment predictors
           at week 12.

      OUTLINE: Patients assigned to 1 of 2 groups.

        -  Group I (standard care): Patients receive standard care. Patients complete
           questionnaires at baseline and at 6, 12, 24, 36, and 52 weeks to evaluate quality of
           life (QOL), symptoms, psychological distress, and geriatric assessments. A medical chart
           review is performed at 52 weeks to assess the progression of treatment, episodes of
           care, and re-admissions.

        -  Group II (palliative care intervention): Patients receive an individualized
           interdisciplinary palliative care intervention combining patient-centered teaching
           principles and concepts that are learner-centered (builds on the strengths, interests,
           and needs of the learner), knowledge-centered (teacher is proficient in the content
           being taught), assessment-centered (learners are given an opportunity to test their
           understanding and receive feedback), and community-centered (opportunities are available
           for continued learning and support). Patients undergo 4 teaching sessions (based on the
           patient-centered teaching principles and concepts) that focus on physical,
           psychological, social, and spiritual well-being, respectively, once a week in weeks 3-6.
           Patients then receive 4 follow-up phone calls in weeks 9-21 to clarify questions or
           review concerns from the teaching sessions and to coordinate follow-up resources as
           needed. Patients also complete questionnaires as in group I.
    
  