
    
      Study Phase: Exploratory

      Indication: Memory Complaints

      Study Design:

      A single-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled study with 100 subjects with memory
      complaints followed for 6 months (4 visits)using Cerefolin® NAC or placebo once a day in
      addition to a standardized multivitamin.

      Sample Size:

      100 subjects as follows:

        1. 50 on Cerefolin® NAC + multivitamin; and,

        2. 50 on Placebo + multivitamin.

      Primary Objective:

      To determine if Cerefolin® NAC (compared to multivitamin) decreases the blood level of
      homocysteine, increases the blood level of glutathione (a marker for oxidative stress), and
      increases the ratio of Aβ42 to Aβ40 (a marker for beta-amyloid) that may be related to
      neuronal injury and inflammation.

      Secondary Objectives:

        1. To determine if Cerefolin® NAC reduces hs-CRP and TNF-α blood levels, and increases IL-6
           blood levels.

        2. To determine if Cerefolin® NAC (compared to Placebo) reduces plasma F2 isoprostane and
           increases potential antioxidant (PAO) levels.

        3. To assess the tolerability of Cerefolin® NAC

        4. To explore the effects of Cerefolin® NAC on a 6-month change in: (a)global and specific
           cognitive domains in a standardized neuropsychological test battery,(b) quality of life
           as measured by SF-36, (c)instrumental and basic activities of daily living, (d)MADRS;
           and (e)performance-based physical function.

        5. To explore if a change in homocysteine level is related to a change in the plasma
           glutathione, hs-CRP, IL-6, TNF-α, F2-isoprostane, and PAO levels and to a change in the
           ratio of Aβ42 to Aβ40.

        6. To explore the effects of MS AG2756, APOE and MFTHR on the relationship examined in
           Secondary Objective #5.

        7. To explore the relationship of B12 status and status to cognition

      NOTE: For individuals successfully completing the 6-month blinded phase, there is an 12-month
      open-label extension of Cerefolin NAC + multivitamin. The primary purpose of the exploratory,
      open-label extension phase of the CERE-001 study is to systematically collect long-term
      safety data on CEREFOLIN NAC usage over an additional 12-month period.
    
  