
    
      1. PURPOSE: The purpose of this placebo controlled study is to determine the efficacy,
           safety, and gender differences in using varenicline for smoking cessation in a
           population of stable methadone maintenance patients being treated for Opioid Dependence.

        2. HYPOTHESIS:

      1.Stable methadone maintenance patients receiving varenicline will be more likely to maintain
      abstinence than patients receiving placebo 2.There will be no differences in the type and
      number of symptoms reported between stable methadone maintenance patients receiving
      varenicline and placebo 3.There will be no changes in methadone dosage between abstinent and
      non-abstinent smokers 4.There will be no differences in efficacy, withdrawal symptoms, and
      safety of varenicline between male and female participants

      3. JUSTIFICATION: Patients on methadone maintenance treatment have smoking prevalence rates
      of up 80-90% and consequently disproportionately high mortality compared to the general
      population. A majority of these patients express a desire to quit but are generally more
      heavily dependent on nicotine. Randomized controlled trials in non-drug using populations
      have shown varenicline to be more efficacious for smoking cessation than placebo and other
      smoking cessation medications. This placebo controlled research protocol will examine
      varenicline's effect on smoking cessation/reduction and potential sex and gender differences
      in a population of methadone maintained patients.

      4. OBJECTIVES:

      Primary outcome:

        -  Continuous abstinence from smoking during the last 4 weeks of treatment (weeks 9-12).

      Secondary outcomes:

        -  7-day point prevalence of abstinence

        -  Continuous abstinence Weeks 9-26

        -  Sex and gender differences

        -  Psychological assessment (Beck Depression Inventory)

        -  Adverse effects (Nausea, Dry mouth, Flatulence, Constipation, Insomnia, -Abnormal
           dreams, Irritability, Sleep disorder, Headaches, Dizziness e.t.c.)

           5. RESEARCH METHOD: This pilot randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial will
           be conducted at Vancouver Coastal Health Tobacco Dependence Clinic Vancouver, BC with a
           12-week treatment period and follow-up of smoking status to week 26. The intervention
           will include the use of Varenicline titrated to 1 mg twice daily or placebo for 12
           weeks, plus weekly brief smoking cessation counseling.

           6. All significance tests will be 2-tailed with an overall level of significance of a =
           0.05. The primary outcome will be the analysis of continuous abstinence using a logistic
           regression model. The secondary outcomes will be:

             1. the analysis of 7-day abstinence and 9-26 week continuous abstinence using logistic
                regression analysis.

             2. Minnesota Nicotine Withdrawal Scale, Beck's Depression Inventory, and changes in
                methadone dose outcome using repeated measures analysis, and

             3. Chi-square tests and t-tests (or Mann-Whitney U) to determine sex and gender
                differences (male vs female) as well as differences in adverse effects of treatment
                (varenicline vs placebo)
    
  