
    
      The investigators propose the following acute, randomized crossover study to compare 5,
      isocaloric yogurt-based preloads containing 20, 30, or 40 g pea protein; 20 g whey protein;
      and an isocaloric carbohydrate (control).

      For 3 consecutive days/pattern, the participants will consume the respective treatment, at
      home, between 7-9 am, based on their habitual breakfast time. (These days are implemented to
      allow for the acclimation to the respective preload. Using this approach, the participant
      becomes familiar with the taste profile along with the practice of consuming a breakfast
      'shake' so that the testing day more closely assimilates the habitual effects of the preload
      on appetite, satiety, and food intake.)

      On day 4, the participants will report to the research facility 1 h prior to their habitual
      breakfast time to complete each 4-h testing day. Upon arrival to the facility, each
      participant will become familiarized with the testing day procedures. At time -15 min, a
      baseline set of computerized appetite/satiety and cognitive function questionnaires will be
      completed. At time 0 min, the respective preload will be provided. Immediately following the
      first swallow of the preload, the participants will be given a questionnaire assessing the
      palatability. The participants will consume the preload within 10 min. Afterwards, the
      participants will continue to complete the questionnaires every 30 min throughout the 4-h
      postprandial period. In addition to these questionnaires, participants will complete a
      cognitive function paradigm at -30 min, +90 min, and +180 minutes in order to assess memory,
      executive function, attention, and reaction time. Throughout the day, the participants will
      also indicate if/when they would like to eat again. Regardless of their meal timing request,
      at 4-h post-breakfast, lunch will be provided. The participants will be given 30 min to
      "consume as much or as little as they wish until comfortably full." Following these
      procedures, the participants will be allowed to leave the facility. There will be a 3-7 day
      washout period between testing days.
    
  