
    
      А multicenter research trial will be conducted at 6 medical centers:

        -  Ryazan State Medical University (Ryazan);

        -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the
           Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Astrakhan);

        -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the
           Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Penza);

        -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the
           Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Chelyabinsk);

        -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the
           Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Kaliningrad);

        -  Federal State Budgetary Institution "Federal Center for Cardiovascular Surgery" of the
           Ministry of Health of the Russian Federation (Khabarovsk).

      Haemostatic solution "Haemoblock" provided by Autonomous non-profit organization "MOSCOW
      REGIONAL SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF BLOOD".

      The study will include 200 patients with indications for pacemaker implantation
      (atrioventricular block, sick sinus syndrome, atrial fibrillation with impaired
      atrioventricular conduction or other).

      Before starting the study, the patient must give written consent to participate in this study
      after familiarizing him with the purpose and rules of the clinical study.

      All patients during randomisation will be divided into 2 groups:

      Group A "Haemoblock" - 100 patients. Haemostatic solution "Haemoblock" will be used after
      pocket formation during pacemaker implantation (sterile gauze swabs are soaked in 15 ml of
      "Haemoblock" solution and applied in pacemaker pocket, then pacemaker pocket will be
      irrigated with 5 ml of "Haemoblock" solution without rinsing).

      Group B "Control" - 100 patients. Same procedure will be performed with saline solution in
      this group.

      Before surgery blood sampling, echocardiography will be performed in all patients.

      3-5 days after surgery ultrasound of pacemaker pocket will be performed in all patients.

      The observation period for patients will be 30 days.
    
  