
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Develop and evaluate an enhanced telephone support intervention (Prevention Care Manager
           [PCM]) to promote colorectal, cervical, and breast cancer screening more widely among
           women enrolled in a Medicaid Managed Care Organization (MMCO).

        -  Explore the impact of patient, Community/Migrant Health Center (C/MHC), and MMCO
           characteristics on cancer screening status and the impact of the intervention.

        -  Evaluate the impact of the enhanced PCM intervention upon colorectal, breast, and
           cervical cancer screening rates.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the status of women who are up-to-date (UTD) on CRC screening versus the UTD
           status of cervical cancer and breast cancer screening.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, controlled study. The study is conducted in 2 parts.

        -  Part 1 (barrier interview and pilot testing): Patients are stratified according to
           primary language and whether or not they have had an outpatient visit in the past year.

             -  Barrier interview: Patients undergo a 15-30 minute interview to determine barriers
                they face preventing them from receiving recommended cancer screenings and
                healthcare, as well as facilitators which have encouraged them to be screened.

             -  Pilot testing: Patients from the barrier interviews and other eligible Medicaid
                Managed Care Organization (MMCO) patients receive scripted telephone calls from a
                Prevention Care Manager to assist them in getting up-to-date on their cancer
                screening tests over 3 months.

        -  Part 2 (randomized control trial): Patients are stratified according to treatment center
           (Community/Migrant health center vs Diagnostic and Treatment Center) and age. Patient
           are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

             -  Arm I (Prevention Care Manager): Patients are stratified according to the number of
                tests for which they are up-to-date at baseline. Patients receive reminder letters
                encouraging them to contact their primary care provider for colorectal, breast, and
                cervical cancer screening and 3 to 4 telephone support calls to help them become up
                to date for colorectal, breast, and cervical cancer screening.

             -  Arm II (usual care): Patients receive usual care according to their primary care
                physician.

      In both arms, patients are followed for 18 months.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 2,600 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  