
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine cyclo-oxygenase-2 (COX-2) overexpression in patients with resectable stage II
           or III rectal cancer treated with neoadjuvant celecoxib, fluorouracil, and radiotherapy.

        -  Determine whether administration of celecoxib, a COX-2 inhibitor, results in changes in
           tumor (COX-2 overexpressing) levels of eicosanoids but not in the surrounding normal
           tissue.

        -  Determine if there is a greater change in protein and gene expression in post-treatment
           biopsies when compared to pretreatment biopsies that are greater for tumor (COX-2
           overexpression) than in surrounding normal tissue.

        -  Determine whether patients who express the greatest degree of change in gene and protein
           expression are those most likely to respond to therapy.

        -  Assess the toxicities of concurrent treatment with celecoxib, fluorouracil, and
           radiotherapy.

      OUTLINE: This is a pilot study.

      Patients receive oral celecoxib twice daily beginning 5 days prior to radiotherapy and
      continuing until completion of radiotherapy. Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for
      5 weeks. Patients also receive concurrent fluorouracil IV continuously for 5 weeks. Patients
      undergo radical resection 4-10 weeks after completion of chemoradiotherapy.

      Patients undergo tumor biopsy at baseline and then at the time of surgical resection.
      Patients also undergo blood and urine collection at baseline, 5 days after initiation of
      celecoxib, 7 days after initiation of celecoxib in combination with fluorouracil and
      radiotherapy, and at the time of surgical resection. The specimens are evaluated for COX-2
      expression, eicosanoid production, and gene and protein expression using
      immunohistochemistry, microarray, and mass spectrometry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every
      6 months for 3 years, and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 28 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  