
    
      All patients in this study will undergo endoscopic sinus surgery. This is the mainstay of
      treatment for patients with refractory sinus disease.

      All patients that undergo endoscopic sinus surgery must routinely complete nasal irrigations
      to maintain the patency of the sinuses and to encourage healing. The current standard of
      treatment is saline irrigations. Manuka honey has already shown promise in the field of wound
      healing. The Manuka Honey will be used as the treatment arm in this study and will be
      compared to the current standard of care, the saline irrigations.

      Once the subjects have signed the consent form, they will undergo endoscopic sinus surgery as
      planned. Randomization (using sealed envelopes) will occur immediately after surgery where
      patient will receive either the Honey rinse or Saline rinse. There will be 50 envelopes
      containing a sheet of paper stating "Manuka Honey Irrigation" and another 50 envelopes
      containing a sheet of paper stating "Saline Irrigation." These envelopes will be sealed,
      marked with "Nasal Irrigation Study" on the front of the envelope, and mixed in a random
      fashion. Immediately after surgery, one of these envelopes will be selected to randomize the
      patient to either the Manuka Honey or Saline irrigation arms. As this is a single-blinded
      study, the patients will know to which arm they are assigned to, while the primary
      investigator is blinded.

      The standard treatment, as described involves nasal irrigation using a saline solution. This
      will constitute one arm of the study. The treatment arm will involve the use of the
      pasteurized Manuka honey nasal irrigation, which is not currently the standard of practice,
      but is approved by Health Canada to be used for this indication. The subject will use 30cc of
      the nasal irrigation (to which they are randomized) in each nostril twice daily (once in am,
      once in pm). No other specific manipulations will be used. The SNOT-22 questionnaire will be
      administered before the patient is assessed by the clinic physician at 6 days, 5 weeks, and 3
      months post-operatively. Patients will not be blinded to the irrigation they are assigned to.
      The investigators will not know to which arm the subjects have been assigned to.
    
  