
    
      The escalating prevalence of metabolic disorders in individuals with long-standing spinal
      cord injury (SCI) highlights the urgent need for early interventions for prevention and
      improving quality of life. Individuals with SCI, while often relatively young, are at high
      risk for developing insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes soon after the onset of injury.
      Skeletal muscle is the major site of dietary glucose disposal, yet the relationship between
      adaptations in skeletal muscle after SCI and the development of metabolic disturbances
      remains poorly understood. Within 6 months after SCI, lower limb muscles atrophy by up to 45%
      and individuals show a 3-fold increase in intramuscular fat levels compared to able-bodied
      (AB) controls. Moreover, within 6 months after SCI, fatigue-resistant and oxidative Type I
      and Type IIa muscle fibers transform into highly fatigable, glycolytic Type IIax and IIx
      muscle fibers with impaired oxidative metabolism. The maintenance of adequate muscle mass and
      metabolic function has never been targeted as a potential strategy to prevent chronic
      metabolic disorders in individuals with SCI. Early prevention of these deleterious
      adaptations is expected to be more effective than attempting to reverse changes several
      months or years after SCI.

      Among the available experimental strategies to reverse atrophy and improve skeletal muscle
      metabolism in individuals with SCI, there seems to be consensus that muscle contraction via
      neuromuscular electrical stimulation (NMES) is the most potent approach. The investigators
      recently showed that 8 weeks of NMES-resistance exercise in people with long-standing SCI
      effectively increased myofiber size and distribution of Type IIa myofibers; however, this
      intervention did not increase the distribution of Type I fibers. There is a need for novel
      NMES programs that induce key molecular adaptations to both resistance and aerobic exercise
      to maintain an oxidative, fatigue-resistant, and insulin-sensitive phenotype following SCI.

      Here, the investigators propose an early intervention of combined NMES (Comb-NMES). This
      program couples electrically induced resistance and aerobic exercise on the knee extensor
      muscle group (quadriceps) with the goal of maintaining or even improving muscle mass and
      metabolic function. The proposed Comb-NMES program repetitively stresses the paralyzed knee
      extensor muscles with both low frequency electrical stimulation (aerobic training) to improve
      oxidative metabolism and retain Type I fibers and high frequency (resistance training)
      electrical stimulation with dynamic contractions to prevent atrophy and retain Type IIa
      fibers.

      The investigators will test the following central hypothesis that, compared to a control
      group, those treated with Comb-NMES for 6 weeks early after SCI will maintain a better
      whole-body metabolic profile, largely driven by maintenance of paralyzed muscle mass, fiber
      phenotype (maintenance of Type I and IIa fibers), and muscle oxidative metabolic function.
      The investigators will test this hypothesis in a controlled clinical trial of patients with
      SCI with the following specific aims:

      Aim 1: Quantify the effects of Comb-NMES on clinically important measures of metabolic
      function.

      Hypothesis 1. Compared to a control group, 6 weeks of Comb-NMES (3 days/week) will maintain
      higher glucose tolerance and whole-body insulin sensitivity.

      Aim 2: Quantify cellular, molecular and functional adaptations in the quadriceps muscle that
      are responsible for improvements in muscle metabolism and overall metabolic profile.

      Hypothesis 2.1. Compared to a control group, 6 weeks of Comb-NMES (3 days/week) will maintain
      better muscle glucose utilization, oxidative metabolism, muscle size, strength, and fatigue
      resistance, as well as a healthy muscle fiber phenotype (homogeneous distribution of Type I,
      IIa, and IIx fibers).

      Hypothesis 2.2. Comb-NMES-induced improvements in overall metabolic profile will be reflected
      in changes in metabolite signatures related to muscle mitochondrial function and intermediary
      metabolism.
    
  