
    
      Despite significant declines in cigarette smoking rates among adults in the United States in
      the last few decades, smoking rates remain high among poor and underserved populations. One
      underserved group is the 4 million homeless persons in the US among whom cigarette smoking
      rate is an alarming 70% or more; these rates are 3 times higher than national average. Two of
      the three leading causes of death among homeless persons, heart disease and cancer are
      tobacco related.2, 3 Despite very high smoking prevalence and disease burden in this
      population smoking cessation research have not been extended to the homeless. Recent studies
      including data from our research team show a considerable degree of readiness to quit smoking
      by homeless smokers and that nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) plus counseling show promise.
      However, homeless persons face many challenges that may constitute barriers for them to
      adhere to smoking cessation treatments even if such treatments have been proven effective in
      the general population. In order to reduce smoking-related health disparities within this
      underserved population, it is critical that cessation interventions including strategies to
      improve treatment adherence be developed to include homeless smokers. The primary aim of this
      study is to assess the effects of adherence-focused motivational interviewing (MI) to help
      homeless persons quit smoking.

      Recruitment and retention will be enhanced by use of bus passes for transportation, debit
      cards, attractive intervention materials, collaboration with homeless shelters, and advice
      from a community advisory board. If successful, this study will provide a model for how to
      overcome barriers to cancer prevention services among homeless persons. It will also provide
      the impetus for policy changes directed at increasing homeless persons' access to smoking
      cessation pharmacotherapy and treatment.
    
  