
    
      Hypocalcemia is defined as reduction in the level of the ionized calcium in the blood to less
      than 0.95 mmole/ litre.

      In some cases it is associated with symptoms such as neuromuscular impairment in the form of
      convulsions ,carpopedal spasm,parathesia ,laryngiospasm ,stridor……etc .Calcium circulates in
      blood stream in three fractions :protein bound to calcium,primarly to albumen(40%) and in 50%
      of the cases calcium is present in the ionized state which is physiologically active (Dias ,c
      et a l, 2013) . Symptomatizing hypocalcemia may occur in cases of vitamin D deficiency
      rickets (nutritional deficiency in infants less than two years ) .It may also occur in
      vitamin D resistant rickets e.g renal rickets because of failure of the kidney to synthesize
      1-OH cholecalciferol of the 1-25 di-OH cholecalciferol (the active form of vitamin D). In
      some cases the liver fails to synthesize the 25-OH group of the active 1-25 di hydroxy
      cholecalciferol . In cases of malabsorption hypocalcemia may occur because of lack of
      absorption of both calcium and vitamin D from the gastrointestinal tract.

      Symptomatizing Ionized hypocalcemia has been reported as an early event associated with organ
      dysfunction in children admitted to intensive care unit. This suggests that hypocalcemia may
      occur in association with other causes than those mentioned above. It has been reported in
      cases with sepsis, shock and in association with the use of anticonvulsants. It may occur in
      cardiac arrythmia and tetany (Khadilkar,V & Khadilkar,V,2017).

      Regulation of calcium haemostasis is done by two principle hormones: vitamin D and
      parathyroid hormone.

      These hormones act on three target organs: the intestine, the kidney and bones. In cases of
      advanced vitamin D deficiency rickets and in cases of vitamin D resistant rickets
      compensatory hyperparathyroidism may occur.( Basatemur & Sutcliffe,2015) Research question:
      to find out the causes and differential diagnosis of syptomatizing hypocalcemia in infants
      and children admitted to Assiut University Children Hospital using the available datafrom the
      literature.

      The current strategy for dealing with this problem will be described using an algorithm
      covering the various clinical presentations and investigations to reach the final diagnosis
      guided by( Fukomoto,S et al,2008 , Pacaud,D & Dawrant ,J,2007 as well as Kelly,A &
      Levine,M,2013)
    
  