
    
      1. Background

           Office hysteroscopy can be associated with significant anxiety, pain and patient
           dissatisfaction (Clark et al.). One technical modification identified to potentially
           reduce pain at hysteroscopy is 'vaginoscopy', otherwise known as the 'no touch'
           technique (Busquets and Lemus, 1993; Clark and Gupta, 2005; Cooper et al., 2010). This
           describes a technique where the hysteroscope is guided into the uterus without the need
           for potentially painful vaginal instrumentation. Pain is often experienced by the
           patient at a number of stages during the standard hysteroscopy practice, these include
           passage of a vaginal speculum to separate the vaginal walls in order to visualise the
           cervix, cleansing of the cervix and sometimes application of traumatic forceps to the
           ectocervix in order to stabilise it. Vaginoscopy could be less traumatic because the
           approach minimises potentially painful manoeuvres in the lower genital tract.

           Recent technological advances have led to the miniaturisation of hysteroscopes, which
           facilitates vaginoscopy by reducing resistance to advancement of the hysteroscope
           through the relatively narrow and often tortuous cervical canal. However, despite these
           modifications in instrumentation, few clinicians use vaginoscopy routinely preferring
           more invasive traditional approaches. This may reflect a lack of familiarity with the
           technique as well as concerns over the ability to identify and traverse the cervical
           canal in order to access the uterine cavity.

           We therefore designed a randomised controlled trial (RCT) to compare standard approach
           to hysteroscopy against vaginoscopy evaluating important clinical outcomes such as pain,
           feasibility, acceptability, vasovagal responses and infection. To inform the study
           design we conducted pilot work including a survey of gynaecological endoscopists, and a
           systematic review of the current evidence.

        2. Systematic review and meta-analysis

           We have previously completed and reported a systematic review and meta-analysis of
           vaginoscopy compared to standard hysteroscopy (Cooper et al., 2010). The databases
           searched included MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL using a combination of the keyword
           'hysteroscopy', 'vaginoscopy', vaginoscop*', 'no-touch', and their associated word
           variants and medical subject headings. The Cochrane Library was searched using the
           keywords 'hysteroscopy', 'vaginoscopy', 'vaginoscopic' and 'no-touch'.

           Of the 1167 citations retrieved, six studies met the criteria for inclusion and in four
           there was suitable data for meta-analysis. Vaginoscopy was found to be less painful than
           traditional approaches, with a standard mean difference in visual analogue scales (VAS)
           pain scores of -0.44 (95% CI -0.65 to -0.22)(Cooper et al., 2010). However there was
           statistically significant heterogeneity and this was also seen in the wide variation in
           procedure feasibility (failure rates varying from 2% to 17%) (Cooper et al., 2010). This
           inconsistency reflected the lack of standardisation of approach both in relation to
           vaginoscopy and traditional speculum based approaches where there was variation between
           studies in the administration of local cervical anaesthesia, application of cervical
           tenaculum forceps, and the size and angle of the rigid hysteroscope employed. None of
           these small RCTs (Almeida et al., 2008; Garbin et al., 2006; Guida et al., 2006;
           Paschopoulos et al., 1997; Sagiv et al., 2006; Sharma et al., 2005) had optimal
           randomisation processes in terms of using computer generated random number sequences and
           third party concealment. The review and subsequent Royal College of Obstetrics and
           Gynaecology (RCOG) guideline (Clark et al.; Cooper et al., 2010) recommended further
           higher quality adequately powered RCTs to examine more comprehensively the role of
           vaginoscopy in terms of pain, feasibility, acceptability and complications.

        3. The need for a RCT comparing vaginoscopy to standard hysteroscopy

           The current restricted use of vaginoscopy is likely to be the result of a lack of
           experience with the technique and uncertainty as to whether the technique is associated
           with a worthwhile reduction in procedural pain and improvement in patient acceptability.
           Furthermore, there is concern that vaginoscopy is technically more challenging leading
           to prolonged procedures which may fail to be completed, lead to more vaso-vagal fainting
           episodes and a higher likelihood of post-operative infection of the uterus.

           In view of the uncertainty over the effectiveness of vaginoscopy we designed an RCT. The
           aim was to evaluate whether vaginoscopy or standard hysteroscopy was potentially more
           successful in the office setting by comparing failure rates, complications, infection
           rates, patient acceptability, and pain scores. In the first instance we designed a
           feasibility pilot trial (VAginoscopy versus Standard Teloscope for office hysteroscopy
           trial; VAST) to inform the design, conduct and feasibility of a larger scale RCT.

        4. Objectives

             1. To estimate whether the vaginoscopic technique is potentially more successful
                compared to traditional approaches where success is defined as a completed
                diagnostic hysteroscopy with an acceptable level of patient reported pain without a
                vasovagal episode or post-operative uterine infection.

             2. To test the hypothesis that the success of vaginoscopy differs according to parity,
                menopausal status, obesity and cervical surgery.

             3. To test the hypothesis that in women undergoing an office hysteroscopy, a
                vaginoscopic technique is associated with on average at least 10% less pain (as
                measured by visual analogues scores) compared to traditional approaches.

             4. To test the hypothesis that in women undergoing an office hysterosocpy, a
                vaginoscopic technique is associated with fewer vaso-vagal episodes compared to
                traditional approaches.

             5. To test the hypothesis that in women undergoing an office hysteroscopy, there is no
                difference in the rates of failure to complete the procedure between vaginoscopy
                and traditional approaches.

             6. To test the hypothesis that in women undergoing an office hysteroscopy, there is no
                difference in the incidence of post-operative uterine infection between vaginoscopy
                and traditional approaches.

             7. To test the hypothesis that in women undergoing an office hysteroscopy, a
                vaginoscopic technique is associated with better patient acceptability.

        5. References

      Almeida, Z.M.M.C. de, Pontes, R., and Costa, H. de L.F.F. (2008). [Evaluation of pain in
      diagnostic hysteroscopy by vaginoscopy using normal saline at body temperature as distension
      medium: a randomized controlled trial]. Rev. Bras.

      Ginecol. E Obstetrícia Rev. Fed. Bras. Soc. Ginecol. E Obstetrícia 30, 25-30.

      Busquets, M., and Lemus, M. (1993). [Practicability of panoramic hysteroscopy with CO2.
      Clinical experience: 923 cases]. Rev. Chil. Obstet. Ginecol. 58, 113-118.

      Clark, T.J., and Gupta, J.K. (2005). Handbook of outpatient hysteroscopy: a complete guide to
      diagnosis and therapy (CRC Press).

      Clark, T.J., Cooper, N.A., and Kremer, C. Best practice in outpatient hysteroscopy.

      Cooper, N.A.M., Smith, P., Khan, K.S., and Clark, T.J. (2010). Vaginoscopic approach to
      outpatient hysteroscopy: a systematic review of the effect on pain. BJOG Int. J. Obstet.
      Gynaecol. 117, 532-539.

      Garbin, O., Kutnahorsky, R., Göllner, J.L., and Vayssiere, C. (2006). Vaginoscopic versus
      conventional approaches to outpatient diagnostic hysteroscopy: a two-centre randomized
      prospective study. Hum. Reprod. Oxf. Engl. 21, 2996-3000.

      Guida, M., Di Spiezio Sardo, A., Acunzo, G., Sparice, S., Bramante, S., Piccoli, R., Bifulco,
      G., Cirillo, D., Pellicano, M., and Nappi, C. (2006). Vaginoscopic versus traditional office
      hysteroscopy: a randomized controlled study. Hum. Reprod. Oxf. Engl. 21, 3253-3257.

      Paschopoulos, M., Paraskevaidis, E., Stefanidis, K., Kofinas, G., and Lolis, D. (1997).
      Vaginoscopic approach to outpatient hysteroscopy. J. Am. Assoc. Gynecol. Laparosc. 4,
      465-467.

      Sagiv, R., Sadan, O., Boaz, M., Dishi, M., Schechter, E., and Golan, A. (2006). A new
      approach to office hysteroscopy compared with traditional hysteroscopy: a randomized
      controlled trial. Obstet. Gynecol. 108, 387-392.

      Sharma, M., Taylor, A., di Spiezio Sardo, A., Buck, L., Mastrogamvrakis, G., Kosmas, I.,
      Tsirkas, P., and Magos, A. (2005). Outpatient hysteroscopy: traditional versus the "no-touch"
      technique. BJOG Int. J. Obstet. Gynaecol. 112, 963-967.
    
  