
    
      INAPEN protocol for impact of breakfast improvement on the nutritional status of hospitalized
      patients (INcidence de l'Amélioration du Petit-déjeuner sur l'Etat Nutritinonel des patients
      hospitalisés)

      Sponsored by Meaux Hospital (Centre Hospitalier de Meaux),

      Financing: unrestricted grant from the French speaking society for enteral and parenteral
      nutrition [SFNEP: Société Francophone de nutrition entérale et parentérale].

      Information provided by Meaux Hospital Center (Centre Hospitalier de Meaux) as per the
      protocol submitted to the SFNEP in 2009.

      Purpose

      Hospital undernutrition is a common health problem [1]. As a countermeasure, French hospitals
      have created a system of cross-function committees for feeding and nutrition called CLANs
      [Comité de Liaison pour l'alimentation et la nutrition] [2]. Potential actions for improving
      patient nutritional status include improving the characteristics of the food provided to
      increase both protein and calorie intake in at-risk patients that do not require enteral or
      parenteral nutrition. Looking at the various daily meals, we considered that breakfast
      following the night fast would be the easiest meal to improve .

      Condition Intervention Phase Patients scheduled for hospitalization of over 4 days Addition
      of protein (milky food in the breakfast) Current care

      Study Type: Interventional study in current care

      Study design: Sequential cohorts, Efficacy study

      Official title: Inapen Impact of breakfast improvement on the nutritional status of
      hospitalized patients (Incidence de l'amélioration du petit-déjeuner sur l'état nutritionnel
      des patients hospitalisés).

      Further study details:

      Primary outcome: Improvement of serum transthyretin (prealbumin) concentration changes
      between D0 to D7 Secondary outcomes: serum albumin concentration changes between D0 to D7,
      length of stay

      Expected total enrollment: 800 patients (400 patients x 2).

      Study start date: October 2009 Expected inclusion completion date: June 2011

      Rationale:

      It has long been known that more than half of hospitalized patients suffer from
      undernutrition [3-5]), consequently increasing length of stay of 2 to 6 days and morbidity
      [3]. Early nutrition has been shown to reduce length of stay and hospitalization costs [3,
      6], but is mostly based on early enteral or parenteral nutrition. Our purpose was to evaluate
      the impact of an improved oral nutrition in mildly-challenged hospitalized patients. It is
      widely accepted that breakfast should deliver 25% of energy intake and nutritional
      requirements (ref4). A preliminary study found that the total protein and energy impact of
      breakfast in Meaux hospital was 4 g protein and 346 Kcal of total energy intake, whereas
      French institutional catering recommendations on nutrition (Groupe d'Etude des Marchés de
      Restauration Collective et de Nutrition, GEM RCN) stipulate 7.75 g of protein and 403 Kcal of
      energy.

      The main purpose of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of additional protein (adding
      milky food to the breakfast) in order to deliver an optimized protein and energy intake of
      15.75 g and 559 Kcal, respectively.

      A first period of follow-up on the 400 patients was designed to survey and evaluate current
      nutrition administration policy. The second period of follow-up on the 400 patients was
      designed to evaluate the impacts of adding milky food to the breakfast and of educating
      health care professionals on the early detection of undernutrition. Efficacy will be
      evaluated based on increase in transthyretin concentrations, with special focus given to
      length of stay as a secondary end-point.

      Eligibility Ages eligible for study: > 18 years. Both genders eligible for study.

      Location and Contact Information France Rheumatology, Cardiology, Neurology, Pneumology
      departements Vascular and orthopedic surgery department

      Study directorship and principal investigators Xavier Forceville, MD, PhD, Principal
      investigator Francois Thuillier, Pharmacist, CLAN chairman Karell Prieux-Lucas, Investigator
      Samia Touati, MD, Investigator

      Further information

      Study ID Number: CNIL : 909314 Health Authority: France CCTIRS : 09.358 (2009, september
      10Th) Ethical committee: France, Ile-de-France XI (Saint Germain-en-Laye), August 17th, 2009
    
  