
    
      This exploratory study is designed to ensure the safety of HIV-infected volunteers who
      complete research protocols that include an analytic treatment interruption (ATI). This is a
      prospective cohort study of volunteers who were diagnosed with HIV during early acute HIV
      infection, treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART) and subsequently enrolled in a clinical
      study that included ATI. After completion of study participation that involves ATI,
      participants will be recruited into this study for continued clinical and laboratory
      monitoring. Participants without any indication for resumption of ART and who desire to
      remain off ART at the time of entry into this study will be monitored closely for HIV viremia
      and other pre-defined criteria for ART resumption. Participants with any indication for ART
      at the time of enrollment into this protocol, including patient preference for resumption of
      ART, will be monitored closely for virologic and immunologic response to ART.

      Clinical study visits will take place at the Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Centre, and the
      optional procedures may occur at the King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital. Required
      laboratory studies that are outlined in this protocol will occur in lieu of those described
      in the RV 254 protocol. Volunteers may provide separate informed consent for optional
      procedures to include collection of genital secretions, colon biopsy, inguinal lymph node
      biopsy, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collection via lumbar puncture, and brain Magnetic
      Resonance Imaging (MRI)/Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS)/Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI).
      With separate informed consent, willing participants will undergo archival of peripheral
      blood mononuclear cells and plasma specimens for research purposes.

      This study will enroll volunteers aged 18 years and older who have completed clinical studies
      that include ATI in Bangkok, Thailand. Enrollment in this study will be concurrent with
      completion of the study with ATI. Participants will fall broadly into one of two categories:
      those on ART and those not on ART at the completion of the prior study protocol.

      The ongoing parent study, RV 254 (SEARCH 010, WRAIR 1494), enrolls participants with
      documented acute HIV infection at the Thai Red Cross AIDS Research Center in Bangkok,
      Thailand. Participants in the cohort are primarily men who have sex with men, but also
      include men and women with other HIV acquisition risk factors as well as various ages,
      incomes, and education levels. All participants in RV 254 are offered ART at the time of
      enrollment through a separately funded protocol. Participants in this substudy will remain
      co-enrolled in RV254/SEARCH010, but will follow the schedule of event (SOE) for this
      sub-study in lieu of the parent study SOE.
    
  