
    
      Between 10-15 healthy young adults of both males and females will be recruited. A screening
      questionnaire will be administered to ensure that participants are appropriate for the study.

      Upon arrival, participants will be required to sit with their feet slightly elevated from the
      ground, resting on a stool for 10 minutes to allow for adjustment to room temperature
      (equilibration). During this time, participants will complete a questionnaire regarding their
      experiences with the temperature of their feet including questions similar to, "On average
      would you say that you have cold feet, average feet or warm feet? Describe your feet's
      ability to adapt to temperature changes. Do you experience a tingling feeling on the bottom
      of your feet?" Following the equilibration period, the researcher will place 12 infrared
      markers on the participant. The participant will then receive a brief outline of the
      procedure and appropriate instructions before beginning the experiment.

      All trials will be performed barefoot. There will be a total of 3 types of testing. The first
      is a monofilament test. The researcher will apply varying monofilaments sizes to the
      participants' soles of their feet. These test are included to measure touch sensation of the
      sole of the foot. The second is a One Leg Stance Test where the participant will stand on a
      force plate, balanced on one leg for 30 seconds per trial while Optotrak information is
      collected. The participant will complete a total of 3 trials. The third is the Gait
      Termination Test where the participant will be instructed to walk along 6 metres over 2 force
      plates. A total of 10 trials will be completed with 3 randomized trials where the participant
      will be instructed to terminate their gait unexpectedly (by a buzzer) before reaching the
      force plates. Optotrak information will be collected simultaneously. The researcher will
      record plantar temperature intermittently in between the above tests and different
      conditions. The infrared temperature probe does not make any contact with the skin.

      The specific outline of the procedure including the order of the conditions and tasks are
      explained here. The first condition is the Baseline Condition where all 3 types of tests will
      be administered. Then the participant's feet will be immersed in an ice bath at 2-3 degrees
      Celsius for 10-15 minutes (with their feet temperature recorded every 2 minutes) in
      preparation for the Decreased Feet Temperature Condition. Here, all 3 types of tests will be
      administered. Then each participant will actively recover by walking on a treadmill at a
      speed of 3.5 miles/hour and grade of 0% for 10 minutes, to prepare the for Increased Feet
      Temperature Condition. Intermittent foot temperature measurements will be taken every 2
      minutes during the treadmill walk. After the 10 minute walk, all 3 types of tests will be
      administered. This will be the end of the experiment.
    
  