
    
      A growing proportion of women diagnosed with early stage breast cancer seek help with
      vasomotor and sexual complaints. Frequently, these symptoms result from adjuvant cancer
      treatment, irrespectively whether this is hormonal (e.g. tamoxifen, aromatase inhibitors),
      cytotoxic, or surgical (oophorectomy) in nature. Estrogen-containing hormone therapy is
      effective, but considered unsafe. Non-hormonal therapy is less effective. Tibolone, which
      does not increase mammographic breast density, has proven to be effective and thus could be
      an important treatment option for women persistently seeking help.

      The objective of this trial is to demonstrate safety, efficacy and tolerability of oral 2.5
      mg tibolone daily in breast cancer patients, who, after surgery, have no evidence of disease
      and who suffer from climacteric complaints. Primary study endpoint is breast cancer
      recurrence, including primary contralateral breast cancer. Secondary outcome variables
      include menopausal symptoms, bone mineral density and health-related quality of life.

      Patients were eligible for this study when they had been surgically treated within the
      previous 5 years for histologically confirmed T1-3, N0-2, M0 breast cancer and had to have
      vasomotor symptoms, with a last menstruation at least 12 months before (or bilateral
      oophorectomy).

      The LIBERATE Trial has been designed to show non-inferiority of tibolone compared to placebo.
      Adequate sample size was estimated to be at least 1500 subjects in each arm, assuming a
      breast cancer recurrence rate of 5% per year in the first 3 years and an dropout rate of 5%
      per year.

      The LIBERATE Study has successfully included the appropriate number of women with the proper
      risk profile so that significant results can be obtained in relation to safety and efficacy
      of tibolone in breast cancer patients with menopausal complaints.
    
  