
    
      Background: Minipolymyoclonus and tremor are frequently mentioned as part of the clinical
      picture of spinal muscular atrophy, but the precise mechanism of the occurrence of tremor and
      minipolymyoclonus in these patients remains unknown. In the 1970s it was suggested
      minipolymyoclonus and tremor are caused by reinnervation that follows denervation of muscle
      fibers in neuropathies. The investigators are not aware of any later or more systematic study
      on the frequency of minipolymyoclonus and tremor occurrence in SMA patients or its evolution
      during the disease course. Nusinersen, an antisense oligonucleotide, is a medicine registered
      for treating SMA. Nusinersen increases the production of the functional survival motor neuron
      protein by regulating gene expression and thus slows down or stops alpha-motor neuron
      degradation. MND is considered a disease of upper and lower motor neuron and movement
      disorders are not considered part of its typical clinical picture. Movement disorders are
      only reported in MND in association with extrapyramidal or cerebellar degeneration or
      dysfunction. Contrary to this, the investigators have encountered anecdotal evidence from a
      number of patients with otherwise typical MND who manifested involuntary jerks and tremor.

      Aims: To explore the prevalence and phenomenology of hyperkinetic movement disorders in
      patients with SMA and MND, to explore the effect of Nusinersen treatment on phenomenology and
      amplitude of tremor and minipolymyoclonus, and to elucidate the underlying pathological
      mechanisms by using accelerometry and EMG.

      Patients and inclusion/exclusion criteria: All genetically proven SMA patients who will be
      treated with Nusinersen and consecutive patients followed in MND outpatient clinic will be
      recruited. Patients with SMA type I, II, III, and IV and patients with ''clinically definite
      ALS'' or ''clinically probable ALS'' or ''clinically probable ALS - laboratory supported''
      according to the revised El Escorial diagnostic criteria or with the diagnosis of PMA or PLS
      will be included. There will be no exclusion criteria.

      Study protocol: All patients will be clinically examined and video-recorded. SMA patients
      will be examined and video-recorded for the second time 6-12 months after initiation of
      treatment with Nusinersen. The presence, quality, and regularity of involuntary movements
      will be evaluated while subjects will be sitting in a chair with hands resting in their lap
      (usual posture when examining rest tremor), during forward horizontal reach posture, and
      during finger to nose task. Based on regularity and distribution, hyperkinetic movements will
      be classified as minipolymyoclonus (MPMC) or tremor. Accelerometry with EMG will be recorded
      in a subset of patients with hyperkinetic movements.

      Methods:

      Accelerometry with electromyography: With accelerometry tremor (frequency and amplitude) in
      the subjects will be objectively evaluated. A triaxle accelerometer will be attached to the
      3rd metacarpal bone bilaterally. Simultaneously EMG will be recorded. Bipolar Ag / AgCl
      surface EMG electrodes will be placed over the flexor carpi radialis and the extensor carpi
      radialis muscle bilaterally. Electromyography and accelerometry will be recorded while
      subjects will be sitting in an armchair/wheelchair or lying in a hospital bed (a) at rest
      position (b) with arms outstretched (postural condition) (c) at the postural condition with
      500 g mass attached to the hand (weight loading) and (d) while performing a goal-directed
      task (action).

      Statistical analysis: Clinical measures before and after Nusinersen treatment will be
      compared using two-related-samples T-test or repeated-measures ANOVA. To assess possible
      causative mechanisms (disease factors) that determine the presence of involuntary movements,
      separate multilevel binary logistic analyses will be performed.
    
  