
    
      Background: With over 200 million surgical operations per year worldwide and with nearly
      every acute hospital providing surgical services, outcomes from emergency general surgery
      represent internationally important healthcare markers. Best practice and modifiable
      processes that are relevant to good patient outcomes around the world require validation
      using patient-level data.

      Aim: The primary aim of this study is to identify internationally relevant, modifiable
      surgical practices (in terms of modifiable equipment and clinical management) associated with
      best care. These factors will include use of imaging, supplementary oxygen, pulse oximetry,
      critical care, and safety checklists.

      Method: This is a multicentre, international, prospective cohort study. Any hospital in the
      world performing acute surgery will be eligible to enter. Any patient undergoing emergency
      surgery with an incision entering the peritoneal cavity is eligible. Routine, anonymised
      clinical data on consecutive patients will be collected over a two week period in each
      surgical centre, with up to 30 days follow-up data collected. The primary outcome is 24-hour
      post-operative mortality rate. Secondary outcomes include 30-day inpatient post-operative
      mortality rate, and 30-day serious complication rate. Participating centres will also be
      asked to complete a survey that will collect data on hospital structural and resource
      characteristics.

      Data will be entered and stored securely via the University of Edinburgh's REDCap system.
      This pragmatic protocol (which will delivered across many low-resource settings) does not
      allow for independent verification of data entry. Data collection norms are laid out in the
      protocol, where data definitions are also clearly provided. Sample size is not relevant to
      this exploratory audit. Centres will only be included where there is at least 95% data
      completeness.

      Potential explanatory variables that will be explored in subsequent analysis include country
      Human Developmental Index, and resource differences.
    
  