
    
      Periodontal regeneration involves the formation of alveolar bone, cementum and a new
      functional periodontal ligament. Over the recent years the concept of periodontal treatment
      has focused towards regeneration with a goal of regaining natural periodontal apparatus.
      Numerous procedures have been investigated in the past to try to promote periodontal
      regeneration which range from root biomodifications, soft tissue grafts, bone replacement
      grafts, guided tissue regeneration to the use of combinations of the same. However the
      success of these approaches are highly variable. As a consequence current research trends are
      inclined towards the principle of 'biological solutions for biological problem' and thus
      attempts are directed towards various approaches like tissue engineering, ERT (endogenous
      regenerative technology), application of biologics, cell based techniques, biomimetic
      nanoscaffold fabrication and others for periodontal regeneration. Of all known Polypeptide
      Growth Factors, Platelet Derived Growth Factor (PDGF) and Transforming Growth Factor β (TGF
      β) which are abundant in α granule of platelets are shown to exert a favourable effect on
      periodontal regeneration. Therefore use of platelet concentrates is a convenient approach to
      obtain autologous growth factors.

      Platelet rich fibrin matrix (PRFM) is an autologous concentrated platelet-rich thrombin free
      fibrin matrix, prepared by two step centrifugation of blood. Platelets isolated, remain
      intact and retain their growth factor compliment. This allows a more effective, sustained
      release of growth factors to the wound site following PRFM application. During the second
      spin, a cross-linking of fibrin takes place, resulting in the formation of a dense fibrin
      matrix, within which a concentration of viable platelets can be found. Having an organized
      fibrin matrix at the start of healing accelerates the speed of vascular ingress into the
      wound compared to non-accelerated healing, which requires a longer time for fibrin formation
      and the development of vascularity. The earlier the vascularity is established, faster is the
      migration of the bone-forming cells at the wound site and initiation of bone formation.
      Therapeutic applications of platelet-rich products have led to improved bone regeneration.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a multipotent stromal cells with prominent regenerative
      functions. MSCs were first identified and isolated from bone marrow and then found in various
      tissues including umbilical cord, adipose tissue and peripheral blood. Among these sources
      peripheral blood MSCs draw increasing attention as they share similar biological
      characteristics with MSCs derived from bone marrow or adipose tissue. Bone marrow derived
      mesenchymal stem cells(BMMSCs) are multipotent cells capable of differentiating into
      osteoblasts, chondrocytes, adipocytes, fibroblasts, tenocytes, and myoblasts, which are
      considered as a cell source for various tissue repair and regenerating bone defects. The
      requirements of aspiration of bone marrow from the patient will cause pain and morbidity of
      the donor sites. It will be very convenient if peripheral blood mesenchymal stem cells
      (PBMSCs) could be harvested and expanded to enough numbers, with their osteogenic capacity
      maintained in a clinical permitted period.

      Hence, utilizing the osteogenic properties of both platelet rich fibrin matrix and peripheral
      blood mesenchymal stem cells for periodontal regeneration would be novel and may be
      advantageous than using Platelet rich fibrin matrix alone. The literature search does not
      show any human clinical trial conducted till date to assess the regenerative potential of
      this new material i.e. Supercell glue (PRFM and PBMSCs).In this new material because of the
      addition of a patented gel the second spin to procure the PRFM has been eliminated and this
      seems to be an additional advantage. This study therefore aims at the evaluation of Supercell
      glue (PRFM and PBMSCs) as a regenerative material in comparison with PRFM alone in human
      mandibular periodontal intraosseous defects.
    
  