
    
      Exposure to radiographic contrast dye during coronary angiography is well known to cause
      either transient decreases in renal function or acute renal failure.

      Retrospective studies have confirmed that at least 60% of contrast-associated nephropathy
      occurs in subjects with chronic renal failure. The incidence approaches 20% in those with a
      baseline creatinine greater than 198.2 μmol per liter (2.25 mg/dL). Diabetes, in the absence
      of renal insufficiency, does not appear to confer added risk; however diabetic patients with
      chronic renal failure are at highest risk. It is particularly this group that develops
      oliguric renal failure requiring temporary or permanent renal replacement therapy. In
      diabetic patients with mild to moderate renal failure, the incidence of contrast-associated
      nephropathy has been reported to be between 9% and 40% however a greater then 50% incidence
      has been noted in diabetic patients with more severely impaired renal function.

      It is hypothesized that the renal toxicity of contrast medium is related to local
      vasoconstriction. We hypothesize that the protein-stimulated rise in effective RPF and GFR
      might counteract this intrarenal vasoconstriction and reduce the toxicity of contrast medium
      in high-risk patients with diabetes. We propose that an infusion of amino acids prior to the
      administration of contrast dye, will increase renal plasma flow and glomerular filtration
      rate by approximately 20% and hasten excretion of the contrast agent thereby protecting
      high-risk patients from contrast nephropathy.

      This is a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial evaluating the effectiveness of
      an amino-acid infusion in addition to usual therapy (intravenous normal saline infusion) for
      the prevention of renal dysfunction following angiographic dye administration during coronary
      angiography in a high risk group of patients with chronic renal insufficiency.

      Comparison: Primary and secondary outcomes in patients receiving intravenous amino acid
      infusion compared to placebo group receiving intravenous normal saline.
    
  