
    
      The stress that results from preterm birth, requisite acute care and prolonged physical
      separation in the NICU can have adverse physiological/psychological effects on both the
      infant and the mother. In particular, the experience compromises the establishment and
      maintenance of an optimal mother-infant relationship. Within the neonatal intensive care unit
      (NICU), parental involvement in care is necessarily superseded by the healthcare staff. Thus,
      a necessary but detrimental separation between mother and infant is created at a critical
      period when mother-infant bonding and synchrony should be developing. The physiological
      challenges associated with being born too soon, along with disturbances in normal
      mother-infant interactions are key factors underlying the risks of premature infants for a
      broad range of early and midlife disorders. This study aims to highlight the importance of
      investigating early interventions that are designed to overcome or reduce the effects of
      these environmental insults and challenges by implementing a randomized controlled trial of
      Family Nurture Intervention in the NICU. The most important source of regulatory input is
      through contact with the mother and her nurturing behavior. Mother-infant interactions are
      the foundation for the organization of the infant's neurobiological, sensory, perceptual,
      emotional, physical, and relational systems. The infant's responses to the mother provide
      critical feedback which shapes her behavior as well. There are many co-regulatory processes
      embedded in these synchronous and reciprocal interactions which cross neurophysiological and
      neurobehavioral domains. The intervention is designed to increase biologically important
      activities and behaviors that enhance maternally-mediated sensory experiences of preterm
      infants, as well as the infant-mediated sensory experiences in the mother. The investigators
      hypothesize that repeated engagement of the mother and her infant in the intervention's
      calming activities will increase the effectiveness of co-regulation and have immediate and
      long-term beneficial effects for both. The study is assessing the physiological and
      behavioral outcomes of the infants and mothers receiving Family Nurture Intervention versus
      Standard Care over the course of the NICU stay.
    
  