
    
      Up to 200 adults will be recruited from 5 different sites in Singapore. Following screening,
      consent and enrolment, all participants wear a blinded flash glucose monitoring system that
      is masked to the user and asked to continue testing capillary glucose readings at least once
      daily for 2 weeks (week -2 to week -1).Participants who are able to wear the sensor for the 2
      weeks, and are monitoring capillary glucose levels at least 70% of the time for the 2 weeks
      (≥10 readings/2weeks), will carry on to be randomised to intervention or control group (week
      0).

      Upon fulfilling the criteria of blinded sensor wear of 2 weeks and 70% capillary glucose
      monitoring over 2 weeks, participants will be randomised into the control or the intervention
      arm, using web- based retrieval of randomisation allocation.

      At baseline (week 0), all participants in both groups will receive baseline education on
      diabetes self-management, including blood glucose targets, role and timing of diabetes
      medications, and individualised education on macronutrient composition of meals and the goals
      of nutritional therapy in type 2 diabetes. Both groups will use the blinded FGM data at
      baseline for education. In total, both groups will receive 6 education sessions over the 24
      week period, delivered by diabetes nurse educators or nurses and dietitians. The diabetes
      educators and physicians will be aligned towards a standardised curriculum for consistency of
      education through a train-the-trainer workshop.

      Participants randomised to the control arm will receive an education package and be given
      education on how to self-manage glucose levels using a standard capillary blood glucose
      device. They will be encouraged to test blood glucose readings at least twice a day but
      preferably 4 times daily. Participants randomised to the intervention arm will wear the flash
      glucose monitoring system, and will be given education on how to use sensor glucose data for
      self-management. Flash glucose monitoring will be used continuously for 6 weeks. From week 6
      to week 24, the frequency of use of flash glucose monitoring will be reduced to one sensor
      every 4 weeks.

      The intervention period is for 24 weeks, followed by an observation period up to 52 weeks.
      After the 24-week intervention period, participants from both arms will wear a blinded sensor
      for the last 2 weeks of the intervention period (week 25 to week 26). During the observation
      period (weeks 24 to 52), participants in both arms will be encouraged to continue monitoring
      glucose levels.

      Medication titrations will be left to the discretion of the primary physician. Physician
      consults will be at weeks 0, 8, 24, 38, 52. There will be no medication up-titration at week
      0 although the physician may choose to optimize medications if needed: e.g. moving basal from
      bedtime to the morning to reduce the risk of nocturnal hypoglycemia or switching from a
      sulphonylurea agent to an alternative oral medication to reduce the risk of hypoglycaemia. If
      down-titration of medications is required, the reduction/cessation of sulphonylurea agents or
      insulin therapy will be encouraged to alleviate the risk of hypoglycaemia and promote weight
      loss. If there is no improvement in glycemic control or deterioration of glycaemic control at
      weeks 8 and 16 (laboratory HbA1c more than of equal to 8.5% for consecutive readings, one
      laboratory HbA1c more than or equal to 10% or a 2% point HbA1c increase from previous visit),
      medications may be up-titrated. The use of agents which do not increase the risk of
      hypoglycaemia and promote weight loss will be encouraged. If prandial insulin or premixed
      insulin is added to the treatment regimen from week 8 onwards, subjects will still remain
      within the study and be included in the analysis.
    
  