
    
      Stage IV disease represented approximately 25% of all colorectal cancer (CRC) cases. The
      mainstay treatment for stage IV CRC is chemotherapy and surgery is only for palliation of
      symptoms including colorectal bleeding and obstruction. If patients with stage IV CRC were
      not treated, the average survival time was 6 months. Recently, with the progress of
      chemotherapeutic agents, such as oxaliplatin and irinotecan, the stage IV patients' average
      survival time considerably increased to 18 months. However, the currently utilized
      chemotherapeutic regimens, including FOLFOX (Folinic acid ＋ 5-Fu ＋oxaliplatin) and FOLFIRI
      (Folinic acid ＋ 5-Fu ＋ irinotecan), their response rate was only around 50-60%. Moreover,
      these agents had several severe side-effects, such as neurotoxicity and diarrhea. Therefore,
      it is mandatory for us to seek clinicopathogical parameters or novel molecular markers that
      predicted chemosensitivity, in terms of increase of response rate and avoidance of
      side-effects. Recently, the carcinogenesis of CRC was better clarified than before. Some
      molecular markers, such as p53, K-ras, microsatellite instability (MSI), microvessel
      density（MVD）, and epidermal growth factor receptor（EGFR）, and their relation to survival of
      colorectal cancer patients have become the focus of research.

      The present project basically follows our previous study that p53 overexpression predict
      poorer chemosensitivity（Liang et al. Int. J. Cancer 2002; 97: 451-457）, and we plan to
      further explore the association between chemosensitivity with MSI-H, MVD, and EGFR. In fact,
      in either FOLFOX or FOLFIRI, they all belong to 5-Fu-based therapy. Therefore, the tumor
      expression of enzymes related to the metabolism of 5-Fu, such as thymidylate synthase（TS）and
      dipyrimidine dehydrogenase（DPD）, have also become the hot issue of research. In this project,
      we will explore the clinical implications of MSI, TS, DPD, MVD, and EGFR. This is because our
      previous study has indicated that MSI-H is a marker of mutator phenotype of colorectal
      cancer, i.e., colorectal cancers with MSI-H tend to have multiple mutations of downstream
      genes, especially those with repetitive microsatellite sequences within the genes. Our
      previous study has shown MSI-H predicted better chemosensitivity（Liang et al. Int. J. Cancer
      2002; 101: 519-525）. Therefore, we are curious to know that if MSI-H is related to the
      alterations of TS and DPD in the tumor, i.e., if the alterations for the tumor levels of TS
      and DPD is one of the mechanisms for the better chemosensitivity in tumors with MSI-H. On the
      other hand, it has been known that EGFR is related to tumor growth, invasion, angiogenesis,
      and metastasis of colorectal cancers. Therefore, it is mandatory to further dissect the
      correlation between EGFR and MVD. To the best of our knowledge, this has not been published
      before.

      The present project will follow our previous phaseⅡ study of FOLFOX regimens for the
      treatment of stage Ⅳ colorectal cancer. We will recruit at least 200 patients for this study.
      The selection of patients will be based on rigorous eligibility criteria. The patients will
      be allocated based on the expression of each molecular marker and the implementation of
      chemotherapy. For example, in the examination for the clinical implications of EGFR, the
      patients will be classified into four groups: EGFR（＋） chemotherapy（＋）; EGFR（＋）
      chemotherapy（-）; EGFR（-） chemotherapy（＋）; EGFR（-） chemotherapy（-）. Base on the analysis of
      this 2×2 table, we will clarify the prognostic significance of a specific molecular marker is
      due to whether the specific molecular marker predicts biological invasiveness and/or
      chemosensitivity. After the analysis of prognostic significance of each molecular marker, we
      will explore the interrelationship between these molecular markers. Also, all these 5
      molecular markers and various clinicopathological factors will be subjected to multivariate
      analysis. Because the survival of stage Ⅳ CRC patients will generally not exceed 30 months,
      the patients study will not have to be followed up for a long time before the final study
      result appears. We believe the present study will have the following significance: （1）To
      further clarify the mechanisms for the carcinogenesis and progression of CRC; （2）To
      facilitate the development of novel chemotherapeutic agents; and （3） To gain the experience
      for the practice of evidence-based medicine.
    
  