
    
      Background:

      Peritonitis is still considered the most important complication of peritoneal dialysis (PD)
      associated with high mortality, therapy failure, and healthcare expenses. We have recently
      demonstrated that peritonitis continuous to be the most common reason for technical failure
      in PD contributing equally to early and late failure; 12 of 279 patients died as a
      consequence of PD associated peritonitis. The diagnosis of peritonitis is typically based on
      clinical symptoms, which reflects an already advanced state of inflammation and disease.
      Since the implementation of the blood culture system for detection of bacterial growth in PD
      effluent more than ten years ago, no considerable progress has been made to improve diagnosis
      of PD associated peritonitis. In our own PD population 36 out of 219 (16%) infectious
      peritonitis episodes were culture-negative. Usually, detection time of microorganisms
      requires at least 12 hours and time to pathogen identification more than 48 hours. Rapidly
      dividing cells such as bacteria produce heat, which can be measured by calorimetry. As
      recently shown, by our research group, calorimetry allows rapid and accurate diagnosis of
      bacterial growth in cases of meningitis and in contaminated platelets. In pilot experiments,
      we could show the potential and the feasibility of calorimetry for early and accurate
      detection of microorganisms in PD fluid.

      Hypothesis and aims:

      We hypothesize that calorimetry of PD effluent can significantly improve the diagnosis of PD
      associated peritonitis by early and accurate detection of pathogens. As compared to
      traditional culture methods, calorimetry may (i) have a shorter time to positivity and (ii) a
      higher sensitivity without loss of specificity. Specific aims are to evaluate if calorimetry:
      (i) is more rapid in detection of microorganisms compared to conventional blood cultures,
      (ii) is superior, regarding sensitivity and specificity, in detection of PD associated
      peritonitis compared to the standard blood culture system and (iii) is a valuable tool for
      pathogen identification by specific heat signal "signatures" received by calorimetry. The
      Primary endpoint is the time to positivity of bacterial growth by calorimetry and
      conventional blood cultures. The secondary endpoints are the accuracy (i.e. sensitivity and
      specificity) of detection rates of microorganism in PD fluid and the rate of consistency of
      pathogen identification between calorimetry curves and conventional microbiological method.

      Research plan:

      After obtaining informed consent, we will prospectively include in this open-labeled
      comparative study all patients aged 16 years or older, who are performing PD at the
      University Hospital in the time period from January 2009 through December 2011. PD fluid will
      be submitted for conventional screening examination (cell count and differential) and
      calorimetry (sterile MonovetteR tube) during routine visit. If PD peritonitis is suspected,
      PD fluid will be also inoculated in aerobic and anaerobic culture bottles at bedside under
      sterile conditions, each bottle with 10 ml of PD fluid. For calorimetry, 1 ml PD fluid will
      be cultivated at 37°C in the calorimeter tubes, containing 2 ml of trypticase soy broth
      (TSB). Conventional culture bottles and calorimeter tubes are incubated for a total of 6
      days, after which culture and/or calorimetry are regarded negative. Medical records will be
      prospectively abstracted for demographic characteristics, clinical, radiographic, laboratory
      and microbiological data using a standardized case report form. The sample size calculation
      was performed separately for primary and secondary endpoints on the following settings: 0.05,
      power 80%, two-sided test. To reach statistical significant differences for the primary
      endpoint, 286 samples are required for the study. For the secondary endpoint with p0 = 80%
      (sensitivity of conventional blood cultures), p1 = 95% (sensitivity of calorimetry cultures),
      255 samples are required. With an expected drop-out rate of 5%, approximately 300 samples
      will be needed. With expected 120-180 samples/year study duration of approximately 2.5 to 3
      years is needed.

      Expected outcome:

      We anticipate that calorimetry will significantly improve the diagnosis of PD-associated
      peritonitis. First (primary endpoint), we predict an earlier pathogen detection by
      calorimetry; second (secondary endpoint), we expect to increase the sensitivity by 15%
      without loss of specificity (>90%). Furthermore, we assume that the most important pathogens,
      seen in our PD population (i.e. S. aureus, coagulase-negative staphylococci, streptococci,
      enterobacteriaceae) may be identified within 12 hours (compared to > 48 hours by conventional
      microbiological methods) with an accuracy of 80%. The ultra-sensitive calorimetry technique
      may diagnose PD associated peritonitis in an early disease stage with high accuracy. This
      would be the basis of a rapid and targeted antibiotic therapy, which may significantly
      influence the outcome of these patients.
    
  