
    
      Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) is a functional gastrointestinal disease (GI) affecting 10%
      -20% of the population and is composed of abdominal pain/discomfort, in combination with
      alterations of the stool habit. This is a functional disorder prevalent in Italy with double
      percentages in urban areas (13.7%) compared to rural ones (5.9%). IBS is still one of the
      main reasons for patients to seek for gastroenterological advice. The diagnosis of IBS is
      mainly based on the evaluation of symptom profiles by using different scales of assessment
      and also taking into account non-GI symptoms (e.g. insomnia, anxiety, and depression), as
      well as the characteristics of the stools. IBS is classified in different subtypes, namely:
      IBS diarrheal variant (IBS-D), IBS with constipation (IBS-C), IBS mixed variant (IBS-M) and
      non-classifiable. The pathophysiology is only partially understood and an abnormal motility,
      together with alterations in gut-brain communication, a low-grade inflammation, and
      psychosocial factors, have been variously involved. On the other hand, the therapeutic
      choices are still scarce. The majority of IBS subjects believe that some foods are
      responsible for their symptoms, tending to exclude them without, however, compromising their
      nutritional status [14]. Many dietary approaches have been proposed, but only a few
      controlled studies have been performed in this field. Recent evidence suggests that the
      intake of fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols (FODMAPs)
      may trigger GI symptoms in patients with IBS. These carbohydrates are poorly absorbed in the
      small intestine and can pass intact in the colon, where they increase the endoluminal water
      through the osmotic activity and induce the production of gas due to their fermentation by
      intestinal bacterial flora. This, in turn, can cause abdominal distension and diarrhea. Data
      in the literature suggest that a diet with a reduced content in FODMAPs may be beneficial for
      patients with IBS and diarrhea, but so far few randomized trials have reported data in favor
      of the effective superiority of a low-FODMAPs diet compared to the specific dietary advice
      for patients with IBS. On this basis, the present study is aimed at comparing these two diets
      in a randomized, single-blind clinical trial in IBS patients with diarrhea.
    
  