
    
      Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), characterized by abdominal pain/discomfort and disturbed
      bowel frequency, is a common functional bowel disorder that accounts for a substantial
      proportion of patients seen in primary care and secondary referral centers. The impact on
      patients' quality of life and the economic burden on the community are considerable. However,
      the outcome of conventional Western medicine in treating IBS has been disappointing. Several
      potential new therapeutic agents have been withdrawn because of serious adverse events.
      Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has been used in the treatment of IBS for centuries in
      Asian countries but scientific evaluation of its therapeutic function is scarce. A
      methodologically strong trial of a 20-herb formula has shown significant benefit for IBS
      patients. However, the herbal formulation was inadequately characterized and defined for
      repeated clinical studies.

      Subsequent to complete chemical characterization, a randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blind, phase II dose-escalation clinical trial will be conducted to find an optimally
      safe and efficacious dosage of this standardized 20-herb preparation in 104 patients aged 18
      to 75 with all types of IBS. At each of two dosage levels, 52 participants will be randomized
      to treatment for 8 weeks with the herbal formula or placebo in a 1:1 allocation ratio, and
      will be assessed at baseline, weeks 0, 2, 4, 8, and 12 for the clinically important and
      reliable outcome of patient reported global symptom improvement. At the conclusion of the 1st
      dosage level, safety will be assessed prior to using the higher dosage in a new cohort of
      participants. We also will assess individual IBS symptoms, nature, severity, duration, and
      frequency of adverse events, quality of life, concurrent IBS medications and health care
      utilization, and will perform blood tests for safety purposes. Adherence to study medication
      will be verified by dose counts. Results of this dose-ranging study will help to identify the
      optimal dosage of the herbal formula to be used in future randomized placebo-controlled
      trials and in head-to-head comparisons with conventional pharmaceuticals.
    
  