
    
      Background:

        -  Cediranib is a potent orally bioavailable inhibitor of VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3 tyrosine
           kinase activity, but also inhibits c-kit and PDGFR-Beta in vitro.

        -  Phase I trials of Cediranib are ongoing in adults and the drug is well tolerated at
           doses up to 45 mg/d. The toxicity profile includes hypertension, hypoglycemia, elevated
           LFTs, fatigue, dysphonia, diarrhea, nausea and vomiting.

      Objectives:

        -  To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and dose-limiting toxicities of orally
           administered Cediranib on a daily for 28 consecutive days schedule in children and
           adolescents with refractory childhood solid tumors.

        -  To define the toxicity spectrum of oral Cediranib in children and adolescents.

        -  To assess the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of oral Cediranib in children and
           adolescents.

        -  Assess growth plate volume in the right knee using non-contrast MRI scans prior to and
           during administration of cediranib.

      Eligibility:

      -Children and adolescents (greater than 2 yrs and less than 19 years of age) with
      histologically confirmed relapsed or refractory extracranial solid tumors that are measurable
      or evaluable.

      Design:

        -  Cediranib will be administered orally, daily. Treatment cycles are 28 days with no break
           in treatment between cycles. The starting dose level is 12 mg/m(2)/d with escalations to
           17, 25, 35, and 50 mg/ m(2)/d, due to dose limiting toxicity in the initial 2 subjects
           enrolled at 12 mg/m(2)/d the protocol was amended to restart dose escalation at 8
           mg/m(2)/d.

        -  Detailed pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic studies will be performed during the first
           28 day treatment cycle.

        -  The trial follows a standard phase I design with 3 to 6 patients per dose level and
           standard definitions of MTD and DLT. Up to 28 patients will be entered on this trial.
    
  