
    
      For a period of four weeks, during the spring term of 2019, Swedish primary school children
      received a new school lunch menu plan which was optimized through linear programming to be as
      similar to the baseline menu as possible with 40% lower in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGE),
      is nutritionally adequate, and not more expensive.

      Primary schools in three municipalities in the Stockholm Region were invited to the trial via
      their chief meal strategist. To be included in the intervention, the schools had to have
      in-house food preparation (i.e. not serve catered food) and be able to provide recipes for a
      standard four-week menu plan electronically (critical for the optimization process). Three
      schools from one of the municipalities met inclusion criteria and were thus eligible to
      participate in the intervention.

      Recipes for an original (baseline) four-week school lunch menu plan previously served at the
      recruited schools were obtained through the municipality's electronic meal planning system.
      Each food item included has a code that can be coupled to the national food database and a
      national climate database for foods (Research Institutes of Sweden). These foods were
      considered as the baseline food supply needed to compose a new four-week school lunch menu
      plan. The list of foods and amounts was optimized using linear programming to be as similar
      as possible to the baseline list. The optimized food list was then handed to a professional
      meal planner who developed a new menu plan for the intervention, using all foods in the
      optimized food list.

      To assess the effect of the new menu plan, data on daily food waste and consumption was
      collected at school level in each intervention school four weeks before (baseline) as well as
      during the four-week intervention period with a 2-week brake between measurement periods. A
      tool for measuring food waste and consumption in school restaurants developed by the National
      Food Agency in Sweden was used. The tool required weighting of all kitchen waste (both
      preparation waste and cooking waste); all food prepared in the kitchen; the share of the
      prepared food that was served but not eaten by the pupils and had to be thrown away (serving
      waste); the share that could be saved for future meals; and plate waste. The daily number of
      plates used by the pupils in the school restaurant was also recorded. These measurements were
      made daily by the personnel in the school kitchens during baseline as well as during the
      intervention period.

      Data on school meal satisfaction was measured through an online questionnaire at baseline and
      during the last week of the intervention. Pupils in grades 5 and 8 answered the questionnaire
      that contained ten questions related to the school lunch. Five of the ten multiple-choice
      questions specifically covered their general (i.e. not for that specific day of week) sense
      of satisfaction with the school lunch.

      Six focus group discussions (FGD) with pupils in grades 5 and 8 and three FGDs with meal
      staff will be conducted to explore their experiences with the intervention as well as the
      barriers and facilitators to scaling up.
    
  