
    
      In a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial, this study aims to investigate
      whether treatment with prednisolone and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) before and in early
      pregnancy improves the chance of a live birth in women undergoing treatment with artificial
      reproductive technologies (ART) (defined as IVF or ICSI treatment) after previous recurrent
      pregnancy loss (RPL) after ART.

      If an improved live birth rate can be confirmed, the treatment will be the first documented
      treatment supplement for women undergoing ART treatment. A treatment with such effect is
      highly desirable, and in addition to increased birth rate, it will potentially improve
      quality of life and reduce detrimental anxiety and stress symptoms associated with RPL and
      ART treatment, since the number of treatments and the number of losses will be reduced.

      Potential study participants will be identified among patients who are referred to The Center
      for Recurrent Pregnancy Loss of Western Denmark (in the following called The RPL Center),
      located at Aalborg University Hospital (AaUH).

      At the first appointment at The RPL Center, a list of standard health information important
      for the RPL examination will be collected together with the RPL Center's standard blood
      sample.

      Treatment: The participants will be randomly allocated 1:1 to active immunomodulatory
      treatment versus placebo treatment (see Arms and Interventions). Study treatment starts on
      the patient's first day of her menstrual cycle in which her fertility clinic plan to transfer
      an embryo/blastocyst(s) and continue until a negative pregnancy test, pregnancy week 8+0 or
      the time of biochemical pregnancy loss/miscarriage, whichever comes first.

      Approximately 14 days after ET, the patient will have a pregnancy test. If positive, the
      patient will have plasma-hCG measured twice with 1-2 days interval at her local hospital.
      With adequate increment of plasma-hCG, the patient will be booked for her last 3 infusions in
      gestational week 5, 6 and 7, and continue tablet intake. If she is not pregnant, study
      medication will not continue.

      On the day of the first infusion treatment and again approximately four weeks later (the day
      of her third infusion treatment during pregnancy), a study specific blood sample will be
      taken for our research biobank. In participants who do not achieve pregnancy or have a
      miscarriage before gestational week 6 (and therefore do not come for the third infusion), we
      will ask these participants to come for the second blood sample too. The blood samples will
      be analysed by the Department of Clinical Immunology at AaUH.

      An immediate analysis of the blood sample will quantify NK-cells and T-cell subsets by flow
      cytometry. Also, a TruCulture analysis for activity of leucocyte subsets will be carried out
      in 37 patients. The research/future biobank will store frozen serum and plasma for analysis
      of smaller extracellular vesicles.

      If the participant is still pregnant after her last infusion of study medicine before week
      8+0, she will be offered routine monitoring at The RPL Center at AaUH, at her local fertility
      clinic, and her local hospital. She will receive a questionnaire 2 weeks after her nuchal
      scan and 2 weeks after her due date for collection of data regarding her pregnancy, delivery,
      and perinatal outcome.

      Study-relevant data will be collected from medical records, birth records, questionnaires,
      and the research biobank.

      Adverse events will be recorded on all participants from the day of admission and until 6
      months after last infusion treatment or until birth of her child if she becomes pregnant.
      Both adverse events in the participant and her child will be recorded. To support compliance
      and meticulous reporting of side effects, all participants receive a folder with a list of
      all known side effects to prednisolone, IVIg and albumin, a diary with boxes to tick of every
      day the tablet(s) is taken, and a table in which side effects can continuously be noted.
      According to the child, negative perinatal outcomes (low birth weight, preterm birth,
      stillbirth) and malformations will be recorded after birth.
    
  