
    
      Previous mega trials have demonstrated that lipid lowering therapy with HMG-CoA reductase
      inhibitors (statins) reduces the incidence of major cardiovascular events by one-third, thus,
      the benefit of lipid lowering therapy has been substantiated. Such a benefit is significant
      especially for patients with coronary heart disease (CHD). The third report of the National
      Cholesterol Education Program Adult Treatment Panel (NCEP ATP-III) has suggested the
      advantage of more intensive lipid lowering therapy with a goal of reducing LDL-C below 70
      mg/dL for such patients categorized as very high risk. In Japan, Japan Atherosclerosis
      Society (JAS) Guidelines for Diagnosis and Treatment of Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular
      Diseases 2002 have recommended that an LDL-C goal for patients with coronary heart disease
      should be below 100 mg/dL. However, there is no satisfactory evidence whether we need to
      lower LDL-C level less than the 70mg/dL or not in Japanese population.

      Recently, research on diagnosis of coronary plaque has shown significant advances. The
      REVERSAL study in patients with a history of CHD, by diagnosis with intravascular ultrasound,
      suggested that intensive lipid lowering therapy with atorvastatin (80 mg/day) was associated
      with no growth of plaque (-0.4% compared to baseline), whereas therapy with pravastatin (40
      mg/day) showed a slight increase (2.7%) in plaque volume over 18 months in Western
      population.

      In Japanese population, MEGA study have shown the effect of moderate lipid lowering therapy
      in primary prevention of cardiovascular events. However, the effect of moderate lipid
      lowering therapy in secondary prevention of cardiovascular events is unknown.

      Pravastatin and fluvastatin are the statin which has been administered in Japan for several
      years.

      Although LDL-C lowering effect of these statins were less strong than new generation statins,
      their safeｔｙ profile have been well established. Fluvastatin were expected to reduce coronary
      plaque because of its high affinity to arterial tissue and antioxygenic effect compared with
      pitavastatin, but the effect on human coronary plaque has not been reported.

      Relative plaque regression rate between intensive and moderate lipid lowering therapy would
      clarify the ideal level of target LDL-C in Japanese population. Furthermore, the different
      effect on coronary plaque between pravastatin and fluvastatin which have similar LDL-C
      lowering effect and different affinity to arterial tissue would determine the superior lipid
      lowering regimen to affect coronary plaque volume.
    
  