
    
      The FAVOR III China is a prospective, multicenter, blinded, randomized, superiority clinical
      trial comparing the clinical outcome and cost-effectiveness of the two PCI strategies,
      QFR-augmented angiography-guided (QFR-guided) strategy versus an angiography-only-guided
      (angiography-guided) strategy , in evaluation of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD).
      The study is adequately powered to detect if the primary outcome by the QFR-guided PCI
      strategy is superior to the standard angiography-guided PCI strategy. The hypothesis is that
      a QFR-guided PCI strategy results in superior clinical outcome, assessed by rate of Major
      Adverse Cardiac Events (MACE) defined as a composite of all-cause mortality, any myocardial
      infarction (MI) and any ischemia-driven revascularization at 1 year, compared to a standard
      angiography-guided PCI strategy. If QFR-guided strategy is shown to be superior to the
      angiography-guided strategy, the lower clinical costs and better clinical outcome by QFR may
      suggest it to be the preferred strategy for invasive functional evaluation of coronary artery
      stenosis.

      The primary and major secondary endpoints will be analyzed in prespecified subgroups,
      including age, sex, diabetes, smoking status, acute coronary syndrome, body mass index, left
      ventricular ejection fraction, lesion location, length and reference vessel diameter,
      stenosis severity, multivessel disease, calcified lesion, bifurcation, tandem and
      bending/tortuous lesion, QFR gray zone (0.75-0.85), QFR based functional and residual
      functional SYNTAX score, residual QFR, center experience for invasive physiology, and
      learning experience with QFR.

      For the purpose of protecting trial subjects and study personnel while maintaining trial data
      integrity during the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, we particularly arranged
      an unscheduled telephone follow-up for all the participants, to evaluate the potential impact
      of the pandemic. Using a special designed follow-up questionnaire, all subjects were required
      to report the presence of COVID-19 infection and its related complications, any possible
      ischemia symptom, any hospitalization or outpatient visit, and interruption of cardiovascular
      medicine during this time (from Jan 20, 2019 to May 1, 2020). Clinical event committees (CEC)
      will update the working protocol to enable the re-adjudication of events from the onset of
      the pandemic to the end of the trial. All the events will be classified as related, possibly
      related, or not related to COVID-19 infection. To identify the interaction between COVID-19
      pandemic and randomized revascularization strategy in the current study, several prespecified
      subsets will be added to the subgroups analysis, including COVID-19 positive vs. negative
      subjects, pre-pandemic vs. during pandemic vs. post-pandemic subjects, and the sites located
      at the high-risk region vs. low- to mediate-risk region.
    
  