
    
      This study is being conducted to assess whether this vaccine is safe, and if it causes the
      body to create an infection-fighting response. Between 1994 and the present, there have been
      many Ebola virus outbreaks caused by 4 different strains of the virus, affecting mostly
      people living in central Africa and the health care providers trying to treat them. Ebola
      viruses are members of the filoviridae virus family, which also includes the dangerous
      Marburg virus. Ebola virus causes severe and often deadly infection called a viral
      hemorrhagic fever, characterized by organ failure, bleeding, and death.

      To date, the virus is found primarily in Central and West Africa. It is not clear where these
      viruses come from, but it is thought that bats are the most likely source of the human
      outbreaks that occur. Once an outbreak occurs, the virus is spread from person to person
      through direct contact with infected blood or body fluids with an infected individual.

      Given the recent increase in Ebola virus infections occurring in Africa, there is interest in
      making an effective vaccine to protect against the infection. V920/BPSC-1001 is an
      experimental Ebola vaccine candidate demonstrating protection against Ebola virus in animal
      experiments.

      This is a Phase 1 study to evaluate a novel vaccine to Ebola using a live VSV replacing the
      gene encoding the G envelope glycoprotein with the gene encoding the envelope glycoprotein
      from the Zaire strain of Ebola (VSVΔG-ZEBOV also known as V920 and BPSC-1001). This phase 1
      protocol provides a first-in-human study to evaluate the safety and toxicity of
      V920/BPSC-1001 in healthy adult participants. Participants will be randomized to receive
      V920/BPSC-1001 or Placebo by intramuscular injection. Three dose levels will be assessed with
      follow-up visits through 180 days after the injection.
    
  