
    
      Full Title: The impact of a patient-centered discharge summary (PODS) on patient experience
      and health outcomes following discharge: A multicenter randomized controlled trial.

      Short Title: PODS Impact Study

      Primary Objective: To evaluate the impact of a patient-centered discharge instruction tool on
      patient experience following hospital discharge.

      Primary Outcome Measure: Patient experience within 72 hours following discharge from
      hospital. Count of negative responses (i.e., "No", or "Not at all" or "Partly") to 6
      prespecified questions on patient experience of transition of care answered 72 hours
      following discharge from hospital, with the first 5 questions from the CIHI Patient
      Experiences Survey - In-Patient Care (CPES-IC). Groups will be compared using a rate ratio
      (ratio of negative binomial rates).

      Secondary Objectives: 1) Evaluate the impact of a patient-centered discharge instruction tool
      on health outcomes following hospital discharge. 2) Identify the level of patient and system
      engagement needed when providing discharge instructions and patient-specific characteristics
      that might impact the use and effectiveness of discharge instructions.

      Secondary Outcome Measures: Self-reported adherence to medications, diet and activity
      restrictions, and scheduled visits with primary care physician and/or specialist at 30 days
      following discharge, and a composite of unscheduled visits to primary care physician,
      emergency room, readmission to hospital or death at 30 days and 3 months following discharge.
      Proportion of patients who responded "Yes", or "Quite a Bit" or "Completely", to 4 out of the
      6 prespecified questions on patient experience of transitions of care, 72 hours following
      discharge from hospital as a measure of patient experience of their transition of care
      (original primary outcome, re-specified as secondary outcome based on DMC recommendation).

      Study Design: The study will use a mixed methods approach with a randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) and qualitative study.

      Inclusion Criteria: All patients (>=18 years) admitted to inpatient units at University
      Health Network (UHN) (and other participating hospitals in Ontario) with a primary diagnosis
      of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pneumonia, stroke, congestive heart failure, post
      hip and knee replacement will be recruited for randomization to receive the PODS versus
      standard of discharge care. These diseases were chosen to align with the Ministry of Health
      and Long Term Care (MOHLTC) quality based procedures.

      Exclusion Criteria: Patients who are being discharged to another facility rather than home,
      who have a prognosis of less than 3 months, who do not have a telephone for post-discharge
      follow-up or with cognitive impairment or significant language barrier for whom a family
      member or professional interpreter is not available will be excluded from the study.

      Intervention: The patient-oriented discharge summary (PODS) is a discharge instruction tool
      co-created with patients which provides a written template for providers to engage patients
      and caregivers when reviewing discharge instructions on medications, activity and diet
      restrictions, follow-up appointments or outstanding investigations and worrisome symptoms
      warranting emergency care (Appendix A). The PODS also uses plain and simple wording, large
      fonts, pictograms, and includes white space for patients to take notes and provides the
      option for translation of major headings into the most common spoken languages. As this will
      be a pragmatic design, we may make modifications to the process involved in completing the
      PODS, such as using pre-filled disease-specific information, if system processes and
      providers involved deem it more usable and feasible.

      Sample Size: We estimate that we will require at minimum 199 and at maximum 388 patients in
      each study arm if we want to detect a 10% minimum improvement in patient experience scores.
      Currently, we have study centers that would like to participate in Toronto, Ottawa and
      Thunder Bay.

      Accrual Period: Enrollment for this study will begin once ethics approval is obtained and
      continue until 776 patients have been enrolled (in total across all participating sites).

      Study Duration: The study is expected to run between December 1, 2015 and March 31, 2018
      (approximately 3 years) following research ethics board (REB) approval. This will allow for a
      year of study enrollment across participating sites until sample size is achieved as well as
      3 months of follow-up for primary and secondary endpoints and a year for data analysis and
      manuscript preparation.

      Data Monitoring Committee (DMC): A DMC was established on May 4, 2018, due to challenges in
      recruitment and widespread implementation of the intervention across multiple hospitals in
      Ontario resulting in a change in the standard of discharge care in the trial's setting. In
      view of the challenges in recruiting future patients, resource constraints, and statistical
      considerations, the DMC recommended that recruitment be stopped prematurely and that the
      analytical approach for the primary outcome be changed, analyzing the data as count data
      rather than dichotomized data. Study recruitment was stopped at the end of August 2018, after
      a total of 526 participants had been randomized, with final follow up of participants in
      December 2018 (see the Document Section for full details).
    
  