
    
      The research objective here is to perform a pilot study in determining the level of such
      monocytes in MI/stroke patients at various times after the acute ischemic event. As controls,
      both stable coronary disease and healthy control subjects will be enrolled in whom these
      circulating cells will be determined.

      The research objective will be accomplished via the following specific aim:

      The specific aim will determine the levels of P2X4 monocytes, Flt-1/VEGFR-1 and CD13
      monocytes. The researchers may collect three blood samples at various time points. The
      samples will be collected within 48 hours of admission to the hospital, 3-5, and 30-90 days
      following MI/stroke. As a control, levels of P2X4, Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+) and CD13 monocytes in
      age- matched healthy subjects and in SCAD subjects will be used. Additionally for CD13
      monocytes, the researchers plan to test if CD13 is phosphorylated in the circulating
      monocytes of patients who have undergone myocardial/cerebral infarction and determine its
      utility as a biomarker of infarct size.

      Although the study is not designed to determine whether those MI/stroke patients within the
      top quartile of P2X4 or Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+) or CD13 monocyte levels are more prone to develop
      severe tissue or organ dysfunction, the study will collect baseline and subsequent clinical
      data set and should position the study team to test this hypothesis in the future.

      The researchers might expect to show that MI/stroke patients have a higher level of P2X4,
      Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+) and/or CD13 monocytes as well as circulating cytokines and metabolites as
      compared to SCAD and age-matched healthy controls. The researchers might also expect that
      thrombectomy samples from ischemic stroke patients will have higher inflammatory cytokines
      and inflammatory monocytes.

      Objectives:

        -  To obtain blood samples from STEMI patients for determination of P2X4, Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+)
           and CD13 monocyte levels as well as circulating cytokines and metabolites on the days:
           1(within 48 hours of admission), 3-5, and 30-90 days after the MI.

        -  To obtain blood samples from NSTEMI (non-ST segment elevation MI) patients for
           determination of P2X4, Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+) and CD13 monocyte levels as well as circulating
           cytokines and metabolites on the days: 1(within 48 hours of admission hospital), 3-5,
           and 30-90 days after the MI.

        -  To obtain blood samples from ischemic stroke patients for determination of P2X4, Flt-1+
           (VEGFR-1+) and CD13 monocyte levels as well as circulating cytokines and metabolites on
           the days: 1(within 48 hours of admission), 3-5, and 30-90 days after the ischemic event.
           In addition, thrombectomy samples which are normally discarded, when obtained and
           available, will be used.

        -  To obtain blood samples from age-matched SCAD and healthy control subjects for a
           one-time determination of P2X4, Flt-1+ (VEGFR-1+) and CD13 monocyte as well as
           circulating cytokines and metabolites levels.

        -  To compare the levels in STEMI, NSTEMI and ischemic stroke vs. those of SCAD and healthy
           control subjects.

      Hypotheses:

      STEMI, NSTEMI and stroke subjects will have a higher level of P2X4, Flt-1+ (VEGFR- 1+) and
      CD13 monocytes than age-matched SCAD and healthy control subjects.
    
  