
    
      This study is a multicenter, randomized(study drug assigned by chance), open-label,
      nationwide study. Patients with moderate to severe chronic pain due to the oncological
      disease (VAS>5) meeting the inclusion and exclusion criteria were randomized to treatment
      with fentanyl-TTS (transdermal patches, initial dosage: 25µg/h patch every 3 days,
      experimental drug) or with minor opioids (Tramadol, initial dosage of 200mg/day and
      Dihydrocodeine initial dosage of 120mg/day, control arm). The follow-up and drug
      administration was two months, during which controls were performed every 7 days, except for
      the first that was on Day 4. If pain was not controlled (VAS<3), the investigator could
      increase the dose of the relevant drug (according to data sheet). The primary endpoint has
      been the control of pain during treatment. Pain was assessed by the visual analogue scale.
      Pain severity was assessed at each follow-up visit. The secondary endpoint was to assess the
      advantages of using fentanyl-TTS after the first step of the WHO analgesic ladder as compared
      to minor opioids. These advantages were assessed based on the incidence of side effects
      associated with treatment with opioids during treatment where the following was assessed by a
      table with the most common side effects: nausea, vomiting, constipation and drowsiness (WHO)
      and their severity, the quantity of support drugs required by the patients to cope with the
      side effects occurring, adverse events related to the study drug, and the percentage of
      patients discontinuing or switching treatment due to side effects. Fentanyl, dosage forms:
      25µg/h, 50µg/h and 100µg/h. Transdermal patches (initial dosage: 25µg/h patch every 3 days).
      Tramadol, dosage forms: 100mg, 150mg and 200mg, (initial dosage: 200mg/day). Dihydrocodeine,
      dosage forms: 60mg, 90mg and 120mg, (initial dosage: 120mg/day). If pain was not controlled
      (VAS<3), the investigator could increase the dose of the relevant drug. The follow-up and
      drug administration was two months, during which controls were performed every 7 days.
    
  