
    
      The systematic literature review captures the perspective of researchers on functioning of
      community dwelling people aged 75 years and older. Different literature databases will be
      searched combining search terms referring to community dwelling elderly and to functioning.
      Two investigators will independently screen the abstracts and titles for eligibility. In
      reviewing the full articles, the underlying concepts that are contained in the measures and
      in the article text will be identified, and then linked to the ICF categories using
      established linking rules. A frequency analysis will be conducted on the linked categories.
      The ICF categories that are identified in at least 5% of all publications will be included in
      the list of candidate categories.

      The qualitative study aims to identify which aspects of functioning, environmental and
      personal factors are most important to community dwelling people aged 75 years and older.
      Participants will be provided with a camera for one week to take pictures of activities they
      are no longer able to perform or activities they still perform well. On the basis of these
      pictures, individual interviews and focus groups will be conducted. Meaningful concepts will
      be identified and linked to the ICF categories.

      The expert survey aims to gather opinions of experts on aspects of functioning and
      environmental factors that are relevant for community dwelling people aged 75 years and
      older. Meaningful concepts will be identified and linked to the ICF categories.

      The empirical multicenter study aims to identify the most common problems experienced by
      community-dwelling people aged 75 and older using clinical assessments. A health professional
      will conduct semi-structured interviews based on the extended ICF checklist. This is a
      selection of 125 categories that are considered to be most important for clinical practice.
      This list is extended by other categories thought to be sensitive to functioning in old age.
    
  