
    
      This pilot randomized trial seeks to determine the usability and perceived value of a primary
      care-based eHealth application that: (1) uses a validated tool (EPDS), to identify and
      monitor depression and anxiety symptoms in new parents; and (2) collects data on contextual
      factors and treatment preferences that inform the provision of tailored resources to patients
      and support the PCP to initiate a tailored treatment pathway. The trial will take place at
      two sites in the Greater Toronto Area: Women's College Hospital Family Practice Health
      Centre, and South-East Toronto Family Health Team.

      Potential participants (e.g. pregnant women and their partners) will be identified and
      recruited during pregnancy. Participants will be randomized with an allocation ratio of 2:1
      to increase opportunities to learn about the intervention processes. Participants in the
      intervention arm will complete e-surveys to monitor for symptoms at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 12 weeks
      postpartum. When symptoms are identified, participants will additionally complete information
      about contextual factors and treatment preferences. A personalized eToolkit for the patient
      and clinical decision supports for their primary care provider (PCP) will be produced based
      on responses to the e-surveys at each time-point. The personalized eToolkit with
      recommendations for each parent will be generated that includes information about online
      resources, treatment options, and local, community-based psycho-educational and/or social
      supports. Participants will be emailed a link to their customized set of resources. The
      application seamlessly integrates into the primary care electronic medical record (EMR) to
      provide decision support for the primary care provider, and facilitate shared decision making
      during the clinical encounter regarding treatment and referral options. Participants will
      also use the eHealth application to monitor their symptoms over time, alert the primary care
      team regarding changes, and facilitate timely treatment changes as needs evolve. Participants
      in the control arm will receive usual care from their primary care provider. If they are
      flagged as symptomatic at baseline (EPDS>15, PHQ-9 and/or GAD-7 > 10) they will be removed
      from the study, and provided with electronic resources immediately. A message via EMR will be
      sent to their PCP, and if suicidality is flagged, their PCP will also receive a message via
      fax and phone.
    
  