
    
      1. The use of DES in STEMI and NSTEMI is still a matter of intense debate. Reassuring data
           of trials, meta-analyses and registries conflict with reports of delayed arterial
           healing and higher risk of stent thrombosis after DES implantation in ACS patients.
           Heterogeneity in healing (bad healing at the site of the necrotic core), stent strut
           malapposition and plaque prolapse are all proposed as possible causes for a higher risk
           of stent thrombosis. Furthermore, next generation DES claims a better safety profile in
           comparison to first-generation DES.

        2. Thus far, our information on tissue characterisation of coronary plaques prone to
           rupture, relies on histopathology data. Recently, new invasive coronary imaging
           techniques; radiofrequency intravascular ultrasound (RF-IVUS) and optical coherence
           tomography (OCT) provide new possibilities for in vivo assessment of coronary plaques.

      Aims:

        1. To evaluate vessel healing, expressed as stent strut coverage and stent strut apposition
           assessed with OCT at 9 months after PCI and compare between everolimus Xience V (Abbott
           Vascular, Santa Clara, CA) and biolimus A9-eluting Biomatrix (Biosensors, Newport Beach,
           CA) stents, in 3 different groups of patient subsets (STEMI, NSTEMI and patients with
           stable/unstable angina).

        2. To make, by use of OCT and IVUS-TC, a detailed characterisation of coronary lesions
           before PCI and to study the possible link between specific lesion characteristics (e.g.
           thin cap fibroatheroma, large necrotic core, extensive calcification,…) and outcome
           (risk of distal embolisation and myonecrosis in the short term, risk of bad strut
           coverage or risk of restenosis or stent thrombosis on longer term). To compare the
           performance of both technologies (OCT and IVUS-TC) in a direct way.

        3. To assess, by use of OCT and IVUS-TC, the stented segment just after the intervention
           (assessment of stent expansion, stent strut apposition, detection of edge dissection,
           intraluminal thrombus) and correlate with angiographic and clinical outcomes. Again, the
           performance of both technologies will be compared in a direct way.

        4. To study the influence of drug-eluting stent implantation in a 3-5 cm long segment of
           the coronary artery just distal to the implanted stent by use of OCT at baseline and at
           9 months after stent implantation.

      Methods: Patients undergoing PCI are recruited from 3 groups of patients: patients with STEMI
      (group I), patients with NSTEMI (group II) and patients with stable/unstable angina (group
      III). From each group, 20 patients are included. In each individual group, randomization
      between an everolimus-eluting stent and a biolimus A9-eluting stent is performed. All
      patients undergo IVUS-TC and OCT examination of the stented segment (and the 3 to 5 cm distal
      from the stented segment) just before and after stent implantation at the time of the index
      procedure. All patients undergo control angiography with OCT examination at 9 months
      follow-up.
    
  