
    
      In the past two decades the interest in minimally invasive techniques for transoral treatment
      of head and neck benign and malignant lesions has been growing due to the decreased morbidity
      of transoral approaches, and some surgeons have been moving away from traditional open
      resections. Transoral resection of neoplasms of the upper aerodigestive, by its minimally
      invasive nature, may afford a shorter hospitalization and recovery time for patients when
      compared to those patients who undergo traditional "open" surgery. In surgery of the
      oropharynx, hypopharynx, and larynx, transoral endoscopic surgery can provide similar
      outcomes in terms of local control of disease when compared to open procedures, while
      improving time to restoration of oral intake and shortening time to tracheostomy
      decannulation. Therefore, in select patients, a transoral surgical approach may afford clear
      advantages over traditional open approaches. Current techniques, however, are limited by the
      inability to attain direct line of site exposure of the lesion. Use of robot-assisted
      technology as a means to overcome surgical limitations, to provide surgeons with improved
      dexterity and precision, and to couple advanced imaging techniques with three-dimensional
      depth perception, may allow for the completion of transoral surgical approaches in patients
      for whom conventional technology has been suboptimal.

      The da Vinci® Robotic Surgical System (Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA) is
      FDA-approved for use in a variety of laparoscopic, thoracoscopic, cardiac, and urologic
      surgical procedures. This protocol will assess the use of the da Vinci® Robotic Surgical
      System (Intuitive Surgical, Inc., Sunnyvale, CA) in transoral surgeries in patients with
      benign and malignant lesions of the oral cavity and laryngopharynx. Traditional endoscopic
      removal of tumors of the oropharynx and laryngopharynx is usually preferred to traditional
      open resection because of the decrease in morbidity and improved functional outcomes
      experienced by patients. The limiting step in these procedures has been exposure of,
      visualization of, and access to candidate tumors. The da Vinci surgical system offers the
      possibility of significant improvements in exposure, visualization and access to these
      candidate tumors with no added risk to patients. Overall this may significantly increase the
      number of patients who are candidates for endoscopic surgery. Alternative procedures will
      include traditional open surgical removal of tumors as well as traditional endoscopic removal
      of tumors using the microscope and CO2 laser. Open surgical approaches are reserved for
      patients who have large tumors unsuitable for endoscopic removal or in whom endoscopic
      visualization of the tumor is inadequate or impossible. The da Vinci surgical system would
      offer improved visualization of tumors that might otherwise be inaccessible to a traditional
      endoscopic approach.

      Candidate patients will present with a neoplasm of the oropharynx, hypopharynx or larynx.
      Those patients assessed preoperatively to be candidates for transoral surgery (eg, Mallampati
      class I or II, normal range of neck motion, no trismus) will undergo surgery via a transoral
      approach to resect the tumor. This will require general anesthesia and may require
      postoperative hospitalization. If the tumor can be accessed, resection will proceed using the
      da Vinci robot. In whom the tumor cannot be accessed, resection will proceed via the
      conventional open approach. Pre and postoperative care will not be affected by this protocol,
      as it deals strictly with the manner in which the tumor is removed. Postoperative care and
      visits are standardized as to the nature of the tumor (eg, malignant tumors usually require
      follow-up visits every four to six weeks to monitor for tumor recurrence). Complications,
      blood loss, operative time, length of hospitalization, time to resumption of oral intake,
      time to decannulation, and overall local control rates will be assessed in the postoperative
      period.
    
  