
    
      Uterine artery embolization (UAE) is an effective treatment for leiomyomas, that has been
      proposed to replace hysterectomy in women who don't want any more pregnancy. Few authors have
      investigated the results of UAE in women desiring subsequent pregnancy. It might represents
      an alternative to multiples myomectomies by laparotomy , which results on postoperative
      fertility remain disappointing. The main goal of this study is to evaluate spontaneous
      fertility after uterine embolization, in women between 18 and 40 years old. The functional
      outcome, the efficiency, complications and side-effects of UAE will be also reported
      especially on the reproduction function. This will be an open prospective, multicentric,
      non-randomized, interventional study. Within the context of an experimental phase II essay,
      an optimal Simon plan with 2 stages is required. The current study is the first step. It will
      include 30 patients treated in the Gynecology departments of Pr MADELENAT and Pr Mathieu
      CAPUTO (BICHAT Hospital, Paris) and Pr Ville (Poissy Hospital, Poissy). Preliminary results
      will be reported at 1 year postoperative which correspond to the participation period of 15
      months and the total follow-up period will be 2 years. Inclusion criteria will be the women
      whom multiples myomectomies by laparotomy would be necessary, with symptomatic myoma and an
      immediate wish of pregnancy. The number of first pregnancies among women who try to be
      pregnant (conception rate) and among all women (fertility rate) will be calculated. The
      effects of the embolisation on the genital physiology, the leiomyomas and the ovarian
      function will be evaluated by questionaries, clinical examination, biology exams (hormones),
      ultrasound and IRM at 3, 6 and 12 months, and coelioscopy and hysteroscopy at 3 months. The
      pregnancy progress will be evaluated in a longer study.
    
  