
    
      The study is a multi-institutional, prospective trial, conducted primarily at the University
      of California, Davis Medical Center (UCDMC) by the Department of Surgery, Division of Trauma
      and Acute Care Surgery. The angioembolization arm will be multicenter while the nonoperative
      group will be enrolled only at UCDMC. There will be a total of 90 subjects, with 30 in each
      of the three arms (nonoperative, angioembolization, splenectomy).

      Adult trauma patients (defined as those aged 18 to 65 years old) sustaining a splenic injury
      and planned nonoperative management, are eligible for enrollment in the nonoperative arm. The
      management decision for the splenic injury is entirely at the discretion of the attending
      trauma surgeon. Any patient who subsequently undergoes embolization or splenectomy will be
      withdrawn from the study.

      Adult trauma patients sustaining a splenic injury and undergoing splenic artery embolization
      are eligible for enrollment in this arm of the study. The management decision for the splenic
      injury is entirely at the discretion of the attending trauma surgeon and radiologist. All
      patients undergoing successful splenic artery embolization (no subsequent splenectomy or
      splenorrhaphy, i.e., no cross-over) are eligible.

      Patients managed nonoperatively will be vaccinated within three days of their diagnosis, per
      standard operating protocol at UCDMC. At the time of vaccination, 7cc of venous blood will be
      collected for baseline antibody analysis. Patients will return four weeks later for a
      follow-up phlebotomy of another 7cc of blood for analysis of functional antipneumococcal
      antibody generated in response to vaccine antigen challenge. Blood samples will be
      centrifuged and stored, and stored sera will be sent in batches on dry ice to Flow
      Applications, Inc. in McDonough, Georgia for antibody analysis. All samples will be assigned
      unique patient identifiers.

      Responses to the 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine will be measured by ELISA to
      determine the geometric mean increase in immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody titer to
      pneumococcal polysaccharide (Pnc Ps) serotypes. Functional antibody, measured by percent kill
      of a known pneumococcal concentration, will be determined by opsonophagocytosis assay (OPA).
      Titers for serogroup 4 and serotypes 6B, 19F, and 23F will be measured, and geometric mean
      rises in antibody concentrations will be determined to measure response to vaccination.

      For those treated with nonoperative management, degree of antibody response and grade of
      splenic injury will be analyzed against normal controls.

      Patients treated via splenic artery embolization will undergo a standard post-embolization
      computed tomographic exam of the abdomen three to five days postinjury to evaluate the
      effectiveness of the embolization procedure. The percent of viable, perfused spleen will be
      calculated from this CT. Antibody response will be compared against the location of the
      intravascular coils (i.e., proximal versus distal embolization) and the percent of viable
      spleen as calculated on the follow-up CT scan.
    
  