
    
      Study Design

      Users

      This study is a stratified, parallel, randomized waitlist control study that will be
      implemented at Baycrest and the Jewish Senior Living Group (JSLG), in which eligible,
      consented participants will be randomly allocated to the ElliQ (intervention) group or the
      waitlist control group following a 1:1 allocation ratio. In light of the potential benefits
      of ElliQ exposure, the waitlist control group will receive the ElliQ intervention after
      serving as a comparable contemporary control group for the ElliQ intervention group.

      Those in the intervention group will first undergo participant characterization and baseline
      data collection (time 1; week 0). Shortly after, they will be provided with the ElliQ
      technology in their homes. They will then trial the device for 8 weeks (weeks 1-8). The
      8-week trial will be followed with a post-trial data-collection session (time 2; week 9),
      where they will be asked to return the ElliQ system. At this time, participants will be asked
      to complete some of the same measures they completed at time 1, and they will also have the
      opportunity to take part in a one-time, audio-recorded focus group or interview, where field
      notes will be taken. Following this, the participants will not have a device from weeks
      10-17; on week 18, they will be asked to attend a follow-up session (time 3; week 18), where
      they will be asked to complete some of the same measures they completed at times 1 and 2.

      Those who get assigned to the second (waitlist) condition will attend an initial baseline
      data-collection session (time 1; week 0), where questionnaires related to participant
      characteristics and baseline measures will be administered. Participants will then wait for 8
      weeks to get the ElliQ device (weeks 1-8). After this 8-week wait, participants will be
      invited to attend another data-collection session (time 2; week 9), where they will be asked
      to complete some of the same measures that they completed at time 1. Following this session,
      participants will trial the device for 8 weeks (weeks 10-17). After the 8-week trial,
      participants will be asked to attend a post-trial data-collection session (time 3; week 18),
      where they will return the ElliQ system. Participants will then complete a number of the same
      measures that were completed at times 1 and 2, and attend a one-time, audio-recorded focus
      group or interview session, where field notes will be taken.

      Upon completion of the study tasks (i.e., at the final data-collection session at week 18),
      each participant's study participation will conclude.

      Informal Caregivers

      Informal caregivers (e.g., family, friends who provide care for the ElliQ user) may also be
      enrolled in the study to investigate their experiences with the messaging function of the
      ElliQ system (user and caregiver pairs will be referred to as "dyads" going forward). Of
      note, users who do not have caregivers can still enroll in the study.

      This will be an exploratory study, insofar as eligible and consented informal caregivers will
      complete a baseline data collection session for participant characterization; they will also
      have the opportunity to test the ElliQ messaging function for the 2 months while their study
      partner (i.e., the ElliQ user) tests the ElliQ system. Informal caregivers will have the
      opportunity to discuss their ElliQ experience, caregiving experience, and their perception of
      the impacts the ElliQ system and messaging function had on their study partner's social
      engagement, loneliness, access to technology, and use of different communication methods
      (e.g., online, in-person, over the phone, etc.). An audio-recorded focus group or interview
      (where field notes will be taken) will be held with informal caregivers at the end of the
      ElliQ users' 2-month test/use period (i.e., on or around week 9 for caregivers of users in
      the intervention group, or on or around week 18 for caregivers of users in the waitlist
      control group).

      The teams at Baycrest and JSLG will follow a similar protocol (for both users and informal
      caregivers) and will submit applications for ethics approval through the Baycrest Research
      Ethics Board and University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Institutional Review Board
      and the JSLG Research Committee.

      Recruitment

      Users

      For this study, the teams at Baycrest will be recruiting up to 50 participants and JSLG will
      be recruiting up to 50 participants (i.e., users) at each site, with the aim of recruiting a
      total of 100 participants. Participants will include residents at Baycrest or JSLG/UCSF, as
      well as community-dwelling older adults who live within the vicinity of Baycrest or
      JSLG/UCSF. Recruitment will occur on an ongoing basis at both Baycrest and JSLG.

      Recruitment venues

        1. San Francisco, JSLG in Partnership with UCSF (n=50)

        2. Baycrest (n=50)

      Participant consent will adopt the tenets of the Partnership of Consent Protocol, whereby the
      prospective participant (or their substitute decision maker, if applicable) will review the
      consent form with research staff. Consent will be obtained from the prospective participant
      (or their SDM), if they are able to provide it and can answer the teach-back questions.

      Informal Caregivers

      Study participants (users) will be asked by the research staff if they have an informal
      caregiver (e.g., a family member or friend who provides care for them) who might be
      interested in taking part in the study as well. Those participants who indicate that they do
      have an informal caregiver who might be interested will be provided with the research staff's
      contact information to share with their informal caregiver. Interested caregivers who contact
      the research staff will be provided with more information about the study either over the
      phone, in person, or over email. Users who do not have informal caregivers can still take
      part in the study and will not have access to the messaging function.
    
  