
    
      In Canada, overweight and obesity are major public health concerns that affect nearly 45% of
      reproductive-age women. In pregnancy, overweight and excessive gestational weight gain are
      important risk factors for complications including gestational diabetes, hypertensive
      disorders of pregnancy, fetal macrosomia, and cesarean delivery. Women who are overweight in
      pregnancy and who gain excessive weight are also predisposed to subsequent obesity, and their
      offspring are predisposed to childhood obesity and metabolic syndrome. In light of the
      failure of pregnancy lifestyle interventions to improve pregnancy outcomes for overweight and
      obese women, earlier intervention is mandated. Preconception appears as a key period to
      prevent overweight and pregnancy complications.

      The main objective of this study is to evaluate the impact of the Healthy for my Baby
      intervention on the diet quality of women in the preconception period, as measured with the
      Canadian Healthy Eating Index 2007 (C-HEI). Urinary profiling of dietary exposure biomarkers
      will be used as a secondary assessment of diet quality. Secondary outcomes for preconception
      include the effect of the intervention on the lifestyle habits and anthropometric measures of
      women and their partners.

      In pregnancy, the main secondary objective is to evaluate the impact of the intervention on
      the pattern of gestational weight gain as defined by the 2009 Institute of Medicine
      recommendations. Other outcomes for pregnancy include the rates of gestational diabetes,
      hypertensive disorders of pregnancy, macrosomia, and cesarean delivery. The lifestyle habits
      of women and their partner and the anthropometric measures of their spouses will also be
      evaluated in pregnancy. Fertility outcomes will be reported as exploratory measures.

      Eligible subjects are couples aged 18 to 40 years who wish to conceive within 6 months of
      trial inclusion, in which the female partner has a BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2. Exclusion criteria are
      insufficient knowledge of French or English, an anticipated move to another region, a
      personal history of infertility, type 1 or 2 diabetes mellitus, prior bariatric surgery, an
      eating disorder established by clinical diagnosis, medical contraindication to pregnancy,
      medical contraindication to physical activity, participation in another intensive lifestyle
      intervention, or a known or anticipated disease or surgery likely to cause an important
      weight loss. Multiple pregnancies will be excluded from the pregnancy follow-up to limit
      aberrant data.

      Couples will be randomized in blocks to the intervention or control group in a 1:1 ratio with
      randomly selected block size. The intervention will include two sessions of motivational
      interviewing on healthy lifestyle in preconception, and two more sessions in pregnancy. As an
      adjunct to in-person meetings, couples will have access to a mobile phone application to
      self-monitor daily lifestyle smart goals. Participants in the control group will receive
      standard advice on lifestyle as provided by their usual care provider. To improve compliance
      with the study follow-up, participants in this group will have access to a simplified version
      of the mobile application that contains a fertility calendar and a research visit calendar.

      Research visits will take place at study inclusion and every 3 months in preconception for up
      to 6 months. In pregnancy, study visits will take place in the first (6-8 weeks), second
      (24-26 weeks), and third (32-34 weeks) trimesters. The C-HEI will be measured at 0, 2, 4, and
      6 months in preconception and every trimester in pregnancy with two web-based 24-hour dietary
      recalls. Urine samples will be collected at 0 and 2 months in preconception and at 24-26
      weeks in pregnancy. Data on pregnancy and neonatal outcomes will be collected from medical
      files at the end of the trial.

      A sample size of 54 women is required to detect a 10-point difference in the C-HEI score
      (maximal value 100) between the groups with an alpha value of 5%, 80% power, and a 13 points
      standard deviation. Sixty-eight women and their partners will be recruited to account for a
      20% attrition rate.

      The evolution of the C-HEI score with time in the preconception period will be compared
      between groups using a mixed linear model. Student's t-test will also be used to compare the
      average HEI-score between groups at 3, and 6-month follow-up. A statistical significance of
      5% with Bonferroni correction for multiple comparisons will be used for the preconception
      primary outcome assessment. The concentration of 40 urinary metabolites will be compared
      between baseline, 2 months in preconception and 24-26 weeks of pregnancy using repeated
      measures ANOVA or Friedman test with a Bonferroni adjustment for multiple comparisons. The
      proportion of adequate gestational weight gain will be compared between groups with a
      Chi-squared test. Secondary outcomes will be assessed using Student's t-test, Wilcoxon test,
      Chi-squared test, or Fisher's exact test as appropriate. For all secondary outcomes
      statistical significance is set at 5%.
    
  