
    
      The main objective of the study is to develop a prognostic model for estimating the risk of
      neonatal respiratory distress in children with prenatally diagnosed congenital pulmonary
      malformation.

      The study will be offered to all pregnant women referred to a Center for Prenatal Diagnosis
      (CPD), due to the identification of a congenital lung malformations in the fetus. This study
      does not induce any changes in clinical and therapeutic monitoring proposed by the team in
      charge of the mother. At inclusion, and at each prenatal evaluation, prenatal parameters are
      entered in an e-CRF. In an effort to minimize any potential intra- and interoperator
      variability in malformation measurements over time, this study includes a standardized and
      centralized evaluation of ultrasound and MRI (if available) acquisitions of volume
      measurements. When the place of delivery is determined, a contact is made before birth with
      the teams (maternity, neonatology, intensive care unit), so that neonatal data are also
      collected prospectively. A phone call to the family is planned for the end of the first
      postnatal month, to identify any respiratory event that would have occurred between returning
      home after childbirth and the first month.

      The routine follow-up of these children is then ensured in accordance with current national
      recommendations, in conjunction with the reference centers for rare respiratory diseases in
      children (28 university hospitals, spread across all regions of France). A telephone survey
      every 6 months with the referring physician in this specialized center or, alternatively,
      with the family, will collect clinical outcome until the age of 2 years. If a surgical
      intervention is planned within this interval, consent to collect part of the surgical
      specimen for research purposes will be solicited. This tissue will be immediately frozen at
      -80 ° C, to allow laser microdissection and DNA extraction from epithelial cells lining the
      malformation (Inserm U955). Frozen tissue will be conserved at the biobank of Necker-Enfants
      Malades.
    
  