
    
      Children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) may have severe behavior problems, including
      aggression, self-injurious behaviors, severe and persistent stereotypic behaviors, and
      extreme hyperactivity, which limit their ability to function socially and academically and
      are often disruptive to family life as well. Cannabidiol (CBD), a compound originally derived
      from the cannabis plant but without the psychoactive effects found in cannabis, has been
      shown to be safe and effective in the treatment of children with severe epilepsy. Two
      non-controlled studies using CBD from local sources have demonstrated improvements in
      behavior in children with autism. Parents of autistic children have been using CBD products
      in an unregulated fashion with unknown dosing with anecdotal reports of improved behavior.
      This study will use EPIDIOLEX (EPX), a purified CBD oral solution that was FDA approved in
      June 2018 to treat severe forms of pediatric epilepsy. Study subjects will be 30 boys between
      7 and 14 years of age with autism who have severe behavior problems. Every child will undergo
      baseline clinical evaluation, neuropsychological, behavioral, cognitive, and language
      testing, will have a test of brain wave activity (EEG) and a brain MRI scan. parents will
      complete questionnaires on various aspects of their child's behavior. Fifteen children will
      receive CBD for 8 weeks and 15 will receive a placebo that looks and tastes similar to the
      CBD (Period 1). All of the baseline tests and questionnaires will then be repeated. After a 4
      week washout period, behavioral and cognitive tests and questionnaires will be repeated and
      then the treatments will be reversed (Period 2). At the end of 8 weeks, all of the baseline
      tests and questionnaires will be repeated. Study personnel and parents will be blinded to the
      treatment status of each child. Statistical analyses will be used to determine whether there
      are significant differences between baseline testing and results after placebo or CBD
      treatment. Types and severities of adverse events will be tracked to provide information
      about the safety and tolerability of CBD in this population. If CBD is found to be safe and
      effective in treating the behavioral problems associated with autism, this would be a major
      new tool in the treatment of those children that could lead to improved functioning and
      quality of life for the affected individuals and their families.
    
  