
    
      The VQI-DELTA Paclitaxel Device Safety Analysis seeks to assess the comparative safety of
      paclitaxel coated balloons and stents in the treatment of PAD through analysis of the
      Vascular Quality Initiative (VQI) Peripheral Vascular Intervention (PVI) registry module
      using the DELTA system.

      The objective of the VQI - DELTA Paclitaxel Phase I Study is to evaluate the relative safety
      of Paclitaxel used as an antiproliferative agent in the treatment of symptomatic PAD. The
      study will analyze Paclitaxel Drug Coated Balloons (DCB) and Paclitaxel Drug Eluting Stents
      (DES), both together and as unique exposures using propensity score matched survival
      analysis. If a mortality signal is detected, factors associated with late mortality will be
      further explored. Phase I is the retrospective component of the planned study, evaluating the
      2-year survival of patients treated with a paclitaxel containing/eluting device to matched
      patients treated with non-paclitaxel devices for symptomatic PAD.

      All proposed analyses will be performed using DELTA v3.x, which has the capability to
      prospectively monitor clinical data repositories for safety signals, and is designed to
      support risk-adjusted prospective safety surveillance analyses of complex clinical datasets.

      Three principle analyses are planned:

        1. Paclitaxel DCB (including the Bard Lutonix, Medtronic In.Pact and Philips Spectranetics
           Stellarex DCB's) as compared with propensity matched patients treated with plain
           balloons.

        2. Paclitaxel delivering DES (including the Cook Zilver PTX and Boston Scientific Eluvia
           DES) as compared with propensity matched cases using bare metal stents (BMS).

        3. Patients treated with either Paclitaxel DCB or Paclitaxel DES compared with propensity
           matched controls (with DCB patients matched to patients treated with plain balloons, and
           DES patients matched to patients treated with BMS).
    
  