
    
      Leukemias and the related disorders myelodysplastic syndrome and myeloproliferative diseases
      represent a wide group of bone marrow stem cell malignancies. Some patients can be cured with
      chemotherapy or by allogeneic stem cell transplantation. However standard treatment
      approaches are not effective for patients who become refractory to chemotherapy, those who
      relapse after transplantation and those with progressive disease. The management of such
      patients remains unsatisfactory and requires new treatment approaches other than
      chemotherapy.

      The immunological graft-versus-leukemia (GVL) effect seen after allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation suggests that stimulating the patient's own T cell responses to MDS and
      leukemia with a vaccine might also retard disease progression and even achieve disease
      remissions. Peptide (WT1) and peptide (PR1) were identified as target antigens because both
      antigens are highly expressed by cluster of differentiation 34 (CD34) plus stem cells of most
      patients with myeloid malignancies but not by normal marrow cells. An immunotherapeutic
      approach to vaccinate against PR1 and WT1 antigens could induce T cell response against MDS
      and leukemic cells while sparing normal cells and by using a combination of two antigens the
      risk of disease escape by antigen down regulation should be further diminished. Indeed in a
      safety study of one dose of a combination of peptide (PRl) and (WT1) vaccination, we
      demonstrated that immunological response against one or both vaccines could be induced in all
      subjects who were vaccinated. This immunological response was associated with a transient
      reduction in the leukemia burden. Furthermore the vaccine combination was well tolerated.

      Therefore we propose this Phase II trial, the third in a series of planned peptide vaccine
      research protocols, which will evaluate the safety and efficacy associated with an
      immunotherapy approach using two peptide vaccines, namely PR 1 : 169- 177 and WT-1: 126-1 34
      in Montanide adjuvant, administered concomitantly with GM-CSF (Sargramostim), every 2 weeks
      for 10 weeks (6 doses WT1 plus 6 doses PRl plus GM-CSF) in select patients diagnosed with
      MDS, AML or CML. Subjects with immunological response to one or both peptide vaccines will
      have the option of receiving an additional 6 boosters of the WT-1:126-135 and PR1:169-177
      peptide vaccines at 3 monthly intervals.

      The primary objective will be to evaluate the efficacy and toxicity associated with 6 doses
      of a combination of WT-1: 126-134 and PRl: 169-177 peptide vaccines in Montanide adjuvant
      administered concomitantly with GMCSF (Sargramostim) in selected patients with myeloid
      malignancies (MDS, AML, CML).

      The primary endpoint will be immune response (studying changes in the frequencies of
      circulating PR1 and WT1 specific T cells) which will serves as a surrogate for evaluating for
      the efficacy of the study.

      Secondary Endpoints will include changes in marrow blast cells, blood counts, transfusion
      dependence, time to disease progression and survival.
    
  