
    
      Attached gingiva plays an important role in maintaining periodontal health. In the presence
      of inadequate attached gingiva, periodontal tissue inflammation, root sensitivity, root
      caries and gingival recessions are caused due to mucogingival stress in the related area and
      oral hygiene which is not provided adequately. In such cases, inadequate attached gingival
      width should be increased with mucogingival periodontal plastic surgery.

      Free gingival graft (FGG) is accepted as the most commonly used mucogingival procedure in
      increasing the attached gingival, because of its predictable surgical outcome, simple
      technique and its application in large areas of operation. In the free gingival graft
      operation, the recipient bed is prepared in the area with insufficient attached gingiva. Free
      gingival grafts containing epithelial and connective tissue from the donor area are applied
      to this recipient bed in appropriate dimensions . Palatal region is the most preferred donor
      site in terms of anatomical advantage, ideal tissue thickness and wide keratinized band
      removal. The secondary wound in the donor site after FGG heals in 2-4 weeks and may cause
      problems that affect patient comfort such as paresthesia, herpetic lesion, mucocele, bleeding
      and pain in the postoperative period. Different products such as hemostatic agents, low-dose
      laser treatments, herbal products, ozonated oil, antibacterial / antiseptic agents, bioactive
      materials and platelet concentrates have been tested to accelerate wound healing and prevent
      these problems. Studies on the determination of the product and method that provide optimal
      postoperative patient comfort and wound healing from such products, whose effects on wound
      healing are known, are ongoing.

      Platelet concentrates used in palatal wound healing have been reported to accelerate wound
      healing and reduce postoperative patient discomfort. The use of elet platelet rich fibrin
      '(PRF) in the palatal donor site after FGG surgery has been shown to provide significant
      benefits in terms of wound healing parameters and postoperative comfort. In a study using a
      platelet rich plasma (PRP) with a different platelet concentration, PRP was found to
      accelerate wound healing and shorten the healing time. In another study using
      titanium-prepared platelet rich fibrin (T-PRF) for palatal wound healing, it accelerated the
      wound healing process and reached the initial level of soft tissue thickness in the donor
      region at the end of 6 months. In the literature, there are few studies using platelet
      concentrates in palatal wound healing and only some concentrates (PRP, PRF, T-PRF) are used.
      The aim of this study is to compare the effects of injectable platelet rich fibrin (i-PRF),
      which are autologous fibrin glue (AFG) and injectable platelet concentrates, on palatal wound
      healing. The findings obtained from this study will contribute to the literature in
      determining the product and method that will provide optimal postoperative patient comfort
      and wound healing.

      In this randomized, controlled clinical study, 36 patients in need of FGG were divided into
      three groups. AFG (n=12) or i-PRF (n=12) was applied to donor sites and compared to control
      group (n=12). Wound healing with H2O2 test, VAS, MMS scale and LTH index were evaluated on
      the 3rd, 7th, 14th day and 1st month. The bleeding status was evaluated on 3rd and 7th days.
      Palatal tissue thickness was measured at baseline, 1st month and 3rd month.

      AFG and i-PRF have positive effects on the healing process by accelerating wound healing and
      reducing postoperative morbidity.
    
  