
    
      The recently developed technique of Cardiac CT Perfusion (CTP) gathers information on both
      coronary anatomy and myocardial perfusion in a single scan. This diagnostic test can detect
      the presence of coronary plaque as well as assess the functional significance of a stenosis.
      To date, it is estimated that 1000 cases of CTP have been performed in the world. While no
      exceptional adverse events have been reported (nor are expected), the image quality and
      clinical validation in a multi-center multi-vendor setting has been a marked issue for many
      experts in this nascent field. This issue has hampered the clinical utility of this test and
      raises concerns about its widespread utilization leading to unnecessary costs and exposure to
      radiation.

      Historically, the rapid explosion in the use of a related procedure, Cardiac CT Angiography
      (CCTA) started in 2004 and was marked by large-scale variation in radiation dose, quality
      issues, inappropriate use, and interpretation proficiency. Critics of the rapid growth of
      CCTA defamed the procedure for imaging abuse charges and noted unchecked and irresponsible
      use radiation.

      The purpose of RECRUIT is to prevent this clinical inefficiency from occurring again. The
      main goal of RECRUIT is to determine the best practices for optimal acquisition and
      interpretation of the CTP images, in an effort to optimize standards before the inevitable
      rapid adoption of this potentially revolutionary technology. RECRUIT will aim to maximize the
      clinical effectiveness and minimize the clinical risks associated with CTP before the
      protocol becomes integrated into the standard-of-care and harmonization of the best practices
      is nearly impossible.

      RECRUIT will enable select clinics that are currently performing CCTA to perform CTP by
      training them on the latest acquisition techniques as provided by the field leaders in CTP.
      In addition to providing the acquisition protocol, our researchers will provide the clinical
      team with a sophisticated EDC tool that effectively monitors numerous factors that could
      influence the quality of the images. Finally, RECRUIT will collect de-identified images from
      the sites for analysis in our core lab. Analysis of the images will be correlated with
      acquisition techniques and patient factors (i.e. BMI). This information fed back to the
      clinical team that performed the procedure in an effort to improve their proficiency. This
      process will proceed in an iterative manner, with all endpoints being tracked for reporting
      in peer-reviewed literature.
    
  