
    
      Background:

        -  Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GISTs) are the most common gastrointestinal soft tissue
           sarcoma, but remain a rare disease entity.

        -  Most GISTs are characterized by KIT or PDGFRA mutations, making them susceptible to
           tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy.

        -  Wild-type (WT) GISTs are rarer tumors, usually characterized by SDH mutations and/or
           lack of KIT or PDGFRA mutations; paragangliomas are frequently associated with WT GISTs.

        -  Non-WT GISTs may become refractory to TKI therapy, whereas WT GISTs are generally
           resistant to TKI therapy.

        -  The primary treatment modality for GISTs is surgical resection, which may involve the
           stomach, liver, and/or peritoneal surfaces; most patients will require multiple
           operations to remove disease not responsive to systemic agents.

        -  Investigational systemic therapies are limited by toxicity and/or lack of efficacy,
           resulting in an unmet need for novel treatment options.

        -  Obtaining fresh tumor tissue is critical to the successful development of GIST models
           for drug research, as well as for next generation tumor genomic sequencing, and to help
           identify novel targets and/or agents for the treatment of WT and TKI-resistant non-WT
           GISTs.

      Objective:

        -  Evaluate and follow patients with GISTs, particularly WT and treatment-refractory
           non-WT, to support translational research for this rare disease

        -  Assess disease-free intervals (DFIs) between surgical resection of disease for at least
           5 years

      Eligibility:

      -Patients with histologically confirmed or clinical presentation suspicious of GIST.

      Design:

        -  Prospective cohort study

        -  Patients with histologically confirmed or clinical presentation suspicious of GIST will
           enroll on study and will have active surveillance every 6 months for up to 10 years
           prior to and up to 5 years after surgical resection and/or cytoreduction. As patients
           may have multiple resections during the course of the study, 5-year surveillance
           post-surgery may be initiated multiple times, relative to the last resection performed.

        -  All patients enrolled will be evaluated for tumor resection or cytoreduction at the
           start of study and if appropriate, will be offered surgery, otherwise they will be on
           active surveillance until surgical resection or cytoreduction is clinically indicated.

        -  It is expected that approximately 30-40 patients per year may enroll on this trial; the
           accrual ceiling will be set at 400 to permit accrual over a 10-year period.
    
  