
    
      Over the past two decades, fast track surgery, also known as "enhanced recovery after surgery
      (ERAS)" has been initiated and developed in colorectal surgery by Kehlet. The program is
      rapidly gaining popularity due to the significant benefits demonstrated in lowering
      complication rates and reducing hospital stay and costs. The benefits demonstrated in
      colorectal surgery by randomized trials and meta-analyses reduced pain, morbidity and
      hospital stay. Data in gastrectomy however, is scarce. Therefore the aim of this study is to
      compare the outcomes of laparoscopic gastrectomies with two different perioperative
      approaches, the traditional and the ERAS approach in a setting of a randomised controlled
      trial.

      ERAS involves an integrated multi-disciplinary program of various medical interventions
      involving surgeons, anaesthetists, physiotherapists, dieticians and nurses, aiming at
      enhancing postoperative recovery by reducing surgical stress response resulting in earlier
      discharge and potentially reduced morbidities. The program focuses on minimising the impact
      of surgery on patients' homeostasis. The reduction of postoperative physiological stress by
      the attenuation of the neurohormonal response to the surgical intervention not only provides
      the basis for a faster recovery, but also diminishes the risk of organ dysfunction and
      complications. The ERAS program consists of well-organised pathways of clinical interventions
      that begin from out-patient preoperative information, counselling and physical optimization,
      proceeding to pre-, intra- and postoperative protocol-driven actions and end with patient
      discharge following pre-established criteria. The main pillars of ERAS program consist of
      extensive preoperative counselling, non sedative premedication, no preoperative fasting but
      with pre-operative carbohydrate loading, tailored anaesthesiology, peri-operative intravenous
      fluid restriction, non-opioid pain management, non routine use of nasogastric tubes, early
      removal of urinary catheter, and early postoperative feeding and mobilization.

      ERAS program will be implemented in one arm and the other arm would be conventional
      peri-operative care. This is a randomised controlled study. Apart from clinical outcomes, the
      immunological outcomes will also be assessed.
    
  