
    
      The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome
      coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) results in significantly higher morbidity and mortality in
      patients with concomitant diseases such as diabetes mellitus and hypertension.

      Glycemic management is of much more interest for both diabetes and COVID-19 patients, as
      diabetes has been reported to be associated with the poor prognosis of COVID-19. There is
      evidence that better glycemic control in COVID-19 patients is closely related to improved
      clinical outcomes. However, whether COVID-19 contributes to hyperglycemia is confusing. It
      remains unclear regarding the impact of COVID-19 infection on glycemic parameters, including
      blood glucose and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c).

      Lipid profile assessment is an important tool that helps diagnose cardiovascular diseases.
      Therefore, the stability of the samples is crucial for the analysis of total cholesterol
      (TC), low density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C), high density lipoprotein cholesterol
      (HDL-C) and triglycerides (TG).Stability is the ability of analyte concentrations to be
      minimally affected within an acceptable range over a period of time.

      High plasma homocysteine levels significantly increase the incidence of vascular damage in
      both small and large vessels. Concentrations above the 90th percentile are associated with an
      increased risk of degenerative and atherosclerotic processes in the coronary, cerebral and
      peripheral circulatory systems. Although homocysteine is an effective cardiovascular risk
      biomarker and is critical for cardiovascular complications in hospitalized COVID-19 patients,
      studies on this parameter have not focused much on laboratory markers useful for clinical
      evaluation of COVID-19.

      Free radicals are continuously formed at the active site of enzymes as intermediates in
      enzymatic reactions occurring during cell metabolism. Reactive oxygen species and reactive
      nitrogen, known as intermediates, sometimes leach from the active site of enzymes and
      accidentally interact with molecular oxygen and form free oxygen radicals.Lipids, proteins,
      enzymes, carbohydrates, and DNA can be damaged due to oxidative stress, random breaks and
      bonds in DNA chains may occur as a result of damage to membranes, damage to enzymes and
      structural proteins may result in cell death, and these phenomena may result in cancer,
      neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and It constitutes the molecular
      basis in the development of autoimmune disorders.

      The general recommendation for thinking that an adult is physically active is to achieve at
      least 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of vigorous vigorous activity per week, or an
      equivalent combination of both, and involving sedentary behavior, energy expenditure ≤ 1.5
      metabolic equivalent (MET), while lying down, leaning, It is defined as any waking behavior
      practiced while sitting or standing. As the disease spreads all over the world, healthy
      people are asked to stay at home for a long time. As a result, COVID-19 has radically changed
      the determinants of both behaviors (individual, interpersonal, environmental, regional or
      national policies and global). Accordingly, it can be said that regular and joint activities
      decrease due to isolation and limitations, especially in the first weeks when the population
      has limited chances to find alternatives to keep active even at home, and reducing sedentary
      behavior during closure poses a significant challenge. Because of this situation, physical
      activity in the home environment is strongly encouraged by public health advocates to prevent
      the potential harmful effects of protective lifestyle regulations due to COVID-19 and to
      prevent the restrictions from causing physical inactivity.

      The main aim of this study is to compare hemoglobin A1c levels, lipid profiles, homocysteine,
      oxidative stress parameters and physical activity levels in patients with COVID-19 and
      patients with both COVID-19 and Type II diabetes via healthy adults. The second aim is to
      compare the initial data obtained following the hospitalization of COVID-19 patients and
      patients with both COVID-19 and Type II diabetes, with the latest data obtained after
      treatment and before discharge.
    
  