
    
      On the day of the infusion trial, participants will report to the laboratory at 0700 h after
      an overnight fast. MHD patients will be studied ~24 h after their dialysis treatment. A
      Teflon catheter will be inserted into an antecubital vein for baseline blood sample
      collection (t=-180 min) after which participants receive priming doses of NaH13CO2 (2.35
      µmol·kg), L-[1-13C]leucine (7.6 µmol·kg FFM), and L-[ring-2H5]phenylalanine (2.0 µmol·kg
      FFM). Subsequently, a continuous intravenous infusion of L-[1-13C]leucine (0.10 µmol·kg FFM
      ·min) and L-[ring-2H5]phenylalanine (0.05 µmol·kg-1 FFM·min) will be initiated (t=-180 min)
      and maintained until the end of the trial. A second Teflon catheter will be inserted into a
      heated dorsal hand vein of the same arm for repeated arterialized blood sampling and will
      remain patent by a 0.9% saline drip. In the postabsorptive state, muscle biopsies will be
      collected at t=-120 and -0 min of the infusion. Subsequently, participants will consume a
      mixed meal containing 20 grams of dietary protein and the completion of the meal will mark
      the start of the postprandial phase (t=0 min). An additional muscle biopsy will be collected
      at 300 min to determine postprandial myofibrillar protein synthesis rates. Biopsies will be
      collected from the middle region of the vastus lateralis (15 cm above the patella) with a
      Bergström needle modified for suction under local anesthesia (2% Lidocaine). The
      postabsorptive muscle biopsies will be collected from the same incision with the needle
      pointed to distal and proximal directions, respectively. The postprandial biopsy will be
      collected through a separate incision 2-3 cm above the postabsorptive incision. All biopsy
      samples will be freed from any visible blood, adipose, and connective tissue immediately
      frozen in liquid nitrogen, and stored at -80˚C until subsequent analysis.
    
  