
    
      Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a leading cause of disability in adults worldwide (~16M
      patients in United States alone). Unfortunately, only 35-40% of patients achieve full
      remission following first-line treatment and treatment-resistant depression (TRD), failure to
      respond to 2 or more treatments, is a critical clinical problem. As with MDD, there is
      mechanistic heterogeneity in TRD and consequently, there is a need to develop treatments
      targeted to biologically distinct subgroups of patients. Significant evidence suggests
      dysfunction of endogenous opioid signaling pathways as a key biological deficit in some MDD
      patients. Investigators hypothesize that a subgroup of MDD patients with deficient opioid
      receptor signaling who have failed previous trials of antidepressants will better respond to
      pharmacological interventions specifically targeting this biological mechanism.

      In this application, Investigators propose to target the mu-opioid receptor (MOR) in TRD
      patients by using the antidepressant tianeptine. Although not available in the United States,
      Tianeptine is an atypical antidepressant that has been used clinically in Europe, Asia, and
      South America since the late 1980s in millions of patients. Until recently tianeptine's
      molecular mechanism of action had remained unknown. Tianeptine is a different type of
      antidepressant than those currently approved in the United States in that it has a different
      mechanism of action than other antidepressants. Tianeptine is an opioid antagonist; it binds
      at the mu-opioid receptor. Currently approved antidepressants act on other systems of the
      brain that primarily affect serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. Work in our laboratories
      has shown that tianeptine acts as a selective agonist of MOR, signaling in a manner analogous
      to enkephalins and endorphins, the endogenous opioid peptides. The investigator applied for
      and received an IND to import and use tianeptine for this study.

      The study will be conducted in parallel at two sites: the Clinic for Aging, Anxiety and Mood
      Disorders (CAAM) at Columbia University/New York State Psychiatric Institute (CU/NYSPI) and
      the Mood and Anxiety Disorders Program at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai (MSSM).
      The following procedures will be approved by the local Institutional Review Boards (IRBs) at
      each site, where the site PIs (Bret Rutherford, MD at CU/NYSPI and James Murrough, MD at
      MSSM) will be responsible for overseeing conduct of the study at their respective site. Dr.
      Jonathan Javitch is the scientific leader of this program and holds the IND for tianeptine
      use in this study.

      Investigators will recruit 75 participants with current unipolar MDD, non-delusional, between
      21-50, who have failed at least 2 two adequate treatment trials with a standard
      antidepressant. Patients will receive an 8-week treatment trial of tianeptine. Patients will
      also undergo structural and task-based magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) that will be
      performed under Dr. Rutherford's direction at CU/NYSPI in order to maintain the internal
      validity of the data set. Approval has been granted for use of the MRI facility for this
      study by the Director of MRI Research at the New York State Psychiatric Institute. CU/NYSPI
      and MSSM subjects will be transported to CU/NYSPI to complete neuroimaging procedures as
      described below. Participants will be screened for MRI clearance during their screening visit
      and again at CU/NYSPI on the day of the scan. Subjects will be asked MRI screening questions
      to ensure that are scanning eligible. Participants will also have additional tubes of blood
      drawn for human whole-genomic testing. This microarray will be used to identify regions of
      the human genome that contribute to disease susceptibility and phenotypes. The Illumina human
      whole-genome array will be used to provide a comprehensive view of the genome, detects single
      nucleotide polymorphisms and other variations across the genome.

      The major goals of this project are (1) to determine if tianeptine is an effective
      antidepressant in patients who have failed two previous trials, (2) to define the
      relationship between opioid signaling deficits and response to tianeptine treatment, and (3)
      to develop a comprehensive assessment battery capable of identifying endogenous opioid
      signaling deficits to explore biological heterogeneity in the TRD population.
    
  