
    
      This study will recruit 168 patients in approximately 20 study centres in China.

      This open label, randomised, parallel group, multicentre study in Chinese pre menopausal
      patients with ER+/HER2- early breast cancer will be conducted to determine whether 3 monthly
      ZOLADEX 10.8 mg injection is non-inferior to monthly ZOLADEX 3.6 mg injection in terms of
      estradiol (E2) suppression. The study will also assess the PK, pharmacodynamics (PD), safety
      and tolerability of two difference strengths of ZOLADEX.

      Eligible patients, as judged by the Investigator after completion of the screening tests,
      will be registered for this study and at the same time randomised in a 1:1 ratio to receive
      one of the following treatments. The study treatment must start within 7 days after
      randomisation.

        -  ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot group: subcutaneous depot injection once every 12 weeks

        -  ZOLADEX 3.6 mg depot group: subcutaneous depot injection once every 4 weeks

      The primary objective:

      - To examine whether ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot is non-inferior to ZOLADEX 3.6 mg depot in terms
      of the suppression rate of serum estradiol (E2) to the menopausal level (≤30 pg/mL) from Week
      4 through Week 24.

      The secondary objectives:

        -  To evaluate the safety and tolerability profiles of ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot and ZOLADEX
           3.6 mg depot.

        -  To evaluate the estradiol (E2) suppression by assessment of area under the curve (AUC)
           of E2 serum concentration during the 24 weeks of treatment.

        -  To evaluate the goserelin pharmacokinetics (PK) in Chinese patients after injection of
           ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot and ZOLADEX 3.6 mg depot.

        -  To assess the influence on menstruous condition after injection of ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot
           or ZOLADEX 3.6 mg depot.

        -  To assess the hormonal conditions after injection of ZOLADEX 10.8 mg depot compared with
           ZOLADEX 3.6 mg depot.
    
  