
    
      Anxiety disorders are a significant public health problem that cause suffering for youth and
      their families, derail normal childhood development, and when left untreated persist into
      adulthood with high societal costs. Cognitive Behavioral Treatment (CBT) including exposure
      therapy is the treatment of choice, yet multiple barriers limit access to care. Even for
      families with access to care, traditional provider-centered (office based) treatment presents
      challenges and can limit effectiveness for many youth and families. Home- and Community-based
      exposure therapy is efficacious for patients who previously did not improve with
      provider-centered services, and input from family stakeholders suggests that treatment in
      these settings is an optimal match for their needs. Patient-centered models involving home
      visits and provider teams have consistently demonstrated increased treatment accessibility
      and engagement. However, there has been no comprehensive comparison of exposure delivered by
      patient-centered teams using home visits versus by provider-centered office visits alone for
      childhood anxiety. The absence of comparative effectiveness research (CER) data impedes
      targeted use of patient centered versus traditional outpatient treatment and would better
      allocate limited resources, provide the best quality care, and help patients and families
      make educated decisions about their treatment choices. Telehealth has strong evidence for
      effectiveness for youth with anxiety and OCD when delivered by a licensed provider, with
      treatment responder rates ranging from 73-82% (Carpenter, et al., 2018; Comer et al., 2017;
      Storch et al., 2011). Although traditional telehealth treatments can address barriers
      associated with in-person treatment, it has yet to be leveraged to increase service capacity.
      The overall goal of this proposal is to compare two models of service delivery,
      patient-centered delivery (utilizing novel deployment of personnel both in-home and via
      telehealth) vs. traditional provider-centered delivery, of CBT in youth ages 5-18 receiving
      exposure therapy for anxiety. A total of 379 children will be treated, with 166 (or 167)
      children randomly assigned to provider-centered, 166 (or 167) assigned to patient-centered
      in-home, and 46 assigned to patient-centered telehealth treatment conditions. The
      patient-centered telehealth condition was added in 2020 in response the COVID-19 global
      pandemic. Telehealth treatment models are a necessary health system adaptation in the current
      health crisis, but also may improve access to care post pandemic. We hope including
      telehealth as a comparator in our service delivery compared effectiveness trial will be
      highly informative and relevant for the future mental healthcare landscape.

      A trained independent evaluator (IE) blind to condition will measure patient and family
      treatment engagement, anxiety symptoms/severity, and functional impairment at baseline,
      during active treatment at weeks 6, 12, 18, and 24, and 3- and 6-month follow-up after acute
      treatment. The primary aims are to compare the relative effectiveness of patient-centered vs.
      provider-centered treatment for: 1) improving family treatment engagement/satisfaction, 2)
      reducing anxiety symptoms, and 3) reducing associated disability (quality of life and
      functional impairment). Secondary outcomes are to understand moderators of treatment response
      including: severity of illness, caregiver burden/family accommodation, and barriers to
      treatment access and to explore group differences in time course of response, durability of
      treatment gains, provider volume/capacity and efficiency in patient centered versus provider
      centered treatment.
    
  