
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the effectiveness of a computer-tailored, correspondence course vs standardized
           materials in promoting changes in diet and physical activity (PA) behaviors in patients
           with early stage prostate or breast (closed to accrual as of 8/1/03) cancer who
           currently do not practice goal behavior in at least 2 of the following 3 areas:
           performance of moderate PA for at least 150 minutes per week; consumption of at least 5
           servings of vegetables or fruit daily; or consumption of a diet with less than 30% fat
           (with less than 10% of kilocalories from either saturates or polyunsaturates).

        -  Compare the health and quality of life of patients treated with these interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment
      arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients participate in a computer-tailored, correspondence course comprising
           personalized diet and exercise intervention and other health information over a 10-month
           period.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive usual care comprising standardized print materials related to
           diet, exercise, cancer, and other pertinent health issues over a 10-month period.

      In both arms, diet and exercise behavior, quality of life, co-morbidity status, depression,
      social support, worry, self efficacy, and coping style are assessed during phone interviews
      conducted at baseline, after completion of 10 months of study intervention, and then at 1
      year. Intervention usefulness is assessed after completion of 10 months of study
      intervention.

      Patients in both arms who live within a 1-hour drive from Duke University Medical Center may
      undergo blood draw to test for substances related to fruit and vegetable intake and
      measurement of height and weight. Patients may also be asked to wear a pedometer for a 1-week
      period.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 530 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  