
    
      Background:

      Approximately 40% of type 2 diabetes patients are also with hypertension. There are many risk
      factors in these patients, and so it's difficult to manage these patients. With the
      improvement of the accuracy of automated measuring devices, the patients can use these
      devices to monitor blood pressure, blood glucose, body weight, visceral fat and other
      indicators at home, and contribute their own participation in the management of there own
      diseases. The home monitoring may improve the management of this chronic disease, and may
      decrease the incidence of fatal disease such as stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure,
      renal dysfunction and other serious diseases.

      Large-scale research will carry out to prove that whether home monitoring is valuable for
      preventing the incidence of fatal disease such as stroke, myocardial infarction, heart
      failure, renal dysfunction. And in the first, it is necessary to conduct a small sample (n =
      100), short observation time (six months) research, to monitor blood pressure, blood glucose,
      body weight and other indicators of intermediate target detection, to explore the feasibility
      to carry out such large-scale research.

      Objective:

      In hypertensive and type 2 diabetes patients, conducted an open randomized controlled trial
      to explore the patient's own use blood pressure monitors, blood glucose meter and pedometer
      at home, and use the body composition measurement instruments in clinic, is to be more
      effective control of blood pressure, blood glucose, body weight, and reduce the risk of
      patients with albuminuria.

      Inclusion criteria:

        1. Regardless of whether they are currently receiving antihypertensive therapy, systolic
           blood pressure higher than 140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure higher than90 mmHg.

        2. Whether or not use oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin injections, the fasting plasma is
           higher than 7.0 mmol/L, or postprandial blood glucose higher than 11.1 mmol/L.

      Exclusion criteria:

        1. with life-threatening disease.

        2. With the various effects of metabolic diseases such as hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism,
           etc.

        3. stroke, myocardial infarction and other serious cardiovascular and cerebrovascular
           diseases occurred within 3 months.

        4. serum creatinine level hugher than 176.8 mol/L.

        5. Dementia or severe cognitive decline.

        6. unable to do a long-term follow-up study or do not agree to participate in this trial.

      Sample estimates and statistical analysis:

      In accordance with 6-month follow-up, the average difference between the two groups, systolic
      blood pressure 3 mmHg, glycated hemoglobin 0.2%, under the conditions of a= 0.05 and b= 0.10,
      the research needs of each group of about 50 patients, a total of 100.

      Major findings of the statistics using t test comparing the two groups after 6 months
      follow-up observations from the baseline change in the margin, and calculated 95% confidence
      interval. At the same time will also use non-parametric Wilcoxon test were compared blood
      pressure, blood glucose and so many follow-up results of repeated measurements.
    
  