
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare whether the addition of one year of everolimus (10 mg daily) to standard
           adjuvant endocrine therapy improves invasive disease-free survival (IDFS) in patients
           with high-risk, hormone-receptor (HR)-positive, and human epidermal growth factor
           receptor (HER)2-negative breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To compare whether the addition of one year of everolimus to standard adjuvant endocrine
           therapy improves overall survival (OS) and distant recurrence-free survival (DRFS) in
           this patient population.

        -  To evaluate the safety, toxicities, and tolerability of one year of everolimus in
           combination with standard adjuvant endocrine therapy and to compare it with standard
           adjuvant endocrine therapy plus placebo in this patient population.

        -  To determine whether the benefit of one year of everolimus use in addition to standard
           adjuvant endocrine therapy varies by recurrence score (RS), nodal status, or other
           commonly used prognostic factors.

        -  To evaluate adherence to 1-year treatment of everolimus in comparison to placebo in
           addition to standard adjuvant endocrine therapy in this patient population.

        -  To collect specimens in order to evaluate biomarkers of therapeutic efficacy.
           (exploratory)

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to risk level
      (node-negative and recurrence score [RS] > 25 in the primary tumor, and a tumor measuring ≥ 2
      cm in greatest diameter treated with adjuvant therapy vs 1-3 positive lymph nodes and RS > 25
      treated with adjuvant therapy vs ≥ 4 positive lymph nodes [any RS value] treated with
      adjuvant therapy vs ≥ 4 positive lymph nodes [any RS value] prior to or after neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive an approved endocrine therapy comprising tamoxifen citrate*,
           goserelin acetate** or leuprolide acetate**, or aromatase inhibitor (anastrozole,
           letrozole, or exemestane) for 2-5 years. Patients also receive a placebo orally (PO)
           daily for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive an approved endocrine therapy regimen as in arm I. Patients
           also receive everolimus PO daily for 1 year in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      NOTE: *Men receive tamoxifen citrate PO for 5 years.

      NOTE: **Goserelin acetate or leuprolide acetate is given if patient is or becomes
      postmenopausal.

      Blood and tissue samples are collected for biomarker studies.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 6 months for 2 years and
      then yearly thereafter for 10 years.
    
  