
    
      In adult transplant recipients, poor adherence to immunosuppressant medications carries the
      risk of graft rejection, post-transplant complications, and increased healthcare costs. In
      adult liver transplant recipients, adherence to immunosuppressant drugs, as well as to
      general medical indications (e.g. avoiding alcohol intake), is imperative to short- and
      long-term outcomes. The rate of non-adherence to immunosuppressant medications in this
      population varies vastly, with reports ranging from 15-40%. Because of lacking objective and
      accurate non-adherence measurements, the true implications and prevalence of non-adherence is
      not yet well understood. Therefore, the investigators believe that mobile health (mHealth)
      technology has the potential to allow clinicians and researchers to more comprehensively
      address and understand non-adherence in adult liver transplant recipients. Additionally, an
      mHealth application with the ability to track symptoms, side effects, and alcohol cravings
      could provide clinicians with valuable information on post-transplant care.

      We will use a mobile health platform that enables users to track dose-by-dose medication
      adherence through asynchronous, video directly observed therapy (DOT). This helps patients
      take their medication as prescribed and gives providers the assurance that their patients are
      supported and successful in treatment. DOT is the practice of watching a patient take every
      dose of medicine in-person, and has typically only been done in extreme cases because it can
      be both costly and burdensome: DOT is the standard of care for Tuberculosis treatment and has
      proven high-adherence rates. Through mHealth technology, DOT can be used more broadly and
      without added burden; emocha's technology allows this through enabling patients to use their
      mobile application to view their regimen, record themselves taking every dose of their
      medication, report side effects or symptoms, visualize their treatment progress, and access
      educational content. This information is encrypted and transmitted to a HIPAA-secure web
      portal for providers to review. The aim of this study is to conduct a randomized control
      trial to compare medication adherence between patients who use the mHealth application
      against controls who do not.
    
  