
    
      This multicenter RCT study enrolls patients diagnosed with stage IV og incurable stage III
      lung cancer who has non-progressive disease at first evaluation scan. Patients in follow-up
      or maintenance therapy are eligible.

      492 patients will be included in the study with 246 patients in each group.

      Intervention In the experimental arm, patients will be asked to fill in a web-based Patient
      Reported Outcome (PRO) questionnaire every week. If one of the reported symptoms worsens and
      exceed a predefined threshold of severity, a notification is automatically sent to the
      hospital. A nurse will review til questionnaire and contact the patient for verification of
      symptoms. If progression of disease is suspected, a CT scan will be made. Otherwise, the
      nurse will schedule a visit at the clinic for physical examination and evaluation by a
      clinician. If progressive disease is not suspected, supportive care will be adjusted and the
      patient will continue follow up according to the usual schedule.

      The interventions ends in case of progressive disease.

      Evaluation Baseline CT-scan of thorax and upper abdomen is performed prior to initial
      treatment and an evaluation CT scan at the time of enrolment. CT scans will be repeated for
      assessing signs of progression due to standard follow-up procedures in both groups. If
      progressive disease is suspected based on symptom development, the following scan will be
      rescheduled to as soon as possible.

      Quality of life (QoL) will be measured in both groups using EORTC (European Organisation for
      Research and Treatment of Cancer) QOL-C30 / LC13 and HADS (Hospital Anxiety And Depression
      Scale) quality of life questionnaires every 2 month during the study period.

      Objectives The primary objective is to test if supplementary weekly PRO monitoring increases
      overall survival in a Danish Lung Cancer population

      Monitoring Clinical decisions taken on the basis of PRO notifications will daily be
      registered in the software system by the clinicians. Patient responses to questionnaires and
      PRO-notification handling by the clinical staff will be monitored by Primary Investigator.

      End points will be entered by local site investigators.
    
  