
    
      Early clinical trials of immunotherapy in colorectal cancer (CRC) have provided first
      evidence of activity of adoptive cell vaccines combining inactivated autologous tumor cells
      and BCG, a Toll Like Receptor (TLR) agonist. RFA induces tumor cell necrosis and apoptosis,
      leading to the activation of anti-tumoral immunity through the release, exposure or
      denaturation of tumor antigens, which are captured by dendritic cells. Associated
      pro-inflammatory effects increase the anti-tumoral immune response but remain insufficient to
      avoid recurrence. In a preclinical study in an aggressive rectal cancer model, complete and
      long-lasting tumor responses were achieved after RFA combined with in situ injection of an
      immunomodulatory hydrogel combining a TLR agonist and GM-CSF. These results were obtained
      without further adjuvant therapy after complete clearance of macroscopic liver lesions by
      RFA. BCG, Purified Protein Derivatives (PPD), Polysaccharide Typhoid (Typhim Vi®) can be used
      as TLR agonists. The hypothesis of the study is that local immunotherapy may reduce
      recurrence rates after RFA in patients with unresectable liver metastases from CRC.

      Thermal ablation by RFA may be used as an inducer of anti-tumor immune response and the
      combination with immunomodulators such as a TLR agonist (BCG, PPD, Typhim Vi) and GM-CSF may
      improve its efficacy. In the recent preclinical study, the efficacy has been demonstrated on
      distant lesions (so called abscopal effect) of two immunomodulators combined in a
      muco-adherent hydrogel, injected in a RFA-treated tumor. The treatment was safe, without
      complication observed in the 50 treated mice. Complete macroscopic ablation by RFA combined
      with in situ immunomodulators may be able to prime an effective immune response capable of
      eradicating the microscopic residual disease.

      The LICoRN-01 study aims to assess the safety and efficacy of the combination of RFA with in
      situ immunomodulation in patients with unresectable CRC liver metastases.
    
  