
    
      Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) causes severe disease in the very young, elderly and
      in high risk groups. Worldwide in 2005 there were an estimated 34 million cases of acute
      lower respiratory tract infection (ALRI), 3.4 million ALRI hospitalisations and 55,000 to
      199,000 deaths associated with RSV in children <5 years old. RSV infection in childhood is
      associated with subsequent wheezing and asthma. These long-term sequelae pose a substantial
      additional burden on healthcare systems. There is a parallel need to assemble clinical
      resources to identify the correlates of severe RSV disease for clinical management,
      classification of disease severity in clinical trials and identification of biomarkers for
      severe disease, which are currently lacking.

      Group 1: Infants under 12 months with an RSV infection will have nasopharyngeal swabs, blood,
      urine and stool samples taken at the onset of infection and again 6 - 8 weeks later, in
      convalescence. An online diary will be completed for 2 weeks during illness to record the
      participant and parent health. The participant and their family will be followed up annually
      by questionnaire, for a maximum of 3 years. When the study data are analysed, the infants
      will be subdivided into 4 further groups; healthy infants requiring hospitalisation, healthy
      infants not requiring hospitalisation, infants with co-morbidity, requiring hospitalisation
      and infants with a co-morbidity not requiring hospitalisation. Group 2: Well, healthy
      infants, under 12 months with no acute respiratory infection will have nasopharyngeal
      swab,blood, urine and stool samples taken on enrolment. They will receive a follow up contact
      7 days after enrolment to assess if they have developed any illness. The participant and
      their family will be followed up annually by questionnaire, for a maximum of 3 years.
    
  