
    
      Cognitive impairment is the most common and debilitating residual symptom of traumatic brain
      injury (TBI) at all levels of severity and the prevalence of cognitive impairments varies,
      depending on the severity of the head injury and the time since the injury. Such impairments
      substantially affect a person's ability to return to productive activity and health-related
      quality of life. Furthermore, disabilities related to cognitive impairments following TBI
      increase healthcare costs and economic burden. Memory, attention, and information processing
      speed are basic cognitive functions. Deficits in such functions subsequently exacerbate
      disturbances in more complex cognitive functions (e.g., executive function). Therefore,
      targeting basic cognitive functions is the first priority of clinical treatments for
      post-traumatic cognitive impairments.

      Cognitive rehabilitation, a nonpharmacological intervention, is the first-line treatment for
      the management of cognitive impairments following TBI. However, the findings of previous
      reviews are still debated, with one metaanalysis supporting its beneficial effects on
      attention recovery and two metaanalyses denying the positive association between cognitive
      rehabilitation and cognitive recovery. Pharmacotherapies (e.g., methylphenidate) has been
      potentially used to accelerate cognitive recovery in patients with TBI. Nevertheless, recent
      systematic reviews failed to prove its effects on cognitive recovery. Moreover, adverse
      effects may contribute to the discontinuation of stimulant medication use.Taken together,
      current treatments are insufficient for managing post-traumatic cognitive impairments.
      Nurses, the first-line healthcare providers, should therefore seek and employ an alternative
      approach to deal with cognitive impairments following TBI.

      Both abnormal network connectivity of the brain (e.g., low neural communication between
      different brain areas) and dysregulated electroencephalographs (EEGs, e.g., increases in
      alpha and theta, and decrease in beta) following brain damage have been strongly connected to
      deficits in memory, sustained attention, and information processing speed. Neurofeedback (NF)
      can target and alter dysregulated brain functioning by giving real-time feedback of EEG
      activity to patients. Existing literatures have shown that NF might improve attention
      performance after TBI. Nonetheless, the effects of NF on other cognitive functions, such as
      memory and speed of information processing, have not been ascertained. In addition, limited
      methodological features of previous studies, including single group, pre- and posttreatment
      study design, small number of participants, and inconsistent treatment protocols, restrict
      their generalizability and practicability. Most importantly, knowledge regarding cognitive
      improvements being concomitant with changes in EEGs and the long-term effects of NF on
      cognitive recovery following TBI is still lacking.
    
  