
    
      Faced with an unprecedented global ageing population and the current COVID-19 pandemic, the
      risk of social vulnerability increases in the elderly population, promoting the development
      and aggravation of neurodegenerative diseases, in particular NCD. The diagnostic criteria for
      this pathology emphasizes cognitive changes, and as such is based clinically on cognitive
      decline.

      The PFC is considered the centre of cognitive function, where it encompasses attention,
      memory and executive functions.

      Attention is the cognitive function that allows us to orient to the relevant stimuli and
      process them to respond accordingly. Given its functionality, it is distinguished into three
      types of attention: selective, divided and sustained. Attentional dysfunction can be present
      in several conditions where cognitive deficit is the main symptom, such as Alzheimer's
      disease.

      With regard to memory, it is subdivided according to time storage, i.e. short or long term.
      Short-term memory is capable of operating with certain perceived information for a limited
      space of time and can later be forgotten or transferred to long-term memory. Two other
      complementary components are distinguished in this type of memory: immediate memory and
      recent memory. Long-term memory is a latent memory with unlimited capacity that can remain
      outside the conscious circuit until circumstances require another mode of response. It
      involves separate, interdependent and dynamic processes of storage, consolidation and
      evocation. It is made up of two major subsystems: implicit or non-declarative memory, and
      explicit or declarative memory.

      Regarding executive functions, they designate the cognitive processes of control and
      integration aimed at the execution of behaviour directed at complex objectives, requiring
      sub-components such as attention, programming, time sequencing, inhibition of competing
      processes and information, monitoring and selection of strategies. Executive functions
      include various processes such as working memory, planning, response to reactions and error
      corrections, cognitive flexibility, inhibition, decision making.

      There is evidence that in the early stages of NCD, people are able to learn and improve their
      cognitive function through interventions such as CS. CS is recommended by the National
      Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence as a non-pharmacological therapy for people with
      mild to moderate NCD and is an intervention where the cognitive domains are not used in
      isolation but integrated. An individual format is associated with better results. In a
      systematic review on CS, studies have shown strong evidence that CS has a positive impact on
      cognitive function, depression, daily life activities and behaviour for people with NCD.

      However, no studies are known that have analyzed prefrontal cortex activity in the elderly
      population associated with a functional method of infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS). This method
      provides information on hemodynamic changes associated with cortical activation by measuring
      in a non-invasive way changes in the relative ratios of deoxygenated hemoglobin (HHb) and
      oxygenated hemoglobin (HbO2).

      Monitoring and recording the dynamics in the PFC of the elderly during a cognitive
      stimulation programme with the fNIRS method may contribute to expanding knowledge about
      aspects related to neurodegenerative processes and cognitive function in the elderly.
    
  