
    
      Objective: A traumatic brain injury (TBI) places individuals at high risk for developing
      posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD). TBIs account for the onset of PTSD in approximately
      700,000 Americans each year. Depression and post-concussive syndrome (PCS) are also common
      and often comorbid with PTSD. However, even in this group, there is a high-level of
      inter-individual response to traumatic brain injuries, suggesting that a better understanding
      of the mechanisms underlying this risk would be of great value in directing preventive
      interventions. The reasons for this heterogeneity are undoubtedly multi-factorial, and
      involve a complex interplay between genetic and environmental factors, that we may be able to
      understand through peripheral biomarkers and central examination of neuronal functioning. We
      suggest that DNA methylation may be a putative biomarker of psychiatric risk, as it reflects
      long-term changes in the function of the gene and may shape the recovery ability of the TBI
      patient through changes in cell function. In addition, differential proteomic response,
      including the function of the neuroendocrine system, likely relates to changes from
      epigenetic modification in both neurons and immune cells, which may contribute to the risk
      for the onset of PTSD as well as depression and PCS. We have previously shown that both PTSD
      and depression are associated with endocrine alterations, leading us to question if this
      biological change may underlie vulnerability for the onset of PTSD as well as depression and
      PCS following a TBI. In support of the idea of shared vulnerability, patients with a TBI also
      often display endocrine function alterations. In addition, sleep disturbance is common
      following TBI and is a core symptom of PTSD depression and PCS, suggesting that sleep may
      contribute to psychiatric and neurological recovery from a TBI. This line of research is
      essential, as current treatments to prevent or treat psychiatric risk following TBI are often
      ineffective, and even treatment of PCS is limited. This poor understanding results in our
      limited ability to reduce the risk for compromises in the health and well-being of patients
      who sustain a TBI.

      Study population: Participants with a moderate or mild TBI (n=100) will be followed for a
      period of one year.

      Design: This is a natural history study that will recruit patients within 30 days of a
      mild/moderate TBI, and will follow them over a one year period, with follow-up at 1, 3, 6 and
      12 months following the TBI. Biological profiles including the concentration of inflammatory
      proteins and neuropeptides, and DNA methylation will be examined. An optional structural and
      functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and a hydrocortisone stimulation test will be
      used to evaluate the role of neuronal and neuroendocrine functioning following TBI.

      Outcome measures: The primary outcomes of interest are the biological changes that occur
      following TBI which are associated with the onset of psychiatric disorders of PTSD, and
      depression, as well as the onset of PCS. The secondary aim is to examine neuronal mechanisms
      that underlie the risks for these disorders through the use of fMRI. Additional aims will
      determine the role of psychological resilience traits in recovery and also how sleep relates
      to recovery and psychiatric risk.
    
  