
    
      The incidence of premature and low birthweight (LBW) births continues to climb in the U.S.
      despite increased efforts to prevent it. Interventions to enhance coping in parents of
      infants in an attempt to improve both parent and child outcomes have not kept pace with the
      rapid technological advances to sustain survival for these medically compromised infants.
      Consequently, there is an urgent need to develop and evaluate coping interventions for
      parents of LBW premature infants in order to facilitate effective clinical practice
      strategies that are empirically based.

      The primary objective for this study is to evaluate the short- and long-term effects of a
      theoretically-driven intervention program (COPE: Creating Opportunities for Parent
      Empowerment) on the process and outcomes of mothers and fathers/significant others' (SOs)
      coping with a LBW premature infant and infant developmental outcomes. The secondary
      objectives are to:

        -  Explore how the coping process and outcomes of mothers and fathers/significant others
           together contribute to the outcomes of LBW premature infants;

        -  Determine the cost-effectiveness of the COPE program; and

        -  Explore what factors moderate the effects of the intervention (e.g., family structure,
           SES, birthweight, disability, and infant temperament).

      In this randomized clinical trial, the investigators are testing the following hypotheses
      separately for mothers and for fathers/significant others:

        -  Mothers/fathers who receive the COPE program will report less anxiety, depression, and
           stress related to the NICU environment than mothers/fathers who receive the comparison
           program;

        -  Mothers/fathers who receive the COPE program will demonstrate a higher quality of
           parenting during hospitalization than mothers/fathers who receive the comparison
           program;

        -  Mothers/fathers who receive the COPE program will report less anxiety and depression
           following hospitalization than mothers/fathers who receive the comparison program;

        -  Mothers/fathers who receive the COPE program will perceive their children as less
           vulnerable than mothers/fathers who receive the comparison program;

        -  Fathers who receive the COPE program will report greater involvement in their infants'
           lives (average time spent with infant per week) than fathers who receive the comparison
           program;

        -  Infants of mothers/fathers who receive the COPE program will have greater cognitive
           development than infants of mothers/fathers in the comparison program;

        -  Children of mothers/fathers in the COPE program will have less negative behaviors at 2
           years corrected age than children of mothers/fathers in the comparison program;

        -  The proposed model to explain the effects of the COPE program on the process and
           outcomes of parental coping and infant outcomes will be supported for mothers and for
           fathers.

      In addition, the following study questions will be answered:

        -  How do parental beliefs and coping outcomes of both mothers and fathers together
           contribute to the outcomes of LBW premature infants?

        -  Are there reciprocal effects between parent and child outcomes as well as parental
           emotional and functional coping outcomes?

        -  How do infant cognitive development and parental coping outcomes change over time within
           the subjects and between the experimental groups?

        -  What factors moderate the effects of the intervention on child outcomes (e.g., family
           structure, SES, birth-weight, disability, and infant temperament)?

        -  What is the incremental cost of the COPE intervention compared to the comparison group,
           when the health care sector perspective is considered?

        -  What is the incremental cost of the COPE intervention compared to the comparison group
           intervention, when the societal perspective is considered?

        -  How sensitive are the findings in these economic evaluations to the assumptions and
           parameter estimates made in the analyses?

      The first 3 years of life and the quality of early parent-child relations are principal
      building blocks for adult cognitive and emotional functioning. However, investigators have
      found that parents have impaired relationships with their premature infants, providing
      heightened stimulation to the infants at inappropriate times in hopes of increasing
      responsiveness to them. These dysfunctional patterns place parents at risk for negative
      emotions and parenting outcomes and place children at risk for emotional, behavioral, and
      developmental problems. Therefore, early interventions are critical to decrease the negative
      effects of prematurity on parenting and parent-infant interactions. Early intervention may be
      a critical key to future successful programs with parents and their premature infants because
      it is recognized that, once a trajectory of parent-infant interaction is initiated, changes
      are difficult to implement and even harder to sustain; this program has the potential to
      benefit a significant number of LBW premature infants and their parents across the country.

      A randomized block design with repeated measures is being used. Subjects at each of two study
      sites are randomly assigned to the COPE or comparison group by 4-week periods of time. Using
      random assignment at each site will allow for assessment of an interaction effect as part of
      the data analytic strategy. Based on the average NICU stay in the pilot study (mean = 29.6
      days), the decision to use 4-week blocks of time was made to decrease the likelihood of
      parent to parent and staff to parent contamination which would be more likely with individual
      randomization.

      The COPE program provides parents with: (a) information on the appearance and behavioral
      characteristics of premature infants and information on how parents can participate in their
      infant's care, meet their infant's needs, enhance the quality of interaction with their
      infant, and facilitate their infant's development (parental role information); and (b)
      activities that assist parents in implementing the experimental information. The content of
      the COPE program is driven by the theoretical framework, developmental theory, the literature
      review, interventions found to be effective in previous studies, and prior work by the
      research team.

      The COPE program consists of 7 phases. Phase I (within 2 to 4 days after the infant's NICU
      admission) consists of audiotaped information. A written copy of the information is also
      provided for parents to read as they listen to the audiotape. Also, parents are given their
      first set of parenting activities that consist of: (a) identifying the special
      characteristics of their baby; and (b) keeping a record of milestones that their baby
      achieves while in the NICU. Phase II (within 2 to 4 days after the first intervention)
      consists of audiotaped and written information that reinforce the critical content of the
      initial audiotape and provides supplemental information on: (a) premature infants' behaviors
      and development; and (b) further suggestions regarding how parents can participate in their
      infant's care and enhance their infant's development. Additional activities are introduced to
      parents that consist of: (a) identifying the special characteristics of their baby at this
      time; and (b) recognizing their baby's stress cues as well as cues that signal readiness for
      communication. The parent activities are designed to: (a) supplement mothers and fathers'
      existing parenting repertoire by providing them with parent activities specific to the
      situation; (b) increase parents' confidence and certainty regarding how they can best meet
      their infant's needs; and (c) enhance infant developmental outcomes. Phase III (1 to 4 days
      prior to the infant's discharge to home) consists of developmentally appropriate information,
      including specific details about infant states and the best times for mothers and fathers to
      interact with their infant. The audiotape also contains parental role information regarding
      how to smooth the transition from hospital to home as well as how to continue to foster a
      positive mother/father-baby relationship. Parent activities during Phase III include: (a)
      continuing to assist parents in recognizing their baby's cues; and (b) helping parents to
      recognize strategies that help their baby when he or she is stressed. The Phase III
      intervention was planned for this window of time because discharge to home is empirically
      supported as a stressful transition for parents.

      Phase IV (within 1 week after discharge) is delivered in the parents' home. Audiotaped
      information at this time contains information specific to continued growth and development of
      the infant and suggestions for fostering a positive parent-infant relationship. Further
      parenting activities are given to mothers and fathers that outline specific things for them
      to do with their infant to foster his or her cognitive development (e.g. age appropriate
      games and songs). One of these activities is a book, The Little Engine that Could, for
      parents to read to their infants. Emphasis is placed upon interacting when the infant is most
      receptive to stimuli (e.g., while in the quiet alert state). Phase V (2 months corrected age)
      is also delivered in the parents' home. Parents again receive audiotaped and written
      information about appropriate upcoming developmental milestones and how they can enhance
      their infant's development. Emphasis is placed on specific age-appropriate information about:
      (a) their infant's developmental characteristics; (b) typical sleep, crying, and temperament
      patterns; and (c) strategies to foster their infant's cognitive and social development. The
      COPE information places emphasis on assessing their infants based on their corrected versus
      chronological age. Parenting activities in this phase of the intervention include: (a) rattle
      play; (b) playing "peek-a-boo"; (c) repeating an action; (d) tasting and touching to explore;
      and (e) vocalizing to take a turn. At Phase VI (9 months corrected age) parents are provided
      with audiotaped information that: (a) educates them regarding what to expect in their
      infant's upcoming development; and (b) provides suggestions for enhancing their child's
      development. Because mothers of LBW premature infants frequently continue to view their
      children as "fragile" through the preschool years and engage in overprotective parenting,
      this intervention focuses on the importance of letting toddlers engage in autonomy,
      exploration, self-initiation, and self-assertion. The COPE information outlines parenting
      strategies that foster positive attributes in the children in addition to teaching
      age-appropriate limits. Parenting activities to enhance development in this phase include:
      (a) learning the meaning of "no"; (b) learning about colors and sizes; (c) finger-painting;
      (d) reading; and (e) identifying body parts. Phase VII (18 months corrected age) information
      continues to emphasize the importance of allowing the child to develop autonomy,
      self-initiation, and appropriate exploration. Detailed information about the adverse effects
      of overprotective parenting is provided. Parents are given more information about how to
      engage in appropriate limit setting and discipline as well as strategies to continue to
      foster cognitive and social development with their toddler. The following parent-child
      activities are provided: (a) playdough and paint-recipes for fun; (b) matching objects to
      pictures; (c) learning to sort; (d) remembering where things belong; (e) learning to imitate
      two word phrases; and (f) recognizing and naming pictures.

      The comparison program also consists of a series of audiotapes delivered at the same times as
      the 7 phases of the COPE program. Phases I and II audiotaped and written information contains
      information about the hospital services. The Phase III audiotape contains discharge
      information that is given to all parents. The audiotape provided during the Phase IV
      intervention contains information regarding immunizations. Phases V to VII audiotaped and
      written interventions focus on age appropriate child safety and nutrition issues.
    
  