
    
      Postoperative pain is an important issue in patients underwent mastectomy and axillary
      dissection surgery. Postoperative effective pain treatment provides early mobilization and
      shorter hospital stay, thus complications due to hospitalization such as infection and
      thromboembolism may be reduced.

      Various methods may be performed to reduce the use of systemic opioids and for effective pain
      treatment following mastectomy and axillary dissection surgery. Ultrasound (US)-guided
      interfascial plane blocks have been used increasingly due to the advantages of ultrasound in
      anesthesia practice. Rhomboid intercostal block (RIB) is a novel block and was first
      described by Elsharkawy et al. Local anesthetic solution is administrated between the
      rhomboid muscle and intercostal muscles over the T5-6 ribs 2-3 cm medially of the medial
      border of the scapula. RIB targets both the posterior rami and lateral cutaneous branches of
      the thoracic nerves and provides analgesia for the hemithorax from T2 to T9. It has been
      reported that RIB may provide effective analgesia management for several breast surgeries.

      The US-guided erector spina plane block (ESPB) is defined by Forero et al. ESPB provides
      thoracic analgesia at T5 level and abdominal analgesia at T7-9 level. ESPB contains a local
      anesthetic injection into the deep fascia of erector spinae. Visualization of sonoanatomy is
      easy, and the spread of local anesthesic agents can be easily seen under the erector spinae
      muscle. Thus, analgesia occurs in several dermatomes with cephalad-caudad way. In the
      literature, it has been reported that ESP block provides effective analgesia after several
      surgeries such as open heart surgery, breast surgery, thoracoscopic and abdominal operations.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of the US-guided ESPB and RIB for
      postoperative analgesia after mastectomy and axillary dissection surgery. The primary aim is
      to compare postoperative pain scores (VAS), and the secondary aim is to evaluate opioid
      consumption, adverse effects related with opioids (allergic reaction, nausea, vomiting).
    
  