
    
      The metabolic syndrome (MetS) includes a cluster of dysfunctions that identifies subjects at
      risk of developing type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD). A key feature appears to
      be chronic increased inflammation and activation of the innate system. Consequently,
      increased low-grade inflammation has been connected to adverse effects on insulin
      sensitivity, glucose- and lipid metabolism, and blood pressure, and circulating markers of
      inflammation such as IL-6. A growing body of evidence also link low-grade inflammation to
      poorer cognitive functioning. Type 2 diabetes, MetS, and glucose intolerance are increasingly
      being associated with impaired cognition.

      Dietary patterns which promote sub-clinical inflammation are increasingly being considered
      predictive of future risk of CVD and type-2 diabetes. Epidemiological data shows that a high
      consumption of vegetables and fruits is associated with a lowered risk of cancer and
      cardiovascular disease, which may be due to the high concentrations of polyphenols or other
      anti-oxidants that are found in such foods.

      In the presently described project it is hypothesized that four weeks daily consumption of a
      product specific high in flavanols can improve metabolic risk variables and cognitive
      functions in healthy subjects.

      The purpose is therefore to investigate effects of flavanols on cognitive functions and
      cardiometabolic risk, and to investigate relations between cardiometabolic risk markers and
      cognitive performance. The test product is a commonly used food product, known to be
      specifically rich in flavanols. The effects of the test product is compared with effects of a
      control product that is based on a similar food product but is lacking flavanols.

      Test parameters:

      Cognitive tests: Working memory tests (an oral test), selection attention test (measure also
      reaction time, a computerized test ), and stroop test (a computerized test.

      Mood is determined for 6 different mood sensations using VAS scales.

      Bio markers in blood: glucose regulation (glucose, insulin), markers of inflammation and
      oxidative stress (IL-6, MDA, oxLDL), blood lipids (total cholesterol, LDL-cholesterol,
      HDL-cholesterol, triglycerides), vascular function (P-Selectin, PAI-1, NO), gut hormones
      involved in metabolism and satiety (PYY, GLP-1) gut hormon involved in mucosa integrity
      (GLP-2), markers of brain function (BDNF, neurotensin).

      Blood pressure.
    
  