
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine, in patients with localized, resectable soft tissue sarcoma, whether there is
      a non-inferior major wound complication rate for patients receiving 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions
      over 3 weeks compared to historical controls who received 50 Gy in conventional fractionation
      over 5-6 weeks.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether local control rates among patients treated with 42.75 Gy in 15
      fractions is similar to that observed in previous studies for patients treated with 50 Gy in
      conventional fractionation over 5-6 weeks.

      II. To determine whether patterns of local relapse, relapse free survival, overall survival,
      or metastatic disease free survival for patients treated with 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions are
      similar to previously reported studies.

      III. To determine where there is a difference in pathologic response in tumor specimens
      treated with 42.75 Gy in 15 fractions compared to previously reported rates of hyalinization,
      fibrosis, or necrosis.

      IV. To explore quality of life, as measured by the Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-General (FACT-G), financial toxicity as measured by the Comprehensive Score for
      financial Toxicity (COST) Instrument, and patient reported outcomes, as measured by the
      Toronto Extremity Salvage Score (TESS), among individuals undergoing a shorter,
      hypofractionated course of pre-operative radiation therapy for soft tissue sarcoma of the
      extremity or superficial trunk.

      V. To gather subjective data on patient treatment preferences and experiences among
      individuals undergoing a shorter, hypofractionated course of pre-operative radiation therapy
      for soft tissue sarcoma of the extremity or superficial trunk.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive hypofractionated radiation therapy in 15 daily fractions over 3 weeks in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3-4 months for 2 years,
      every 6 months for 3 years, and then every year for up to 10 years.
    
  