
    
      Patients with medium and high risk stage I and II endometrial cancers have, despite radical
      surgery, a rather high risk for progression.

      Adjuvant radiotherapy was the traditional therapy for many decades. Four randomized phase III
      studies and a meta-analysis have revealed that adjuvant radiotherapy improves local control
      at the cost of excessive short and long term toxicity, though has absolutely no impact on
      survival.

      Two phase III studies have randomized between adjuvant radiotherapy versus adjuvant
      chemotherapy, both failed to show any difference in survival between radiotherapy and
      chemotherapy, though both studies are criticized for inferior chemotherapy regimens or
      inclusion of good prognosis patients. The GOG-122 study on more advanced cases (stage 3 & 4)
      randomized between combination chemotherapy versus whole abdominal irradiation and found
      significant improvement in survival in the chemotherapy arm.

      NSGO-EC-9501 and MaNGO studies have indicated that adjuvant chemotherapy added to adjuvant
      radiotherapy may improve survival compared to adjuvant radiotherapy alone in early stage
      medium and high risk patients. One may conclude that impact on survival comes only from
      chemotherapy. Many investigators have therefore adapted adjuvant chemotherapy as standard
      treatment in various countries including Denmark. However, such conclusion has low level of
      evidence, as there are no randomized phase III studies comparing postoperative observation
      alone versus adjuvant chemotherapy.

      It is of utmost importance to demonstrate efficacy of adjuvant combination chemotherapy in a
      randomized phase III trial comparing to no further treatment in the medium and high risk node
      negative stage 1 & 2 patients.

      Combination chemotherapy regimen of paclitaxel-carboplatin is proposed in this study, as this
      combination is effective and well tolerated.

      The eligible patients for such a study are a fraction of patients with endometrial cancer
      therefore this study will be performed within the ENGOT collaboration.
    
  