
    
      Objectives

      To compare the efficacy of placing an Intrauterine Balloon immediately after surgery and
      delayed Intrauterine Balloon Dilatation Therapy after surgery in the prevention of adhesion
      reformation after hysteroscopic adhesiolysis.

      Patients

      The patients will be recruited from two centers, namely, the HysterscopyCenter of the Fuxing
      Hospital and TianTan Hospital, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.Before the surgery
      all patients with suspected Asherman syndrome will undergo preoperative evaluations,
      including a detailed history of the menstrual pattern, any previous intrauterine surgery, and
      reproductive history, as well as trans-vaginal ultrasonography.The severity and extent of
      intrauterine adhesions will be scored according to a classification system recommended by the
      American Fertility Society (AFS) (1988 version). The inclusion criteria include [1] women
      aged 18-40 years; [2] moderate to severe intrauterine adhesion (AFS score≥5); [3] first
      episode of hysteroscopic adhesiolysis in the investigators hospital; [4] written consent
      obtained; and [5] agreement to have second-look hysteroscopy. The exclusion criteria include
      [1] minimal adhesion (AFS score <5) and [2] previous hysteroscopic adhesiolysis in the
      investigators hospital.

      Study Design

      At the conclusion of hysteroscopic adhesiolysis, recruited patients will be randomized to one
      of the two treatment groups by computer-generated numbers: [1] Immediate Intrauterine Balloon
      therapy (I-IUB) group: Immediately place a Foley-catheter intrauterine balloon which will be
      removed after 7 days after surgery; [2] Delayed Intrauterine Balloon therapy (D-IUB) group：
      insertion of a Foley-catheter to distend the uterine cavity 2 weeks and 4 weeks after
      hysteroscopic adhesiolysis; A second-look hysteroscopy will be carried out in the early
      proliferative phase 6 weeks after the surgery.

      Power Calculation

      On the basis of the results of the two published retrospective cohort studies comparing the
      balloon and hormone therapy group (control group) in the prevention of adhesion reformation,
      the investigators estimate that the adhesion reformation rate in the immediate balloon group
      to be 30% and in the delayed balloon group to be 10%. Accepting a type 1 error of 0.05, and a
      type 2 error of 0.10, the number of subjects in each arm of the randomized, controlled trial
      would be 79. Assuming that the dropout rate to be 20%, the total number of subject to be
      recruited would be 90 in each arm.

      Procedure

      Surgical procedure

      The surgery will be carried out by one of three experienced hysteroscopic surgeons with the
      use of a 8.5-mm rigid hysteroscope (Olympus) with 0.9% normal saline infusion under 100-120
      mmHg pressure. The procedure will be performed under general anesthesia in a day surgery
      unit. Ultrasonographic guidance will be routinely used. Once the extent and severity of
      uterine adhesion has been assessed, the adhesions will be divided with the use of bipolar
      instrument until normal uterine anatomy is achieved.At the conclusion of the surgery, in the
      immediate balloon group: a Foley-catheter will be immediately inserted into the uterine
      cavity and the balloon will be distended with 5mls of saline under ultrasound guidance and
      the balloon will stay in situ for 7 days. In the delayed balloon group,a Foley catheter will
      be inserted into the uterine cavity 2 weeks after the surgery, the balloon will be inflated
      with normal saline (from 3-5ml) then deflated, and the procedure repeated three time over 3
      minutes or so, then the cavity will be flushed with 10 mls of normal saline solution after
      via the irrigating channel of the Foley catheter before removal. The whole procedure will be
      repeated a further 2 weeks later.

      Postoperative treatments

      All subjects will be treated with oral antibiotics for 5 days. In all cases hormone therapy
      will also begin from the day of operation, consisting of estradiol at a dose of 2 mg, bid for
      21- 28 days, with the addition of dydrogesterone at a dose of 10 mg, bid for the last 10 days
      of the estrogen therapy. After the withdrawal bleed, the hormone therapy will be repeated for
      another cycle. Second-look hysteroscopy will be carried out in the early proliferative phase,
      6 weeks after the initial operation. After assessment of the extent and severity of any
      reformed adhesion, hysteroscopic adhesiolysis will also be carried out at the time of the
      second-look procedure, if adhesion has recurred. The surgeon who performs the second-look
      hysteroscopy will be blinded to the randomization.

      IUB dilatation

      D-IUB dilatation therapy group will be performed using a Foley catheter and according to the
      methodology published in the literature. This will be prepared by cutting the catheter tip
      protruding beyond the balloon. Once the catheter has reached the fundus, 5mls of saline will
      be slowly instilled into the balloon under ultrasound guidance.

      Statistical Analysis

      The rate of the recurrence of adhesion in the two groups will be compared using the χ2 test.
      The reduction of AFS score in the two groups will be compared using the Mann-Whitney U test.
      A p value of < 0.05 will be considered statistically significant. All statistical analysis
      will be carried out with the use of SPSS 21.0.

      Outcome measures

      The primary outcome measure will include the degree of intrauterine adhesions and AFS score
      at follow-up. The secondary outcome measures will include the change of menstrual pattern
      after surgery and the need for re-operation.The third outcome measures will include any
      complications including any clinicalinfection.

      Data processing and analysis

      The researchers will ensure the confidentiality of sensitive data by minimizing the number of
      personnel who handle subject data. In addition, computer data will be encrypted as required
      to maximize security, while paper documents will be locked in filing cabinets, with only
      authorized personnel having access to the information.

      Ethical considerations

      IUB dilatation has been published as a novel technique with no untoward complications
      identified to date. The procedure will be performed according to the methodology available in
      the literature and the study has gained approval from the local ethical committee.

      Consent

      All subjects will be given a detailed explanation of the study and sufficient time to
      consider participants. A written consent form will be signed by the patient and retained in
      the investigators confidential records
    
  