
    
      There have been limited prospective clinical studies in pediatrics patients examining the
      association of the chloride content of intravenous fluids and outcome in DKA. This
      prospective randomized controlled trial is being performed to compare the duration of
      acidosis and hospital length of stay in children with DKA who are admitted to a pediatric
      intensive care unit and are treated with intravenous fluids containing NS or LR. The primary
      study hypothesis is that use of LR will be associated with decreased duration of
      hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis and, therefore, shorter hospitalization than use of NS in
      the treatment of pediatric DKA.

      Primary hypothesis: Children with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) who are treated with
      intravenous fluids containing lactated ringers (LR) will have a shorter duration of
      hyperchloremic metabolic acidosis after hospital admission than those treated with
      intravenous fluids containing normal saline (NS).

      Secondary hypothesis: The duration of acidosis after hospital admission in children with DKA
      will be associated with length of stay in the intensive care unit and hospital.

      Outcomes

      Primary outcome

      The primary study outcome will be duration of metabolic acidosis. Resolution of metabolic
      acidosis will be defined in three ways:

        1. Serum ketone level <1mmol/L;

        2. Venous pH > 7.3;

        3. Serum bicarbonate level > 18mmol/L.

      Secondary outcomes Secondary outcomes will include length of stay in the pediatric intensive
      care unit (PICU) and length of stay in the hospital.

      Study design This is a single center, double blinded, randomized controlled trial with two
      treatment arms performed at a tertiary care children's hospital. Patients will be randomized
      within an hour of presentation to the hospital to receive DKA management using intravenous
      fluids containing primarily normal saline or lactated ringers. All other aspects of DKA
      management will be the same in each arm, per the institution protocol. Since both treatment
      arms involve using intravenous fluids which are considered standard of care in treating
      dehydration, a waiver of consent will be requested.

      Recruitment methods Patients will be eligible for enrollment and randomization if they are
      admitted to the pediatric emergency room or pediatric intensive care unit from an outside
      hospital or facility with DKA and they meet inclusion criteria. Patients will be screened by
      emergency room personnel for eligibility and if PICU admission is determined, patients will
      be enrolled. If transferred directly to the pediatric intensive care unit, pediatric critical
      care fellow and attending physicians will be responsible for screening and enrollment 24
      hours a day. Enrollment and randomization will occur within 1 hour of hospital presentation.

      Enrollment will consist of assigning a randomization number at point of entry to the hospital
      (Emergency Room or Pediatric Intensive Care Unit) and placing the study DKA order set.

      Randomization methods Upon enrollment, patients will be assigned a randomization number in
      sequential order from a previously generated randomization table provided by a statistician
      and available in the ER and PICU to study personnel. Each number will correlate with a
      treatment arm visible on a randomization table with coordinated treatment arm assignment
      available only to pharmacy personnel. Pharmacy personnel will then provide the appropriate
      content to the intravenous fluids with a generic label "DKA study fluids with dextrose" and
      "DKA study fluids without dextrose." As the fluids look identical, they would only differ
      visually in labelling, so standardized labelling as described here will allow all treating
      physicians to be blinded to treatment arm assignment.

      Study Intervention All enrolled patients will be treated using the institutional DKA
      management protocol which is in place in the emergency room and the pediatric intensive care
      unit and was developed in collaboration with the endocrinology division. The only difference
      in the study protocol from the institutional DKA protocol is the intravenous fluid content.
      Please refer to study protocol schematic shown in supplement 1.

      Upon admission to the ER or PICU, all eligible patients will be placed on cardiac monitors,
      admission DKA laboratory tests will be ordered and an initial intravenous fluid bolus of 10
      ml/kg normal saline will be administered as is standard of care. These aspects of DKA
      management will likely be performed before study enrollment, but if not, will be identical
      for both arms so treatment arm assignment will not be affected. Subjects will be started on a
      continuous insulin infusion drip at 0.1 U/kg/hr and study intravenous fluids without dextrose
      at 1.5 times maintenance. Per standard of care, point of care whole blood glucose levels will
      be followed hourly, serum blood gases and electrolytes every 2 hours, beta-hydroxybutyrate
      levels every 6 hours and urine ketones every void. ER subjects will be transferred to the
      PICU to continue exactly the same management and laboratory schedule.

      The study protocol will be used until acute management for DKA using the continuous insulin
      infusion is stopped. Our current practice is to convert from continuous insulin to
      intermittent subcutaneous insulin administration when the venous pH is equal to or greater
      than 7.30 and the serum bicarbonate level is equal to or greater than 15 mmol/L.

      Fluid Management DKA fluid management is based on a two-bag system to maintain glucose levels
      between 100 and 300 mg/dL as the ketosis is corrected. The first type of intravenous fluid
      used has no dextrose in it to avoid worsening the initial hyperglycemia. Once the serum
      glucose falls below 300 mg/dL, 10% dextrose-containing fluids will be started. All
      intravenous fluids will contain 20millieqilivants per liter (mEq/L) of potassium acetate and
      20mEq/L potassium phosphate.

      Study fluid management will follow the same guidelines for rate of fluid delivery and amount
      of dextrose used in the standard management of patients in DKA. Bedside healthcare personnel
      will treat all study subjects identically regardless of treatment arm. To provide blinding to
      all bedside staff, intravenous fluid bags will be labelled as "DKA study fluid with dextrose"
      or "DKA study fluid without dextrose." All intravenous fluids used will have an electrolyte
      composition of 20mEq/L of potassium acetate and 20mEq/L of potassium phosphate.
    
  