
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) represents the most common nocturnal respiratory
      disease characterized by repetitive episodes of partial or complete upper airway collapse or
      narrowing during sleep,associated with phasic oxygen desaturation.Failure to recognize this
      condition could lead to an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases, daytime sleepiness,
      road accidents, a reduced cognitive capacity, with a decline of the quality of life.According
      to the American Association of Sleep Medicine,the diagnostic standard of the OSAS is the
      polysomnographic exam, which allows to assess the gravity of OSAS in relation to the Apnea
      Hypopnea Index (AHI) within an hour:slight (AHI<5), moderate (5<AHI<30) and severe (AHI>30).
      Epidemiological investigations has shown that the prevalence rate of OSAS is 2-4% of the
      total population,whereas the percentage of undiagnosed OSAS remains very high with
      progression to dangerous complications.

      OSAS treatment modalities include proper body position, slimming,continuous positive air
      pressure(CPAP),surgical procedures and oral appliances use. OA are dental devices that
      improve OSAS by producing a structural change of the upper airways, in order to mechanically
      increase the pharyngeal diameters, keep the tongue from falling backwards and to stiffen the
      pharyngeal muscles longitudinally.Recently, OAs is growing more popular due to its
      superiority in the treatment of the OSAS.It offers a non-invasive form of treatment but also
      achieve a good therapeutic effect. Traditionally, the effects of functional appliances are
      evaluated using two-dimensional (2D) radiographs, but the reproducibility of 2D is complex,
      and overlapping images are difficult to assess. Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) provides
      more accurate and reproducible imaging for assessing all craniofacial skeletal structures.

      The objective of this study was to evaluate, in a 6-months follow-up study, the effect of
      costumed adjustable oral appliance in OSAS patients both through the comparison of the
      polysomnographic analysis, and also through the volumetric measurements of the pharyngeal
      airway by using the cone beam computed tomography.

      Twenty-four patients,aged 18 to 50 years,in whom the diagnosis of OSAS was made following
      polysomnography in a sleep laboratory will be enrolled between September 2018 and November
      2018.All patients will also undergo a systematic dental examination by a dentist, which put
      an indication to the use of OA, based also on the craniofacial features assessment. The
      Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS) will be used to evaluate daytime sleepiness.

      They then will be fitted with a costumed adjustable oral appliance. The appliances are taken
      with a mandibular advancement of 2-3 mm and vertical rise of 4-5 mm, that is, the vertical
      position set at the minimum occlusal elevation to allow mandibular advancement and to avoid
      backward rotation. The participants were asked to wear the test appliance for 7 nights, and
      in case of compliance,application it every night at least for 6 months. The selected patients
      will be record their usage of the appliance and any adverse effects in a treatment journal.

      The research focus on the following outcomes: sleep apnea and the the volumetric changes of
      the upper airway. All patients were radiographically evaluated with a specific diagnostic
      examination: the cone beam computed tomography scan. For each patient, 3 CBCT scans were
      performed positioning his head in a neutral way and were performed without swallowing or
      respiratory movements during inspiration at rest: the first one before the therapy, the
      second after 3 months and the second after 6 months. Data obtained through CBCT scans have
      been exported in DICOM format and analyzed with a specific software (MIMICS-Materialise
      Interactive Medical Image Control System, Leuven, Belgium).The pharyngeal area around the
      velopharynx and oropharynx has been considered in which the origin of apneas is mainly
      found.Three planes have been built, an upper, a middle, and lower one, all perpendicular to
      the median sagittal plane of symmetry to obtain 2 areas, a superior and an inferior one.
    
  