
    
      Isolated and depressed zygomatic arch fractures have an incidence of about 5 to 14% of
      lateral mid face fractures. Depressed zygomatic arch fractures have been managed by blind
      closed reduction historically based upon tactile sense of surgeon and auditory click assumed
      as the conclusive evidence of reduction. The minimal fracture exposure for zygomatic arch
      fractures either solitary or combined with zygomaticomaxillary complex fractures results in
      inadequate visibility of the fractures and inadequate or inappropriate reduction of
      fractures. These fractures can be visualized by surgical exposure with coronal approach but
      is limited by complications and extensive training required. Other options are intraoperative
      imaging with portable CT scan but they are cumbersome, require radiologists for positioning
      and are not available in all operative units as well as expensive. Endoscopic visualization
      and reduction are another option for intraoperative control of these fractures but endoscopes
      are expensive, not available in all operative units and require experience and training to
      use appropriately. Various studies and our own experience show that unacceptable number of
      depressed zygomatic arch fractures remain incompletely reduced with blind reduction method.
      The resulting deficit might be as small as a depressed lateral face, inadequate sagittal
      projection of cheek to inadequate mouth opening. Portable ultrasound machines are readily
      available in almost all anesthesia units and operating rooms. These ultrasound units can be
      utilized to reduce the zygomatic arch satisfactorily with real time image guidance and it has
      advantage of being radiation free and inexpensive compared to fluoroscopy based portable C
      arm units. A small pilot in our own unit has shown remarkable difference between reduction
      achieved under ultrasonography guidance vs closed reduction based on tactility. This method
      should be explored and perfected to bring in common use among Oral & Maxillofacial surgeons
      so that blind assumption of fracture reduction is replaced by a more scientific confirmation
      of fracture reduction.
    
  