
    
      Objectives:

      We are proposing the development and assessment of an MRI and neurophysiology-based
      experimental and theoretical framework to measure peripheral and intercortical latencies and
      latency distributions in the living human. This entails combining and integrating
      neurophysiological and neuroimaging so that we can eventually generate latency and latency
      distribution matrices for central nervous systems (CNS) using neuroimaging techniques.
      Neuroimaging and neurophysiological studies in the peripheral nerve system (PNS) will provide
      essential data for proof-of-concept and for validating this approach.

      Study Population:

      We intend to study up to 40 healthy volunteers. Each subject will complete 1 to 8 visits
      involving various measurements with different neuroimaging and neurophysiological techniques.

      Design:

      This is an exploratory study that consists of different measurements using multimodal
      neurophysiological and neuroimaging techniques. Diffusion magnetic resonance imaging (MRI),
      mean apparent propagator (MAP)-MRI, AxCaliber MRI, multiple pulsed field gradient MRI, and
      resting-state functional MRI will be performed in 1 to 2 visits. In another 1 to 5 visits, we
      will use neurophysiological techniques including peripheral electrical stimulation,
      transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), electroencephalography (EEG) and
      magnetoencephalography (MEG) with various experimental paradigms to correlate with the
      latency and latency distribution matrices generated by neuroimaging techniques. All these
      techniques are exploratory and success or failure of one of them does not have immediate
      implications for the others.

      Outcome Measures:

      We will measure average axon diameter (AAD) and axon diameter distributions (ADD), as well as
      compute white matter pathway trajectories using diffusion MRI and MAP-MRI data, and use
      resting-state functional MRI to measure blood oxygenation level-dependent signal to identify
      salient cortical regions in which many of these tracts terminate. For proof-of-concept
      measurements in the PNS, compound muscle action potential or surface compound nerve action
      potential on the skin will be measured following peripheral nerve stimulation. For TMS , we
      will measure motor evoked potential (MEP) amplitude. Cortical evoked potential in different
      cortical areas induced by TMS will be measured in EEG recordings. We will study millisecond
      coupling delays between different cortical areas with MEG. We will measure time and phase
      delays as computed from whole-head signals in the subject. Coherence analysis for cortical
      activity with EEG and MEG recordings between different cortical areas will be performed. We
      will attempt to correlate MRI measurements with the individual physiological measurements.
    
  