
    
      The current procedure used to check for cancer cells in the lungs is a small operation at the
      base of the neck (mediastinoscopy) to get samples of the lymph glands. These samples are then
      looked at under the microscope to see if they contain cancer cells. A procedure has been
      developed that may allow doctors to get samples of lymph glands without having to perform an
      operation. This is called endobronchial ultrasound or "EBUS". The purpose of this study is to
      compare the 2 procedures.

      If you agree to take part in this study, your insurance provider will be contacted. In order
      for you to take part in this study, your insurance provider must agree to pay for both the
      EBUS and mediastinoscopy procedures.

      If your insurance provider agrees to pay for both procedures, you will be scheduled for the
      EBUS and a mediastinoscopy. The procedures will not be scheduled on the same day. You will
      first have the EBUS. You will receive general anesthesia and a small flexible scope will be
      passed down your windpipe. Samples of your lymph gland tissue will then be collected through
      a tiny needle that is passed through the scope. This will be performed as an out patient
      procedure.

      If a tumor is found on the opposite side of your chest from another tumor by the EBUS, a
      mediastinoscopy will not be necessary.

      If a tumor is not found on the opposite side of your chest from another tumor by the EBUS,
      you will then have a mediastinoscopy. This is also an outpatient procedure that will involve
      a small (2 cm) cut at the base of the neck, just above the breast bone. Your doctor will then
      pass a special scope with a camera into your chest (below the breast bone). This will allow
      your doctor to see the lymph glands around your windpipe and get samples of them. This will
      also be performed under general anesthesia and you will be able to leave the hospital shortly
      after the procedure.

      Depending on whether or not the lymph glands have cancer in them, your doctor will then
      recommend the best therapy for the tumor to you.

      This is an investigational study. The EBUS is FDA approved. The mediastinoscopy is considered
      standard of care. The comparison of the 2 procedures is investigational.

      Up to 100 patients will be take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  