
    
      Background:

        -  Prostate cancer is the most common malignancy and the second leading cause of
           cancer-related deaths in American men.

        -  Prostate cancer has substantial inherited predisposition and certain genetic variants
           that are associated with an increased risk of prostate cancer.

        -  An evolving approach to prostate cancer screening is to target populations at risk of
           developing prostate cancer based on their genetic predisposition.

      Objective:

      -To follow the natural history of men with known germline variants or likely pathogenic
      variants in genes that put them at risk for developing prostate cancer.

      Eligibility:

        -  Persons assigned male at birth who are between ages 30-75 years old.

        -  Documented germline pathogenic or likely pathogenic variants in prostate cancer-related
           risk gene: BRCA 1 and 2, DNA Mismatch Repair (MMR) genes associated with Lynch syndrome
           (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2, and EPCAM), HOXB13, ATM, NBN, TP53, CHEK2, PALB2,RAD51, RAD51D,
           BRIP1, or FANC (FANCA, FANCB, FANCC, FANCD2, FANCE, FANCF, FANCG, FANCI, FANCL, and
           ANCM).

        -  Must be able and willing to provide informed consent.

      Design:

        -  Up to 500 subjects will be enrolled.

        -  Participants will undergo sampling of blood for prostate-specific antigen. Based on
           these results and age, participants will be considered for biopsy and/or continued
           monitoring if feasible upon clinical discretion.

        -  Participants will undergo a baseline MRI evaluation with follow-up scans every 2 years
           as clinically indicated.

        -  Following initial evaluation, participants will be followed as clinically indicated,
           usually at 12 month intervals, to determine their PSA level, prostate cancer treatment
           (if relevant) and/or disease/survival status until death.
    
  