
    
      In the palliative care unit, certain patients suffer from pain associated with medical
      procedures/care which is poorly controlled by antalgics. These situations may necessitate
      temporary sedation to improve comfort and facilitate treatment. No proven consensus exists,
      either in the literature or in clinical studies conducted, on the choice of sedative agent
      however Midazolam is the general recommendation.

      The investigators believe that Propofol could be used in this instance. The arguments in
      favour of Propofol include its pharmaco-kinetic characteristics and the fact that it is
      currently used in other circumstances. Propofol has an action delay which is more rapid that
      Midazolam therefore its effect is seen 1 minute after a bolus and 5 minutes after for
      Midazolam. The effect after a short administration lasts only a few minutes however the
      effect of Midazolam is more prolonged (sometimes several hours). As with Midazolam, a
      titrated use in weaker doses, should allow sufficient sedation, in the context which
      interests us, without marked secondary effects.

      It is not unreasonable to think that the short action duration of Propofol could minimise
      respiratory risks in the hours after the treatment compared to Midazolam. With Propofol, the
      patient wakes as soon as the painful medical procedure has finished, with Midazolam sedation
      may be prolonged to several hours leading to a risk respiratory depression or secretion
      retention.

      For these reasons; the investigators would like to verify that the use of Propofol is
      feasible in the context of refractory pain associated with medical procedures (dressing
      changes, movement during personal care tasks e.g. washing) in the palliative care unit. This
      is a preliminary study prior to completion of a more extensive multi-centre research project
      on the role Propofol could play in this situation.
    
  