
    
      75 consecutive patients presenting chronic periodontitis and who needed periodontal treatment
      were recruited in the Department of Periodontology and Oral Surgery at the University
      Hospital of Liège, Belgium (CHU, Sart-Tilman) according to the inclusion criteria.

      The patients were subdivided between three groups: non-smoker (25), former smoker (25), and
      smoker patients(25).

      Patients received informations about periodontitis genesis, the demonstration of oral hygiene
      instructions (OHI), the goal of PNST and the follow-up time were given ( baseline, after OHI,
      3 months after PNST).

      Periodontal clinical parameters and PROMS were collecetd and compared between 3 groups, at
      each visit.

      Data collection:Periodontal clinical measurements and PROMS

      The periodontal examination was conducted by a single periodontist (L.S) and included:
      probing depth (PD), gingival recession (RD), clinical attachment level (CAL), bleeding on
      probing (BOP), plaque score index (PI), Furcation (Furc), tooth mobility , the percentage of
      sites of PD ≥ 6mm and the number of missing tooth was recorded A graduated manual periodontal
      probe was used to take measurements at the 6 sites of each tooth. BOP (%) and plaque score
      (%) were collected as well as tooth mobility with a score from 1 to 3 . The furcation
      impairments were diagnosed with a Nabers probe according to the classification of Hamp and
      the Inflamed Surface Area (PISA) was calculated. Patients were classified according to the
      new periodontal classification identifying the grade, the stage and the extend of the
      periodontitis.

      Patient-reported outcome measures (PROMs) A questionnaire using a visual analogue scale (VAS)
      was given to all participants regarding their oral hygiene habits, and perception about oral
      esthetic. The following questions were subjected to the patients: nine questions graduated
      scale from 0 to 10: 1/"How do you judge your degree of oral hygiene?", 2/"What is the
      frequency of utilization of interdental brushing?", 3/"Do you like the color of your teeth? ,
      4/"Your teeth are there sensitive to cold? , 5/ "How do you judge your degree of gingival
      health? , 6/ "How do you judge the esthetic aspect of you gum?", 7/ "Do you like the color of
      your gum? ", 8/ "Does your gum bleed during brushing?", 9/ "How do you judge your breath?".

      sample size: The study was powered to detect a minimum clinically significant difference in
      probing depth (PD) of 0.5 mm between patients, using α= 0.05. The probing depth at baseline
      was considered covariate.
    
  