
    
      The purpose of this study is to:

        1. produce 3D printed craniofacial models of patients with facial fracture, then use the 3D
           models

        2. contour (or pre-bend) the appropriate hardware pre-op that is specific for the patient.

      Fracture repair in the operating room entails exposure and reduction of the fracture,
      followed by contouring the hardware to the correct shape to maintain the fracture reduction.
      However, in unstable or comminuted fractures or in patients missing several teeth, contouring
      the plate to the correct shape can be time consuming and, sometimes, the plate shape can be
      inaccurate. Our hypothesis is that using our own 3D model printed on-site to "pre-bend"
      plates will save intra-operative time and cost, and achieve superior clinical outcome.

      Patients will be enrolled to participate if they meet inclusion and exclusion criteria, and
      provide informed consent.

      Subjects will be randomized with equal probability to two groups: "Arm A" (the control group)
      and "Arm B"(the treatment group).

      Subjects that are randomized into Arm A will have their fractures repaired in the usual
      fashion i.e. using plates that are bent by free hand.

      Subjects that are randomized into Arm B will have custom models of relevant portions of their
      facial skeleton printed and used as templates for bending and shaping plates for stabilizing
      the fracture(s).

      Additionally, for study subjects, protected health information such as name, date of birth,
      medical record number, and demographic information (age, sex, ethnic group), Billing and
      payment information with medical justification, clinical information related to the procedure
      and follow-up visits will be handled by research personnel for research purposes.

      Otherwise, management of the study subjects will be essentially the same as for patients that
      are not enrolled in the study. This includes CT scans obtained postoperatively to confirm
      adequate fracture repair, routine clinic follow-up visits (during post-op week 1, week 4, 3
      months, 6 months, and/or 1 year after surgery) and additional follow-up visits as may be
      deemed necessary based on clinical status.

      Arms A and B will be compared with respect to operative time, adequacy of repair,
      complications and cost of treatment.

      Prior experience of utilizing on-site 3D printing technology in facial reconstruction surgery
      is limited. If a patient-specific plate is needed, then the plates must be made by commercial
      manufacturers which usually takes days to produce, and is therefore not suited to treatment
      of facial trauma.

      Trauma plastic surgery division owns and operates a 3D printer. We have experience with CT
      image processing and have made 3D models of patients facial skeleton (i.e. midface, mandible)
      that were used as templates for repairing facial fractures.

      Patients with complex facial injuries or defects require reconstruction using hardware to
      restore facial contour and functional stability. In many complex facial reconstructions,
      surgeons consult commercial companies for expertise in computer aided design and
      manufacturing of patient-specific implants. The advantages of undergoing this process include
      (1) in-depth anatomic analysis, (2) improved design of hardware leading to better surgical
      outcome, and (3) shortened OR time. The disadvantages include length of time required for the
      production of patient-specific implant (usually 3 to 7 days), and high cost: for example, a
      mandible 3D model and associated patient-specific reconstruction plate is >$3000.

      Three-dimensional printing is an actively evolving technology, especially in surgery. Design
      modifications and improvement in extrusion technology have made 3D printing made this process
      much more affordable and relatively easy. It is now possible for individuals (and surgeons!)
      to generate these 3D models.

      Repair of mandible fractures is especially challenging when the patient is edentulous
      (missing several or all teeth) for several reasons including the smaller bulk of the
      edentulous mandible, requiring larger reconstructive plates spanning a bigger section of the
      jaw. Surgery generally takes longer for these patients when compared with non-edentulous
      patients. A substantial portion of the lengthiness is due to time spent bending the plate.

      The rationale for this IRB proposal is to explore the efficacy of 3D models of the patient's
      fracture that are printed in house as aids for facial fracture reconstruction. We hypothesize
      that reconstruction with the aid of the models will require shorter OR time, improve bony
      fixation, without significant increase in overall cost of treatment.
    
  