
    
      Background:

      Bronchiolitis obliterans (BO) is an insidious disease with high mortality following
      allogeneic blood or marrow transplantation (BMT). There are no consistently effective
      treatments for BO following BMT and the pathogenesis is largely unknown.

      The mechanisms underlying similar immune-mediated lung destructive processes are better
      elucidated. Rejection following allogeneic lung transplantation and scleroderma lung disease
      result from analogous immunologically mediated destruction of lung tissue leading to similar
      pathologic and clinical presentations to post-BMT BO.

      Increased leukotriene production has recently been implicated in the development of both
      post-lung transplant BO and scleroderma lung disease in animal models and patient studies.

      Montelukast (singulair) is an approved, well-tolerated, oral agent that inhibits leukotriene
      action in lung inflammation. This agent has been extensively used in children and adults to
      treat asthma with an excellent safety profile.

      Objectives:

      To evaluate if montelukast stabilizes or improves pulmonary function in patients with BO
      after BMT using forced expiratory volume 1 (FEV-1) changes as primary endpoints, and oxygen
      saturation, pulmonary function test (PFT) parameters (forced expiratory flow (FEF) 25-75,
      residual volume (RV) and RV/forced vital capacity (FVC), carbon monoxide diffusing capacity
      (DLC02), FEV-1/FVC, FEV-1/slow vital capacity (SVC) ratio), and timed walk tests as secondary
      endpoints.

      To evaluate the safety of montelukast in the population of patients with BO after BMT.

      To investigate if leukotriene elevation contributes to the pathogenesis of BO after BMT by
      measuring leukotriene levels of the blood, urine, and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and
      leukotriene surface receptor expression on immune cells before and after montelukast
      administration.

      To determine if montelukast improves other chronic graft versus host disease (cGVHD)
      manifestations, quality of life, and overall survival.

      Eligibility:

      Patients greater than or equal to 6 years old with bronchiolitis obliterans following stem
      cell transplantation for any disease indication may be enrolled.

      Design:

      This is a prospective phase II study, the primary aim of which is to assess whether
      montelukast improves or stabilizes the pulmonary function of patients with BO after BMT.

      Primary outcome data will be analyzed in 2 ways. 1) The proportion of patients with stable or
      improved percent predicted of FEV-1 will be compared against benchmark data obtained from a
      literature review. 2) The slope of FEV-1 before and after the introduction of montelukast
      will be compared.

      Pediatric and adult patients with BO following BMT will receive approved doses of montelukast
      continuously.

      The planned length of the study would be 2 years per patient with primary endpoint at 6
      months, permitting sufficient time to determine safety and meet other endpoints.

      This phase II trial will be conducted at 2 institutions: National Institutes of Health (NIH)
      and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center. Forty-five patients will be enrolled on this
      trial.
    
  