
    
      Currently, the Nucleus 24 (ABI24M) Auditory Brainstem Implant (ABI) is approved for use in
      individuals 12 years of age or older who have been diagnosed with Neurofibromatosis Type 2
      (NF2). Implantation may occur during first or second side tumor removal or in patients with
      previously removed vestibular schwannomas bilaterally. As the ABI24M is now obsolete, there
      is currently no commercially approved device available to restore useful hearing in patients.
      While the manufacturer of the device is pursuing commercial approval of the ABI541, it is
      anticipated that it may be several months or years before final approval. However, it is
      preferable to place the device at the time of tumor removal while the patient has an open
      craniotomy site, thereby avoiding a second surgery and its associated risks solely for the
      purpose device implantation. In addition, placement of an ABI at the time of tumor removal
      optimizes auditory rehabilitation, providing critical auditory sensations that may more
      effectively maintain auditory pathways. The FDA approved a compassionate use arm for an
      ongoing clinical trial to permit implantation of the ABI541 in up to 10 NF2 patients.

      Patients will undergo pre-operative evaluation for ABI surgery. Those who are appropriate for
      surgery will undergo a procedure for implantation of the ABI541. As per manufacturer
      protocol, the parameters of the ABI541 including adjustment of electrode sensitivities and
      activation of specific electrodes will be completed at each follow-up visit post-operatively.
      This process involves adjustment of device parameters by a trained audiologist who
      subsequently administers audiologic tests to confirm optimal activation of the ABI541.

      All audiologic testing and assessments represent the standard of care. These post-operative
      follow-up appointments will occur at 4-12 weeks, three, six, and twelve months, and
      biannually thereafter. Timing of these appointments may vary by as much as four weeks prior
      to or after the planned follow-up date (e.g. between 2-4 months for the 3 month follow-up).
      Unscheduled visits will be taken in the Otology clinic as needed to address any concerns
      patients may have regarding the use of their Nucleus ABI541.
    
  