
    
      Primary Objective(s) & Hypothesis

      (1) Objective: Response Rate

      Hypotheses:

      Cohort 1: In patient with prior response to anti-PD-1/PD-L1+ therapy and subsequent
      (acquired) resistance combined IDO1 and PD-1 inhibition will re-induce responses.

      Cohort 2: In patients with suboptimal benefit from prior anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy combined
      IDO1 and PD-1 inhibition will induce clinically meaningful responses.

      Secondary Objective(s) & Hypothesis

        1. Objective: 1-year Progression-free (PFS) and Overall (OS) survival Hypothesis: Combined
           PD-1 blockade with pembrolizumab + epacadostat in HNSCC patients will lead to improved
           1-year survival in patients who a) progress on prior anti-PD-1/PD/L1 therapy on, and/or
           b) compared to patients who progress on 2nd line chemotherapy.

        2. Safety Hypothesis: Combined treatment with pembrolizumab and epacadostat will be safe
           and tolerable in HNSCC patients.

      Exploratory/Translational Objectives

        1. Interferon-gamma Gene Expression Profile (GEP) (Seiwert ASCO 2015, Ribas ASCO 2015) and
           evaluation of RR, PFS, and OS in GEP positive and GEP negative patients.

        2. Determine the micro-environment that underlies resistance/suboptimal treatment

             1. underlying degree of tumor inflammation

             2. Baseline PD-L1 expression

           d) Determine underlying Interferon Gamma signature

        3. Assess underlying mutational burden (Snyder 2014)) Preclinical hypothesis: IDO1
           inhibition will alter the micro-environment to a be "more T-cell inflamed" and make
           tumors amenable to benefit from anti-PD-1 treatment (when given concurrently with IDO1
           inhibition). Hence we will evaluate tumors, with prior response exhibiting acquired
           resistance as well as tumors with minor/suboptimal benefit from prior PD-1/PD-L1 therapy
           for evidence (at baseline) of suboptimal immune microenvironmental conditions.
    
  