
    
      Traditionally cardiac output has been estimated with thermodilution, Fick oxygen consumption
      or with echocardiography. Other non-invasive techniques such as analysis of arterial wave
      forms and measurement of expired carbon dioxide have been attempted but with variable
      success. Recently a new device (Cardiotronic® EC™) has been approved by the FDA for use in
      children of all ages including neonates. Electrical cardiometry is a new method which can
      continuously estimate stroke volume and left ventricular outflow to calculate cardiac output,
      calculate cardiac index, as well as a variety of other parameters through quantitation of
      changes in impedance associated with changes in the orientation of red blood cells. During
      diastole red cells are organized chaotically but during systole they assume a position
      parallel to the direction of blood flow. Thus thoracic electrical bioimpedance relate to
      changes in thoracic aortic blood flow and through the use of refined algorithms non-invasive
      measurement of cardiac output is achieved.

      The height (cm), gender, weight (kg) and age of the patient are entered into the hand-held
      device. Eight electrodes are applied to the neck and chest at specified locations, four per
      device. The device records the heart rate and averages cardiac output every 10-60 heartbeats
      again depending upon how the device is configured.

      This is a prospective, non-randomized study to collect data from two noninvasive FDA-approved
      cardiac output monitors simultaneously in pediatric patients under general anesthesia in the
      operating room from age 1 month old to 8 years old with all types of medical conditions. We
      will enroll 50 male and female pediatric patients who are having lower abdominal and lower
      extremity surgery in this study so that the additional 8 EKG leads placed on the patients do
      not interfere with the surgical site or patient positioning.
    
  