
    
      Smokers will be recruited from the internal medicine outpatient clinics at the participating
      hospitals (the general nonprofit public hospitals) and community health centers. Same as the
      pilot study, trained doctors will ask all visiting patients during clinic consultation
      whether they smoke, confirm eligibility, provide information sheet and seek oral agreement to
      be followed up by telephone after clinic consultation. If eligible and oral consent obtained,
      the doctor will fill the recruitment form.

      The doctors will randomly allocate the enrolled patient into intervention or control group
      using SNOSE method. This method will ensure allocation concealment. If the patient refuses to
      participate, the doctor will note on the summary form. Enrolled patients' medical records
      will be marked with a sticker (red for intervention group, green for control group) so they
      will not be recruited again if they come back to the participating hospital.

      At the end of each clinic session, the doctors will immediately fill the rest part of the
      summary form and send the recruitment form and summary form to trained research assistants by
      email or WeChat. The research assistants will enter all information into a web-based or
      app-based study management system (SMS) using tablet PC.

      For smokers in intervention group, the doctor will offer a brief (10-20 seconds) WAR smoking
      cessation intervention (Warn the smokers that at least one out of two smokers will be killed
      by smoking, and according to WHO, two out of three smokers will be killed by smoking; Advice
      the smokers to quit now or as soon as possible; and Refer the smokers to a smoking cessation
      clinic or telephone quitlines by offering a referral card which contains the contact
      information of the smoking cessation clinics and/or quitlines as well as a pictorial
      information leaflet which explains the risks of smoking). For control group, the doctor will
      offer a brief (10-20 seconds) placebo intervention (Advice the smokers to eat vegetables, and
      offer the smokers a card which contains information about the benefits of eating vegetables
      and a pictorial information leaflet which shows the recommended amount of vegetables and
      fruits an adult should eat a day).

      Within 3 days after enrolment (T1), study personnel will call the participants using the
      tablet PC with questionnaire program to invite them to complete a short baseline survey.

      At 1-month FU (T2), study personnel will call the participants using the tablet PC with
      questionnaire program to assess his/her smoking and quitting outcomes. After the assessment,
      trained study personnel will get the information about the participants' group status from
      the tablet PC. For Group C, the trained study personnel will end the phone call without
      further assessment or intervention. For Group I, the trained study personnel will use the
      tablet PC to randomly assign the participant to Group I-A or I-B.

      For Group I-A, trained study personnel will repeat the brief (10-20 seconds) AWARD
      intervention (Warn the smokers that at least one out of two smokers will be killed by
      smoking, and according to WHO, two out of three smokers will be killed by smoking; Advice the
      smokers to quit now or as soon as possible; and Refer the smokers to a smoking cessation
      clinic or telephone quitlines by offering the contact information of the smoking cessation
      clinics and/or quitlines); for Group I-B, trained study personnel will end the phone call
      without further questions or actions.

      At 3-month FU (T3), study personnel will use the programmed tablet PC to call participants
      and measure his/her smoking patterns and quitting efforts.

      At 6- and 12-month FU (T4&T5), study personnel will use the programmed tablet PC to call
      participants and measure his/her smoking patterns and quitting efforts again. Participants
      who report that they have been abstained from nicotine for ≥7 days will be invited to
      complete biochemical validation in clinics. Exhaled CO less than 4ppm and salivary cotinine
      less than 10ng/ml tested by NicAlert® strips (www.nymox.com) will be treated as validated
      abstinence. If for any reason, the participants are not able to complete the biochemical
      validation, study personnel will use the programmed tablet PC to conduct a non-biochemical
      validation survey to validate whether or not the participants have been abstained from
      nicotine.

      Study personnel will always be blinded to participants' group status at follow-up interviews
      (single blinded). Subjects will be randomly allocated to study personnel for follow-up
      interviews, so subjects are likely to be interviewed by different study personnel in this
      study.

      T-test will be conducted to compare the primary (a) outcomes and the secondary outcomes.
      Separate multivariate logistic regression model will be performed for each of the three
      groups (i.e., I-A, I-B, and C) between the baseline and the 12-month follow-up, controlling
      for age, gender, education, and income to determine whether the outcome of interests
      (quitting rate and smoking reduction rate) had increased, remained unchanged, or decreased.
      Change (e.g., increase or decrease) will be considered significant if p <.05.

      Multivariate logistic regression models will also be used to examine if the smoking cessation
      intervention is associated with successful quitting and smoking reduction, as well as other
      factors (e.g., demographic variables) associated with successful quitting and smoking
      reduction.

      Sensitivity test based on the result of physicians' fidelity check will be conducted to
      determine the effect of the physician's very brief smoking cessation counselling on quitting
      and smoking pattern changes. The fidelity check will evaluate the adherence of physicians'
      implementation to the study protocol.
    
  