
    
      Sepsis is among the leading causes of death worldwide. It is well-perceived that early
      recognition of sepsis is the mainstay of treatment. Recently it has been proposed that the
      quick sequential organ fialure assessment (qSOFA) score can be used as a screening tool in
      the emergency department (ED) to triage patients with high-risk of death; patients scoring
      positive at least two of the three signs of qSOFA are at a high-risk for death. However, this
      is challenged since it may be the case that the risk of death is high even among patients
      with only one sign of qSOFA.

      Soluble urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (suPAR), the soluble form of the membrane
      bound receptor (uPAR), is a recently known glycoprotein involved in inflammation. uPAR is
      expressed on various immune cells (neutrophils, lymphocytes, monocytes, macrophages) and is
      cleaved from their surface after an inflammatory stimuli to enhance chemotaxis and cell
      migration. Increased suPAR blood levels mirror the degree of activation of the immune system
      by different antigenic stimuli including diverse neoplastic and infectious agents and other
      inflammation-mediated diseases. SuPAR levels generally correlate to the severity of the
      disease.

      It has been shown that suPAR blood levels have low diagnostic value (cannot discriminate
      between bacterial, viral or parasitic infection, Gram (+) or Gram (-) bacteraemia. However,
      they present superior prognostic value as compared with single parameters of inflammation and
      organ dysfunction (like C-reactive protein (CRP) and procalcitonin (PCT) in critically ill
      patients, and suPAR's prognostic value of death is even more enhanced when combined to other
      biomarkers and physiological scores (e.g. Acute Physiology and Chronic Health
      Evaluation-APACHE II).

      Why choose suPAR as biomarker at emergency basis? Because, in contrast to many
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, suPAR exhibits favorable properties due to its high stability in
      serum samples and limited circadian changes in plasma concentrations. It also constitutes a
      serum/plasma biomarker that is easily performed on-site and provides information within one
      hour after sampling21, 22.

      Unpublished data of the Hellenic Sepsis Study Group (HSSG) suggest that among patients with
      at least one sign of the qSOFA score, those with suPAR greater than 12 ng/ml are at a
      substantial risk for death with mortality exceeding 30%. To this end, patients with suspicion
      for an infection and with qSOFA 1 and suPAR greater than 12 ng/ml constitute a group of
      patients requiring early intervention.

      The aim of the current study is to evaluate suPAR - guided medical intervention, consisting
      of early antibiotics' administration at the emergency room for presumed infection and sepsis
      and evaluate the impact of this intervention to the patients' final outcome.
    
  