
    
      Introduction: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by abnormal β-amyloid deposition
      associated with Tau-based neurofibrillary tangles. The metabolism of these proteins is
      modulated by the individuals physiological background. In addition to genetic factors, early
      brain inflammation and the presence of a spontaneous beta amyloid (Aβ)-specific immune
      response are likely to have an important influence on amyloid pathogenesis, as demonstrated
      in recent neuropathological and experimental studies. In vivo measurements of the β-amyloid
      load and brain inflammation have become available with the development of new tracers for
      positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. So far, tracers for brain inflammation have had a
      limited ability to detect changes in the expression of peripheral benzodiazepine receptors
      (PBR), which are mainly present on the surface of activated microglial cells. The recently
      developed [18F]DPA-714 was found to be a better ligand for PBR than previous tracers.
      Inflammatory and immune anti-Aβ responses (I2ARs) are likely to occur very early in the
      pathogenic protein cascade. They could thus constitute early markers for AD diagnosis and
      also play key roles in its phenotypic presentation and as prognostics. Comparing sporadic AD
      and familial forms of AD caused by APP, PSEN1 or PSEN2 mutations (in both symptomatic and
      at-risk non-symptomatic relatives) will aid in establishing the chronology of pathological
      events and defining their clinical impact.

      The main objective of this study is to investigate the central and peripheral inflammatory,
      as well as the spontaneous Aβ-specific, immune responses at the asymptomatic stage and early
      stages of AD by combining molecular imaging techniques with blood biomarker analyses. The
      early and preclinical stages of AD will be studied in the relatives of patients with PSEN1,
      PSEN2 or APP mutations that are at-risk (50%) to be mutation carriers.

      The secondary objectives are

        1. to investigate the specificity of the central inflammatory response (DPA PET scan) and
           the peripheral I2AR (blood markers) by analyzing their correlation with amyloid-binding
           radiotracer (PIB PET scan);

        2. to evaluate the prognostic value of central and peripheral I2ARs on disease evolution
           over a 2 year follow-up;

        3. to compare central and peripheral I2ARs in sporadic and genetic cases of AD;

        4. to correlate the initial amyloid load with disease evolution in sporadic and genetic
           cases of AD

        5. to correlate I2AR biomarkers with CSF biomarkers (Aβ1-42, tau and phosphorylated tau)
           when consent for lumbar puncture is obtained (optional). Each patient will then be
           invited to participate in a long-term follow-up study and will be informed of the
           possibility of brain donation for research purposes. A library of blood samples will
           also be collected and stored at the Platform for Biological Resources at the Salpetriere
           Hospital, to allow for future collaborations on new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers
           based on novel techniques.

      Methodology : We propose to conduct a multimodal study, first transversal, then longitudinal
      with a two year follow-up, based on

        1. molecular PET imaging by coupling [18F]DPA-714, a marker of central inflammation, and
           PIB, a marker of amyloid deposition;

        2. peripheral I2AR analysis (blood markers);

        3. analysis of genetic factors;

        4. measurement of regional cortical atrophy by MRI. A group of patients at an early stage
           of AD (CDR = 0.5), defined by a new diagnostic criteria (Dubois et al, 2007), will be
           compared to a group of moderate AD patients as defined by the criteria of NINCDS AIREN
           (CDR = 1 or 2), a group of patients with another type dementia (frontotemporal dementia)
           and a control group.

      Recruitment of sporadic AD patients and controls will occur at the Pitie-Salpetriere
      Hospital. Teams of geneticists from Paris and Rouen will recruit patients with known
      mutations and at-risk asymptomatic first-degree relatives. Every subject will undergo the
      following examinations: (a) at the Pitie-Salpetriere Hospital, a clinical and
      neuropsychological assessment, a 3T multimodal research MRI, and a blood draw 8 for studying
      a panel of plasmatic markers, measuring the blood level of anti-Aβ antibodies, evaluating
      Aβ-specific T lymphocyte responses and studying potential genetic modifiers; and (b) at the
      ORSAY Hospital, two PET scans will be performed on the same day: first an [11C]-PIB PET scan,
      followed 3 hours later by an [18F]DPA-714 imaging. Clinical follow-ups will be conducted
      annually for two years and will include an MRI and a blood draw on the last visit.

      The previous study BIOMAGE, funded by the French National Research Agency (ANR 2007), has
      demonstrated the logistical feasibility of the project as well as the efficiency of patient
      and control recruitment. The subjects that were included in BIOMAGE will be invited to
      participate in this research project, thus utilizing this cohort for DPA imaging and I2AR
      markers. The duration of the research will be four years.

      Expected results and perspectives: This study will evaluate the contribution of I2ARs in AD
      progression. Inclusion of sporadic and familial forms of AD will aid in studying the
      chronology of pathological events. We expect I2ARs to appear in the early stages of the
      disease and to constitute new prognostic factors. I2ARs could also become therapeutic markers
      for the assessment of novel anti-amyloid treatments and may offer new insights to the
      development of Aβ-specific immunotherapy strategies.
    
  