
    
      Medically unexplained fatigue occurs in about 5% of the population with 10% of that number
      fulfilling formal case definitions for chronic fatigue syndrome1. Medically unexplained
      fatigue is a major problem for both patient and practitioner - for both because there is no
      effective FDA-approved treatment for the symptom. One major problem for these patients is
      unrefreshing sleep. Formal sleep studies show reduced total sleep time and reduced sleep
      efficiency compared to controls.2;3 We are currently in the early stages of an NIH-funded
      grant designed to study cytokines during sleep. Preliminary results support awake time for
      patients relative to controls, producing a decreased sleep efficiency. These data lead to our
      working hypothesis that the problem of severe daytime fatigue is due to a previously
      unappreciated form of sleep pathology related to sleep fragmentation.

      Patients with medically unexplained pain also complain of disturbed sleep. Sodium oxybate has
      been tested on patients with this complaint who fulfill a formal case definition for
      fibromyalgia and has found to reduce symptoms and improve sleep quality.4 Specifically, six
      of 7 pain/fatigue scores (overall pain, pain at rest, pain during movement, end of day
      fatigue, overall fatigue, and morning fatigue) were relieved by 29% to 33% with sodium
      oxybate, compared with 6% to 10% relief with placebo (p < 0.005). Alpha intrusion indicative
      of disturbed sleep, sleep latency, and rapid-eye-movement sleep were significantly decreased,
      while slow-wave (stage 3/4) sleep was significantly increased, compared with placebo (p <
      0.005). Two of the 5 subjective sleep related variables were significantly different from
      placebo: morning alertness (improved by 18% with sodium oxybate, compared with 2% for
      placebo; p = 0.0033) and quality of sleep (improved by 33% and 10%, respectively; p =
      0.0003).

      Importantly, approximately 40% of patients in my study group fulfill case definitions
      simultaneously for CFS and FM. Since we do not know if patients in either sodium oxybate
      treatment trial had CFS, we cannot be sure whether efficacy was specific for FM or instead
      may have occurred due to the fact that a large representation of CFS had occurred.

      An unpublished Phase II randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial in FM, done by Jon
      Russell and colleagues in Dallas and presented at the 2005 meeting of the American College of
      Rheumatology, reported substantial symptom improvement with statistically significant
      benefits in self reported pain scales and patient global impression of improvement at both
      doses of sodium oxybate tested compared with placebo [4.5g [9ml] total dose per night;
      p=0.005 and 6g [12 ml], p=0.048]. Improvement in outcome variables was 34.5% at the 4.5g and
      27.3% at the 6g compared to 12.5% in the placebo group.

      I have prescribed sodium oxybate in my own practice for patients who have both CFS and FM
      with good results. Anecdotally, patients reporting less pain also reported better quality
      sleep and less fatigue upon awakening. This has led me to hypothesize that sodium oxybate
      will reduce fatigue in patients with CFS alone (i.e., without also having FM).

      To test this hypothesis, I propose doing a double blind, placebo controlled trial of sodium
      oxybate in 30 patients who fulfill a formal case definition for chronic fatigue syndrome and
      who do not also have FM.
    
  