
    
      Background Knee replacement is an established treatment for late stage osteoarthritis (OA) of
      the knee (Charnley et al. 1961). There are different approaches to prosthetic replacement and
      current practices and designs are often based on limited evidence (Plate et al. 2012). There
      have been individual cohort studies, indirect comparisons and retrospective studies to test
      the efficacy of a variety of different total knee replacement devices but there are very few
      high quality investigations of new paradigms or significant design change. Those studies that
      do exist have usually been undertaken to address a combination of design changes and many
      involve only short-term assessments (Mäkelä et al. 2008). Ongoing research and development
      programs for knee replacement are increasingly taking account of the needs of the changing
      characteristics of the late stage OA knee population.

      There is an increasing demand for joint replacement in a younger population (Mäkelä et al.
      2014). Due to the changing demographics of joint replacement, the population of younger
      patients are seeking options that not only correct their disease or deformity, but do not
      limit them in activity (Geerdink et al. 2009). Activities of daily living take higher
      priority in this patient group, and patients needing total joint replacement do not have many
      options that accommodate higher levels of activity.

      Studies have shown that modern implant designs can potentially improve outcome. Therefore new
      implants are introduced to the marked with the theoretical benefit of improved implant
      survival and superior patient reported outcomes. Within Total knee arthroplasty, design
      changes are introduced in attempt to improve knee kinematics, improve alignment and
      functionality, but those potential improvements need to be evaluated Recently, Zimmer-Biomet
      have introduced Persona Total Knee system with design changes that include asymmetric tibia
      plate, increased medial pivoting and more extensive choices in respect to poly thickness, all
      with the purpose to improve balancing, stability and longevity. One design change that is
      introduced is the medial congruent (MC) polyethylene to be used instead of standard cruciate
      retaining (CR) design. The theoretic proposed benefit of MC polyethylene bearing is improved
      kinematics mimicking native knee motion. However, currently no studies exist evaluating
      outcome following use of MC polyethylene bearing. Therefore such design changes and proposed
      benefits need to be evaluated in a prospective clinical trail, with focus on patient safety,
      satisfaction and implant durability.

      The purpose of the proposed Randomized Clinical Trial (RCT) is to evaluate the outcome and
      safety of a newly designed polyethylene bearing by comparing it with a control group of
      patients implanted with an established polyethylene bearing.

      Device description

      The devices to be used in this project are:

      The Zimmer-Biomet Persona Total Knee System

      The Zimmer-Biomet Persona Total Knee System is a novel total knee system developed by
      Zimmer-Biomet. Components are available in numerous designs for both systems, with cemented
      as well as cementless fixations and with numerous polyethylene inserts to accommodate the
      surgical demand based on patient characteristics. Both MC polyethylene bearing and CR
      polyethylene bearing will be used in this study.

      Femoral component:

      Only cemented femoral components will be used for this study. Both standard as well as narrow
      femoral components will be used, depending on the patient anatomy.

      Tibial component:

      Only cemented tibial components will be used for this study.

      Polyethylene materials:

      Conventional polyethylene will be used for patients >65 years old and Vitamine-E infused poly
      insert for patients ≤ 65 years old.

      All devises are European Conformity (CE) marked and used as intended by the manufacturer.

      Project design Project type This project is carried out as a 2-arm randomized controlled
      single-blinded trial, in which the clinical and radiological outcomes after treatment of hip
      osteoarthritis with insertion of either 1) Persona Total Knee System with MC polyethylene
      bearing or 2) Persona Total Knee System with CR polyethylene bearing. Allocation of the
      participants to one of the two treatment groups is done intraoperatively. Non-transparent
      envelopes are used for the randomization process. Participants are unaware of which
      prosthesis they receive and the research coordinator handling the collected questionnaires
      postoperatively is also unaware of which prosthesis the participant has received. The
      research assistant handling both standard RSA as well as dynamic RSA analysis is also unaware
      of which prosthesis the participant has received

      Standard treatment Patients who decline to participate in the study as well as patients who
      are not included or excluded from the study will be treated with a standard Total Knee
      Arthroplasty (TKA) implant and standard surgical care. Persona Total Knee System with a CR
      polyethylene liner has been used as a standard implant of choice at Hvidovre Hospital since
      January 2016 for patients suited for a CR implant. Patients with insufficient posterior
      cruciate ligament (PCL) and other patients unsuited for a CR implant receive a posterior
      stabilized (LPS) NexGen TKA. All knees are performed in a standardized fast-track setup with
      the same surgical technique as described below, immediate mobilization after surgery and
      clinical and radiological controls after 3 months, 1 and 2 years.

      Time schedule Recruitment of participants to this project is expected to begin in October
      2016 or as soon as permission from the Regional Ethics Committee and the Danish Data
      Protections Agency is obtained. A total of 60 participants are to be included at Hvidovre
      University Hospital. Recruitment is expected completed after a period of 1 year. The project
      is expected to be completed 2 years after recruitment of the last participant (2019).

      Participant termination It is recognized that the subject's participation in this study is
      entirely voluntary, and that she/he may refuse to participate and may withdraw from
      participation at any time without jeopardy to any future medical care. It is also recognized
      that the investigator, at his/her discretion, may withdraw a subject from this study based
      upon his/her professional judgment, e.g. in the event of deep infection leading to
      replacement of the prosthesis or long-term immobilization because of comorbidity. If a
      participant is withdrawn or rescinds their consent, a "Lost to Follow-up" case report form
      will be completed detailing the reason for the participant's withdrawal.

      Data recording Data relevant for this project will be registered in a data sheet. An
      individual data sheet will be kept for each recruited participant. Data will also be
      aggregated and stored electronically. The storage of data will be done according to the rules
      posted by the Danish Data Protection Agency. This project will be notified to and approved by
      the Danish Data Protection Agency before recruitment of participants is initiated.

      Participant population in Denmark Study population will consist of 60 participants with knee
      osteoarthritis set to receive primary total knee arthroplasty. The participants will be
      included at Hvidovre University Hospital, (see participating centers).

      Number of participants Patients at are randomized to receive either 1) Persona Total Knee
      System with MC polyethylene bearing or 2) Persona Total Knee System with CR polyethylene
      bearing. Participants may be excluded intraoperatively if the PCL is found insufficient and
      LPS prosthesis is required.

      In this 2-arm randomized controlled study the primary endpoint is implant migration measured
      by RSA. Secondary outcomes are: Oxford Knee Score (OKS), Oxford Knee Score -Activity &
      Participation Questionnaire (APQ), anchoring questions, EQ-5D, Forgotten Joint Score and knee
      motion measured using dynamic RSA.

      The study's primary outcome measure is implant migration measured by RSA. If the minimally
      relevant total migration of the prosthesis measured by RSA is set to 0.2 mm then a total of
      18 participants must be enrolled in each study group to show a statistically significant
      difference (95 % confidence, 80 % power). In this study 2 x 30 participants are included.
      This will insure sufficient statistical power despite intraoperative exclusion and dropout of
      40% at last follow-up and .

      The power calculation is based on reaching sufficient power when a comparison of the two
      study groups is carried out.

      Participant inclusion All participants will receive oral and written information about the
      project before consent. It is the responsibility of the primary investigator that the
      information to the participant is adequate. Participants are included when signed consent
      from the participant is obtained. Project information is then given in an undisturbed
      environment (in a closed examination room) by an authorized investigator of this project.
      Project information is given at the first outpatient consultation, when treatment with
      insertion of a TKA is decided. A nurse is present when the information is given. Participants
      are informed about the right to having a dependent present when project information is given.
      Participants are informed that a period of consideration of at least 2 weeks is an
      opportunity along with the right to a second consultation. Signed consent, however, is to be
      given latest at admittance before surgery.

      The oral information is in accordance with the written information and is adjusted to the
      age, educational level and social conditions of the participant. It is ensured that the
      participant has understood the content of both the oral and written information before signed
      consent is given.

      It is recognized that the subject's participation in this study is entirely voluntary, and
      that she/he may refuse to participate and may withdraw from participation at any time without
      jeopardy to any future medical care. It is also recognized that the investigator, at his/her
      discretion, may withdraw a subject from this study based upon his/her professional judgment,
      e.g. in the event of deep infection leading to replacement of the prosthesis or long-term
      immobilization because of comorbidity. If a participant is withdrawn or rescinds their
      consent, a "Lost to Follow-up" case report form will be completed detailing the reason for
      the participant's withdrawal.

      Data recordings Participants in this project are identified with an assigned allocation
      number. At the end of the project all patient related data are destroyed.

      All sensitive personal data regarding participants will be stored in accordance with
      guidelines presented by the Personal Data Act. Personal data regarding participants will be
      treated anonymously. The project will be reported to the Danish Data Protection Agency. The
      primary investigator will process all data. Participants will receive oral and written
      information concerning the handling of sensitive personal data.

      Statistics A professional statistical software package will be used when processing data in
      this project. Comparative statistics will be used based on the distribution of data.

      Publications The results of this project are expected published in an international medical
      journal. The results of this project are also expected presented at national and
      international orthopedic conventions. If publication is not achieved, the results of this
      project (positive, negative or inconclusive) will be presented on the homepage of the
      investigator's institution.

      Co-authorship is awarded according to the Vancouver rules.
    
  