
    
      1. Working hypothesis:

           In patients with subacute schizophrenia, transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)
           to the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC) exerts lasting beneficial effects on
           working-memory performance.

        2. Research question(s):

           In patients with remitted early phase schizophrenia, this research project aims at
           providing evidence for:

           i) immediate improvement of working-memory performance by application of tDCS to the
           dlPFC in patients with schizophrenia; ii) determination of the optimal stimulation
           polarity, dosage and localization; iii) neurophysiological mechanisms (modulation in
           oscillatory activity and functional connectivity) and predictors of tDCS effects; iv)
           modulating effect of gender on the malleability of executive functions with tDCS.

        3. Previous work of the investigators:

           The investigators have provided proof-of principle evidence for persisting improvement
           of cognitive planning by a polarity-specific learning-stage dependent coupling of
           training and stimulation. The investigators have demonstrated that working memory and
           deficient cognitive control can be enhanced with anodal tDCS in depression and that the
           effects of tDCS are modulated by genetic polymorphisms. The investigators were the first
           to show impaired cortical plasticity following tDCS in schizophrenia patients at
           different disease states. Finally, the investigators have just successfully finished the
           world-wide largest clinical trial investigating the efficacy of non-invasive brain
           stimulation (rTMS) on negative symptoms in schizophrenia (DFG 241/10-1, Falkai, Hasan).

        4. Aims and work plan:

      To examine the potential of tDCS for the improvement of working memory with remitted
      schizophrenia the investigators are following this work plan:

      I) Immediate effects on performance:

      Assessment of efficacy of tDCS polarity (anodal, cathodal), dosage (1mA, 2mA) and laterality
      (left and right dlPFC) on working memory (adaptive n-back(6)) in patients (n=2x2x2x16=128).
      In a two-session cross-over design, stimulation (tDCS and sham) will be applied to the dlPFC
      (left or right) for 20min (during task performance).
    
  