
    
      1. Design of this study

             1. Stratified randomization is performed, and the variable used for stratification is
                the patient's age (65 years or older, 65 years or less).

             2. The existing clip (control) and the domestic clip (experimental group) are divided
                by the block size randomization method of size 4 for each floor.

        2. Patients and Methods

             1. inclusion criteria

                  -  Men and women aged 20 to 80

                  -  The patients who came to the emergency room due to upper gastrointestinal
                     bleeding with as follows: peptic ulcer with acute bleeding or protruding
                     vascular exposure (Forrest class Ia-IIa), anastomotic vascular ulcer bleeding,
                     bleeding from endoscopic submucosal dissection or endoscopic mucosal resection
                     site after 24 hours

                  -  American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) Physical Status 1 - 3

                  -  Patients with adequate patient compliance and adequate geographical distance
                     for follow-up. character

             2. exclusion criteria

                  -  Patients with gastrointestinal bleeding who are not recommended to clip
                     Bleeding from a malignant tumor Hemorrhagic gastritis Angiodysplasia variceal
                     bleeding

                  -  Bleeding during endoscopic submucosal dissection or endoscopic mucosal
                     resection

                  -  Patients with insufficient clinical information

                  -  Pregnant or lactating patients

                  -  Patients or guardians who have not obtained informed consent

             3. The number of patients

                  -  The number of subjects was calculated based on a non-inferiority study

                       -  The reported rate of rebleeding after hemostasis using the conventional
                          hemoclip: about 5%.

                       -  2.5% one-sided test, 80% power, and non-inferiority limit set to 10%

                            -  75 subjects are required for each group, and 83 subjects are
                               required if the drop rate is assumed to be 10%.

             4. Methods

                  -  After completing an informed consent form to the subjects who wish to
                     participate in the study at the time of visit, basic clinical variables are
                     checked.

                  -  First endoscopic hemostasis is performed. In this time, EZ clip is used for
                     the subjects assigned to the control group, and ClearEndoclip is used for the
                     subjects assigned to the experimental group to target blood vessels in the
                     ulcer. At the same time, clinical parameters related to hemostasis are
                     recorded.

                  -  After hemostasis is performed, rebleeding and complications are tracked up to
                     30 days after the procedure.

             5. Variables to be collected

                  -  At the time of visit: age, gender, height, weight, drug use
                     (anticoagulant/antiplatelet agents, NSAIDs, steroids), underlying diseases
                     (cirrhosis, diabetes, end-stage renal failure, heart disease, lung disease),
                     hematological data, hemoglobin, Complete Rockall score

                  -  At the time of primary endoscopic hemostasis: location of ulcer, size of
                     ulcer, size of exposed blood vessel (based on 2mm), forrest classification,
                     total number of clips used, number of failed clips, usage and usage of
                     epinephrine, procedure time (minutes) , Clip hemostasis success, treatment
                     after clip hemostasis failure

                  -  After hemostasis: rebleeding (within 7 days), number of clips and bleeding
                     from the follow-up endoscope after 48 hours, death within 30 days, ICU
                     hospitalization date, total hospitalization date, complications of hemostasis,
                     Helicobacter pylori
    
  