
    
      Introduction:

      Radical cystectomy (RC) and urinary diversion remain the gold standard for treatment of
      muscle invasive bladder cancer.1 The optimal goal is to control the malignancy, preserve
      renal function and optimize health related quality of life. Decision of urinary diversion
      selection has been changed in the last three decades from non-continent diversion to
      orthotopic neobladder (ONB), to maintain voiding pattern closely similar to normal pattern
      and to improve the overall health related quality of life (HRQOL).2 However, the continence
      status after ONB is affected by many factors, such as patient's age, mental status, intact
      and innervated external urethral sphincter, the reservoir capacity and pressure, presence of
      infection and the completeness of voiding.3 The recovery of continence status takes from six
      to 12 months after the operation to achieve day time continence which is regained earlier
      than nocturnal continence which takes 12 to 24 months.3 The reported day time continence
      ranges from 85 to 90% and NI in most series ranges from 20 to 40%.4- 7 in women, the reported
      incidence of day time and NI ranged from 68 to 100% and 26 to 89%, respectively.8- 11
      Nocturnal incontinence is a major problem that affect HRQOL . In a multicenter study,
      individuals with ONB and NI have lower HRQOL, 12 this is similar to our data on female
      patients with ONB.2 Nocturnal incontinence may be due to patient and pouch causes. Loss of
      afferent input from the Detrusor muscle to the central nervous system is thought to account
      for the worsening of nocturnal continence.13 In a study, done by El Bahnasawy et al, to
      evaluate the factors affecting the NI after RC and ONB; higher pressure, positive urine
      culture, large post voiding residual volume, decreased maximal urethral pressure, decreased
      flow rate and patient compliance are associated with higher incidence of NI. However, on
      multivariate analysis, only post voiding residual volumes, frequency, and maximal amplitude
      of uninhibited contractions remained significantly associated with NI.14 Fifty percent of
      women with NI after RC and ONB have had pouch hyperactivity on urodynamic evaluation.15 To
      optimize nocturnal continence, patients are recommended to avoid sleeping pills and alcohol
      in the evening, to void before going to sleep, and to set up an alarm to void at least once
      during the night. Also proper treatment of infection is recommended.3 Up to 25% of patients
      reported an improved nocturnal continence with the use of imipramine hydrochloride 25 mg at
      bedtime. 14,16In a prospective randomized crossover study comparing 20 male enuretic patients
      with ileal ONB receiving oxybutynin versus verapamil, both groups showed improved urodynamic
      parameters and nocturnal continence status in 70% and 55% of patients, respectively.17
      Ali-El-Dein et al, reported that treatment of female patients, who have NI after RC and ONB,
      with anticholinergic drugs (tolterodine or oxybutynin chloride) has associated with
      improvement and cure of NI in 36% and 23%, respectively.15 These data confirmed the efficacy
      of the anticholinergic use in treatment of NI after RC and ONB.

      In the current study, we will study the role of long acting anticholinergic (tolterodine 4
      mg) at bedtime in management of NI after RC and ONB through a prospective randomized
      placebo-controlled crossover study.

      Material and methods:

      Patients:

      All patients for whom RC and ONB and attend for routine follow up at the outpatient clinic of
      Urology and Nephrology Center will be evaluated for eligibility of inclusion in this study.

      Study design:

      A single center prospective randomized placebo-controlled crossover study. It will be held in
      Urology and Nephrology Center, Mansoura University after approval of the local ethical
      committee. Patients meet the inclusion criteria will be included in the study. All patients
      will be evaluated by proper history, examination, BMI, ICIQ-UI Short Form, urine culture,
      serum creatinine and abdominal and pelvic ultrasound. Patients with positive urine culture
      will be treated by the appropriate antibiotic treatment till urine became sterile. Then,
      patients will be randomly allocated in 2 groups (1:1) by computer generated random numbers.
      The first group will receive long acting tolterodine (Incont LA, Adwia, Egypt) 4 mg at
      bedtime. The second group will receive placebo at bedtime. Both groups will be maintained on
      medication for 4 weeks. After that, both groups will be exposed to a period of two weeks of
      washout then crossed over to the alternate therapy.

      Patients will be assessed for nocturnal incontinence by the number of episodes per week,
      number of pad used and ICIQ-UI short form questionnaire at the beginning of the study, after
      4 weeks, after washout period then at the end of the study.

      The ICIQ-UI short form is developed for assessing the prevalence, severity, impact on quality
      of life, and type of UI.19 The three scored items of the ICIQ-UI SF are:

        1. How often do you leak urine? (0 ''Never,'' 1 '' About once a week or less often,'' 2
           ''Two or three times a week,'' 3 ''About once a day,'' 4 ''Several times a day,'' 5
           ''All the time''),

        2. How much urine do you usually leak (whether you wear protection or not)? (0 ''None ,'' 2
           ''A small amount,'' 4 ''A moderate amount,'' and 6 ''A large amount'')

        3. Overall, how much does leaking urine interfere with your everyday life? (Visual analogue
           scale ranging from 0 ''Not at all'' to 10 ''A great deal''). Additional question is used
           to determine when urine leakage occurs. The answers result in a sum, with minimum score
           of 0, and maximum score of 21. Preliminary cut-off scores were set to 0 = ''no
           incontinence'' and ˃1= ''urinary incontinence.

      Outcome measures:

      The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of tolterodine 4 mg on the
      nocturnal incontinence. This will be done by comparing the effect of the drug in the same
      group and by comparing its effect between different groups.

      Sample size:

      Assuming type I statistical error of 5 % and type II statistical error of 20 %, we designed
      our study to have a power of 80 %. Based on the results of the previous studies, the expected
      difference between the study and control group is 59- 70 %.15, 17The dropped out number of
      cases is suspected to be 10-20%. So, the sample size required to give significant difference
      is 60 in each arm.

      Statistical analysis:

      The ICIQ- UI score, number of pads and the number of nocturnal incontinence episodes will be
      expressed as mean± SD. Independent sample T-test will be used for comparison of means. All
      statistical tests will be done using Statistical Package for the Social Sciences 16.0 for
      Microsoft (SPSS, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA) with a p value of less than 0.05 considered
      significant.

      The protocol is accepted by the local ethical committee of Faculty of medicine, Mansoura
      University ( Mansoura Faculty of Medicine- Institutional Research Board MFM-IRB) and given
      the number of R/16.07.51 Figure 1: study design and time schedule
    
  