
    
      New approaches to treat iron deficiency include developing novel iron compounds with possible
      iron absorption routes that increase iron bioavailability and reduce gastrointestinal side
      effects. Heme iron is considered to be highly bioavailable (10-20%) and less affected by meal
      composition than non-heme iron. Heme iron is iron (Fe2+) that is bound to the iron
      protoporphyrin IX prosthetic groups of proteins, mainly hemoglobin and myoglobin, which are
      present in animal tissue. Heme is released from hemoglobin during digestion so that it can be
      taken up by the duodenal enterocytes. The intact iron porphyrin is transported across the
      brush border membrane by the Heme Carrier Protein 1 (HCP1). Once inside the cell, the iron is
      released, and it is then likely to enter the low molecular weight pool of iron. The use of
      heme analogues from vegetable origin could provide an alternative iron source of potentially
      high bioavailability.

      Sodium iron chlorophyllin (SIC) is a water-soluble semisynthetic chlorophyll derivative where
      the magnesium in the porphyrin ring has been substituted by iron. It is a greenish brown
      pigment that dissolves in water, alcohols, and chloroform, but not ethers. SIC is known to
      have a superior processing stability to chlorophyll and is commonly used as food colorings in
      Asian countries including in Korea and Japan, for foods that do not contain meat or fish.
      Magnesium Chlorophyllin has an E number of E140 and is approved as a food additive in Europe.
      Currently sodium iron chlorophyllin is present in the Designated Additives List in Japan with
      a number 261. Designated additives are those designated by the Minister of Health, Labour and
      Welfare as substances that are unlikely to harm human health based on Article 10 of the Food
      Sanitation Act.

      Given the porphyrin ring heme-like structure of SIC, it may be an alternative delivery route
      for iron, suitable also for vegetarians and vegans, yet there are few studies investigating
      the use of SIC for this purpose.

      A recent study by Ding et al. 2019 suggests a positive effect of SIC on hemoglobin (Hb)
      values in iron-deficiency anemia (IDA) in children and adults after 1 month of treatment.
      They assume that SIC is taken up by the heme carrier protein. The researchers used
      shengxuening tablets, also known as SXN, which are based on chlorophyll/porphyrin structures
      extracted from silkworms in which the Mg is replaced by the Fe and then coadjutants are
      added. This study provided no data on the absorption pathway of the SXN compound. Thus, it
      remains unclear if it was taken up by the heme transporter or whether it was digested and the
      Fe released in the gut lumen to join the non heme Fe pool, and thereby improved Hb in the IDA
      subjects. The authors also describe Xray diffraction assays to assess if the chlorophyllin
      porphyrin ring contained Fe and not Mg, however these data are not reported.

      Miret et al. (2010) studied the stability of heme-analogous SIC absorption using the Caco-2
      cell model. The SIC remained stable and only 5% of the Fe from the compound was released at
      pH 2 to 4. In-house dissolution studies conducted at the Human Nutrition Laboratory (HNL)
      show only a 2% release of Fe from the compound at similar pH levels. Using solid phase
      extraction at a higher pH of 7, similar to that in the duodenum, we observed a 5% Fe loss,
      which may correspond to free iron or iron liberated from any other binding sites on the
      chlorophyll structure.

      Toyoda et al. (2014) performed a toxicity study of SIC performed in male and female rats with
      oral administration of SIC in their diet at concentrations of 0%, 0.2%, 1.0%, and 5.0% for 13
      weeks. No abnormal clinical signs, no mortality and no abnormal hematological changes were
      observed in any of the groups during the experiment. Based on the histopathology of the
      parotid glands, the no-observed-adverse-effect level (NOAEL) of SIC in this study was
      estimated to be 1.0% (609 mg SIC/kg bodyweight (bw)/day for males and 678 mg/kg bw/day for
      females). In the present study, we will use 6 mg elemental iron, in 100 mg SIC, 0.002% of the
      equivalent dose administered by Toyoda et al.

      SIC has been produced at the HNL with a 75% incorporation of iron into the chlorophyll. Our
      protocol is based on a Unilever patent that is no longer active, with in-house adaptation.
      The SIC has a neutral taste and will be presented as a dark green liquid, being the solution
      of SIC in water.

      The goal of this project is to develop a novel iron compound that can be used as a food
      supplement. The iron content in our SIC will be limited to 6 mg per dose, which therefore
      does not exceed the 14 mg daily iron dose stipulated as the legal maximum in Switzerland for
      food supplements. SIC is already used widely as a food colorant and is safe for human
      consumption.

      We propose to test our SIC against a known comparator, ferrous sulfate, to ascertain whether
      SIC is an effective iron delivery compound. If SIC, as hypothesized, behaves in a similar way
      to heme, then commonly used enhancers of iron absorption effective on ferrous sulfate, such
      as ascorbic acid, will not have an effect on the absorption of iron from SIC
    
  