
    
      Background: Defining the molecular profile (gene and protein expression) of normal breast
      tissue is essential to identifying markers for cellular subtypes in the normal human breast.
      These markers could serve as biomarkers for prevention trials or represent new therapeutic
      targets if they are also expressed in early breast cancers. The gene and protein expression
      in normal breast tissue may be dependent on the stage of the menstrual cycle, whether the
      woman is pre- or post-menopausal, prior pregnancy and breast feeding history, and age. The
      molecular profile of metastatic breast tumors may differ from that of the primary tumor and
      differ in metastases from different anatomic sites. Identification of genes/proteins unique
      to these lesions may help identify the processes responsible for metastatic spread at a
      molecular level and lead to the development of new molecularly targeted drugs. Similarly,
      isolation and characterization of breast cancer stem cells could provide new approaches for
      the treatment and prevention of breast cancer.

      Objectives: To define the molecular profile of normal breast tissue from pre- and
      post-menopausal women of varying age and parity (nulliparous to multiparous) and in different
      phases of the menstrual cycle; to study the molecular profile of primary and metastatic
      breast cancer lesions; and to identify and characterize breast cancer stem cells and
      establish cell lines from the pleural fluid of women with breast cancer and malignant pleural
      effusions.

      Eligibility: Women who are undergoing cosmetic breast surgery that entails resection of a
      portion of the breast (e.g., reduction mammoplasty) and who do not have a history of breast
      cancer; women with known or suspected breast cancer who are having a primary tumor biopsied
      or resected or having a metastatic lesion biopsied or resected; or women with breast cancer
      who are undergoing pleurocentesis for a suspected or known malignant pleural effusion.

      Design: Normal breast tissues from cosmetic breast procedures that are performed in women
      without a history of breast cancer at Suburban Hospital will be snap frozen in liquid
      nitrogen and sent to the NCI for storage and analysis. Demographic information will be
      collected from the women undergoing the procedure. Similarly, a portion of biopsies obtained
      from primary or metastatic lesions in women with suspected or known breast cancer at Suburban
      Hospital or the NIH will be collected after materials are obtained for diagnostic purposes,
      snap frozen in liquid nitrogen, and sent to the NCI with demographic information. The
      unneeded fluid from pleurocenteses performed in women with breast cancer and malignant
      pleural effusions will be transported (unfrozen) to an NCI lab for immediate processing (FAC
      sorting to isolate breast cancer stem cells). RNA will be extracted from tissues and cDNA
      microarrays will be used to study gene expression. Proteomic analysis of normal and malignant
      breast tissue will be studied using reverse-phase tissue lysates.
    
  