
    
      This is a proof-of-concept, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 3-way, complete
      crossover William's design, multiple dose study to investigate the efficacy, PK, safety, and
      tolerability of 2 dose levels of AZD8871 and placebo, administered using a dry powder inhaler
      (DPI) device once daily, for 2 weeks, in patients with moderate to severe COPD. AZD8871 is a
      new chemical entity with the combined properties of a LAMA and a LABA in a single molecule.
      AZD8871 is being developed as an inhaled long-acting bronchodilator for the maintenance
      treatment of COPD.

      The objective of the study is to assess the efficacy, safety and PK of AZD8871 after a 14-day
      treatment period at 2 different doses in patients with moderate to severe COPD. The target
      population includes male and female (non-childbearing potential) adult patients with clinical
      diagnosis of moderate to severe COPD. The crossover design has been chosen to avoid
      inter-patient variability and optimize sample size. By randomly assigning treatment sequence,
      differences in baseline characteristics of the treatment groups will be minimised. The
      inclusion of a placebo arm is considered the most reliable method to minimise patient and
      Investigator bias. The proposed dose levels of AZD8871 in this study are 100 and 600 µg of
      AZD8871 given by inhalation once daily for 14 days through a single dose DPI. Doses have been
      selected based on the safety, tolerability, PK and pharmacodynamics (PD) information
      generated in previous clinical trials with AZD8871. The wash-out period proposed for this
      current study is a minimum of 28 days and up to 35 days in order to avoid any carry over
      effect between periods. The broad dose range selected (6 fold range from 100 to 600 µg) has
      been chosen to span the likely therapeutic dose and facilitate the dose selection for future
      studies. Considering the expected efficacy in patients with COPD and the available data to
      date, it is anticipated the benefits will outweigh the risks and support the continued
      investigation of AZD8871 in clinical studies.
    
  