
    
      Across the globe, HIV stigma inflicts hardship and suffering on people with HIV and has been
      found to reduce the likelihood of seeking HIV counseling and testing and PMTCT. Stigma also
      deters infected individuals from disclosing their status, seeking timely medical treatment
      for HIV-related problems, reduces ART adherence, and leads to delays in clinic appointments
      and prescription refills, which can lead to virologic failure and the development and
      transmission of drug resistance. Medical professionals unfortunately constitute a significant
      source of stigma for PLHIV.

      This study will evaluate the efficacy of a promising intervention designed to reduce HIV
      stigma among Indian health professionals. The intervention builds on results of our previous
      research, identifying prevalence and drivers of stigma and discrimination in Indian
      healthcare settings among PLHIV, health care providers and uninfected patients.

      Specifically, the study will:

        1. Adapt our pilot-tested 3-session stigma reduction intervention for partial tablet-based
           delivery to increase its long-term sustainability in health care settings. The two
           tablet-administered sessions of the intervention use interactive touch screen
           methodology and video vignettes tailored to situations likely to be encountered by
           Indian nurses and ward attendants. The third session focuses on skills-building in a
           group format and is co-facilitated by a PLHIV.

        2. Evaluate the efficacy of the intervention in 24 hospitals in North and South India on:

             1. behavioral manifestations of HIV stigma, including endorsement of coercive
                policies, behavioral intentions to discriminate, and non/stigmatizing
                provider-patient interactions.

             2. the factors underlying stigma proposed by our conceptual model and targeted in the
                intervention modules, including fears and misconceptions regarding casual
                transmission (instrumental stigma), and negative attitudes toward marginalized,
                vulnerable groups (symbolic stigma).
    
  