
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the very good partial response (VGPR) or better response rate (>= VGPR) after
      4 cycles of pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone, when
      used as initial therapy in patients with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma
      (MM) in patients, who are considered eligible for stem cell transplantation.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the >= partial response (PR) rate after 4 cycles of treatment with
      pembrolizumab added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

      II. To determine the >= VGPR response rate at any time during treatment with pembrolizumab
      added to standard doses of lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

      III. To determine the progression free survival and overall survival among patients with
      previously untreated symptomatic MM following treatment with the combination of
      pembrolizumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone.

      IV. To determine the toxicities associated with pembrolizumab added to standard doses of
      lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with previously untreated symptomatic MM.

      V. To determine the success rate of stem cell collection following initial therapy with the
      combination of pembrolizumab, lenalidomide and dexamethasone in patients with newly diagnosed
      MM.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. PDL-1 expression on myeloma cells and non-tumor cell compartments from the bone marrow
      will be assessed at baseline.

      II. Measures of T-cell activation / exhaustion will be assessed at baseline and after cycle
      1, cycle 2, cycle 3, and cycle 4.

      III. Natural killer (NK) cell function and numbers will be evaluated at baseline and after
      cycle 1, cycle 2, cycle 3, and cycle 4.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive lenalidomide orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 and dexamethasone PO daily on
      days 1, 8, 15, and 22. Courses repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity. Patients also receive pembrolizumab intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes
      on days 1 and 22 of course 1, day 15 of course 2, and day 8 of course 3. Courses 1-3 repeat
      beyond 3 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients may
      undergo stem cell transplantation after 4 courses of treatment.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months or 6 months for
      up to 3 years.
    
  