
    
      Delirium is a distressing and common surgical complication, affecting approximately 20-50% of
      older surgical patients. Postoperative delirium is associated with increased mortality,
      cognitive and functional decline, and healthcare resource utilization. Prevention programs
      have been tested with variable success, but the Hospital Elder Life Program (HELP) has
      consistently been demonstrated to reduce the incidence and impact of delirium. However,
      substantial resources are needed for program operations, and complementary support systems
      may help with patient triage and assessment. Family members and caretakers may be able to
      provide supplementary support with delirium screening and prevention via targeted,
      therapeutic activities. Thus, an automated postoperative paging system, which elicits
      additional, focused support from HELP and family members, may augment delirium prevention
      activities and reduce associated risk.

      The primary objectives of this study are to determine whether pager-based clinical decision
      support systems bolster HELP- and family-based therapeutic activities. A secondary objective
      will be to identify facilitators and barriers to delivering therapeutic interventions for
      both HELP and family members. Overall, this pilot trial will test the hypothesis that a
      multicomponent decision support system will improve the postoperative environment for
      neurocognitive and clinical recovery in older, high-risk surgical patients. Patients (n=60)
      will be randomized to one of four groups in a factorial design: usual care (n=15), HELP-based
      paging system (n=15), family-based paging system (n=15), or both HELP- and family-based
      paging system (n=15). The support systems will consist of automated pager alerts to the HELP
      program and/or family members and caretakers, depending on group allocation, for providing
      additional delirium evaluation and therapeutic prevention activities. Outcomes will include
      various clinical, neurocognitive, and functional measures, and performance metrics will be
      collected regarding HELP- and family-based interventions.
    
  