
    
      Rates of Smoking Among Pregnant and Postpartum Women.

      Despite the well-established health risks of prenatal and postpartum smoking, a sizable
      number of pregnant women and new mothers smoke. About 30% of US women who become pregnant
      smoke. Only 20-40% of these women spontaneously quit upon learning of their pregnancy.
      Although an additional 3-16% of pregnant smokers may quit later in pregnancy, the majority
      continue to smoke throughout, with 15-30% relapsing. Research has also indicated that smoking
      cessation rates are lower among low-income pregnant women (6-14%) versus more affluent
      populations. Less educated, lower SES, unemployed women who have a higher addiction to
      nicotine are at greatest risk for smoking throughout their pregnancy, while pregnant women
      with higher levels of education and income are more likely to quit. These differential
      smoking rates result in elevated rates of high-risk pregnancies for low SES and less educated
      women, vs. higher SES and educated women. While some research has demonstrated moderate
      success with prenatal smoking cessation interventions, relapse remains a prominent concern.
      Indeed, more than a quarter of women who quit spontaneously relapse by 6-weeks postpartum,
      with relapse rates reported as high as 60-80% by 6-months postpartum. The highest relapse
      rates have been found among women with low income and little education.

      Smoking Cessation Interventions for Prenatal and Postpartum Women.

      To date, the efficacy of available smoking cessation interventions has been disappointing.
      The current literature on tobacco control indicates that cognitive-affective factors
      (including perceived risk, self-efficacy, fatalism, decisional balance, and affect) need to
      be considered when designing smoking cessation protocols. Yet, the behavioral treatments that
      have been tested for pregnant smokers focus on the use of self-help guides, basic skills
      training, and education, neglecting the individual's cognitive-affective profile of barriers.
      This limitation is paralleled by a similar void in the broader smoking cessation literature.
      When these characteristics are addressed, they have been considered in isolation, without
      attention to the full spectrum of cognitive-affective barriers to quitting (i.e., the
      interventions focus on only 1 barrier such as perceived risk or depression). Not
      surprisingly, among intervention studies with pregnant women, only 3 produced quit rates
      above 20%.

      Thus, research now needs to build upon these guidelines to develop more potent smoking
      cessation interventions. The design of our intervention is directly responsive to the call
      for the development of more creative and powerful behavioral interventions to replace the
      current best available programs. Guided by the Cognitive-Social Health Information Processing
      (C-SHIP) model and based on our related behavior change protocols for low-income populations,
      our approach is tailored to the woman's cognitive-affective profile of barriers to initial,
      and sustained, uptake of smoking cessation.

      Determinants of Smoking Cessation Among Pregnant Women.

      The exploration of psychological factors as potential mediators of behavior change appears to
      be particularly promising. The specific cognitive and affective processes proposed by the
      C-SHIP model as determinants of the uptake of individual health-protective behaviors (e.g.,
      smoking cessation) include: 1) perceived risk; 2) self-efficacy and fatalistic beliefs; 3)
      expectancies of consequences (i.e., the pros and cons of cessation); and 4) emotional
      distress. Over the past decade, a sizable literature has accumulated with respect to the
      psychological correlates of smoking behavior.

      Procedures and Interventions

      Women who were between 1-25 weeks gestation were asked to participate in a study aimed at
      learning about smoking cessation techniques for quitting and relapse prevention. Following
      recruitment and informed consent, participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups,
      which varied in intensity: 1) the control group, which provided a brief counseling of
      educational advice and assistance for quitting during each session or 2) a more intensive
      theoretically-guided smoking cessation intervention group based on the team's
      Cognitive-Social Health Information Processing Model (C-SHIP ), which assessed and addressed
      the participant's distinctive pattern of risk perceptions, expectancies and beliefs, and
      affective reactions. Through prompts and role-play exercises in the context of in-person
      counseling, potential barriers to cessation can be triggered in a safe, supportive
      environment. Baseline and follow-up assessments were conducted at 13-25 weeks gestation,
      26-38 weeks gestation, 2-6 weeks postpartum and 20-22 weeks postpartum.

      Best Practice (BP) control condition consisted of two on-site 10-15 minutes sessions (session
      1 and 3), pick up a smoking cessation guide/brochure (session 2), and receive an educational
      new letter by mail (booster session). CBC intervention included two 45 minutes on-site
      counseling sessions session 1 and 3), one 15-minutes on-site counseling session (session 2),
      and one 15-minutes phone session (booster session).
    
  