
    
      This study is a multi-center, prospective, international, Phase III, randomized and blinded
      investigation of 6 weeks versus 6 months of oral valganciclovir therapy in babies with
      symptomatic congenital cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease. Following enrollment, study subjects
      will receive 6 weeks of oral valganciclovir. Near the end of the 6-week course, subjects will
      be randomized in a 1:1 fashion either to continue on valganciclovir to complete 6 months of
      therapy or to begin a matching placebo to complete the 6 months. Study subjects will be
      stratified according to whether or not there is central nervous system (CNS) involvement at
      study entry. During the 6-month treatment period and the 1 month thereafter, study subjects
      will be followed weekly for 4 weeks, then every other week for 8 weeks, then every month for
      4 months. At each of these visits, safety labs will be checked, growth parameters recorded,
      and adverse events assessed. The dose of study medication will be adjusted for weight gain at
      each of these study visits. Dose adjustments may also occur as indicated per protocol for
      neutropenia, thrombocytopenia, or renal impairment. Whole blood will be obtained for CMV
      viral load at each of these visits as well. Hearing outcomes will be assessed at baseline, 6
      months, 12 months and 24 months. Developmental outcomes will be assessed at 12 months and 24
      months. Changes in whole blood viral load measurements will be correlated with both hearing
      and neurologic outcomes. In study subjects with increasing whole blood viral loads during the
      course of treatment, assessment for antiviral resistance may be undertaken.Safety assessments
      include: hematology labs, chemistry labs, physical examinations, and adverse event data
      performed/collected serially. Development of neutropenia will be confirmed by repeat blood
      testing within one week, and study drug will be held until it resolves. Efficacy assessments
      include: hearing assessments at baseline, 6 months, 12 months and 24 months; and
      neurodevelopmental assessments at 12 months and 24 months. Study objectives are: to compare
      the impact on hearing outcomes of 6 weeks versus 6 months of antiviral treatment with
      valganciclovir oral solution in infants with symptomatic congenital CMV disease; to compare
      the safety profile of 6 weeks versus 6 months of antiviral therapy with valganciclovir oral
      solution in infants with symptomatic congenital CMV disease; to compare the impact on
      neurologic outcomes of 6 weeks versus 6 months of antiviral treatment with valganciclovir
      oral solution in infants with symptomatic congenital CMV disease; and to correlate change in
      whole blood viral load with hearing and neurologic outcomes. Participants will include 104
      male and female neonates (less than or equal to 30 days) with symptomatic congenital CMV.
    
  