
    
      Dental procedures often require the use of local anesthesia. The most common local anesthetic
      used is 2% Lidocaine 1:100,000 epinephrine. This local anesthetic can achieve soft tissue
      anesthesia for 180-300 minutes and pulpal anesthesia for 60 minutes. Unfortunately, for
      longer treatments this relatively short duration can lead to the loss of anesthetic effect
      before the end of the interventions. Time-demanding dental appointments include oral and
      periodontal surgeries, extensive restorative treatments, and even minor treatments when
      completed by dental students. Unfortunately, if a short acting anesthetic such as Lidocaine
      is being used during long lasting procedures, once the patients start feeling pain again, it
      may be difficult to reestablish deep pulpal anesthesia with a repeated injection due to
      tachyphylaxis. To avoid this situation long-acting local anesthetics could be selected
      instead. The only long-acting anesthetic available in dentistry is 0.5% Bupivacaine HCl,
      1:200,000 epinephrine. Bupivacaine can produce soft tissue anesthesia for up to 12 hours
      (commonly 4 to 9 hours) and pulpal anesthesia for up to 7 hours (commonly 1.5 to 3 hours).
      Unfortunately, Bupivacaine is not often used for non-surgical procedures due to its very long
      soft tissue anesthesia that outlast treatments by several hours.

      The effects of soft tissue anesthesia linger for some time after the administration of long
      acting local anesthetics such as Bupivacaine. This can lead to discomfort and occasionally
      injury from lip/tongue biting. Clinical trials have shown phentolamine mesylate (PM), brand
      name OraVerse, to be effective at reducing the amount of time to reversal of local anesthesia
      with different dental anesthetics. However, to date no study investigated the efficacy of
      phentolamine mesylate to reverse anesthesia induced with the use of Bupivacaine.

      The objective of the proposed research is to conduct a pilot-scale randomized clinical trial
      evaluating the difference in time required for the return of normal soft-tissue sensation and
      function in participants who have received 0.5% Bupivacaine HCl, 1:200,000 epinephrine,
      followed by an injection with either 1) OraVerse (phentolamine mesylate) or 2) sterile
      physiological water (control). This will further advance our knowledge of both Bupivacaine
      and phentolamine mesylate as there are no current studies evaluating reversing the effect of
      Bupivacaine with PM.

      It is hypothesized that phentolamine mesylate will reduce the duration of soft tissue
      anesthesia by 2.5 hours when compared with a control injection of saline water. It is
      anticipated that this study will determine the feasibility and sample size needed to conduct
      a full-scale multi-centre trial.
    
  