
    
      Different modes of mechanical ventilation allow different levels of patient control of the
      respiratory pattern. For example, the most common mode of ventilation, called volume control,
      gives very little control to the patient in the amount of air taken for each breath. Other
      modes, such as pressure control, pressure regulated volume control and pressure support,
      allow more patient control of the volume of air delivered by the ventilator. Newer modes,
      such as airway pressure release ventilation (APRV), allow completely spontaneous patient
      respirations. All of these modes allow at least some patient control of respiratory rates.

      Studies of natural breathing by healthy subjects have shown normal levels of variability in
      respiratory rate and tidal volume.1 Variability in physiological processes has been
      associated with health and the loss of variability can presage the onset of illness. For
      example, normal humans exposed to LPS (lipopolysaccharide-the potent immune-stimulating cell
      wall component of bacteria) lose their normal respiratory variability. Thus, physiological
      variability may represent a "hidden vital sign," the monitoring of which may herald important
      clinical events. Additionally, re-establishing normal levels of variability has therapeutic
      benefits in animal models. 2

      The variability in respiratory patterns in ill patients has not been well studied. For
      example, it is currently unclear if critical illness results in deviations from normal
      variability patterns, if ventilator modes allowing increasing patient control of respiration
      allow patients to attain greater normalcy of respiratory variability, or if deviations from
      normal respiratory patterns while on ventilator modes which allow for increased levels of
      spontaneous breathing have prognostic implications.

      The purpose of this pilot study is to record respiratory patterns from the ventilators of
      patients receiving various modes of mechanical ventilation in order to quantify and compare
      levels of respiratory variability associated with each mode. Our hypothesis is that APRV, a
      mode that allows spontaneous respiration, will be associated with respiratory variability
      patterns that most closely approximate that of normal subjects.

      We hope that data derived from this study will inform future observational studies
      correlating respiratory variability during mechanical ventilation with severity of illness
      and prognosis.
    
  