
    
      The prevalence of obesity and diabetes in older adults has increased during the past 20 years
      and will increasingly affect medical and social services, as well as costs over time. Because
      older adults are often portrayed as less likely to change long-standing health behaviors,
      health promotion in this age group has lagged behind others. In fact, little attention has
      been given to the importance of diabetes prevention and management in community-dwelling
      older adults.

      A recent report of obesity diagnosis and care practice in the Veterans Health Administration
      showed that elderly patients were less likely to receive obesity-related education or
      counseling [Noel 2010]. Intentional weight loss in obese older adults has not been widely
      advocated by health care providers due to the perceived uncertainty of whether the benefits
      outweigh the risks. There is also a need to overcome the barriers to provide appropriate
      interventions on blood pressure, glucose, and lipid management tailored to the functionality
      of older adults.

      The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) demonstrated the benefit of modest weight loss, through
      diet and exercise, on the reduction of diabetes risk in participants from all race/ethnic
      groups (58% overall reduction with a 71% reduction in the older population), leading to a
      delay of 4 years over a 10-year period in the onset of diabetes among those that received
      lifestyle intervention [DPP 2002, DPP 2009]. The DPP is considered a landmark study in
      comparative effectiveness research (CER), but it has yet to be translated into widespread
      public health practice.

      South Florida provides a unique setting to accelerate the adoption of this CER evidence into
      practice and address the obesity and diabetes challenges of the aging population. There are
      more than 800,000 multi-ethnic residents age 60 and over, many of whom have one or more
      chronic diseases [CDC 2008]. A large number of older veterans with or at high-risk of
      diabetes currently receive care in the Miami VA Healthcare System.

      Compelling scientific evidence exists that lifestyle change delays the onset of type 2
      diabetes in high-risk persons. Lifestyle intervention can also lead to a reduction in
      cardiovascular risk factors in individuals with type 2 diabetes [Look AHEAD research group
      2007]. However, few older adults succeed in achieving intentional weight loss through healthy
      diet and increased physical activity. Furthermore, some have argued that the current US
      health system is not prepared to deliver lifestyle interventions [Narayan 2004].

      Several issues related to integration of lifestyle intervention in clinical practice have
      been raised. Currently, it is unknown whether other practicing professionals could deliver
      interventions in the community with efficacy similar to that of the interventionists of the
      DPP, who were trained in counseling on nutrition, exercise, and behavior modification. The
      investigators propose the use of telemedicine with applications in an interactive web-based
      system. This will allow participants to get just-in-time feedback from peers using targeted
      information on specific areas that need reinforcement to adopt healthy lifestyle and better
      self-management skills by older veterans. This will bolster the peer-participant interaction
      and make them more focused around areas where there are adoption gaps. This technology
      functions as a platform for social interaction that will lead to increase self-efficacy and
      better health outcomes.

      The VA National Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (NCP) developed the MOVE!
      weight management program based on the 1998/2000 Identification and Treatment of Overweight
      and Obesity in Adults Evidence Report. A major goal for the MOVE! program has been to reduce
      the prevalence of diabetes in veterans. Our long-term goal is to reduce the burden of
      obesity-related chronic diseases and promote healthy aging in older veterans through the
      implementation of best practices for prevention. The main objective of this project is to
      implement evidence-informed, innovative interventions to increase adoption of findings from
      comparative effectiveness research (CER) for diabetes management prevention in South Florida
      older veterans.
    
  