
    
      This randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover trial will enroll 20 healthy participants. In
      one arm of the study, participants will randomly receive either 250mcg of roflumilast (a
      phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor), or a placebo capsule, and participants will receive the other
      intervention one week later.

        1. The investigators will recruit 20 healthy participants through community advertisement,
           carefully screened for exclusion factors related to rTMS and roflumilast.

        2. Participants will be randomly assigned by random number sequence with allocation
           concealment to one of two first arms of the crossover study: a) placebo-roflumilast
           250mcg and b) roflumilast 250mcg-placebo.

        3. Participants will complete the QIDS-SR (Quick Inventory of Depressive Symptoms-Self
           Report), the BAI (Beck Anxiety Inventory), and the STAI (State Trait Anxiety Inventory).

           Participants will report their perception of physical symptoms (potential side effects)
           in the 7 days before participating in the study taking the randomized capsule (Toronto
           Side Effects Scale - 1 Week).

        4. Participants will take their blinded capsule at least 30 minutes prior to TBS
           (theta-burst stimulation).

        5. The resting motor threshold of participants will be determined using electromyographic
           electrodes (EMG). EMG electrodes will be positioned over the first dorsal interosseous
           (FDI) muscle on the right hand. These electrodes are non-invasive and use an adhesive to
           stick to the skin.

        6. The M1 hand strip will be localized using single pulse TMS (MagPro X100) in conjunction
           with neuronavigation and an atlas brain.

        7. Muscle activation in response to TMS will be measured through motor evoked potentials
           (MEP). The strength of MEPs in response to differing strengths of single pulse TMS will
           be used to determine a participants resting motor threshold (RMT). The RMT is the lowest
           TMS setting at which the FDI muscle responds to TMS stimulus. 80% of the RMT will then
           be the strength at which TBS protocol will be applied to the DLPFC.

        8. Two baselines of TMS Evoked Potentials (TEPs) will be collected via one hundred
           single-pulse (120% RMT), 0.25Hz) over the F3 site. Each baseline will occur 10 minutes
           apart.

        9. TBS-rTMS will be applied to the DLPFC site. TBS consists of 2s trains every 10s. Each
           train is composed of 3 pulses at 50Hz, 200ms intervals given at 80% RMT. The total time
           for this treatment stimulus is 600 pulses over 190s.

       10. Following TBS, one hundred TEPs over the F3 site will again be acquired at 10, 20, and
           30 minutes after treatment (single pulse, 120%RMT, 0.25Hz).

      As this is a cross-over study, participants will return 1 week later to repeat the second arm
      of the protocol (steps 3-10).
    
  