
    
      The investigators describe here a protocol for comparing quality of care given to patients
      admitted as emergencies to 20 hospital Trusts at weekends and on weekdays during two epochs,
      representing periods before (2012-2013) and during (2016-2017) the implementation of NHS
      England's 7-day services standards.

      Using retrospective review of case records from 20 hospital Trusts during two time epochs,
      this study aims to determine whether there is a difference in quality of care offered to
      patients undergoing emergency admission (EA) to hospital at weekends compared with weekdays.

      The main objectives are as follows:

        1. To compare rates of errors and differences in care quality between weekend and weekday
           admissions,

        2. To examine prevalent error types for weekend and weekday admissions,

        3. If a difference in error rates or care quality between weekend and weekday admissions is
           found, examine whether the difference has changed between the two epochs.

        4. To inform the Bayesian model proposed in this parallel health economics model. The
           co-primary outcomes are the weekend:weekday error rate ratio and the global assessment
           of care quality. The error rate is calculated as the number of errors per case record
           from admission to discharge or to 7 days, whichever occurs first.

      Secondary outcomes include a comparison of weekend-weekday admissions in error typology and
      error-related adverse events (AEs), of error rates by day of the week within each admission
      group and correlation of weekend: weekday error rate ratios with weekend:weekday differences
      in specialist hours per 10 EAs.

      In this survey instrument, physician characteristics and psychological attitudes have shown
      to influence medical decisions. The case note review process of determining the overall care
      quality is a type of medical decision. The HiSLAC study gives us an opportunity to determine
      whether patient or physician characteristics and physician attitudinal scores (physician
      aversion to ambiguity, need for cognition and personal need for structure) influence the
      overall care quality judgement during case note review. The investigators develop a case for
      considering this question with a multi-level model assuming the clustering within patient and
      within reviewers; furthermore, the investigators develop pre-specified hypotheses for
      testing. (See hypotheses) Our outputs from this are intended to inform better practice with
      case note reviews.

      HYPOTHESES

      For each objective a general hypothesis is provided:

      Null hypothesis 1: To assess whether there is no significant relationship between patient
      case note characteristics and the physician's overall care quality judgements.

      Null hypothesis 2: To assess whether there is no significant relationship between case note
      reviewer characteristics and their overall care quality judgements.

      Null hypothesis 3. To assess whether there is no significant relationship between case note
      reviewer attitudes and their overall care quality judgements.

      In addition to the above two objectives, one secondary objective is to assess the same
      effects of characteristics and attitudes on reviewer confidence in their care quality
      judgement. A further secondary objective is to assess whether there is a significant
      relationship between case-specific factors and reviewers' self-assessed confidence in their
      global care quality judgements.
    
  