
    
      The goal of this research is to assess the effect of exercise intervention on imaging
      parameters by CMR, cardiopulmonary indices and MicroRNA expression in survivors of childhood
      cancer exposed to anthracycline therapy. Thus, results from this study could provide a
      foundation for a paradigm shift in our approach to the prevention and management of
      anthracycline induced cardiotoxicity in this population. Patients who have been exposed to
      anthracycline treatment and who are greater than 9 years of age will be enrolled.

      Patients will come into the clinic for 7 study visits. Patients will have an exercise
      intervention provided to them by a trainer at the designated YMCA. Patients will start their
      exercise for 15 minutes per day for 3-5 days a week for week one progressing to 45 minutes
      per day, 3 - 5 days a week as tolerated by the end of week four. The goal during each session
      is for the patient to exercise at 50-80% of their age adjusted maximum heart rate, which will
      be determined by the personal trainer (PT) at their initial visit. The exercise program will
      continue for 12 weeks (ending at 16 weeks after entry to the study).

      In the clinic patients will have the following tests completed:

      Week 0 and Week 16: Cardiac MRI, stress test along with blood samples and Karnofsky/Lansky
      Scale.

      Week 0 patients receive a Fitbit and home diary/Wellness Log for completion. Week 4 began
      exercise intervention Weeks 0, 4, 8, 16 and 20 patients will receive phone calls for symptom
      tracker Weeks 0, 16, and 6 month f/u patients complete a questionnaire

      Patients will also have Fitness assessments to see how their exercise intervention is doing.

      Specific Aim 1: To measure the impact of the toolbox exercise intervention on cardiac
      remodeling as measured by cardiac magnetic resonance Imaging (CMR) in childhood cancer
      survivors exposed to Anthracycline therapy. The objective of this Aim is to use CMR to
      characterize changes of myocardial mass, volume, global and regional myocardial function at
      baseline and following exercise intervention.

      Specific Aim 2a: To examine the impact of the toolbox exercise intervention on exercise
      testing derived cardiopulmonary parameters in childhood cancer survivors exposed to
      Anthracycline therapy. The objective of this aim is to assess changes in oxygen consumption
      (peak VO2), VO2 @ anaerobic threshold, O2 pulse, and he ventilation/carbon dioxide slope
      (VE/VCO2slope) at baseline and following exercise intervention.

      Specific Aim 2b: To examine the impact of the toolbox exercise intervention on quality of
      life, functional status and fitness in childhood cancer survivors exposed to anthracycline
      therapy. his Aim will test the hypothesis that exercise intervention will result in
      improvement in:

        1. Quality of life as measured by PedsQL 4.0 for children ≤ 18 and the SF-36 for adults >
           18

        2. Patient functional status as measured by the Karnofsky/Lansky Scale

        3. Fitness as measured by range of motion, balance, endurance, body composition and and
           functional strength

      Specific Aim 3: Analyze serum microRNA (miRNA) expression focusing on cardiac stress
      signaling pathways at three time points during each stress test: at baseline (prior to stress
      testing), immediately post-exercise (within 1min of completion of exercise testing), and
      after 1 hour of rest following stress testing). The objective of this aim is to measure
      changes in microRNA expression in plasma related to stress signaling pathways after exercise
      intervention when compared to baseline
    
  