
    
      Obesity is a major public health problem that disproportionately affects rural men and
      promotes the development of chronic conditions such as diabetes, cardiovascular disease,
      arthritis, and cancer. This study proposes to evaluate a mobile self-monitoring application
      (app) with Wi-Fi scale and text messaging intervention (MT+: mobile technology plus) for
      achieving weight loss in overweight and obese rural men. This proposal aligns with 1) Healthy
      People 2020's aim to eliminate health disparities by increasing physical activity and
      reducing obesity in adults; 2) the NIH's strategic plan to prioritize obesity reduction
      research among underserved rural populations; and, 3) the NINR's strategic focus on
      technology to promote health. Sixty nine percent of rural men in Nebraska are overweight or
      obese with increasing prevalence during midlife 40-59 (40%) and older (36%). Rural men are
      more likely to smoke, be obese, be physically inactive, and have shorter lifespans (2 years)
      than urban men. Rural men are also more likely to be uninsured/underinsured, less likely to
      engage in preventive health services, and report overall poorer health than urban men.
      Despite the burden of obesity, no self-monitoring mobile technology interventions targeting
      weight loss in rural, U.S. males exist, though the investigators preliminary study
      demonstrated rural men will use mobile technology for eating and activity self-monitoring.
      Studies show self-monitoring as one of the most effective behavior-change techniques for
      weight loss. MT+ provides an accessible means of real-time self-monitoring support for
      targeting lifestyle behaviors that lead to weight loss.

      The investigators propose a pragmatic, randomized controlled trial (RCT) to examine the
      feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of a MT+ intervention for weight loss in
      overweight and obese men in a practical, real-life rural environment. This 6-month pilot RCT
      includes a 3-month intervention with 6-month post-baseline follow-up. The intervention group
      (n=40) will receive a 3-month MT+ intervention using a commercially available,
      premium-version mobile phone app with social comparison group, behavior change text
      messaging, and daily self-weighing via Wi-Fi scale. The comparison group (n=40) will receive
      the basic-version mobile phone app only (MT). Primary efficacy outcome will be loss of body
      weight (kg & % body weight) at 3 and 6 months. Secondary outcomes will be improved diet and
      increased physical activity (PA). A multi-method formative evaluation of the intervention
      (student outreach, community advisory board (CAB), community capacity surveys, focus group,
      community dissemination) will occur across the study. Primary feasibility outcomes will
      include recruitment/retention rates and community resource development for program
      sustainment. The multi-modal feedback will help 1) facilitate recruitment of a hard-to-reach
      population, and 2) inform intervention feasibility and acceptability. These local insights
      may foster minimized attrition and improve future study outcomes. The specific aims of this
      study are:

      Aim #1: Determine the feasibility and acceptability of a MT+ intervention for achieving
      weight loss in rural overweight and obese men. The aim will specifically address groups by
      the 1) participation rates including number of men recruited and randomized over a 6 month
      period. 2) retention rates, 3) feasibility, usability, satisfaction ratings, 4) adherence
      record of logging by men in the intervention group, and 5) evaluative focus group feedback.

      Aim #2: Determine preliminary efficacy of a MT+ intervention to a comparison group receiving
      only a basic self-monitoring app (MT) in achieving 1) weight loss (primary), and 2) improved
      dietary and PA behavior (secondary) at 3 months post-baseline and follow-up at 6 months
      post-baseline in rural men.

      Aim #3: Determine quantitative and qualitative indicators of community capacity (resource
      mobilization, learning opportunities-skills development, partnership linkages, participatory
      decision-making, leadership) to support a relevant weight loss intervention for rural men.

      Through a collaborative process guided by Community-Engaged Research (CEnR) approaches with a
      community-academic partnership involving UNMC students, community leaders, the investigators
      plan to create and disseminate local knowledge about obesity in rural men. Specifically, the
      investigators plan to 1) document the feasibility, acceptability, and preliminary efficacy of
      a weight loss intervention among rural men, a current gap in the NIH health disparities
      portfolio, 2) engage rural communities through student-informed outreach approaches and CAB
      partnership linkages to improve the efficacy of weight loss interventions for rural men, and
      3) strengthen the research environment of the University of Nebraska Medical Center (UNMC)
      institution through providing opportunities for undergraduate and graduate students to
      conduct CEnR.
    
  