
    
      Background

      Spirometry is a useful clinical tool for the assessment and monitoring of obstructive lung
      disease but provides no information on the underlying mechanisms causing obstruction. The
      role of an increase in airflow resistance can be assessed by body plethysmography, but this
      technique requires elaborate equipment, a skilled operator and considerable subject
      co-operation. A much simpler technique, impulse oscillometry (IOS) provides a more extensive
      assessment of pulmonary mechanics. With IOS small volume oscillations are applied at the
      mouth during ordinary tidal breathing; the instantaneous pressure/flow signal produced by the
      imposed oscillations (impedance ,Zrs) is analyzed into its in-phase (resistance, Rrs) and
      out-of-phase (reactance, Xrs) components. Because Rrs is measured over a range of
      frequencies, IOS has the potential to distinguish between large and small airway resistance.
      Changes in Xrs have been less studied, but there are suggestions that these also may
      distinguish between different types of airflow obstruction.

      Objectives

      The main objective of this study is to investigate the ability of IOS to measure small airway
      disease by providing different impedance profiles for patients with asthma and COPD. Even
      though patients with asthma may show some reduction of the calibre of the small airways these
      changes are more a feature of patients with COPD. We hypothesize that the frequency dependent
      changes of IOS resistances will enable us to identify patients with COPD where we expect low
      frequency impedance to be higher compared to patients with asthma. Furthermore, in view of
      the increased lung compliance which characterizes COPD patients we expect reactance, an IOS
      measurement which reflects lung elastance, to be elevated compared to asthmatic subjects.

      Another objective of this study is to investigate the relationship between small airway
      resistance and inflammation. The measurement of exhaled nitric oxide (FENO), a marker of
      inflammation, at multiple exhalation flow rates allows the partitioning of NO produced in the
      central airways from that generated in the more peripheral lung. We will investigate the
      relationship between the levels of peripheral airway NO and small airway resistance as
      assessed by IOS and plethysmography. Furthermore, we would like to measure bronchial blood
      flow (Qaw) which also is a marker of inflammation and may play a role in the narrowing of the
      small airways
    
  