
    
      This study will consist of three study visits:

      Visit 1: Baseline and VO2max Testing Visit 2-3: Trial 1 and 2.

      Visit 1: Baseline and VO2max Testing

      Participants who are approved to participate will be scheduled for a baseline and VO2max
      testing day. Upon arrival to the lab, subjects will provide a urine sample in a clean urine
      cup. Urine specific gravity and urine color will be assessed. Nude body mass will be also be
      recorded. Privacy will be afforded for each participant while obtaining body mass measures by
      taking measurements with the participant alone in a private room behind a solid, closed door,
      and the research reading the scale outside of the room. Participants will only be permitted
      to continue to the VO2max test if the euhydrated criteria of a urine specific gravity (USG)
      ≤1.025 is met. If the participant arrives with a USG between 1.020 and 1.025, the subject
      will be asked to drink 500 mL of water to ensure proper hydration status. Height will be
      measured with a tape measure on Visit 1. Percent body fat will be calculated using a 3-site
      evaluation of skin fold thickness using skin fold calipers on one of the three baseline days.
      A researcher will use appropriate grasping technique to measure skin fold thickness on the
      chest, abdomen, and thigh. This will take less than ~5 minutes to complete. This information
      will be used to describe the subject demographics. Participants will also be asked to
      complete a maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) test on a treadmill in a thermoneutral environment.
      This test will provide aerobic fitness levels of the participants.

      Visit 2-3: Trials 1 and 2

      This is a randomized, counter-balanced, cross over design. Participant numbers will be
      randomly assigned and trials will be ordered with a random number generator and assigned to a
      participant number. These orders will be counterbalanced between participants to ensure that
      there is not an order effect, and each participant will complete both trials as part of the
      study. Participants will be allowed to make-up trial visits if they are sick, suffer an
      injury or do not meet hydration requirements. Participants will be asked if they have a
      current illness or taking medications to determine whether they can complete the exercise
      trial. The participant's visit will be rescheduled if they have a fever, current illness or
      taking medications that influence body temperature.

      Cooling Intervention:

        1. Ice Pack Cooling

        2. Commercially Available Ice Pack

      The exercise protocol, performance testing, cognitive testing, and recovery portions of this
      study will be conducted in a climatic chamber with ambient temperature approximately 30-40°C
      and relative humidity at approximately 30-70%.

      Upon arrival to the lab, participants will be asked to indicate if they have consumed alcohol
      or caffeine in the last 24 hours. They will not be asked to specify exactly what they have
      consumed, but if they provide a positive indication, their trial will be rescheduled for
      another day. Participants will provide a small urine sample in a clean urine cup, and a nude
      body mass will be measured. Upon arrival to the lab, hydration status will be assessed by
      urine specific gravity, nude body mass and urine color. Participants will only be permitted
      to continue to the exercise trial if the euhydrated criteria of a urine specific gravity
      (USG) ≤ 1.025 is met. If the participant arrives with a USG between 1.020 and 1.025, the
      subject will be asked to drink 500 mL of water to ensure proper hydration status.
      Participants will be given instructions at the prior visit about how to obtain desired
      hydration status for the upcoming trial. Key study personnel will insert an esophageal probe
      to measure esophageal temperature. Participants will then insert a rectal probe and wear a
      heart rate monitor strap. Additionally, participants will wear 4-site skin temperature
      sensors. The participants will also be asked to complete a subjective sleep questionnaire
      upon arriving to the lab. All perceptual measures, cognitive performance measures and
      physical performance tests will be administered to determine a baseline value at the
      beginning of each trial.

      All participants will undergo a treadmill protocol involving approximately 90 minutes of
      jogging or walking. Cognitive and physical performance tests will be administered at various
      time points throughout the trial.

      After exercise, participants will be cooled by either 5 cryothermic ice packs or 5
      commercially available ice packs. Participants will be cooled for approximately 30 mins. All
      participants will be laying supine during cooling.

      Cryothermic Cooling and Commercially Available Ice Pack Placement

      Storage and Preparation:

      Ice packs will be stored in a cooler at approximately 34°F for at least 6 hours prior to use
      and kept as dry as possible (35°F to 70°F). Ideally, Ice packs will be kept in tray or basket
      above ice or frozen gel packs, not in contact with the method of cooling the cooler.
      Refrigerator may be acceptable for storage before cooler use as well, but prefer cooler for
      real situations in field.

      For cryo cooling elements: the cryo cooling packs will be shaken quickly and vigorously (10
      seconds) and placed on subject (subject will be supine).

      For commercially available ice pack: ice packs will be placed on subject (subject will be
      supine).

      All ice packs will be placed on the following body segments:

        -  1 ice pack on neck covering both carotid Triangle regions

        -  2 ice packs in axilla region

        -  2 ice packs in groin region

      Cryo Cooling Elements and commercially available ice packs will be discarded after use.
    
  