
    
      Cancer survival rates are improving in the United States but this increased survivorship is
      offset by persistent treatment related symptoms, particularly for post-menopausal breast
      cancer survivors treated with aromatase inhibitor (AI) hormonal therapy. AI therapy is well
      known to cause arthralgia that can compromise a woman's quality of life. National
      Comprehensive Cancer Center Network (NCCCN) guidelines for breast cancer treatment recommend
      that post-menopausal women with estrogen receptor-positive tumors receive aromatase
      inhibitors, e.g., anastrozole (Arimidex), letrozole (Femara) or exemestane (Aromasin) as a
      key part of treatment to lower the risk of breast cancer recurrence, breast cancer in the
      opposite breast, and death from breast cancer. Estrogen receptor-positive breast cancer
      represents almost 50% of all newly diagnosed cases of breast cancer. Currently, AIs are
      prescribed for five to ten years. The length of this treatment, coupled with difficult
      arthritic side effects can make it difficult for patients to complete therapy. Arthralgia
      occurs in up to 50% of breast cancer survivors treated with AIs and is the most common reason
      for poor AI adherence. Up to 50% of patients do not take AIs as prescribed and up to 20% will
      become non-compliant with treatment within the first year due to pain and discomfort. To get
      the most benefit out of hormone therapy, however, patients must take the full course of
      treatment. Both non-adherence and early discontinuation of AIs have been shown to be
      independent predictors of mortality. Women who complete the full course have better survival
      than those who do not. Given the efficacy of AIs in preventing breast cancer recurrence, and
      the proportion of women who discontinue these drugs because of adverse events, interventions
      to improve adverse effects are important.

      This study investigated the efficacy of sukshma vyayama joint loosening yoga in reducing and
      improving aromatase inhibitor-induced joint pain and achiness in post-menopausal breast
      cancer patients, and evaluated the feasibility of delivering the intervention on Facebook.
      Hypothesis: Given global disparities in healthcare, being able to safely deliver
      evidence-based yoga interventions via the internet is important.
    
  