
    
      Symptoms of generalized anxiety is common in the general population and is often treated in
      primary health care. The core of the diagnostic criteria for generalized anxiety disorder
      (GAD) is excessive long-term worry that is difficult to control and concerns a number of
      events or activities. In this study we use the term "symptoms of generalized anxiety" by
      which we refer to these symptoms, regardless of whether the patient has a clinically
      established diagnosis of GAD or not.

      Anger is an emotion that can lead to interpersonal problems but can also be an agent for
      justice and change. Previous research has shown a link between generalized anxiety and anger
      but there is a lack of qualitative research on how individuals with symptoms of generalized
      anxiety experience anger.

      The aim of this research study is to increase knowledge about how anger is experienced in
      adult patients in primary health care with symptoms of generalized anxiety and about the
      experiences of health care professionals working with patients with symptoms of generalized
      anxiety.

      The study has the following research questions:

        1. How do adult patients in primary health care with symptoms of generalized anxiety
           experience their own anger?

        2. How do health care professionals experience anger in patients in primary health care
           with symptoms of generalized anxiety?

        3. How do health care professionals experience attitudes towards and treatment of adult
           patients with symptoms of generalized anxiety in primary health care with special focus
           on the patients' anger?

      Patients with symptoms of generalized anxiety and health care professionals at primary health
      care centers are interviewed (se section on eligibility). The goal is to include 15-20
      patients and 15-20 health care professionals. A questionnaire with background questions is
      completed and the interviews follow an interview guide. The background questionnaire and
      interview guide differ between patients and health care professionals. The interviews are
      audio recorded and transcribed into text. The data is analyzed using thematic analysis
      according to the guidelines given by Braun and Clarke (2006; 2013).
    
  