
    
      The treatment cycle begins with 6 hours of intravenous (IV) hydration followed by an infusion
      of the anti-cancer drug, Cisplatin. In addition, at the beginning of this treatment, you will
      begin low-dose Interferon-alpha that will continue for the entire duration of your
      participation in this study. The low-dose Interferon-alpha interrupts the division of cancer
      cells, kills blood vessels feeding the cancer, and slows tumor growth, and as well boosts the
      body's immunity against the cancer.

      Thirty-six hours after the cisplatin infusion, you will be treated with fever-range thermal
      therapy (whole-body hyperthermia). The fever-range whole-body thermal therapy enhances the
      effect of chemotherapy drugs against the cancer, and is thought to also boost your own immune
      response against the cancer. When the core body temperature reaches 104oF (40oC), a 30-minute
      (IV) infusion of another chemotherapy drug, gemcitabine (Gemzar) is given. Cisplatin,
      low-dose interferon-alpha and gemcitabine are the only chemotherapy drugs used in this
      treatment protocol. No other chemotherapy drugs are allowed to be given under this treatment
      plan.

      The fever-range whole-body heat treatment is performed while you are lightly sedated. With
      this type of sedation, you are awake and can talk during the treatment but you are not
      uncomfortable. This type of sedation method is used to reduce any discomfort of the 6-hour
      heat treatment procedure yet allows you to talk to the nurses.

      Your body temperature is raised to 104oF (40oC) over a period of 60-120 minutes. When your
      body first reaches the target 104oF, we administer the gemcitabine chemotherapy over 60
      minutes and continue to maintain the 104oF body temperature for six hours. At the conclusion
      of the six hours of thermochemotherapy, you will be cooled off to your normal body
      temperature, which takes about 30-45 minutes. The entire treatment lasts approximately 8
      hours. After the treatment is completed, we will observe you for 2 to 12 hours to make sure
      you have tolerated the treatment.

      You will continue the low-dose Interferon-alpha injections once weekly. Additionally, you
      will be given 5-10 days of Leukine (sargramostim, GM-CSF) injections beginning 3-5 days after
      receiving chemotherapy to help support your immune system by helping your body create more
      white blood cells, which are important in helping your body fight infection.

      After treatment, you will need a complete blood count with platelet and differential count
      each week. These lab studies can be done at your own doctor's office or hospital as long as
      you make sure that the results are faxed to us. They can also be done in our clinic. We will
      see you again in approximately three to four weeks and the treatment cycle will be repeated.

      We always attempt to perform at least two thermo-chemotherapy cycles. After the second
      treatment, CT and/or MRI scans are repeated to see if your cancer is smaller. These scans,
      along with a physical examination and the lab studies, are used to determine if additional
      heat treatments will be performed. Additional treatments continue based on how well your
      response to the treatment. There is no limit to the number of heat treatments a patient may
      have.
    
  