
    
      Description of Procedures At the screening visit, the study will be explained, and the
      subject will have the opportunity to ask questions. If the subject decides to participate,
      the subject will have to read, sign and date this Informed Consent Document. The study staff
      will take the subjects pertinent medical history to evaluate the subjects eligibility for the
      study. The subject will be asked about the kind of skin products the subject is using as well
      as about the subjects use of PPE. The subject will rate the subject overall skin irritation
      on a scale of 0 to 10 with 10 (ten) being worst and 0 (zero) being none. The subject will
      have to score at least 4 (four) on the overall skin irritation scale to continue in the
      study.

      If the subject had not used any lotions or emollients for the previous one (1) week on the
      face and hands, Visit 2 activities may be performed at the Screening visit. If the subject
      had used any lotions or emollients on the face and hands, a washout period will be necessary,
      and the subject will be asked to refrain from using any lotions and emollients for one (1)
      week between Visits 1 and 2 and then, for the duration of the study. Visit 2 (Baseline) will
      occur seven (7) days after Visit 1.

      If the subject is accepted into the study, the subject will return to the study site one (1)
      week later and 28-days later, at which times the subject will complete the same overall
      irritation scale. The subject will have measurements of skin barrier function tested,
      specimens of surface cells collected and special photographs taken, all described below.

      Photographs: Special 3-D photographs will be taken by a digital camera that records the skin
      microstructure and wrinkles. This 3D photo will be analyzed and used to assign a number to
      measure skin roughness and wrinkles and track changes over time. These are not conventional
      photographs, and the subject cannot be identified. Additional privacy steps will include
      assigning a number to all documents instead of the subject name.

      Skin Function Testing: Measurements of skin water loss and surface skin pH, also known as
      acidity, will be taken on the skin between the subject knuckles. These measurements are
      performed by a short, rod-type device, emitting light, placed lightly onto the subject skin.
      There is no sensation felt and the result is available within seconds.

      Laboratory Testing: Two types of specimens will be obtained: a swab and tape stripping. A
      single skin swab (similar to cotton Q-tips®) will be wiped across the subject palm to collect
      bacteria. Non-invasive tape stripping of surface cells will be performed at 2 places on the
      back of the subject hand. This is done by laying a specially made piece of tape, gently on
      the subject skin and removing it, 3 times, to lift the surface cells. The specimens will be
      used to estimate the presence, type, and number of specific bacteria.

      Finally, the subject will be asked to avoid applying any skin products (except make-up) to
      the subject skin for the following week and for the duration of the study.
    
  