
    
      Study population: To evaluate the epidemiology and prognosis of ovarian cancer in Taiwan, we
      will conduct a nationwide analysis through linking national cancer registry database. Every
      citizen in Taiwan has a life-long identification number to link individual information,
      including health status. The Taiwan household registry database provided by Department of
      Health will be the source population. National household registry and death certificate will
      be adopted to ascertain the live status of study subjects, and provided individual
      demographic characteristics.All individual linkages between databases will be conducted
      according to the study protocols, i.e. databases will be linked by corresponding
      identification number, name (Chinese characters) and birthday, and all data included in this
      study will be analyzed without individual identification information. The agreement of
      utilizing the databases in the study was obtained from the Bureau of Health Promotion in
      Taiwan.

      Incident and death cases ascertainment: Patients with ovarian cancer, including epithelial
      ovarian carcinoma, germ cell tumors, sex cord tumors … etc., will be identified from
      computerized linkage to the Taiwan national cancer registry with International Classification
      of Diseases for Oncology Third Edition T-code C569. Histological types will be identified
      from morphology code in the cancer registry database. Women affected by ovarian cancer and
      found death due to ovarian cancer (International Classification of Diseases 9th edition code
      183) in deaths certificate will be defined as death cases.

      Statistical Analyses: The numbers of person-years at risk of developing and dying for ovarian
      cancer will be calculated. Incidence rates will be calculated by dividing the number of
      ovarian cancer cases by the person-years at risk of developing ovarian cancer. Mortality
      rates will be calculated by dividing the number of ovarian cancer deaths by the person-years
      at risk of dying from ovarian cancer. The association between mortality and age, histology,
      time periods will be estimated through Kaplan-Meier survival analysis and Cox's proportional
      hazards model. It is defined as significantly different statistically when p value is less
      than 0.05.
    
  