
    
      This is randomized crossover trial, in which each nursing subject will serve as his or her
      own control: i.e., matched. The subjects will be nurses from the 6FG Trauma Intensive Care
      Unit at UPMC Presbyterian hospital. The PI or co-investigator will approach each nurse prior
      to the initiation of this study to obtain informed consent. Each nurse subject works
      approximately 7-8 nights out of 18 shifts in each month. The duration of this study is 1
      month.

      Each subject will be exposed to either the intervention or control arm solely based upon
      nursing assignment. Currently, nurses are assigned to care for patient on either the F or G
      side of the 6FG ICU, and there will be no changes made to shift assignments. For the purposes
      of this study, the F wing of the ICU will be ambient, standard white fluorescent
      environmental light and serve as control. The G wing of the ICU will be equipped with high
      illuminance white lights positioned throughout the hallway to generate a uniform exposure of
      approximately 3,000 lux. The current evidence suggests that >2000 lux is needed to achieve
      biological effects. The lights used are identical to those commercially available for the
      treatment of seasonal affective disorder. There have been over 70 clinical trials and several
      meta-analyses that have demonstrated the efficacy of light therapy for SAD. Adverse events
      were not significantly different between the light therapy and control groups. Thus, nurses
      will be assigned to either intervention or control based upon their standard nursing
      assignments.

      At the end of each shift, subjects will complete the Stanford Sleepiness Scale on paper. This
      is the gold standard for subjective sleepiness levels. It was developed by Hoddes et al
      (1973) and is a simple 7-point rating scale. The scale is well validated and has been used in
      over 100 clinical trials. In addition, they will next complete the Psychomotor Vigilance Task
      (PVT) on their computer in the ICU. This test is the standard objective measure of alertness
      and wakefulness. It has been employed as a marker of attention deficit in hundreds of studies
      to date. It is a 10 minute test in which the subjects look at a small rectangular screen and
      press the mouse every time a bright circle appears. The number of lapses (responses greater
      than 500 ms) is recorded. Subjects will be assessed a total of n=6 times during the period of
      study.

      The quality of sleep the day following exposure to either intervention or control will be
      assessed through the use of a sleep diary. The Consensus Sleep Diary was developed in 2012 by
      a collaboration of insomnia experts. The subject will record what time they got into bed,
      time they went to sleep, how long to fall asleep, how many times they woke up, time they
      finally woke up, time they got out of bed, rate the quality of sleep, and how rested or
      refreshed they felt. Subjects will maintain 1 diary that will catalogue sleep during a total
      of n=6 night shifts.

      The principle biologic mediator of sleep and wakefulness is melatonin. Saliva samples will be
      collected at the start of the shift (around 7pm) and at the end of the shift (around 7am).
      Samples will be stored at -80 degrees for future analysis. Nurses will be sampled a total of
      n=2 times. These samples will be stored for a maximum of 1 month. At the conclusion of the
      period of study and collection of all samples, which is estimated to be 1 month, all samples
      will be analyzed. No sample with be stored after analysis.

      The subjects will complete the Stanford Sleepiness Scale on paper at the end of each shift.
      This is the gold standard for subjective sleepiness levels. It was developed by Hoddes et al
      (1973) and is a simple 7-point rating scale. The scale is well validated and has been used in
      over 100 clinical trials. In addition, they will next complete the Psychomotor Vigilance Task
      (PVT) on their computer in the ICU. This test is the standard objective measure of alertness
      and wakefulness. It has been employed as a marker of attention deficit in hundreds of studies
      to date. It is a 10 minute test in which the subjects look at a small rectangular screen and
      press the mouse every time a bright circle appears. The number of lapses (responses greater
      than 500 ms) is recorded.

      The quality of sleep the day following exposure to either intervention or control will be
      assessed through the use of a sleep diary. The Consensus Sleep Diary was developed in 2012 by
      a collaboration of insomnia experts. The subject will record what time they got into bed,
      time they went to sleep, how long to fall asleep, how many times they woke up, time they
      finally woke up, time they got out of bed, rate the quality of sleep, and how rested or
      refreshed they felt.

      The principle biologic mediator of sleep and wakefulness is melatonin. Saliva samples will be
      collected at the start of the shift (around 7pm), at 3am (normal melatonin peak time), and at
      the end of the shift (around 6am). Samples will be stored at -80 degrees for future analysis.
    
  