
    
      Extra-uterine growth restriction (EUGR) is one of the most common findings among very preterm
      infants at discharge from neonatal intensive care units. EUGR is associated with major
      morbidities such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) and
      impaired neurodevelopment. EUGR is caused by slow postnatal growth and largely results from
      energy and protein deficits. These deficits occur despite the current fortifications of human
      milk. Hindmilk, the milk at the end of a breast pumping session, has higher fat and energy
      content compared to the composite milk. Feeding hindmilk can be a natural and innovative way
      to provide additional calories for very preterm infant. Hindmilk is rich in some fatty acids
      that are currently under investigation to prevent BPD and ROP and improve neurodevelopment.
      The aim of this study is to assess growth benefits of feeding hindmilk and to explore whether
      it can improve fatty acids profile in very preterm infants.

      Dietitians (RD) and Lactation Consultant (LC) will screen and identify eligible mother-infant
      pairs. Once mother's consent obtained, LC will hand out the "hindmilk information sheet" and
      teach the mother how to separate her milk. A sample (10 ml) of composite pumped fresh milk
      will be collected and placed in the fridge. These samples will be sent for analysis within 24
      hours of collection to minimize any changes to contents. Samples for Erythrocyte membrane
      fatty acid (FA) profile will be collected on dried blood spot (30-100 µL). These samples will
      be collected within 72 hours of the consent. It will be coordinated with blood tests ordered
      by the clinical team within that period. Dried blood spots are stable in room temperature for
      28 days however we will store them in the -80̊ C freezer within 72 hours of collection.
      Another milk sample, hindmilk this time, will be sent for testing within 24-48 hour of
      starting hindmilk. This is to ensure that assessment of milk contents is performed in the
      same mother's lactation stage. The second dried blood spot will be drawn after 2-4 weeks of
      starting hindmilk. The 2-4 weeks period is to allow timing with other blood work-ups. In
      General, blood glucose is done every 2-3 days in babies with poor growth and growth
      laboratory testing is normally done every 2-3 weeks.

      Data on fluid volumes, feeds, macronutrients intakes and any change in nutrition plan will be
      collected from electronic dietitian's notes. Dietitians will ensure proper and detailed
      documentation of nutritional information. Average weight gain (in gram/kg per day) is
      calculated as mentioned before. Average weight gain will be compared initially between the
      week before and the week after starting hindmilk. The day that hindmilk started will be used
      to identify the start point however it will not be used in either the pre- or the
      post-hindmilk calculation. Clinical team will be encouraged to not order other changes to the
      nutrition plan for the first week after starting hindmilk. Daily weight, weekly length and
      head circumference will be collected from the electronic charts. Furthermore, weight, length
      and head circumference at completed gestational week will be used to calculate Z scores using
      Fenton Z scores calculator.

      Data on maternal and neonatal characteristics will be collected from their electronic and
      physical charts. Composite milk, foremilk and hindmilk volumes will be collected from the
      collection sheet that has been already used in our NICU.
    
  