
    
      Epidural anaesthesia is a central neuraxial block technique with many applications.
      Improvements in equipment, drugs and technique have made it a popular and versatile
      anaesthetic technique, with applications in surgery, obstetrics and pain control. Both single
      injection and catheter techniques can be used. Its versatility means it can be used as an
      anaesthetic, as an analgesic adjuvant to general anaesthesia, and for postoperative analgesia
      in procedures involving the lower limbs, perineum, pelvis, abdomen and thorax.

      Although epidural anaesthesia is a safe technique, during the insertion of epidural catheters
      several side effects may occur, including transient paraesthesia and inadvertent vascular
      cannulation.

      Reported incidences for paraesthesia vary widely between about 0.2% and 50% in different
      articles, depending on the catheter (catheter material, soft-tipped or firm-tipped catheter),
      the applied technique (lumbar or thoracic epidural anaesthesia, depth of catheter insertion),
      the approach (midline or paramedian) and the included patients (obstetrical or
      non-obstetrical). Paraesthesias are not supposed to lead to permanent neurological sequelae,
      but are unpleasant and perturbing sensations for the patient.

      Besides inadvertent intrathecal location of the catheter, further problems include technical
      difficulties during threading or removal of the catheter. Here, the catheter shaft material
      seems to be the crucial factor for the incidence of problems.

      Based upon years of experience, a wide range of epidural catheters were created, among them
      the Perifix catheter of B. Braun. Common features are their high tensile strength and stretch
      resistance, excellent shaft stability with easy visualisation of blood or spinal fluid due to
      the crystal clear material, no risk of forming loops or knots, and softening of catheter
      within a few hours due to water absorption of the polyamide material.

      Recently, B. Braun Melsungen AG has developed a new generation of Perifix epidural catheters,
      which are already CE-labeled. These new catheters are different in their composition compared
      to the current Perifix Standard catheter with regard to the catheter material and tip
      configuration. They have an outer poly-urethane liner and an inner polyamide body.
      Experimental tests have shown that the positive features (e.g. pushability, kink resistance,
      gliding, withdrawal) of the Perifix Standard catheter can be maintained. Due to the
      polyurethane outer layer, the catheter gets softer when reaching body temperature immediately
      upon insertion. Based on this, it is expected that paraesthesias during catheter injection
      can be reduced by at least 20%.
    
  