
    
      Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDA) has the worst prognosis of any major malignancy in the
      United States and, unlike other common cancers, annual deaths from PDA are rising. Despite
      recent advances, cytotoxic chemotherapy for PDA has been disappointing. Even among the small
      subset of patients who are suitable for surgical resection at the time of diagnosis, complete
      resection is followed by recurrence in majority of patients without further systemic therapy.
      Thus all PDA patients require systemic chemotherapy and more effective regimens are urgently
      needed.

      Combination chemotherapy is effective in controlling disease and prolonging survival in
      patients with advanced pancreatic cancer. Despite recent successful phase 3 studies in the
      first-line setting, there is no defined second-line treatment for patients who experience
      disease progression following first-line therapy. Consensus guidelines (such as the National
      Comprehensive Cancer Network (NCCN) guidelines) recommend clinical trial participation in
      this setting.

      The investigators' pre-clinical data suggests that decitabine treatment in the KPC model of
      pancreatic cancer leads to a significant up-regulation of interferon-related genes and a
      polarization of the infiltrating immune cells. Based on these results, the investigators have
      evaluated the effect of single agent decitabine or anti-PD1H (a homologue of PD1 with very
      similar function and expression pattern) compared to combination therapy (treatment with
      decitabine followed by PD1H blockade). The investigators' preliminary results showed minimal
      effect of either agent alone on tumor growth but marked decrease in tumor progression in the
      combination arm. These results form the foundation of this phase II study.

      This study will treat patients with the combination of azacitidine and pembrolizumab. A
      direct comparison between azacitidine and decitabine in terms of efficacy within a controlled
      clinical trial has not been performed thus far. In randomized myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)
      trials, the remission rates were similar for azacitidine and decitabine but the overall
      survival in the experimental arm was significantly shorter in the decitabine trial compared
      to the azacitidine trial. A primary reason to utilize azacitidine in this setting is our
      desire to amply reduced dose therapy with the goal of maintaining subjects on therapy
      Low-dose azacitidine is being tested in phase I/II clinical trials for advanced solid
      tumors-mainly colorectal cancer, small-cell lung carcinomas, ovarian cancer, and breast
      cancer.
    
  