
    
      The efficacy of treating tuberculin skin test (TST) positive, or interferon gamma release
      assay (IGRA) positive, contacts of tuberculosis (TB) cases to prevent progression to disease
      is well established. However the length of treatment, and the toxicity associated with the
      currently used regimens, means that the risk may outweigh the benefit and treatment
      completion rates are poor. In addition, no proven regimens are available for contacts of
      multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) cases. Because as few as 2% of contacts develop
      active TB over 1 year and no surrogate markers are available, drug trials to assess novel
      treatments typically require thousands of subjects followed up for many years.
      (18F)-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography/computer tomography (FDG-PET/CT)
      may prove a useful surrogate for more targeted chemoprophylaxis as well as a means to rapidly
      evaluate novel prophylactic regimes in future studies.

      Up to 40% of immune-sensitized TB contacts with normal chest radiographs (CXR) have
      abnormalities on conventional chest CT. FDG-PET/CT not only will allow characterization of
      the metabolic activity of these lesions but is also likely to reveal significantly increased
      metabolic activity within regional lymph nodes that may otherwise be anatomically normal.
      Based on previous studies, we predict that up to 65% of contacts will have combined chest
      PET/CT abnormalities and that up to 50% of contacts who are treated, will have increased FDG
      uptake that will resolve with treatment. By contrast, PET screening studies demonstrate
      abnormal pulmonary FDG uptake occurs in 0.9% of healthy individuals.

      The development of biomarkers more predictive of disease progression is also highly
      desirable, but for similar reasons evaluating them is challenging. This novel approach of
      using FDG-PET/CT to benchmark the dynamic immunological, transcriptional, or metabolic
      changes that occur early in tuberculosis infection, we hope will accelerate biomarker
      discovery. In this study we propose to evaluate these predictions in order to lay the
      foundation for future studies.
    
  