
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea syndrome(OSAS) is characterized with recurrent collapse of upper
      airway during sleep and results in hypoxia and sleep fragmentation. The repeated episodes of
      hypoxia and sympathetic hyperactivity result in cardiovascular complications, including
      atherosclerosis, hypertension, coronary artery disease and heart failure. Our data showed
      among 309 consecutively-admitted OSA patients, 54% patients had cardiovascular diseases.

      The hypoxia in OSA is characterized as chronic and intermittent, which leads to sophisticated
      adaptive mechanisms, like activations of transcriptional factors and critical signaling
      pathways. HIF-1 is a central component of transcriptional factors involved in hypoxia-induced
      transcription of specific genes. There are two subunits of HIF-1 transcription factor, which
      interact with the consensus hypoxia response element in the target genes. The HIF-1 alpha
      activity is regulated by proline hydroxylation modification and ubiquitination, which is
      oxygen-tension dependent. HIF-1 alpha target genes encode proteins that increase oxygen
      delivery, such as vascular endothelial growth factor(VEGF). Our oligo-microarray study showed
      both HIF and VEGF expression in OSA patients was 1.3 times of control group, which decreased
      to 46% and 57% respectively after one-month CPAP treatment.

      HIF-1 alpha polymorphism could result in increased HIF-1 alpha activity and microvessel
      density. In clinical observation, HIF-1 polymorphism has been reported to be associated with
      high altitude adaptation, formation of coronary collaterals in CAD and phenotype of cancer.
      These findings were possibly explained with effect of HIF on modulation of VEGF.

      Several genetic polymorphisms were reported to be associated with OSA, which included TNF
      alpha, angiotensin converting enzyme and haptoglobin. Only hepatoglobin phenotype is proved
      to be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease in OSA. In most studies, the patient number is
      less than suggested.

      Therefore, in this study, we hypothesized that HIF-1 gene polymorphism was associated with
      cardiovascular disease in OSA. And by using large-scale of study population(1000 OSA
      patients), we examined all regions of the HIF-1 alpha to detect single-nucleotide
      polymorphisms(SNPs), evaluated the pattern of linkage disequilibrium to compose haplotypes in
      the gene, and performed association studies in OSA patients with and without cardiovascular
      disease to achieve the following 3 objectives:(1)To identify specific SNPs of HIF-1 alpha
      gene related to cardiovascular disease in OSA patients (CVD-OSA).(2)To assay the functional
      activity of high risk SNPs of HIF-1 alpha on the transcription of VEGF gene.(3)To confirm
      that the serum level of VEGF in CVD-OSA patients with high risk SNPs of HIF-1 are higher than
      CVD-OSA patients without. The findings are expected to stratify the risk of OSA patients to
      specific outcome, or response to specific therapy.
    
  