
    
      Diagnosis:

      Personal data including name, address and phone number in addition to medical history
      (Appendix II) and dental history (Appendix III) will be collected by the operator from each
      patient in specific forms, then history of chief complaint will be recorded. The selected
      patients should show symptoms of irreversible pulpitis. The operator will perform extra-oral
      and intra-oral clinical examination as the expected tooth to be included in this study should
      be examined tentatively using a diagnostic mirror and probe. Radiograph will be taken using
      bisecting angle technique with a periapical digital sensor plate1. The radiograph will help
      to identify if there is widening of periodontal ligament space, periapical radiolucency, deep
      caries near the pulp chamber or recurrent caries under restoration.

      The diagnosis of symptomatic apical periodontitis is confirmed through:

        -  The patient history of pain with biting and confirmed with positive percussion test.

        -  After completing the diagnosis (symptomatic apical periodontitis) and confirming that
           the patient fulfills the eligibility criteria, the patient will be enrolled in the
           study. The treatment will be done in two visits.

      Treatment procedure:

      After diagnosing the case as symptomatic apical periodontitis and confirming that the patient
      conforms to all eligibility criteria, patients will be enrolled in in the study. Preoperative
      percussion pain level will be recorded using modified VAS. Treatment of all cases will be
      completed in two visits.

        1. Anesthetizing the tooth using infiltration technique by local anesthesia of 1.8 ml of 4%
           Articiane with 1:100,000 epinephrine (Artinibsa®; Inibsa Dental, Lliçà de Vall,Spain)

        2. Caries and/or coronal restorations will be removed completely with sterile bur and
           rubber dam will be applied.

        3. Operative field, including the tooth, the clamp, and rubber dam sheet will be cleaned
           with 30% hydrogen peroxide until no further bubbling of the peroxide occurred. All
           surfaces will then be disinfected by a sterile cotton swab with a 5.25% sodium
           hypochlorite solution.

        4. Access cavity will be prepared using another sterile round carbide bur size 3 and Endo-z
           bur(Dentsply Maillefer, Ballaigues, Switzerland)

        5. After completing the access, the operative field and the pulp chamber will be cleaned
           and disinfected once again in the same way mentioned above. NaOCl will be then
           neutralized with 5% sodium thiosulfate.

        6. Patency of the root canal will be confirmed using stainless steel handK-files size

           #10 and #15(K-Files, MANI, INC., Industrial Park, Utsunomiya, Tochigi, Japan).Working
           length will be determined using an electronic apex locator(Root ZX, J. Morita USA,
           Irvine, CA)then confirmed radiographically to be 1 mm shorter than radiographic apex.
           Then the canal will be enlarged to size #20.

        7. Mechanical preparation will be done using M PRO rotary files in an endodontic
           motor(X-Smart, Dentsply Maillefer, USA). The first file (18/.09) will be used as an
           orifice opener for two thirds of the working length followed by (20/.04) and (25/.06)
           for the full working length and finally (35/.06). In-and-out motions will be applied
           with stroke lengths not exceeding 3 mm in the cervical, middle, and apical thirds until
           attaining the established WL. The first file is used with a continuous rotary motion at
           a speed of 500rpm and torque of 3Ncm. The second, third and fourth files are used with a
           speed of 300 rpm and torque of 1.5Ncm. The canal will be irrigated and recapitulated
           after the use of each instrument.

        8. The canal will be thoroughly irrigated with 2.5% sodium hypochlorite root canal irrigant
           (5ml for 1 min) using disposable plastic syringe with side vented needle gauge 30 (Steri
           irrigation tips; Diadent, Chungcheongbuk-do, Korea) reaching 1 mm short of the working
           length. All teeth will receive the same volume of irrigant (5 ml prior to
           instrumentation, 5 ml between each file and 5 ml as final flush after root canal
           instrumentation to reach a total volume of 25 ml in total).

        9. The canal will then be dried by using sterile paper points(Meta Biomed Co., Ltd, Korea)
           and then flushed with 5 ml of saline to inactivate the NaOCl. The postinstrumentation
           periapical sample (PS-1) will be collected after cleaning and shaping by introducing a
           fine sterile size 20 paper point 2 mm beyond the canal terminus for 1 min.This procedure
           will be performed twice. The paper points will be placed in a sterile
           micro-centrifugation tube (Merck) containing 2 mL of sterile physiological saline
           solution, and immediately transferred to a -80 °C freezer until further processing.

       10. The patients will then be assigned into two groups (n = 23), as follows:

             -  LLLT Group: 970 ± 15-nm diode laser (Biolase Epic X, Biolase, Irvine, California,
                USA)will be activated at 0.5 W and 10 Hz at a distance of approximately 10 mm to
                the tissue around the apex of the root. A circular movement will be performed
                during the application. Pulse duration will be 0.5 s, and pulse pause will be 50%.
                Total application time will be30 s for the tooth. For this application, a 200-μm
                optical tip will be used.

             -  Calcium hydroxide Group: calcium hydroxide paste (Metapaste, Meta Biomed Co., Ltd,
                Korea) will be inserted in the canal using disposable plastic tip and placed at a
                distance 1 or 2 mm less than the working length.

       11. The access cavity will be closed using sterile cotton pellet and temporary filling and
           patients will be recalled after 1 week.

       12. The patients will record the incidence of pain and the pain level on modified VAS scale
           at 6,12, 24 and48 hours

       13. In the recall appointment after 1 week. Rubber dam will be applied and tooth will be
           disinfected as before. The previously sampled canal will be re-entered, flushed with
           copious saline irrigation and a second periapical sample (PS-2) will be taken. After the
           sampling, final flush with 2.5% NaOCL and 17% EDTA will be done in both groups. Master
           cones of (0.40) taper gutta-percha(Meta Biomed Co., Ltd, Korea) will be fitted to the
           working length and a radiograph will be taken to ensure proper length. Obturation will
           be done by modified single cone technique using epoxy resin sealer(Adseal, Meta Biomed
           CO.,LTD, Korea)and 4% taper gutta percha cones together with auxillary cones.

       14. The access cavity will be restored with composite resin and occlusal contact will be
           checked. The details of the endodontic procedure for each patient will be recorded in
           the patient's procedure chart
    
  