
    
      Drug-eluting coronary stents (DES) significantly reduced the rate of neointimal hyperplasia
      and in-stent restenosis (ISR) compared to bare metal stents (BMS) for the treatment of
      coronary artery disease. In addition, the continued evolution in scaffold and polymer design
      with concomitant improvements in antiplatelet therapy has improved the rates of late and very
      late stent thrombosis. However, despite novel metal scaffold technology, increasing operator
      experience, and improvement in adjunctive implantation techniques, the incidence of ISR in
      durable-polymer DES remains a problem, with 1-year rates as high as 12 to 15%.

      The outcomes associated with ISR highlight the fact that this is by no means a benign process
      and studies report MI rates as high as 19.4% with one study demonstrating a total rate of
      death or nonfatal MI of 3.5%. In addition, ISR presenting as acute coronary syndrome (ACS)
      has an independent effect on major adverse cardiac events. The emergence of fully
      bioresorbable vascular scaffolds (BVS) has provided an exciting alternative to combat the
      long-term structural and functional effects on the coronary vessel seen with implantation of
      a permanent metal scaffold, regardless of the drug coating. Initial studies have demonstrated
      the non-inferiority of BVS compared to contemporary DES in regards to death, MI, and MACE. In
      addition, intravascular imaging has confirmed complete resorbtion of the BVS by 3 years time.
      The long-term benefits of such technology have yet to be fully assessed. However, based on
      literature outlining the complicated course of ISR in short-term and that seen in the bare
      metal stent era, it is projected that complete resorbtion of the vascular scaffold should
      improve long-term outcomes of patients with ischemic heart disease.

      Currently, the clinical presentation, incidence, and outcomes of ISR in contemporary DES are
      not completely understood. The goal of this particular study is to retrospectively evaluate
      the long-term impact of ISR over a 10-year period in current contemporary DES. The data can
      be compared to de novo coronary artery lesions with similar characteristics and complexity to
      highlight the significant differences in the clinical course of each disease. Ultimately, the
      investigators will hopefully demonstrate the need for improvement in this arena, which the
      BVS will potentially provide.
    
  