
    
      Initial study procedures include baseline evaluation of medical history, knee history, knee
      examination, medication use, MRI, and subject-reported outcomes.

      Each osteoarthritic subject will undergo withdrawal of knee joint synovial fluid for each
      knee being treated (0.3-0.5 ml) which will be analyzed by the research laboratory via
      multiplexed enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and dimethylmethylene blue assay (DMMB)
      at pre-injection (2-8 days before Regenexx-SD treatment). Documentation of osteoarthritic
      joint characteristics and injection procedure details will be recorded throughout the study.

      The unaffected knee joint will undergo no treatment, but bilateral knees may be treated.

      The objective of this study is to correlate the pre- Regenexx-SD treatment levels of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, anti-inflammatory cytokines, matrix metalloproteinases, and
      catabolic articular cartilage breakdown products in the osteoarthritic knee synovial fluid
      microenvironment with 6 month post-treatment clinical outcomes. This data will be used to
      establish a predictive a priori testing "model" to determine if a patient is a good candidate
      for the Regenexx-SD treatment based on their initial osteoarthritic knee synovial fluid
      microenvironment phenotype. It may also be used to determine if the micro-environment can be
      altered to improve outcome before receiving Regenexx-SD.

      Incidence of post-operative complications, adverse events, re-injections, and surgical
      intervention and change in pain score will be considered while determining these direct and
      indirect associations upon completion of the Regenexx-SD treatment.

      Components of the synovial fluid will be correlated to post-treatment clinical outcomes,
      which include several self-reported questionnaires as well as assessment of post-injection
      complications, adverse events, re-injections and surgical interventions. Patient reported
      questionnaires include IKDC Subjective Knee Evaluation, Lower Extremity Function Scale, Pain
      Scales and a Modified Single Assessment Numeric Evaluation (SANE).
    
  