
    
      Our primary hypothesis is that the disparity between a community's potential for physical
      activity and nutrition, and the realized fitness and health of its children, can be
      attributed to specific environmental and social factors. "Built environment" studies to date
      have measured potential for physical activity but have not looked at how social factors
      mediate an individual's activity within a particular environment. The unique aspect of this
      proposal is the development of a model that explains how physical, social, cultural, and
      nutritional SEM layers interact to create gaps between potential and realized physical
      activity. This project will utilize novel technologies to:

        1. identify and analyze characteristics of the social and built environment that inhibit or
           enhance physical activity and healthy nutrition;

        2. determine the direction and extent of influence of these variables on children's
           activity, nutrition, and health;

        3. gather ideas from students, parents, and school staff to inform a potential health
           campaign to reduce and prevent obesity in the community.

      To address these goals and demonstrate a causal relationship between physical activity and
      the social-nutritional factors within a built environment, the following specific
      objectives/aims are being addressed:

      Specific Aim 1: Assess the built environment for energy requirements of movement, nutrition
      options, suitability for outdoor physical activity, and for children's actual physical
      activity and energy expenditure within those environments.

      Specific Aim 2: Assess the impact of children's social environment on movement and nutrition
      choices within the built environment.

      Specific Aim 3: Conduct a quantitative assessment of children's fitness, obesity, and
      indicators of metabolic health.

      Specific Aim 4: Develop a quantitative model from Specific Aims 1-3 that describes the causal
      relationships among children's physical health, community "healthfulness," and other
      mediating factors such as attitudes, perceptions, and behavior.
    
  