
    
      METHODS: Each patient who will be hospitalized in the Department of Bone Marrow
      Transplantation and which meets the Inclusion criteria for, will be offered to participate in
      the study. If fever appears during hospitalization empirical treatment of neutropenia will be
      initiated performed in accordance with the allocation of the patient in the study.
      Therapeutic success is defined as a combination of several clinical parameters, including: a
      decline in Fever, the recurrence of fever and improvement in infection.

      METHODS: Study format - Prospective unblinded randomized trial.

      Neutropenic fever measurement will be set above the fold of 38.3 ° C or fever over 38.0 ° C
      lasting more than an hour. Neutropenia is defined as absolute neutrophil count (ANC) less
      than 500 cells / mm3, or expected to fall below this value for the next 48 hours.

      Primary care would be one of three options:

        1. Tazocin: 4.5gr, TID, I.V. Or

        2. Fortum (Ceftazidim): 2.0gr, TID, I.V. - for penicillin-sensitive patients. Or

        3. Meropenem: 1.0gr, TID, I.V. - In cases of hypotension not responding to fluids
           resuscitation, and in consultation with the infectious diseases unit - we will start
           empirical treatment with Meropenem.

      Supplementation of Vancomycin will be at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Antibiotic therapy will be replaced, in coordination with the Department of Infectious
      Diseases in the following cases:

        1. The fever does not decrease after 24 hours

        2. The patient is not hemodynamically stable or developes an organ failure

        3. Evolving of sensitivity response (allergy) suspected to be a response to antibiotic
           patient is treated with.

        4. sensitivity response was received from the laboratory culture Bacteriologist demanding a
           change in antibiotics.

      Replacement of antibiotic therapy is defined as a failure as defined by the primary endpoint.
      In such a case, continued treatment of the patient would be according to the BMT unit
      protocol for treatment for neutropenic fever.
    
  