
    
      Children with poor motor skill acquisition and execution despite having opportunity for
      learning, are now described as having developmental coordination disorder (DCD). There is a
      prevalence of 5-6% of young people who have normal intelligence who meet this category who
      have problems affecting their activities of daily living (ADL's). Young people with lower
      motor skills are one of a number of conditions affecting children identified by the Chief
      Medical Officer as requiring an improved evidence base for management. Poor motor skill
      acquisition and execution, whereby skills remain substantially lower than expected despite
      opportunities for learning; interferes with participation in academic, sporting and leisure
      activities. Motor performance is slower and of poor quality; and children may have
      difficulties learning all kinds of motor skills including sporting activities. Importantly
      people with poor motor skill acquisition and execution can fail to establish the fundamental
      movement skills and literacy required to integrate in physical pursuits, such as sport, and
      become exposed to long-term conditions associated with inactivity. Motor sporting skills can
      be learnt if trained, but difficulties in performing and learning skills persist into
      adulthood.

      Brain imaging during rhythmic motor tasks which are essential in day-to-day (non-)sporting
      activities, have established that children with poor motor skill acquisition and execution
      show differences to healthy controls in grey and white matter functional connectivity and in
      cortical activation patterns during performance of simple movement tasks . Provisional
      evidence suggests that individuals with poor motor skill acquisition and execution utilise
      activation processes when learning motor tasks that are more controlled and require extra
      processing demands, but a systematic review of neural correlates of those with poor motor
      skill acquisition and execution concludes that data is scarce and more studies are needed.
      Performance of motor tasks requires a balance between automatic and controlled processes that
      is dependent upon the demands of the task and the capabilities of the individual. Young
      people need to be able to consider their environment when performing a sport rather than just
      thinking about the skill, so that they can work out where the best place to kick a ball on a
      football pitch is, not just kick the ball. Typically developing (TDC) children acquire motor
      skills either implicitly or explicitly by observing and imitating other children and adults
      or by trial and error. Acquisition of motor tasks requires plasticity in the nervous system
      with improvements in motor performance underpinned by a move from cortically controlled
      mechanism, towards more automatic performance, freeing up cortical resources. The ability to
      automate certain parts of motor skills allows the execution of tasks in more complex
      environments. Provisional evidence suggests that people with poor motor skill acquisition and
      execution may learn motor skills in a more controlled manner and have a reduced ability to
      move automatically. To date no studies have explored the brain changes underpinning
      fundamental motor skills attainment over a training period in people with poor motor skill
      acquisition and execution.

      The main aim contribute evidence towards describing motor performance in relation to brain
      structure and functioning in children with lower motor skills and DCD,. This study proposes
      to test both the feasibility and determine the extent of the impact of learning a novel
      coordination task on motor performance and brain structure and functioning in children with
      DCD to inform a full-scale trial of skill acquisition.
    
  