
    
      Severe sepsis and septic shock represent major challenges of modern intensive care medicine,
      and still recently published international guidelines demand ongoing research about the
      pathophysiology, diagnostics and treatment. Currently, the diagnosis of sepsis is based on
      the presence of systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) criteria in the presence of a
      known infection. However, non-infectious SIRS associated with acute tissue injury and innate
      immune activation can induce clinical syndromes analogous to sepsis, including multiple
      trauma, pancreatitis, burns, and autoimmune diseases.

      Within the field of infectious diseases, a biomarker may be used for identifying a high risk
      group or predisposing condition, as an aid to identification of the disease, or to direct
      therapy and stratify patients according to their specific risk factors, and/or as an aid to
      therapeutic management in order to avoid relapse of infection. Within the recent years,
      dozens of potential biomarkers of infection have been described. The diagnostic performance
      of biomarkers is usually measured in terms of sensitivity, specificity, and by likelihood
      ratios and area under the ROC (Receiver Operating Characteristics) curves.

      Recently, several researches devolved their interest in discovering pathways involved in the
      innate immunity. Mediators involved in the recognition and elimination of bacterial
      endotoxins have been identified as new candidate biomarkers of sepsis, namely
      lipopolysaccharide binding protein (LBP) and soluble fractions of the membrane cluster of
      differentiation 14 (mCD14). Membrane CD14 is a multifunctional
      glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane protein (cell surface glycoprotein),
      constitutively expressed by various cells, including monocytes, macrophages, neutrophils,
      etc. CD14 is a pattern recognition receptor for bacterial molecules, namely
      lipopolysaccharides (LPS) from Gram-negative bacteria and peptidoglycans together with
      lipoteichoic acid from Gram-positive bacteria. CD14 is crucial in activating the toll-like
      receptor 4 (TLR4)-specific proinflammatory signaling cascade and ultimately, initiating the
      inflammatory reaction against invading microorganisms. In the course of inflammatory
      reaction, plasma protease activity generates soluble CD14 fragments (sCD14), presepsin.
    
  