
    
      There is increasing worldwide interest in exploring the use of SABR for metastatic,
      treatment-naive prostate cancer, eg for delaying the need to start androgen deprivation
      therapy (ADT), and ultimately to improve patient outcome.

      Another potential use of SABR for metastatic prostate cancer is in the setting of
      oligoprogression. In patients undergoing systemic therapy, oligoprogression describes the
      clinical situation where a solitary or a few metastatic tumors progress, while all other
      metastases are stable or responding. The usual practice would be to change systemic therapy
      at this point, but another approach is to locally ablate the "rogue" metastases and continue
      the same systemic therapy. There is limited clinical evidence for such an approach, eg in
      renal cell and non-small cell lung cancer.

      While there is a lack of published evidence of such an approach in metastatic
      castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCPRC), SABR for oligoprogressive mCRPC in men
      undergoing abiraterone therapy may delay the need to switch to another line of systemic
      therapy, such as chemotherapy, and thereby to improve progression-free survival while
      patients stay on the same systemic therapy.

      mCRPC is a unique solid tumor to study the oligoprogressive setting for several reasons.
      First, there still remains a limited number of proven systemic agents in the CRPC setting.
      Second, serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) is an excellent biomarker of prostate cancer
      activity, which is easy to collect and analyze to monitor treatment response and disease
      progression. Third, because of the low α/β value of prostate cancer, hypofractionated SABR
      may be a very effective and convenient way to eradicate areas of known disease.

      The primary objective of this phase I study is to determine the incidence of acute and late
      toxicities associated with delivering SABR to all progressive metastatic sites in patients
      with metastatic CRPC who present with oligoprogression while on abiraterone. We also aim to
      obtain preliminary efficacy data of this novel approach. Patients will remain on abiraterone
      after SABR to measure the added progression-free survival.
    
  