
    
      Objective: The objective of this study is to investigate the nature of photoreceptor
      dysfunction in retinitis pigmentosa (RP) patients using focal static and kinetic
      psychophysical tests to develop functional outcome measures for the clinical trial study in
      RP. Correlation of novel spatial functional maps with other functional measures (such as
      visual acuity and multifocal electroretinography) will help provide a full description of
      functional change. Employing new imaging methods to visualize and analyze structural changes
      in the retina will allow for the evaluation of structural changes that underlie disease
      progression. Developing these measures has the potential to advance the field by elucidating
      the process of photoreceptor degeneration as well as being a scaffold for which candidate
      therapies could be trialed.

      Study Population: Up to 120 participants with a diagnosis of RP will be enrolled. Up to

      30 healthy volunteers will also be enrolled for a total accrual ceiling of 150.

      Design: This is a single center, observational, cross-sectional repeatability study of
      patients with retinitis pigmentosa. The goal of Aim 1 is to identify measures that could be
      used in future studies to track the extent of functional retina over time. The goal of Aim 2
      is to evaluate structural measures for RP. The goal of Aim 3 is to assess the participant s
      performance on

      questionnaires assessing visual function. The goal of Aim 4 is to survey the
      cytokine/lymphokine profile.

      Outcome Measures: The primary outcome measure will be the limits of agreement in
      repeatability calculations of the tests performed. Secondary outcome measures will include
      analysis of parameter testing based on severity groups. Macular thickness as measured by
      optical coherence tomography (OCT), as well as ellipsoid zone band length will be quantified.
      Functional testing with photopic perimetry and scoptopic perimetry and kinetics will be
      quantified. Multifocal electroretinography (mfERG) will be analyzed by subfield and possible
      ring analyses. Correlations of questionnaire scores with objective measures will be analyzed.
    
  