
    
      The doctor's main purposes during the perioperative period are the monitorign and maintenance
      of normothermia, as well as the haemodynamic, respiratory, metabolic, analgesic control and
      monitoring.

      Mild hypothermia ( core temperature between 36째 and 33째 C) is common during general,
      locoregional or blended anaesthesia. A mild hypothermia can cause a cardiovascular,
      haematological, metaolic and hormonal alterations that can explain an increased mortality and
      morbidity in hypothermia patients versus normothermia patients.

      Thermic decrease is a physiological event during general or locoregional anaesthesia.
      Particularly spinal and epidural anaesthesia can cause the thermic decrease because of
      vasodilation below the level of the sensitive and neuroaxial blockade. In this way there is
      in the patient an increased heat loss trough radiation. The neuroaxial techniques can reduce
      the sensory connections and the level of vasoconstriction above the level of the sensorial
      blockade, reducing the patient capacity to maintain the poichilothermia.

      The consequences of hypothermia are important because they can influence the intraoperative
      management causing complications extending the recovering time and the hospitalization.

      The environmental temperature is a critical factor for the development of hypothermia ,
      especially in critically patients. In order to avoid the deveopment of hypothermia the
      environmental temperature must be maintainde between 21째 and 24째 C and humidity level of 40-
      60%.

      Maternal hypothermia is common during cesarean delivery and it can exercise influence over
      neonatal temperature.

      When a mother develops hypothermia the newborn can shows hypotheria, umbilical acidosis, low
      Apgar score at birth.

      The recorded data are the demographic data of the patient such as weight, age and height, the
      vital signs such as heart rate, arterial pressure, SpO2 or EtCO2 during general anaesthesia,
      BMI, gestational age and parity, type of anaesthesia, doses and type of anaesthetic used, the
      development of adverse effects such as hypothermia or hypothension, the blood leaks, the
      environmental temperature on operative theatre, the temperature of fluids iv in the
      perioperative period, the maternal core temperature at preoperative, during induction of
      anaesthesia, after 5 minutes initiating anaesthesia, and then every 10 minutes until the end
      of the cesarean delivery and also at child birth, at the exit of operative theatre. Maternal
      temperature measurment will be obtained by using a skin sensor Spot On on a temporal region,
      the neonatal axillary temperature at 1 and5 minutes from birth using a digital thermometer,
      Apgar score and umbilical cord blood pH, the pain evaluation using a VAS scale ( 0-10), the
      maternal shivering by the Bedside Shivering Assessment scale, the maternal comfort using a
      verbal numerical scale ( 0 = as worst immaginable cold 50= as thermoneutral and 100= as
      insufferably hot), the timing of pain at induction of anaesthesia and then every 10 minutes
      until the operative room exit.
    
  