
    
      Procedure: The patient will undergo preoperative sonographic assessment of both ovaries to
      determine if either ovary is diseased or compromised. Patient will undergo preoperative blood
      sampling to measure AMH, FSH, LH and estradiol as indicators of current ovarian function
      (less than 8 teaspoons) if time allows and assessment of ovarian reserve is appropriate;
      menopausal levels of FSH (≥ 30 miu/ml) will be a contraindication to participation in this
      study. The patient may have infectious disease testing as part of the evaluation for
      fertility preservation treatment. Patient will undergo preoperative assessment and clearance
      for surgery by an anesthesiologist.

      Intraoperative management will include laparotomy or laparoscopy, depending on the individual
      patient's history, exam and oncology plans. Removal of one or both ovaries will depend on
      preoperative ovarian assessment and recommendation of the oncologist. If ovarian survival for
      the anticipated treatment has never been documented then both ovaries will be removed. Both
      ovaries may also be removed if diseased or if the condition requires prophylactic
      oophorectomy to prevent risk of malignant transformation, e.g. 46 XX/46 XY chimera and BRCA
      mutation carriers. If ovarian function has rarely been documented for the anticipated
      treatment then one ovary will be removed and one may be left in situ or repositioned to avoid
      the field of radiation. The decision to leave the ovary in situ or to reposition will be made
      pre-operatively by the physician performing the surgery in consultation with the patient and
      the radiation oncologist. If there is no normal ovarian tissue, as determined by pathology,
      we will take biopsies of ovarian tissue not to exceed 50% of the ovarian volume from the
      contra-lateral side for freezing. Additionally, the remaining ovary may be repositioned and
      sutured to the posterior wall of the uterus or above the pelvic brim with a radio-opaque clip
      placed to identify this ovary for shielding during irradiation.

      Ovarian tissue will be removed and treated as follows: (a) the cortex will be stripped from
      the remaining ovarian tissue as this outer layer contains most of the immature eggs or
      primordial follicles. The cortex will be sectioned into 8mm x 1mm strips, each to be frozen
      in vials containing 1-3 strips. One strip will be sent to pathology for paraffin embedding to
      be available for future assessment of occult lymphoma cells markers; (b) the central or
      medullary portion will be frozen separately for potential scientific analysis since this
      section would not be of any clinical utility. The amount of tissue frozen may vary depending
      in part by whether one or two ovaries are removed. At some point in the future, thawing of
      ovarian tissue, with either in vitro maturation or autologous transplantation into the pelvis
      or other area of the body could be performed. The patient would receive routine postoperative
      care. The patient's oncologist will be consulted regarding proper timing of the surgery and
      the need for any special intraoperative or postoperative management

      However, since the survival of the primordial follicles in transplanted ovarian tissue is
      quite low (<10%), methods for in vivo maturation of these eggs and improved methods of
      transplantation need to be developed. One or two vials of tissue (<10% of all tissue frozen)
      will be thawed to develop the techniques of maturing oocytes. This may include
      transplantation of the tissue into an animal model for in vivo maturation.

      Six months to 1 year following surgery and/or treatment for the medical condition, eg
      chemotherapy, hormone testing will be performed for evaluation of ovarian reserve. This may
      include AMH and FSH hormone levels as well as pelvic ultrasounds and dominant antra follicle
      count.

      If the subject does not wish to utilize the ovarian tissue for her own clinical use, the
      options include discarding the cryopreserved ovarian tissue or donating the cryopreserved
      tissue for approved research studies.
    
  