
    
      Participants from fourteen research centers in the mainland of China will be recruited in the
      study. People will be screened for a 75g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The patients
      whose fasting glucose between 6.1mmol/L and 7.0mmol/L or 2-hour value between 7.8mmol/L and
      11.1mmol/L will be diagnosed with impaired glucose tolerance and recommended to participate
      in the study.

      People who meet the eligibility criteria and who are willing to provide informed consent will
      be enrolled and randomized to behavioral intervention group and control group. People in the
      behavioral intervention group will be educated and monitored by a mobile APP that provides
      behavioral support including health knowledge education, mental health counseling, smart diet
      advice, intelligent exercise guidance, and target weight management. Meanwhile, the
      behavioral support will be modified by endocrinologists, dieticians, sports medicine
      professionals and psychologists individually based on the feedback of their characteristics
      and performance recorded in the APP. Participants randomized to the control group only have
      regular care in their local hospitals.

      Every three months, participants in the intervention group will be back to their research
      centers and be collected with information including HbA1c levels, blood pressure, heart rate
      tests, adverse events, combined medications and health checklists. Investigators conduct
      face-to-face health education, lifestyle guidance and mobile APP software inspection. Every
      one year, 75g OGTT (0min, 60min, 120min points of blood glucose and insulin levels), liver
      and kidney function, blood lipids, glycosylated hemoglobin, urine routine and
      electrocardiogram will be evaluated in both of the group. Investigators will compare the
      diabetes risk in the two groups to evaluate whether behavioral intervention with a mobile APP
      can reduce the risk of the onset of diabetes in people with impaired glucose tolerance.
      Investigators also will compare the reversal rate of becoming normal glucose tolerance in
      prediabetes and the changes of glycosylated hemoglobin levels in both groups. Behavioral
      intervention with the APP will last for two years.
    
  