
    
      Methods

      All patients admitted to the coronary care areas with an acute myocardial infarction will be
      entered into the registry. At the time of discharge from the coronary care unit, clinical
      data will be entered. The registry will include approximately 6800 patients.

      As there is no intervention in the registry, the data to be collected are standard for
      quality assurance purposes and cannot practicably be carried out without waivers of consent
      and HIPAA authorization, there will be no consent specifically for registry patients at
      baseline. Systems have been implemented to ensure the registry data will remain confidential.
      Sites have received IRB approval of waiver of consent and HIPAA for the baseline registry
      data.

      Data to be collected will include demographic (including ethnic and race classifications
      according to NIH guidelines) data and information regarding the index myocardial infarction.
      Use of beta-blockers at discharge from the coronary care unit will be documented. In
      addition, beta-blocker use at hospital discharge will be noted. Data for the registry will be
      obtained from ER notes, admission notes, cardiac catheterization lab reports, medication
      lists, lab reports, and discharge summaries.

      Follow-Up

      Follow-up for registry patients will be conducted at year 1 and year 2 post-myocardial
      infarction. Data may be obtained via medical chart review, phone contact, and Social Security
      Death Index (SSDI). For follow-up information obtained via chart review or the SSDI, a
      detailed justification for waiver of HIPAA and consent requirements is attached to this
      protocol (see appendix 7). If phone contact is required with the patient, we are suggesting
      the following process:

        -  A letter should be sent out to the patient approximately one week prior to the contact
           in which the rationale for the study will be provided, as well as a delineation of the
           patient's right to participate or not to participate (by either providing or not
           providing the requested information).

        -  At telephone contact with the patient, the coordinator will document whether the patient
           consents to provide the information. If the patient consents, the coordinator will
           proceed to obtain the requested information.

        -  In the event that the participating institution's IRB requires a written, signed consent
           for this verbal contact, a written consent form template (see appendix 3) is provided.

      Data collected at follow-up interview will include vital status, beta-blocker use, other
      cardiac medications and any cardiovascular hospitalizations.
    
  