
    
      RATIONALE: The preoperative period is an opportune time to actively engage and empower
      patients in improving their functional, nutritional and mental status in anticipation of the
      surgical stress. Considering that lung cancer patients often present with poor nutritional
      status and physical function prior to surgery providing a nutritional supplement to increase
      protein, leucine, vitamin D and omega-3 FA intake with a structured exercise program and
      relaxation techniques should improve muscle mass, strength and physical performance.

      MAIN OBJECTIVE: to test the effect of a multimodal prehabilitation intervention (MM)
      combining a mixed-nutrient supplement with structured exercise training against standard of
      care (SOC), on functional pre- and postoperative outcomes in surgical patients with lung
      cancer, in an open-label RCT.

      The present is a pilot study aiming to generate feasibility data (recruitment rate,
      compliance, attrition) and preliminary outcome data to support a larger trial.

      STUDY DESIGN: Open-label, randomized, controlled trial of two parallel arms: multimodal
      intervention (MM) and standard of care (SOC). After baseline assessment, patients will be
      randomized to either group in a 1:2 SOC:MM ratio using a computer-generated randomization
      scheme by block of four, with stratification by sex and functional capacity (< or > 400 m on
      the 6MWT). Consecutive adult patients scheduled for elective video-assisted thoracic surgery
      or open thoracotomy surgery of NSCLC stages I, II or IIIa, will be approached following their
      first appointment with their surgeon at the MUHC-Montreal General Hospital.

      INTERVENTION: The EXP arm will ingest a multi-nutrient supplement consisting of whey protein
      + leucine and fish oil + vitamin D, perform structured exercise and relaxation techniques for
      4 weeks prior to surgery and 8 weeks after surgery. Control group will received standard
      hospital care and education on benefits of physical activity and healthy diet. Outcome
      assessment will be performed at baseline, preoperative, 4 and 8 weeks postoperatively.

      OUTCOMES: Primary: feasibility; Secondary: physical function, muscle strength, volume and
      density, body composition, quality of life, length of stay and post-operative complications;
      Other: dietary intake, physical activity, clinical markers.

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: This is a pilot study designed to generate data on feasibility and
      compliance to the intervention and study tests; it is not powered for identifying statistical
      differences in the main outcomes. The investigators will recruit 36 participants on a 1:2
      ratio (12 SOC: 24 MM).
    
  