
    
      Sepsis, including viral infections, are major causes of death worldwide. Studies show that in
      2017, the number of sepsis patients worldwide reached as high as 48.9 million, of which
      eleven million patients died. Studies in China also showed that more than one million
      patients died of sepsis in 2015. Therefore, how to effectively reduce the mortality of
      patients with sepsis has become a focus of clinical and basic research.

      Previous studies have suggested that sepsis are often secondary to excessive inflammatory
      response syndrome. However, treatment measures targeting excessive inflammatory response
      failed to effectively improve the prognosis of patients. The reason is that sepsis-related
      immune dysfunction can increase the risk of secondary infection and even affect the fatality
      rate.

      The immune checkpoint pathway is the endogenous component of the immune system, which is
      responsible for checking the immune response and keeping it in a normal physiological state.
      Tumor cells can evade host recognition through this pathway. One of these immunocheckpoint
      pathways is the PD-1 and PD-L1 pathways. PD-1 is a receptor expressed on the surface of T
      cells and ACTS as a negative regulator of T cell function. Monoclonal antibody blocking the
      activity of PD-1 can successfully reduce tumor load and has been widely used in the clinical
      treatment of various tumors.

      The immune imbalance in patients with sepsis has many similarities tumors. PD-1 and PD-L1 are
      key mediators in T cell depletion in sepsis patients. Animal models have shown that blocking
      PD-1 or PD-L1 can prevent T cell death, regulate cytokine production, reduce organ
      dysfunction and reduce death in sepsis. Previous study showed the clinical safety of
      anti-PD-1 antibody in sepsis patients through randomized, placebo-controlled trials.

      Thymosin has also been proved to regulate cellular immunity in sepsis patients. Some studies
      have shown that thymosin can significantly reduce the mortality of sepsis patients. At
      present, phase III clinical research is in progress to further clarify the role of thymosin
      in patients with sepsis. The purpose of this study was to investigate the efficacy of PD-1
      and thymosin in patients with severe pneumonia associated with lymphocytopenia in 2019 novel
      coronavirus infection.
    
  