
    
      Malnutrition is characterized by a negative energy balance due to a deep skeletal muscular
      loss, which is itself secondary to the reduction of intake and metabolic abnormalities
      aggravating the loss of weight. Sarcopenia is defined as the loss of muscle mass, the
      consequences of which are a decrease in muscle strength and physical performance .Cachexia,
      identified in many chronic diseases (renal insufficiency, heart failure, diabetes, COPD), is
      the result of an imbalance between proteolysis and proteogenesis and can be defined as a
      multifactorial syndrome characterized by a weight loss resulting mainly from a loss of lean
      mass, in particular muscle mass, which is not reversible by an adequate nutritional
      contribution and which leads to functional abnormalities.

      Cancers of the ENT sphere represent about 15% of all cancers in men and 2% in women. They
      mainly concern subjects between 45 and 70 years of age with a predominant role of
      ethylo-tobacco poisoning. Patients with upper aero-digestive tract cancers are particularly
      prone to malnutrition on the part of the tumor itself but also on the context (ethylo-tobacco
      intoxication, sedentary behavior, poor general condition), tumor localization involving
      reduction of intake (Mechanical obstruction, anorexia, pain), but also after treatment
      (chemotherapy, radiotherapy, surgery).

      Cancer cachexia affects approximately 80% of patients with advanced cancer and impacts their
      prognosis by increasing morbidity and mortality, decreased tolerance and response to
      treatment , decreased quality of life and decreased survival. Its prognosis depends on the
      extent of the loss of muscle mass. It is generally reported for a patient with a weight loss
      superior than 5% of its initial weight over the last 6 months, with 3 stages described:
      Pre-cachexia stage, clean cachexia stage, refractory cachexia stage. It is characterized,
      among other things, by the development of systemic inflammation and tumor cell lines and
      tumor cells from cancer patients have been shown to produce pro-inflammatory cytokines (
      IL-6, IL-8).

      The loss of skeletal muscle mass, up to 75% in severe malnutrition is related to an
      acceleration of muscle catabolism and an alteration of muscle protein anabolism, mediated by
      large tumor signals and leads to a decrease in performans status, decrease in overall
      survival, increase in susceptibility to toxicity of chemotherapy, and increase in exposure to
      long-term hospital stays.

      This muscular loss is the result of an increase in proteolysis phenomen but also of a
      decrease in protein synthesis. The main proteolytic pathways are the
      calpain-calcium-dependent pathway, the lysosomal pathway and the ubiquitin-proteasome-ATP
      pathway. Several studies have shown the activation of these proteolytic pathways in cancer
      cachexia . Among these proteolytic pathways, the ubiquitin-proteasome-ATP-dependent pathway
      appears to be the most involved in cancer cachexia .This proteolytic pathway is mediated by 2
      ubiquitin ligases specific for skeletal muscle, MAF-Box and MURF1, which are largely
      overexpressed in many models of muscular atrophy and cancer cachexia . On the other hand, the
      growth factor IGF1 is a known anabolic factor which activates the proteosynthesis via the
      signaling pathway PI3K / Akt / mTOR . The decrease in IGF1 expression in skeletal muscle is
      observed in experimental models of cancer cachexia . Studies have shown that certain factors
      of tumor origin may contribute to cancer cachexia in some animal models.

      2 factors have particularly attracted the attention of scientists in recent years, the ZAG
      factor (Zinc alpha 2 glycoprotein), a veritable lipid mobilization factor in humans ,
      overexpressed in the liver and adipose tissue and PIF (proteoglycan identified in mouse
      murine adenocarcinoma tumor cells which would be responsible for muscle wasting induced by
      the activation of the ubiquitin-proteasome-ATP-dependent proteolytic pathway . More recent
      work suggests that Myostatin and Activin A, two members of the TGFβ superfamily, may
      contribute to cachexia, particularly muscular atrophy, induced by certain cancers.

      Adipose loss is an early syndrome in the development of cancer cachexia and is negatively
      correlated with patient life expectancy . Early studies on this adipose melt revealed a lack
      of storage of triglycerides in adipose tissue . The storage of triglycerides is achieved by
      the action of lipoprotein lipase. It predominantly exists in adipose tissue and hydrolyzes
      lipoproteins circulating in the blood, thus allowing the capture of fatty acids by adipocytes
      and storage of adipose reserves . The development of the tumor would induce a decrease in the
      gene expression and activity of lipoprotein lipase via the action of inflammatory cytokines .
      However, current research seems to demonstrate that the adipose melt observed in cancer
      cachexia is mostly explained by an increase in lipolysis (shown indirectly by an increase in
      plasma fatty acid concentration in cachectic patients with gastrointestinal cancer). .

      Lipolysis, via hormone-sensitive lipase (LHS) and monoglyceride lipase (MGL), allows the
      hydrolysis of triglycerides into diglycerides and diglycerides into monoglycerides themselves
      degraded into free fatty acids and glycerol. Adipose tissue-specific triglyceride lipase
      (TGLA) has recently been discovered and has a role that is redundant to that of LHS. Studies
      of Cao et al. showed that the activation of LHS by catecholamines could constitute a
      mechanism of regulation of lipolysis during cancer cachexia. . An alteration of TGLA and LHS
      would also be responsible for an accumulation of DAG and TAG in the muscle of cancerous mice
      . A recent study showed that the invalidation of TGLA and LHS in 2 models of cachexia induced
      by injection of Lewis pulmonary carcinoma cells or B16 melanoma cells induced resistance to
      the development of cachexia by limiting adipose and muscular loss . Systemic inflammation
      developed during cancerous cachexia could also induce an increase in insulin resistance via
      TNFalpha . TNFalpha could inhibit the expression of perilipin A, a protein expressed on the
      surface of adipocyte lipid droplets , which plays a major role in the integrity of adipose
      tissue since it limits the access of enzymes involved in lipolysis to the lipid droplet . A
      decrease in the expression of perilipin A would induce an increase in lipolysis. In addition,
      a study by Stephens et al. in 2011 concluded that the number and size of intramuscular lipid
      droplets are increased in the presence of cancer and also increase with weight loss / adipose
      fat loss in other body compartments .

      Myosteatosis, a pathological fatty deposit in skeletal muscle, is another characteristic of
      body composition, in addition to low muscle mass, which is associated with the poor prognosis
      of the cancer disease, in particular a decrease in overall survival and it has recently been
      shown that the muscle of cancer patients contains all the more adipose tissue that severe
      weight loss . Several studies have shown that myosteatosis is associated with an increase in
      insulin resistance and therefore a decrease in proteolysis via the inhibition of insulin
      transport of amino acids. The fat content of the muscle may be indirectly and non-invasively
      studied on the basis that the adipose tissue typically attenuates the radiation applied
      thereto. . The value of the attenuation measurements are determined by the rate at which the
      radiation passes through the tissue and is expressed in Hounsfield units (HU). Muscle and
      adipose tissue attenuation values were defined between -190 and -30 HU .

      The weakening of the radiation in the muscle was correlated well with the fat content of the
      muscles. . Thus, the HU values defined by the CT scan may reflect the degree of intramuscular
      adipose tissue and are used to categorize the muscle of normal or exposed to myosteatosis .
      Low muscle mass and weakening of the radiation in muslce testify of high degree of
      myostaatosis and were identified as an independent prognostic factor for overall survival and
      mortality in cancer patients, respectively. . The comparison of muscle metabolism in obese
      and normoponded subjects showed an abolition of protein synthesis in response to insulin
      especially in muscle mitochondria in overweight subjects. Interestingly, muscle protein
      renewal was inversely correlated with fat mass. Such an observation raises the question of
      the possibility of a deleterious effect of fat mass on protein synthesis. The hypothesis of
      this lipotoxicity was confirmed by a work carried out in the rat which showed that the
      synthesis of the muscle proteins is slowed down when there is infiltration of fat into the
      muscle

      At the cellular level, metabolism is governed by the mitochondria which provides 90% of our
      energy in the form of ATP. This energy is synthesized within oxidative phosphorylation, which
      consists of 2 entities (the respiratory chain and ATP synthase) and which allows the
      conversion, in water and ATP, of the reduced equivalents resulting from dehydrogenation
      reactions (and Decarboxylation) of energetic nutrients, in the presence of dioxygen (O2) and
      ADP, according to chemosmotic coupling theory . The decoupling of oxidative phosphorylation
      may be involved in involuntary weight loss. The work of Romestaing et al. Showed that weight
      loss following the development of a steatosis was associated with a decrease in the ATP / O2
      ratio . Mitochondrial dysfunctions could therefore have a direct effect on the protein
      degradation observed during cancer cachexia. In addition, systemic inflammation caused by the
      development of the tumor can also affect mitochondrial bioenergetics.

      The works of Hochwald et al. were among the first to suggest an alteration of muscle
      mitochondrial metabolism by demonstrating a decrease in ATP concentration in the
      gastrocnemius of rats with MCA sarcoma . The recent works of Constantinou and col. confirmed
      this hypothesis by demonstrating in vivo by 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) a reduction
      in the rate of synthesis of ATP on the lower limb of mice with Lewis pulmonary carcinoma
      compared to its healthy mice . This work suggested a decrease in the ability to synthesize
      ATP during cancerous cachexia through decoupling proteins such as UCP3 . This decrease in ATP
      synthesis could also be explained by alterations in the functioning of the mitochondrial
      respiratory chain .

      Julienne and col. in 2012 studied the mitochondrial activity of skeletal muscles in murine
      models of cancer cachexia based on the ATP / Oxygen ratio and concluded that muscular
      mitochondrial oxidative capacities were reduced by decreasing the activity of complex IV,
      responsible for muscle loss and accumulation of free fatty acids in muscle (myosteatosis)
      since less oxidized by mitochondria. They also observed that the expression of MURF1 and
      MAF-Box (proteolytically active ligases) was increased in the muscle of rats with cancers .

      Cancerous cachexia affects about 80% of patients with advanced cancer and increases their
      prognosis by increasing their morbidity and mortality. It is defined as a loss of lean mass
      especially muscular resulting from an imbalance between proteolysis and proteogenesis. It has
      been shown that the presence of cancer in the murine model favors the development of
      myosteatosis, which is linked, among other things, to alteration of muscle lipases and a
      decrease in mitochondrial activity, the consequence of which is a decrease Of the oxidation
      by the latter of free fatty acids which would consequently accumulate in the muscle of mice
      suffering from cancer. It is known that this myosteatosis then induced is responsible for an
      insulin resistance participating in a decrease in proteogenesis and therefore in weight loss.

      The main objective here is to confirm this same hypothesis in humans by studying the
      influence of cachexia on muscle mitochondrial activity as a marker of myosteatosis in
      patients with cancer of the upper air-digestive tract, cachectic or not, and non-cachectic
      controls.

      Patients will be recruited from ENT and Cervico-facial Surgery at CHU Gabriel Montpied in
      Clermont-Ferrand.

      Inclusion of patients in 2 groups:

        -  Group K +: cancer of the upper aerodigestive tract with or without cachexia

        -  Group K-: absence of cancer and absence of cachexia The recruitment arrangements for the
           K + group will be made through a Multidisciplinary Consultation Meeting (RCP), the
           decision of which is an exclusive or non-exclusive surgery. Before the protocol is
           realized, during the preoperative consultation, an information sheet is given to the
           patient and an informed consent in 2 copies is signed after a period of reflection of
           the patient of 7 days.

      At inclusion, the day before the surgery, patients benefit from a dual general and
      nutritional evaluation:

        -  Collection of epidemiological data: age, medical and surgical history (cardiac
           insufficiency, renal insufficiency, respiratory insufficiency, COPD, coronary artery
           disease), ethyl intoxication (gram / day), tobacco poisoning (package / year), usual
           treatment, tumor characteristics for group K+ (histological type, location, tumor stage,
           nature of treatment), indication and nature of surgery for group K-, pre-operative
           renutrition program for K + group (food supplements, enteral or parenteral feeding )

        -  Clinical nutritional evaluation: bodyweight (kg), weight loss in the last 6 months (kg),
           height (m), body mass index (BMI in kg / m²) (NPH), Short Physical Performance Battery
           (SPPB), muscle strength measurement by dynamometry (Newton), Impedancemetry (Kyle index,
           Janssen index)

        -  Myostéatosic and nutritional morphological evaluation by, respectively, Hounsfield Unit
           and Muscular Mass Index at L3 level (cm² / m²) by abdominal tomodensitometry for the K +
           group (carried out in the cancer extension imaging balance)

      Patients will benefit from 4 organic samples during the planned surgery (carcinological
      surgery for Group K +, cervical surgery for Group K-):

        -  Carrying out a muscle biopsy of the SCOM muscle with a total volume of about 300 mg,
           without resorting to an additional invasive act. This sampling is immediately divided
           into 6 samples and placed in a liquid nitrogen tank for transport to the place of
           storage. It will then be frozen at -80 ° C.

        -  Carrying out a blood sample according to the following conditions: 1 dry tube, 1 EDTA
           tube and 2 dry tubes for biochemistry The dry tube and the EDTA tube will be immediately
           put in ice for transport to the storage site. It will then be immediately centrifuged
           and then frozen at -80 ° C. The two dry tubes for biochemistry will be transmitted to
           the laboratory of biochemistry of the CHU Gabriel-Montpied.

        -  Carrying out a tumor biopsy with a total volume of approximately 200 mg without
           resorting to an additional invasive procedure. This sampling is immediately divided into
           4 samples and placed in a liquid nitrogen tank for transport to the place of storage. It
           is then frozen at -80 ° C (only for K + Group).
    
  