
    
      About the clinic: The study will be carried out at the Competence Centre for Transcultural
      Psychiatry Denmark (CTP) (before January 2013 named Psychiatric Trauma Clinic for Refugees
      (PTF)). The clinic was established in 2008 and since 2009 the clinic has been carrying out
      randomised, controlled trials aiming to increase knowledge about the treatment effect of
      different types of treatment for traumatised refugees. The target group of the centre is
      traumatised refugees with PTSD, depression and anxiety. Patients are referred to CTP by
      general practitioners or psychiatrists. CTP treats approximately 200 patients/year.

      The treatment is inter-disciplinary and consists of consultations with a medical doctor
      whereby pharmacological treatment according to best practice in the field is given,
      supplemented by cognitive behavioural therapy by a psychologist. Manuals are used for both
      the treatment given by the medical doctor as well as the psychologist. The total duration of
      treatment is 6 months.

      Material and methods: 310 patients will be included from September 2013 to approximately May
      2015. At the referral interview it is clarified whether the patient meets the inclusion or
      exclusion criteria. If the patient meets the inclusion criteria and gives her/his consent to
      participate, the patient is randomised to one of the three intervention groups:

      A) Control group: receives treatment as usual (TAU) consisting of: 6 months of consultations
      and medical treatment according to best clinical practice by a medical doctor as well as
      manual-based Cognitive Behaviour Therapy by a psychologist.

      B) Basic Body Awareness Therapy (BBAT): TAU + BBAT.

      C) Mixed physical activity (MPA): TAU + MPA

      The duration of B and C is 20 weeks each, 1 hour/week.

      The physical activity will be on individual sessions.

        -  Quality assurance plan: Good Clinical Practice (GCP) is monitoring and auditing the
           project from the project's start to its end. Moreover, The Competence Centre for
           Transcultural Psychiatry (CTP) has a monitoring team monitoring the data being
           registered as data are coming in.

        -  Data checks: GCP as well as the before mentioned monitoring team will be doing data
           checks and auditing during the time the trial is running.

        -  Source data verification: to assess the accuracy, completeness and representativity of
           registry data, the monitoring team of CTP is during the trial comparing the data
           registered manually by doctors, psychologists, physiotherapist and social workers with
           e.g. the papers filled in by the patients themselves. Data registered from the patients
           in the trial are also registered from the patients that are not participating in the
           trial. By comparing those data, this will show the representativity of the data from
           this population.

        -  Standard Operating Procedures: All adverse events will be registered in the individual
           patient records in the period from the first consultation at the centre to the last
           consultation at the centre of each patient.

      All Serious Adverse Events (SAEs) will be reported by sponsor or investigator to The National
      Committee on Health Research Ethics (within 7 days after investigator has become aware of any
      such), with comments enclosed on potential consequences for the trial.

      Sponsor will yearly submit a report to The National Committee on Health Research Ethics on
      all SAEs, with an assessment attached on the security of the patients participating in the
      trial.

      The report will be submitted each year on the day when the trial was given approval from The
      National Committee on Health Research Ethics.

      A list of all patients screened for participating in the trial and of all patients finally
      included in the trial will be kept.

        -  Data dictionary: not relevant.

        -  Randomisation is carried out by the Department of Biostatistics at the University of
           Copenhagen, with practical assistance from a group of secretaries not linked to the
           daily work at CTP. The participants will be stratified by gender and severity of PTSD
           symptoms on the basis of Harvard Trauma Questionnaire (HTQ). Blinding of patients and
           practitioners is not considered to be possible, but intervention-group blinded Hamilton
           Depression and Anxiety ratings will be carried out at the beginning and at the end of
           treatment. The Hamilton raters are medical students trained at the clinic and take part
           in regular joint ratings to ensure high quality and inter-rater reliability.

        -  Data processing/statistical analysis:

      Size of material and power calculation:

      If 200 patients are divided into three groups of about 65 patients, power to detect a group
      difference in the treatment effect of ½ standard deviation (SD) will be 81%, while power to
      detect a difference of 1 SD will be close to 100%. Differences in quantitative outcomes less
      than ½ SD between the two treatments are considered to be less relevant from a clinical point
      of view. Cut-offs are available for several rating scales, and these can be used to define
      categorical outcome variables. If for example the proportions below cut-off for clinical case
      status are 50% and 25% in two groups, power will be close to 80% to detect a significant
      group differences.

      Data analysis: The primary outcome variables are differences during the treatment course
      calculated as differences between start, middle and end ratings. The unadjusted differences
      between the two intervention groups can be measured by a t-test, while adjustment of the
      differences for baseline values and possible background factors (such as gender and age) can
      be done by ANCOVA/linear regression.

      In addition, cut-off can be used on symptom scores and logistic regression analyses can be
      carried out with over/under cut-off as binary outcome. In addition to completer analyses,
      drop-out analysis and intention-to-treat analyses will be carried out.

      Hypotheses concerning predictors of treatment effects can be analysed by including the
      potential predictors in linear or logistic regression models including treatment group and
      relevant covariates.
    
  