
    
      Cesarean scar pregnancy (CSP) is a relative "new" type of ectopic pregnancy where the
      fertilized egg is implanted in the muscle or fibrous tissue of the scar after a previous
      cesarean section. Since the first description of cesarean scar pregnancy in 1978, its
      frequency has increased dramatically due to the significant increase in the percentage of
      cesarean section and development of transvaginal (TV) ultrasonography (US). The overall
      incidence of CSP is 1 in 1,800 to 1 in 2,200 pregnancies, it means 0.05-0.04% of all
      pregnancies. In women after a cesarean section, the frequency of CSP is approximately 0.15%,
      which constitutes 6.1% of all ectopic pregnancies in patients after at least one cesarean
      operation. The risk factors that favour implantation in the CS scar are not well understood;
      therefore, there are no guidelines for the practicing physicians to determine the women at
      risk. Uterine surgery, anomalous healing of the scar, previous preterm CS without labour or a
      term elective CS, breech presentation at previous CS short intervals between the CSP and last
      pregnancy, last pregnancy ended with abortion may be some of the risk factors for CSP.

      Although the 15% of CSPs remain undiagnosed, developed egographic techniques and several new
      US signs of CSP invasiveness are allowing ever better diagnoses. Cali et al. tested the
      hypothesis the relationship between the gestational sac of the CSP, previous caesarean scar
      and the anterior uterine wall can be used to predict the evolution of these cases. In order
      to do this, they propose a new sonographic sign, the "cross-over sign" (COS) . This
      echographic sign is reflected in the clinical presentation of the CSP, so we can divide the
      patients into two different groups: type I "endogenic type" characterized by the COS2
      insertion, ance type II "exogenic type" characterized by COS1 insertion, the latter with
      worse outcomes in term of maternal morbidity and mortality.

      A recent review amounts almost 31 different treatment modalities for CSP. A broad spectrum of
      options represents a real challenge for the health care provider. The choice may be made
      among expectant management, medical treatment, local treatment and surgical approach, also
      combined together. There is insufficient evidence to recommend any one specific intervention
      over another for caesarean scar pregnancy. Future studies are needed to define the optimal
      management of pregnancy for caesarean section scars.

      Thus, we aim to compare the success rate of two different treatment of CSP: the medical
      management by using two-dose of Methotrexate (MTX) followed by dilation and evacuation (D&E)
      compared to single dose of two-dose of Methotrexate followed by hysperoscopic approach.
    
  