
    
      Obstructive sleep apnea hypopnea syndrome (OSAHS) is an important medical condition which
      causes significant morbidity and mortality. The prevalence of OSAHS in Spain is 4-6% in men
      and 2-4% in women and rises steadily with age. Snoring and smoking have been independently
      linked, and smoking may be a risk factor for developing OSAHS. This is particularly true of
      heavy smokers (> 2 packs/day), those at greatest risk for LC. Associations between OSAHS and
      some forms of cancer have been described in humans, especially in those experiencing
      nocturnal hypoxemia, and intermittent hypoxia has been linked to the progression of cancer in
      animal models. LC is currently the leading cause of cancer deaths in developped nations. A
      link between OSAHS and LC, therefore, is plausible.

      Sleep disordered breathing may be common among patients recently diagnosed of lung cancer and
      may contribute to tumor progression.

      Objectives: a) To perform home sleep testing in patients recently diagnosed with lung cancer
      in order to determine the prevalence of sleep disordered breathing in this patient
      population. b) To include biological samples obtained from all participants, including
      surgically treated patients with stage I / IIp LC through the program in the CIBERES
      Pulmonary Biobank Platform. Biological samples will be preserved under different storage
      conditions for subsequent determination of molecular biomarkers. c) To follow-up lung cancer
      patients with and without sleep disordered breathing in order to determine the potential
      influence OSAHS might have on their prognosis.

      Prospective screening for sleep disordered breathing will be performed by home sleep testing
      in 100 subjects diagnosed with lung cancer, irrespective of stage at diagnosis, who give
      their consent. A modified epidemiologic questionnaire for sleep disordered breathing will
      also be administered. Patients identified as suffering from OSAHS will be referred to sleep
      clinic. Biologic samples and lung function studies will be obtained in all participating
      patients.

      All patients with lung cancer will undergo follow-up for at least three years or until their
      demise, and those identified with OSAHS will also be followed in sleep clinic. The prevalence
      of OSAHS in this patient population will be determined. A link between OSAHS, and especially
      intermittent nocturnal hypoxemia, and tumor progression will be sought.
    
  