
    
      Trachoma, caused by ocular infection with Chlamydia trachomatis, is one of the leading causes
      of preventable blindness worldwide with 51 countries known or suspected to be endemic for
      blinding trachoma. The World Health Organization (WHO) has recommended the Surgery,
      Antibiotic treatment, promotion of Facial cleanliness and hygiene, and Environmental
      improvement (SAFE) strategy for trachoma control. Annual mass drug administration (MDA) with
      the antibiotic azithromycin to treat trachoma is effective, at least in areas with moderate
      to low levels or trachoma. This has not been the experience in regions with high levels of
      trachoma including Amhara, Ethiopia. After 8 rounds of annual MDA, trachoma remains
      stubbornly high throughout the region. Given this experience from the Amhara region of
      Ethiopia, The Carter Center will work with local government partners at the regional, zonal,
      district, and sub-district levels to assess the effectiveness of a targeted antibiotic
      treatment regimen on trachoma prevalence by using a cluster randomized, controlled trial
      design with the understanding that increasing the need for drug in the short-term to
      intensify impact, may result in reduced need for drug in the long-term. The effectiveness of
      this alternative treatment regimen will be assessed over a period of 2 years by periodically
      evaluating trachoma outcomes throughout study communities.

      The key objectives of this study are to:

        1. To determine the effectiveness of an enhanced antibiotic treatment regimen characterized
           by a community-wide MDA followed by two rounds of targeted (to children age 2 to 9
           years) treatment in quick succession (1-2 weeks apart) compared to annual
           standard-of-care MDA.

        2. To determine the added cost and cost-effectiveness of an enhanced antibiotic treatment
           regimen compared to annual standard-of-care MDA.
    
  