
    
      Rationale:

      Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a chronic progressive fibro-obliterative disease of the
      biliary tree leading to biliary cirrhosis. During its course, dominant strictures occur in
      approximately 50% of patients. These can be accompanied by lead worsening of symptoms and
      jaundice and are an indication for endoscopic treatment. The best form of treatment, either
      balloon dilatation or short-term stent placement, has never been formally investigated.

      Objective:

      Primary:

      To compare the efficacy of single session balloon dilatation versus short-term stent
      placement in non-advanced PSC patients with regard to re-intervention free recurrence rate at
      two years.

      Secondary:

      To compare the short term efficacy of single balloon dilatation versus short-term stenting
      with regard to improvement of cholestatic symptoms, biochemical cholestasis, and quality of
      life in non-endstage PSC patients at three months; to compare the safety of single balloon
      dilatation session versus short-term stenting in non advanced PSC patients during two years.

      Study design: This is a multicenter, open-label, randomized intervention study.

      Study population:

      Non-advanced primary sclerosing cholangitis subjects with progression of cholestatic
      complaints from the outpatient population of the seven participating centres.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

        1. Difference in re-intervention free survival time between both groups at two years.

        2. Change in semi-quantitative scoring of cholestatic symptoms (pruritus, right upper
           quadrant pain, fatigue) from baseline at three months.

        3. Change in total bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and yGT from baseline at 3 months.

        4. Safety: adverse events, clinical laboratory values, vital signs.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Currently, both interventions belong to standard patient care armamentarium. Burden for the
      patient exists in slightly more regular follow-up visits for two years (three-monthly instead
      of every 3-4 months) to their treating centre. ERCP is associated with a low mortality (<0.5
      %) and acceptable morbidity (overall 5%). Most dreaded complications are severe post-ERCP
      pancreatitis (<2%) and suppurative cholangitis (<2%). From the available retrospective
      literature data the incidence of these complications does not seem to differ between the two
      treatment modalities. ERCP will only be performed when there is a clearcut clinical
      indication anyway.
    
  