
    
      Specific Aims and Hypothesis:

      The Primary aim is:

      To compare the impact of dietary weight loss via carbohydrate-restriction and
      calorie-restriction on hepatic TG content quantified by H-MRS in obese children with
      biopsy-proven NAFLD and Met-S.

      Our Secondary aims are:

      To compare BMI z-score, ALT (analine transaminase) and cytokeratin 18 in obese patients with
      NAFLD and Met-S after a 6 month dietary weight loss via either carbohydrate or calorie
      restriction.

      Hypothesis: Obese children with biopsy-proven NAFLD and Met-S will experience a reduction in
      liver TG content, assessed by H-MRS, concurrent with 6 months of dietary weight loss;
      however, we anticipate that subjects undergoing carbohydrate restriction will experience a
      greater reduction in hepatic fat than those undergoing calorie restriction due to the
      limiting of precursors for lipid synthesis inherent to the diet (CHO) and the expected
      increase in hepatic oxidative metabolism (TG accrual is attenuated while disposal is
      enhanced).

      Methodology:

      Design:

      Our study is a 6 month prospective randomized controlled trial with outcomes assessment
      monthly for the first 6 months and a follow up visit at 10- 12 months after randomization.

      Setting:

      Recruitment and data collection will be completed at University of Texas Southwestern Medical
      Center and Children's Health, Dallas TX by study personnel. All patients who agree to
      participate will give informed written consent and assent. A study staff member will explain
      the study and review the consent and HIPAA forms with each patient. A copy of each signed
      form will be kept in the patient's study file. Each patient will also receive signed copies.

      Subjects:

      All patients referred (male and female) within the age range of 11 - 17 years who are obese
      (BMI >= 95th percentile) and meet criteria for metabolic syndrome (MetS) and non-alcoholic
      fatty liver disease (NAFLD) will be offered to participate in study.

      Inclusion Criteria:

        1. Age 11 - 17 years

        2. Male and Female subjects

        3. BMI >= 95th percentile according to CDC body mass index chart for age and gender

        4. Must be willing to participate and undergo "willingness to change" evaluation

        5. Metabolic Syndrome(MetS) which is defined when 3 of the following are met:

             1. Central adiposity (waist circumference ≥90th% for age and sex)

             2. Hypertriglyceridemia (triglycerides ≥ 110mg/dl)

             3. Low HDL cholesterol ≤40mg/dl

             4. Elevated blood pressure systolic or diastolic blood pressure > 90th % adjusted for
                age, sex and height or ≥ 130/85

             5. IFG (Impaired fasting glucose ≥ 100mg/dl or elevated HOMA- IR ≥3.16)

        6. ALT greater than 60 U/L and Non Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease based on histologic
           confirmation on liver biopsy (minimum of 5% of hepatocytes with macrovesicular fat)
           obtained within 6 months before randomization

      Exclusion Criteria:

        1. Those patients with a history of poor compliance or adherence to energy restriction
           diets

        2. Patients on medications that could alter appetite including glucocorticoids,
           psychostimulants (Vyvanse, Adderall), psychotropic medications (Zoloft, Risperdal), and
           antihyperglycemic medications (metformin, sulfonylurea)

        3. Patients with the following illnesses:

             1. Type 2 diabetes

             2. Renal disease

             3. Mental diseases (mood, psychotic and anxiety disorders)

             4. Developmental delay

             5. Autism and autism spectrum disorders

             6. Any liver disease except for non alcoholic fatty liver (NAFLD)

             7. Metabolic disorders (tyrosinemia, glycogen storage disease, lysosomal disorders)

             8. Congenital heart disease

             9. Myopathies or muscular disorders/disability

        4. Patients who follow a (cultural or religious) vegetarian lifestyle as this would not be
           compatible with Carbohydrate Restriction (need for high quality protein)

        5. Prepubertal patients defined by a tanner stage of 1

        6. Current or history of significant alcohol consumption

      Concise Summary of Project:

      This is a 6-month prospective, randomized control trial enrolling patients referred to the
      Children's Medical Center COACH Program. The COACH Program is a medical weight management
      clinic, which serves obese children in order to diagnose and treat associated co-morbid
      conditions.

      Subjects meeting all enrollment criteria will be randomized to either a carbohydrate- or
      calorie-restricted diet. They will be committed to this fixed meal plan for 6 months and
      dietary education by a certified dietician will be provided. This will include the allowed
      caloric intake and content, which is calculated by a bioelectric impedance meter (GE In Body
      520) specific to patient's age, gender, and weight.

      The carbohydrate-restricted diet is composed of 20% carbohydrates, 35% protein and 45% fat.
      The calorie-restricted diet is composed of 50%carbohydrate, 15-20% protein and 30-35% fat.
      Patients will be seen by a psychologist to help with goal setting, self-monitoring and
      problem solving. Dietary compliance will be followed regularly by weekly phone calls for the
      first 3 months and then monthly afterwards by the research personnel. A 72-hour dietary
      recall will be conducted by our dietician every other month. Subjects will be followed in the
      COACH clinic monthly. A detailed schedule will be outlined and provided to the families at
      each visit. Any missed appointments will be rescheduled within 3 to 7 days, and the families
      will be contacted immediately to offer assistance for the next visit. During this study,
      subjects will be monitored with urine tests and blood tests to ensure safety while undergoing
      the prescribed diet.

      The first proton hepatic magnetic spectroscopy (H-MRS) will be done prior to initiating the
      dietary intervention. A second H-MRS will be obtained after 2 months (at visit 3) on the
      assigned dietary therapy. The final H-MRS will be performed after completion of the 6 month
      dietary intervention. At the 6 month completion, the subjects will be seen in clinic and
      blood work with urine testing will be done. Their final visit will be 4 to 6 months post
      dietary intervention to assess weight maintenance.
    
  