
    
      Since the beginning of the year, the entire world has been concerned with a novel virus
      called SARS-CoV2. After the first case descriptions in Wuhan, there has been a rapid increase
      in the number of cases in Germany as well. In the case of a disease with the virus, the
      patients affected can suffer from a slight infection of the upper respiratory tract to severe
      lung failure and death. Since the beginning of the pandemic, an increasing number of
      complications such as thromboses, kidney failure and neurological damage have also been
      described. Interestingly, to date, children are usually less severely affected than adults,
      but the actual infection rates are probably similar to those of adults5 , although the actual
      prevalence in children is difficult to quantify and has so far been localized. The actual
      extent of the disease in children has also been little researched to date, and the same
      applies to pregnant women and their newborns.

      In order to be able to understand the course of infection as well as possible and to protect
      the population, comprehensive testing is necessary. However, this poses great challenges for
      local health authorities. In addition, intensive research into possible therapy strategies
      and new vaccines is necessary. Here, however, the number of clinical trials in children is
      far behind. For adult patients, symptomatic therapies such as immunosuppressive drugs
      (dexamethasone) and controversially discussed antiviral drugs (e.g. ritonavir) are currently
      available. The medium-term goal, the establishment of a vaccine, seems to be within reach,
      but an exact date is not foreseeable.

      In the future, in addition to the detection of the active virus by molecular diagnostic
      tests, the quantitative serological detection of antibodies will also be important in order
      to be able to make epidemiological statements about herd immunization or vaccination. An
      interim analysis of the SeBlueCo study showed a proportion of just 1.3% seropositive
      individuals among blood donors. Similar studies have already been registered and partially
      conducted throughout Germany. Some studies are also investigating pediatric patients, as both
      the routes of infection and the way the immune system deals with the virus are probably
      different from those in adults. Furthermore, the time course of antibody concentrations after
      infection with SARS-CoV2 and thus the duration of a safe immunity is much discussed. In this
      study, the investigators want to quantify the prevalence of SARS-Cov2 antibodies in children
      and adolescents during the pandemic, in order to describe the extent of antibody formation
      depending on various factors.

      At the Children and Youth Clinic Erlangen, at least one blood sample will be taken from all
      inpatients and most of the patients treated as outpatients. At least one EDTA and one lithium
      heparin and often also one serum tube is taken. Due to the in-house laboratory, the analysis
      is designed for very small blood volumes. Therefore there is almost always some residual
      blood left in the blood tubes, which is then stored for about 7 days and only then discarded
      (reserve sample). For the study now planned, these residual blood samples from paediatric
      patients of the paediatric and adolescent clinic will serve as a basis for the analysis. The
      timing is such that 6, 12, 18 and 24 months after the outbreak of the pandemic in Germany, a
      SARS-Cov2 antibody prevalence of the local area will be determined. This will allow to
      investigate the local infection situation as well as the influence of a possibly available
      vaccination on the extent of immunization in the future.
    
  