
    
      Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction is the fastest growing form of heart failure,
      is almost exclusively found in older persons, particularly older women, and is associated
      with a high morbidity and mortality rate. The primary chronic symptom in HFpEF patients is
      severe exercise intolerance measured objectively as decreased peak exercise oxygen uptake
      (peak VO2). A consequence of the reduced exercise tolerance is that activities of daily
      living require near maximal effort, resulting in further deconditioning and reduced quality
      of life. The majority of work to date has focused on cardiac limitations, showing impaired
      cardiac output and marked diastolic dysfunction. Although these findings have provided
      important insight into the pathophysiology of HFpEF, drug therapies targeting cardiac
      function do not improve peak VO2, quality of life, or survival in HFpEF patients.

      Older HFpEF patients have multiple skeletal muscle abnormalities including reduced skeletal
      muscle oxidative capacity and capillary-to-fiber ratio resulting in increased anaerobic
      metabolism during low-level exercise. Importantly, accumulation of anaerobic metabolites
      within the exercising muscles are known to activate skeletal muscle afferent fibers (called
      metaboreceptors), that elicit a reflex-mediated increase in efferent muscle sympathetic
      (vasoconstrictor) nerve activity (MSNA). The investigators here propose a novel paradigm of
      exercise intolerance in older HFpEF patients whereby skeletal muscle abnormalities lead to
      overactivation of the muscle metaboreflex and MSNA mediated vasoconstriction that limits
      delivery of oxygenated blood to the active muscles. Further, exercise training mediated
      improvements in skeletal muscle function will alleviate the metaboreflex, thereby reducing
      MSNA and improve oxygen delivery to the contracting muscles.

      To test this novel paradigm, the investigators will first perform an initial cross-sectional
      comparison of older (≥60 years) HFpEF patients (N=24) with age and sex-matched healthy
      controls (N=24), and then enter the HFpEF patients into a randomized, controlled, single
      blind, trial of exercise training to test the following hypothesis: (i) that MSNA is elevated
      in older HFpEF patients compared to healthy controls, and is associated with reduced peak
      VO2, physical functional performance, aerobic endurance, muscle blood flow, and quality of
      life; and (ii) Exercise training will attenuate MSNA compared to attention control, and will
      correlate with improved peak VO2, physical functional performance, aerobic endurance, muscle
      blood flow, and quality of life in older HFpEF patients.
    
  