
    
      The purpose of this study is to verify the safety and tolerability of AG011 and to determine
      whether AG011 can successfully treat the symptoms of Ulcerative Colitis (UC). Three different
      dosages will be used in reference to a placebo.

      AG011 is an experimental medication. It has been developed as potential treatment for
      moderately active UC.

      AG011 is the clinical formulation of a genetically modified L. lactis that has been
      engineered to secrete human Interleukin-10 (hIL-10). By delivering hIL-10 locally at inflamed
      tissue in the intestine, it is believed that, compared to hIL-10 given by injection, the
      effectiveness may be increased, with fewer adverse effects.

      Study medication will be provided in capsule and enema (topical rectal application) forms by
      ActoGeniX NV.

      Subjects will be entered sequentially into one of three dose groups, starting from the lowest
      dose group. Within each of the first two dose groups, 15 subjects will be entered. Within the
      highest dose group, 30 subjects will be entered. Within each dose group, subjects will be
      randomly assigned in a 2:1 ratio to receive either AG011 or placebo for 28 days.

      Timely monitoring of safety data is planned for the study, such that subject enrollment can
      continue without interruption for the purpose of data collection between dose groups. Safety
      and tolerability will be closely monitored by the Clinical Safety Specialist (CSS) assigned
      to the study. The CSS will review adverse events and laboratory safety data and report any
      safety concerns to the Sponsor and a Data Safety Monitoring Committee (DSMC).

      At least 8 subjects must have safely completed study treatment for 28 days at a specific dose
      level, prior to escalation to the next dose group. The DSMC will convene to assess safety
      data when 8 subjects have completed study treatment for 28 days at the specific dose level.
      The role of the DSMC for the study will be complete when all subjects in the study have
      completed study treatment.

      For those patients randomized within the active group, UC symptoms could improve. As a result
      of the information gathered by this study, the knowledge and understanding of UC could
      improve.
    
  