
    
      This study will be a multicentre study to determine if it is possible to carry out a future
      trial comparing the effectiveness of two minimally invasive techniques to remove small kidney
      cancers, with the standard treatment of removing part of the diseased kidney. In this future
      study, participants will be randomly assigned (randomised) to one of these three treatment
      options. This current study will look at whether patients would be willing to be randomised
      to a treatment type, whether sufficient numbers for a larger trial would be likely to be
      recruited within a certain time period, and also to decide what aspects of the conduct and
      outcomes of each of the three treatment types would need to be recorded in a largescale trial
      to compare their effectiveness.

      Eligible participants for this study will be identified and will be invited to take part in
      the study by their clinicians currently involved in their kidney cancer assessment. They
      would then receive information about the surgery treatment (removing the diseases part of the
      kidney) and one of the alternative treatment methods (destroying the kidney cancer tumour
      using either heat or by freezing) in the participating hospital. If the patient was
      interested in participating in the study, they will be asked to consent to be randomised to
      one of the two treatment types they were given the information about.

      If a patient declines to be randomised to a treatment, they will be asked to participate in a
      series of interviews, to establish the reasons behind why they declined, such as if they had
      a preference for one of the treatments.

      Those patients that consent to being randomised to one of the treatment arms will undergo a
      screening visit to confirm their eligibility for this study, and at this visit they will have
      a blood sampke taken and be asked to complete some questionnaires about their general health
      and how they feel. This is so that any questionnaires completed at a later date after
      treatment will be compared to how the patient responded before treatment, in order to look
      for any changes or improvements to the patients. Once they have been confirmed as eligible,
      they will be randomised to a treatment arm,, and a hospital appointment for their treatment
      will also be made at this time.

      At the treatment visit, each patient will be admitted to hospital for their treatment as
      scheduled, and will be kept in hospital for the recommended duration after their operation.
      Those having the diseased part of the kidney removed will be kept in hospital for 35 days,
      those having their kidney cancer frozen using cryoablation will be kept in hospital for 2
      days, and those having their kidney cancers destroyed using heat (radiofrequency ablation)
      will be kept in for one day.

      As per standard care, this duration of time in hospital could vary if the patient experiences
      any unexpected complications. They will also have some blood samples taken at this visit to
      assess their kidney function.

      All treatments will be given by a qualified specialist surgeon with extensive experience in
      the treatment they are giving the patient.

      Three months after their treatment, each patient will be asked to return to their hospital
      for a followup visit. At this visit, the patients will be asked to complete the same
      questionnaires as was completed previously, as well as to undertake a CT scan to assess if
      the treatment they were given was successful and to determine if all the kidney cancer was
      removed or destroyed. This CT scan is for patients who undergo cryoablaton treatment only.
      Patients who undergo radiofrequency ablation treatment will have a CT scan one month after
      treatment. All patients will also have a blood sample taken at this visit to assess their
      kidney funtion.

      Six months after their treatment, each patient will be asked to return to their hospital for
      a followup visit, at which point patients undergoing cryoablation treatment will once again
      have a CT scan to assess if their treatment remains a success, and to determine if all the
      kidney cancer is still destroyed or whether some of it has returned. They will be asked to
      complete the questionnaires from previous visits one more time, so as to compare how they
      feel and how their general health has improved or changed from previously.

      Patients who undergo radiofrequency ablation treatment or cryoablation treatment will be
      required to attend for a further final visit within 2 weeks of their 6 month followup visit
      in order to have a kidney biopsy taken to determine if their treatment remains a success and
      all of the cancer mass has been destroyed.

      After these six months, and five visit, the patient will return to their normal standard
      clinical followup visits, which they would be having whether they were on the study or not.

      As well as these mentioned visits, some patients who consent to be randomised, will also be
      asked to consent to being involved in a series of interviews, at which times they will be
      asked general questions on how they feel in general and about the treatments they have
      received.
    
  