
    
      These stem cells are called Human Spinal Stem Cells (HSSC) and have been engineered from the
      spinal cord of a single fetus electively aborted after 8 weeks of gestation. The tissue was
      obtained with the mother's consent. The cells will be transplanted into the ALS patient's
      spinal cord after laminectomy, an operation that removes bone surrounding the spine. After
      the spinal cord is exposed, a device manufactured for this purpose will be mounted onto the
      patient and will hold a syringe filled with the cells. The syringe will have a needle
      attached and the needle will enter the spinal cord in specified areas. The device will
      minimize trauma to the spinal cord by the needle by making the puncture precise and steady
      and injecting the material at a slow and steady speed.

      ALS is a universally fatal neurodegenerative condition that causes weakness leading to
      paralysis and death. Life expectancy is 2-5 years. The cause is unknown and there is no
      effective treatment. Previous research has shown that on autopsy, ALS patients are found to
      have increased levels of the amino acid glutamate accumulated in the brain and spinal cord.
      This increase is thought to be caused by a decrease in the glutamate transporter which
      normally "cleans up" glutamate from the cells.

      Because the HSSC are human in origin, their transplantation will be handled in some ways like
      other organ transplants in that patients will receive immunosuppressive medications to
      prevent the rejection of the cells. Right before and immediately after surgery patients will
      receive infusions of a drug called basiliximab. After surgery they will take prednisone and
      be tapered off that medication over one month. They will also be given two other
      immunosuppressive agents, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil after surgery and it is
      expected that the patients will take these drugs for the rest of their lives.
    
  