
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the complete response (CR) rate in patients with mantle cell lymphoma, who are
      treated with VcR-CVAD.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the overall response rate to VcR-CVAD. II. To evaluate the progression-free
      survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) of patients receiving maintenance rituximab after
      VcR-CVAD induction.

      III. To evaluate the PFS and OS of patients who receive autologous stem cell transplantation
      (ASCT) after VcR-CVAD induction.

      IV. To evaluate the toxicity of VcR-CVAD.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Evaluation of antigen expression patterns to determine or confirm possible unique
      expressions of MCL.

      II. To evaluate the percentage of circulating mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) cells.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Induction therapy (VcR-CVAD): Patients receive VcR-CVAD comprising bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 IV
      over 3-5 seconds on days 1 and 4; rituximab 375 mg/m2 IV over 3-4 hours on day 1; doxorubicin
      hydrochloride 25 mg/m2/d IV over 48 hours on days 1 and 2; cyclophosphamide 300 mg/m2 IV over
      3 hours every 12 hours on days 1-3; vincristine 1 mg IV over 3-5 seconds on day 3; and
      dexamethasone 40 mg IV or orally once daily on days 1-4. Patients also receive filgrastim
      (G-CSF) subcutaneously (SC) or IV once daily beginning on day 5 or 6 and continuing until
      blood counts recover OR pegfilgrastim SC on day 5 or 6. Treatment repeats every 21 days for
      up to 6 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      Maintenance therapy: Beginning 4-8 weeks after completion of induction therapy, patients
      receive rituximab IV over 3-4 hours once weekly for 4 weeks. Treatment repeats every 6 months
      for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of induction therapy, patients who are eligible may have the option to
      receive consolidation therapy for autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) (off-study).
      These patients undergo stem cell harvest during courses 4, 5, or 6 of induction therapy.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 10 years.
    
  