
    
      Background:

      Pre-operative chemotherapy down size and down stage tumours prior to surgery and improves
      treatment outcome. However, current chemotherapy regime requires long terrn venous access for
      protracted chemotherapy infusion. Despite encouraging response rate, there are still a
      substantial number who did not achieve curative resection after pre-operative chemotherapy.
      Hence there is a need to develop 1) a more convenient and effective regimen and 2) a
      surrogate for treatment response so that the non-responder can be identified early.

      Specific aims:

      To assess the radiological response, curative resection rate of preoperative
      docetaxel/cisplatin and capecitabine in patients with Stage II & III gastric or lower
      oesophageal adenocarcinoma and to correlate treatment response with serum RUNX3 methylation
      status.

      Hypotheses:

      We hypothesize that the proposed preoperative regimen is effective in gastric cancer and can
      be safely delivered. In addition, RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation status can be a surrogate
      for treatment response.

      Methodology:

      This is a phase II study design to assess the response and tolerability of preoperative
      docetaxel, cisplatin and capecitabine in patients with operable gastric cancer. Simon's
      two-stage design is used to calculate the sample size for this Phase II trial, using two
      levels of response rate, P0 (20%) and P1 (50%). Accordingly, 20 patients is required for this
      study; 8 patients will be accrued for the first stage followed by 12 more patients when three
      or more responses are observed during the first stage. The alpha level of the design is 0.04
      and power is 0.86. Serum measurement of tumour's RUNX3 promoter hypermethylation will be
      performed prior to each treatment cycle to evaluate its role as a biomarker for treatment
      response.
    
  