
    
      The pandemic outbreak of SARS-CoV-2 has put significant strain on the hospitals of many
      countries around the world. Spain has been one of the countries most affected by the
      COVID-19, with nearly 30 thousands of confirmed deaths as by 23rd of May 2020.

      While the state of emergency was declared by the Spanish government at the beginning of March
      2020, the Intensive Care Units of the larger Spanish cities were overwhelmed by the number of
      patients in need of invasive respiratory supports. Moreover, data from China revealed that
      patients undergoing surgery and being SARS-CoV-2 carriers were at higher risk for
      complications and fatalities. As a result, most of the elective surgeries have been canceled
      in all surgical disciplines. As far as it concerned the urology patients, recommendations
      were provided by the European Association of Urology in order to guide the selection of the
      surgeries to be prioritized. Further recommendations on how to screen patients before
      surgeries were released by other national and international scientific societies and
      regulatory boards.

      However, regardless of a successful pre-operative screening with patients being cleared of
      COVID-19, there might be still the possibility the patients could incubate the virus during
      hospitalization or getting it in the hospital from other patients, visitors or professionals.

      To the best of the current state of knowledge, no recommendations have been published on how
      to guide the decision-making process on patients developing postoperatively unspecific
      symptoms (fever, chest pain, oxygen desaturation, etc) which could raise suspicions for
      COVID-19 during the outbreak of the disease.

      The Institutional site of the investigators is a monographic hospital fully dedicated to
      urology and nephrology, and work in close cooperation with one of the four larger public
      hospitals in Barcelona; this latter has been one of those hospitals under significant strain
      for the COVID-19 emergency, while the former was marginally involved by the pandemic wave.
      The urological surgical activities never stopped during the outbreak, though initially were
      severely reduced; after experiencing some post-operative severe complications in patients
      developing concomitantly the SARS-CoV-2 infection, the investigators developed an enhanced
      pre and post-surgical protocol having a twofold objective: 1) to limit the risk to intervene
      patients harbouring the SARS-CoV-2 by undertaking an RT-PCR test 48 hours before surgery, and
      screening for symptoms compatible with COVID-19 and/or for strict contacts with infected
      people; furthermore, an X-ray thorax, and serum D-dimer and C-Reactive Protein were
      undertaken to establish baseline values. 2) to establish a post-surgical algorithm to guide
      surgeons on the nature of unspecific (and common) symptoms that could overlook for COVID-19
      or rather raise unnecessary alarms for the viral infection, by performing serum/blood and
      imaging tests.

      As soon as the protocol was put in action, data have been recorded prospectively in a
      registry in order to evaluate the utility of such a strategy. The recruitment period has been
      planned to embrace only the acute phase of the pandemic; the investigators hypothesize that
      such enhanced work-out may reduce the hospital contamination and optimal patient care in the
      acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic as well as in its future waves, especially in those
      urological or surgical sites where activities have not been discontinued.
    
  