
    
      Sample: The sample will be recruited from the Washington University School of Medicine
      Obstetrical Service within the Barnes Jewish Christian (BJC) Health System, on which there
      are over 3000 Missouri childbirths per year, serving an urban population of families that are
      disproportionately affected by poverty. Fifty-five per cent of patients report a family
      income less than $20,000, 65% of the mothers are unemployed, and the majority of the newborns
      are on Medicaid or are Medicaid-eligible. In preliminary screening efforts, over one third of
      the mothers reported their own childhood histories of maltreatment, and approximately one
      half score in the clinical range for depressive symptomatology.

      Methods: A schematic summarizing study enrollment, participant randomization, and
      ascertainment of outcomes is provided in Figure 1.

      Study Approach and Design: N=400 families are in the process of being enrolled in the parent
      longitudinal study. Among those who fall in an elevated risk category (upper 50% of the
      sample for total count of established risk factors) we will randomize 150 families 2:1 to
      Personalized Education Regarding Clinical and Community Supports (PERCCS) versus Usual Care.
      Risk counts are calculated by the total number of established predictors of risk for CM
      (itemized in Table 1) ascertained from birth records and: i) a screen for maternal
      depression, ii) a screen for maternal childhood trauma, and iii) a screen for active intimate
      partner violence. Utilization of community-based evidence-informed support services will be
      ascertained at baseline and quarterly thereafter for all study participants. Official-report
      Child Maltreatment data from Missouri state administrative data will be individually linked
      with participant research records when the children reach 18 months of age.

      PERCCS involves i) a review with the mother of all family CM risks ascertained in the context
      of their own individual screening ii) recommendations of community and clinical interventions
      which substantively respond to those risks and are available to the subject (on the basis of
      each individual subject's zip code, insurance, and eligibility for the interventions),
      collectively the personalized family resource plan, iii) facilitation of contact between the
      subject and the respective provider agencies to initiate enrollment; and iv) authorization
      for the research team to share the personalized risk profile and support recommendations with
      the infant's outpatient primary care provider.

      The community and clinical supports responsive to specific risk factors are listed in Table
      1, which summarizes the array of evidence-informed preventions that will be presented to the
      families, and the correspondence with each to specific CM risks ascertained within a family.
      Table 2 depicts the set of scripts which are used by the study team to standardize all
      aspects of the review of endorsed risks, their potential adverse effects on parenting, and
      the opportunities for mitigation through evidence-informed intervention.

      All participants will receive care as usual, including the provision of a summary document
      itemizing key community supports for families of infants, a continuously-updated local
      community resource handbook, a published parenting guide, and opportunity to enroll
      free-of-charge in a virtual parenting education and developmental surveillance program,
      babynavigator.com.

      Key Measures:

      The Utilization of Community Services (UCS) is a survey that will be used to ascertain
      engagement of families in community supports and interventions, including tracking of both
      frequency and duration. This survey is completed at the time of study enrollment to establish
      a baseline, and quarterly thereafter until the completion of the study when a child reaches
      18 months of age.

      State Records: The second primary outcome, rate of child maltreatment, will rely on official
      state records from the State of Missouri Department of Social Services. Participants are
      aware that accessing service records or CM report data are retrospective when acquired and do
      not pose any risk or liability to them nor can it impact services received.

      Statistical Analyses:

      I. Intent-to-treat analysis of impact of PERCCS on service utilization. We will calculate the
      total proportion of evidence-informed services indicated by risk profiles of all families
      within each group (the intervention group and the control group) and compare the groups using
      chi square analysis.

      II. Intent-to-treat analysis of the impact of PERCCS on the occurrence of child maltreatment.
      We will compare the rate of official-report abuse/neglect between the groups using chi square
      analysis.

      III. (Secondary) We will conduct logistic regression analysis simultaneously examining the
      effects of risk count and service access on official report child maltreatment outcome.

      The randomized controlled trial has adequate statistical power to detect an odds ratio of 2.0
      for the effect of PERRCS in reducing child maltreatment outcome.
    
  