
    
      A within study design will be conducted in order to evaluate four different prosthetic
      devices (current, non-propulsive TDF, propulsive TDF and Cyberlegs) with ten participants.

      Prior to the baseline test, a familiarization trial aimed to accustom participants to the
      experimental protocol, to get used to the measurements and interface of the measurement
      devices. The baseline experimental trial is implemented to evaluate the current prosthesis
      during the different tests. The same tests will be performed during the evaluation of the
      other devices. Participants are asked to perform the following consecutive tasks with ten
      minutes of rest in between each task. The first task is a stair climbing test where
      participants' will be asked to ascend and descend a staircase. Participants start in front of
      the staircase and are asked to ascend and descend as fast as possible. Bilateral handrails
      are required to allow support when needed. The ascending phase is initiated with the
      prosthetic side, while the first step of the descending phase is performed with the
      non-involved leg. The second task is the L-test, where participants are asked to rise from a
      chair, walk through an office door, turn 90 degrees, walk down a hallway, turn 180 degrees
      and then return in the same way to the seated position. A total distance of 20 meter will be
      covered. The slope walking test assesses the participants' ability to ascend and descend an
      inclined ramp as fast as possible. For safety reasons bilateral handrails are warranted.
      Participants start the test in an upright position in front of the ramp and are asked to
      ascend the ramp, turn around on the platform, descend the ramp and return to the starting
      position. During a two-minute walk test, participants are asked to respond as fast as
      possible to a stimulus visualized on a computer screen one meter in front of the treadmill.
      Finally, a hallway six-minute walk test will be performed on a hallway at a self-selected
      walking speed, which closely relates to the most efficient walking speed.

      In between each test with a novel device, participants need accustom to the novel device to
      ensure a good alignment and fitting. Participants will be fitted and aligned to the novel
      device by a physiotherapist and prosthetist.
    
  