
    
      1. Title A Randomized Controlled Trial of Bladder Flap vs. None in Cesarean Section

        2. Background (This section should be used to provide a rationale for the conduct of the
           study. Refer to existent or preliminary studies as necessary) The standard of care in
           performing cesarean delivery is to perform a bladder flap in the procedures.1 The
           creation of a bladder flap essentially allows a surgeon to create a space between the
           uterus and the bladder so that he/she has better access to the lower portion of the
           uterus where a low transverse incision can be made. This procedure involves making a
           superficial incision into the peritoneum, or the cell lining of the abdominal cavity,
           and the moving the bladder down and away from the lower portion of the uterus. A
           retractor or a bladder blade is then inserted into this space to hold the bladder away
           from the uterus (see Appendix A).2 Use of the bladder flap in cesarean delivery dates
           back to 1878 in the pre-antibiotic era,3 and theoretically, the bladder flap allows
           better access to the low portion of the uterus while decreasing risk of bladder injury
           and infection. However, several recent but small studies suggest the inclusion of the
           bladder flap confers no advantage and may actually contribute to greater morbidity
           postoperatively. 4-5 Additionally, the incidence of bladder injuries is 0.3%, and most
           injuries resulted during the formation of the bladder flap.6 The evidence from these
           studies are limited by the inclusion of other modifications in surgical procedures and a
           lack of replication of results, respectively. Thus there is insufficient evidence to
           either support or reject the inclusion of bladder flaps in cesarean deliveries (Evidence
           grade C).7-8

        3. Specific Objectives (Enumerate the objectives and nature of the measured end-points.
           Justify the use of surrogate clinical end-points as necessary)

      1. To compare outcomes in cesarean section patients undergoing bladder flap versus none.

      4. Study design (Explicate the nature of the study - observational vs experimental.
      Differentiate between cohort, case-control, and cross-sectional and randomized clinical
      trials. For the latter, provide sufficient supporting justification for the experimental arm.
      If it is a placebo-controlled trial, please state whether clinical equipoise exists between
      the placebo and experimental arm.) Randomized controlled trial.

      Endpoints:

      Total operating time (continuous) and Time of delivery to end of surgery (continuous)
      Estimated blood loss (continuous) Post operative fever (categorical) Bladder injury
      (categorical) Pre- and post-operative pain medication (continuous) and Analog pain scale
      (continuous)

      5. Subject Selection (Include an enumeration of inclusion and exclusion criteria)

      MAHEC patients presenting for delivery at Mission Hospitals requiring a cesarean section

      Inclusion Exclusion Cesarean section All vaginal deliveries

      ≥ 35 weeks gestation < 35 weeks gestation Able to provide consent for medical treatment
      Urgent cesarean section Unable to provide consent for medical treatment Medical complications
      prohibitive of bladder flap Medical complications prohibitive of no bladder flap

      6. Statistical methods, data analysis and interpretation (Include the factors considered in
      determining an appropriate sample size) Sample size of 100 per group based on an estimated
      mean difference of 5 minutes on total operating time (study arm 45±12.5 vs. bladder flap arm
      50±12.5; Power=080; alpha=0.05; two-tailed).4

      Per protocol analysis utilizing analysis of variance or for continuous variables and chi
      square analysis of categorical variables.

      7. Study Procedures (Describe the chronological flow of the study, using schematic diagrams
      as necessary. Distinguish clearly between treatment-related [medically-indicated] and
      research-related procedures the subject will undergo)

      All OB patients presenting at L&D for delivery will be approached for informed consent.
      consenting patients for whom a cesarean delivery is medically indicated will be randomized to
      bladder flap vs. none. Patients unable to consent for medical treatment or not wishing to
      consent for the project will be excluded. Consenting patients for whom a cesarean is
      medically indicated will be randomly assigned to bladder flap vs. by previously allocation of
      subject number. Patients will undergo assigned procedure unless excluded at the discretion of
      the surgeons who determine the alternate procedure is medically indicated. Patients
      undergoing the assigned procedure will have all data extracted from hospital medical records
      and entered into SPSS for a per-protocol analysis.
    
  