
    
      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will apply CD5789 cream 1
      time each day. You should do this after you wash the area.

      During your first study visit, the study staff will select which lesions you will apply cream
      to. The study staff will tell you how much cream to apply.

      On Day 1, the study staff will apply the study drug on half of the lesions. You will apply
      the study drug to the rest of the lesions while the study staff watches. In a diary, the
      study staff will write down the time you applied the study drug. You must write down this
      information in the diary when you apply the study drug at home. On your Week 1 visit, you
      will apply the study drug at the clinic while the study staff watches.

      You will use gloves to apply the study drug in a thin film on the lesions. Be careful not to
      overlap healthy skin. You should massage the study drug gently into the skin. If someone
      helps you apply the study drug, they must also wear gloves.

      Bring the diary with you to each visit. You should return all unused study drug and/or empty
      tubes at each study visit.

      You must avoid exposing the treated areas to the sun (you should wear clothing to cover these
      areas). You should also not swim or take a bath while on study, but you can take a shower at
      least 2 hours after you apply the drug.

      If your skin is dry, you will be given a moisturizer (such as Cetaphil Restoraderm Skin
      Restoring Moisturizer) to use.

      Study Visits:

      At all study visits, you will asked about any drugs you may be taking or any side effects you
      may have had.

      On Day 1:

        -  Any skin lesions will be measured and photographed. Your private areas will be covered
           as much as possible, and a picture of your face will not be taken.

        -  You will have a skin biopsy to check the status of the disease. To perform a skin
           biopsy, an area will be numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of skin will be
           removed with a small knife. The skin biopsy will be done before you apply the study
           drug.

        -  You will have tape stripping to measure any inflammatory markers on the skin.
           Inflammatory markers may be related to the status of the disease. To have tape
           stripping, small special pieces of tape will be applied to 1 skin lesion and to an area
           of normal skin next to it. When the tape loses it stickiness it will be collected by the
           study staff.

        -  You will have an EKG to check your heart function.

        -  You will be asked about how much you itch and if you have any burning or stinging
           sensations after applying the study drug.

        -  If you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a urine pregnancy test.

      At Weeks 1, 2, 4, and 8:

        -  Any skin lesions will be measured and photographed.

        -  You will be asked about how much you itch and if you have any burning or stinging
           sensations after applying the study drug.

      At Weeks 4 and 8, if you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a urine pregnancy
      test.

      Length of Study:

      You may continue using the study drug for up to 12 weeks, as long as the study doctor thinks
      it is in your best interest. You will no longer be able to use the study drug if the disease
      gets worse, if intolerable side effects occur, or if you are unable to follow study
      directions.

      Your participation on the study will be over when you have completed the end-of-study visit.

      All samples collected during the study will be destroyed after the study has been completed
      and all patients are off study.

      End-of-Study Visit:

      On the last day you apply the study drug (Week 12), you will have an end-of-study visit:

        -  You will be asked about any other drugs and treatments you may be receiving.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of your vital signs.

        -  Any skin lesions will be examined and photographed.

        -  Blood (about 2½ teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests. and to tests for HIV and/or
           hepatitis.

        -  Blood (about 1 teaspoon each time) will be drawn for pharmacokinetic (PK) testing 12
           hours after the study drug is applied at home PK testing measures the amount of study
           drug in the body at different time points.

        -  You will have an EKG to check your heart function.

        -  You will have a skin biopsy to check the status of the disease.

        -  You will have tape stripping to measure any inflammatory markers on the skin.

        -  If you can become pregnant, urine will be collected for a pregnancy test.

      This is an investigational study. CD5789 is not FDA approved or commercially available. It is
      currently being used for research purposes only.

      Up to 10 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at MD Anderson.
    
  