
    
      The aim of the study is to evaluate the impact of preoperative breast MRI on primary surgical
      treatment in a highly specialized multidisciplinary breast cancer clinic. The clinic serves a
      population of 237.000. The diagnostic tools routinely used are conventional mammography,
      ultrasound with core needle biopsy, and clinical examination including palpation of breast
      and axillary nodes. If indicated, the examination includes ultrasound examination and fine
      needle biopsy of axillary glands. We offer all patients selected for breast-conserving
      surgery preoperative breast MRI.

      We include consecutively breast cancer lesions in women aged 35-75 in a prospective study,
      collecting data from January 2009 to December 2010. The patients are all selected for
      breast-conserving surgery based on the criteria recommended by the Norwegian Breast Cancer
      Group. That is, tumor ≤ 4 cm, or acceptable tumor:breast ratio, and age > 35. Multifocal
      lesions, defined as more than one tumor > 1 cm apart, size of tumor > 4 cm, or a large
      tumor:breast ratio, extensive ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS), or known genetic disposition
      for breast cancer, indicates mastectomy according to these criterias. In addition, when
      postoperative radiation therapy is contraindicated, mastectomy is indicated. If the patients
      fill the criteria for breast-conserving surgery, they are offered preoperative breast MRI and
      included in the study. Patients who either choose mastectomy, or does not get a breast MRI
      for technical reasons, are excluded from the study. Two experienced breast radiologists
      evaluate the breast MRIs, and three experienced breast radiologists study the mammographies
      and perform the ultrasound examinations and biopsies. All additional MRI findings are
      examined by ultrasound-guided biopsy and given a histological diagnose before it influence
      the surgical method.

      A formal application has been presented to the regional ethical commitee. Since this is an
      observational study of established practice, the commitee replied that approval was not
      required.
    
  