
    
      We hypothesize that the incidence of subtle neuropsychometric injury will be significantly
      greater than the incidence of stroke comparable to what we found in patients having carotid
      endarterectomy. Patients will be evaluated prospectively to determine the incidence of
      neurological morbidity based on both the neurologic/neuropsychometric examinations

      The results of this study will serve to (a) determine incidence of
      neurologic/neuropsychometric morbidity for patients undergoing carotid artery angioplasty
      and/or stenting at ColumbiaPresbyterian Medical Center, (b) ascertain the time course of
      these changes, (c) identify intraprocedural markers for these changes, and (d) design
      protocols to evaluate the efficacy of therapeutic interventions.

      Cerebral injury will be determined three ways.

      First, all patients will be evaluated using a battery of neuropsychometric tests before and
      after the procedure. Persons presenting to the hospital on the day of the procedure, referred
      to hereafter as "Same Day", will be evaluated on the day of the procedure, one day after and
      at the 1 month follow up.

      Preoperative neurological and neuropsychological evaluation will be performed. The
      neuropsychometric tests are designed to demonstrate general neuropsychological pathology.
      These tests can be divided into four types: (1) an evaluation of language, (2) an evaluation
      of speed of mental processing, (3) an evaluation of ability to learn using a list of words,
      and (4) an evaluation of visual perception requiring a patient to copy a complex figure.
      Before the battery is administered we will assess each patient's level of pain while sitting
      and standing using a 10 point Visual Analog Scale and then gauge their mood with a series
      called the Wong/Baker Faces Rating scale.

      We will also evaluate each patient's quality of life using two well-known examinations
      (Telephone Interview for Cognitive Status (TICS) and Centers for Disease Control and
      Prevention HealthRelated Quality-of-Life 14Item Measure (CDC HRQOL14)) and a series of
      questions investigating how well patients are able to perform activities of daily living
      (ADLs) and instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs). These tests will be given at two
      time points, once before the surgery and then one month after surgery. We will look for
      changes in quality of life that may correlate with neuropsychometric test performance.

      Serum levels of neuron specific enolase (NSE) and protein S100B, a neuronal enzyme and glial
      cell component respectively, markers of cell injury will demonstrate cerebral injury. Serum
      levels of TNFá (Tumor Necrosis Factor Alpha) and IL8 (Interleukin 8) will be used to evaluate
      the presence and degree of systemic inflammatory response.

      DNA genotyping will be performed either by isolating leukocytes from blood and/or by
      obtaining a buccal swab sample. Normally blood is sampled via the femoral arterial catheter
      for assessment of hematocrit, and blood gas analysis.

      Patients will undergo an intraprocedural transcranial Doppler ultrasonograph (TCD). TCD
      monitoring probes will be placed on the patient's head with a standard head frame after
      sedation, one probe on each side to measure the cerebral blood flow (CBF) velocity and
      determine the presence of emboli in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) on either side of the
      brain (Spencer Technologies, Seattle, WA). We hypothesize that there may be a relationship
      between emboli and subtle cognitive decline as ascertained by the battery of
      neuropsychometric exams. An electroencephalogram (EEG) will be applied to monitor for
      significant hemispheric cerebral ischemia which may occur when the balloon is inflated and
      occludes the artery. We routinely use EEG monitoring during carotid endarterectomy and its
      use exposes the patient to no risk.
    
  