
    
      The overall objective of this prospective, pilot study is to determine if percutaneous tibial
      nerve stimulation (PTNS) is an effective treatment for interstitial cystitis/painful bladder
      syndrome (IC/PBS). Our specific aim is to evaluate how PTNS performs with regards to the
      reduction of symptoms in subjects with this disorder. The primary outcome variable will be
      the percentage of subjects to report that they are moderately improved or markedly improved
      in overall symptoms compared to baseline on a 7-point global response assessment (GRA) scale.
      The GRA scale involves asking the question, "As compared to when you started the current
      study, how would you rate your overall symptoms now?". There are 7 possible responses:
      markedly worse, moderately worse, slightly worse, the same, slightly improved, moderately
      improved and markedly improved. This scale is the current standard for outcome in studies
      that are evaluating treatments and interventions for IC/PBS.

      There will be a number of secondary outcome variables including: changes in a 24 hour voiding
      diary during the course of the interventions, ratings for bladder pain, urinary urgency and
      urinary frequency on standardized scales, the score on O'Leary-Sant IC Symptom and Problem
      Index, scores of validated questionnaires for pelvic floor and general health. The
      investigators will also collect and report any adverse events.

      Subjects will be recruited during a routine visit to the University of California, Irvine
      (UCI) urogynecology division that the patient has scheduled to initiate or continue routine
      care for their complaints. If the provider feels that the patient may be appropriate for the
      study and meets the inclusion/exclusion criteria, she will offer to have a study investigator
      speak with patient at that time or at a later time at the patient's convenience. Once
      consents are signed, the subject will be provided with the following materials to complete
      before their first treatment visit:

        1. demographic and medical history survey

        2. 24 hour voiding diary

        3. visual analog scale (VAS) for bladder pain

        4. Pelvic Pain and Urgency/Frequency Patient Symptom Scale (PUF Questionnaire)

        5. O'Leary-Sant IC Symptom and Problem Index

        6. urine pregnancy test (for premenopausal subjects)

      The PTNS treatment visits will be administered in the standard fashion. This involves the
      placement of a thin needle (similar to an acupuncture needle) inserted near the posterior
      ankle. The needle is then connected to an electrode stimulator and the stimulation is
      adjusted until appropriate response (toe flex or fan) is obtained without patient discomfort.
      When at the appropriate level, the electrode is stimulated for 30 minutes per treatment
      session.

      Study visits will be conducted in the UCI Ob/Gyn clinic with a nurse trained to administer
      PTNS. These treatments will occur weekly for 12 weeks. (See Section 2.4 for table outlining
      treatment visits.) At all visits, the nurse will inquire regarding any adverse reactions to
      treatment and the subject complete a VAS. After completion of the twelfth treatment visit,
      the subject will be requested to complete the following:

        1. 7-point global response assessment (GRA) scale and interval medical history
           questionnaire

        2. 24 hour voiding diary

        3. visual analog scale (VAS) for bladder pain

        4. Pelvic Pain and Urgency/Frequency Patient Symptom Scale (PUF Questionnaire)

        5. O'Leary-Sant IC Symptom and Problem Index

      These forms will be returned within two weeks and the subject will return to the clinic for a
      follow up visit with her provider. At this time, depending on their current symptoms and
      response to the treatment on the GRA scale, the subjects will be offered to continue with
      PTNS treatments at a maintenance interval or to pursue alternative care outside of the study
      protocol if no benefit was obtained. If subjects are planning to continue maintenance
      treatments, they will be asked if they wish to continue with an additional follow up 12-16
      weeks after the final treatment visit. The information collected at that time will be as
      follows:

        1. 7-point global response assessment (GRA) scale and interval medical history
           questionnaire

        2. 24 hour voiding diary

        3. visual analog scale (VAS) for bladder pain

        4. Pelvic Pain and Urgency/Frequency Patient Symptom Scale (PUF Questionnaire)

        5. O'Leary-Sant IC Symptom and Problem Index

        6. Post-study follow-up survey
    
  