
    
      Inguinal hernia is a common disease with a high lifetime risk; 27 % for men and 3% for women.
      These hernias can be categorized as lateral, medial or femoral according to the
      classification of the European Hernia Society. The manifestations may vary from an
      asymptomatic swelling till an incarcerated or strangulated hernia requiring an urgent
      operation.

      The introduction of mesh reinforcement for groin hernia repair has resulted in reducing the
      rate of recurrences and chronic pain. Moreover, laparoscopic repair techniques made it
      possible to place the mesh in de pre-peritoneal space by a transperitoneal (TAPP) or
      pre-peritoneal (TEP) approach. These minimally invasive techniques are not only associated
      with less chronic pain of numbness, but also with an earlier return to normal activities or
      work. A favor for one of the two techniques has not yet been proven.

      Also, the repair of groin hernias always goes along with a discussion about placing the
      optimal mesh, the optimum mesh size and the optimal fixation method of the mesh. There are a
      lot of meshes available of different materials, in different sizes and with different
      properties.

      The majority of all meshed need to be fixed to the abdominal wall. Meshes as the anatomic
      ProGrip Laparoscopic self-fixating mesh (Covidien) has been developed with self-fixating
      properties due to the polylactic acid micro-grips on one side of the mesh which secures the
      mesh without requiring any other form of fixation. While the ENDOLAP 3D visible mesh
      (Dynamesh) has been developed with a pre-shaped form that fits the defect naturally and
      therefore makes a fixation redundant.

      However, no consensus on the best method of mesh fixation or even non-fixation can be found
      in the common literature. Penetrating fixation methods of the mesh have a strong positioning
      as result, but for inguinal hernia, mesh fixation using titanium tacks with or without
      sutures clearly indicated more development of postoperative pain and discomfort for the
      patient. Current recommendations are to avoid penetrating fixation and replace this by either
      no fixation or fixation with glue. This will decrease pain but should not risk a less stable
      mesh fixation ongoing with recurrence due to mesh shifting of mesh shrinkage. It is known
      that the majority of implanted meshes shrink to an extent, which might be of disadvantage for
      the patient. This has already been demonstrated in several animal studies, but clinical
      information on the mesh shrinkage is rare and mostly a result from revisional surgery.

      LiquiBand Fix 8 glue is a new, innovative hernia mesh fixation device providing strong and
      secure mesh fixation without causing any tissue damage or mechanical trauma. LiquiBand Fix 8
      received CE mark approval in May 2014.

      All ordinary meshes for groin hernia repair, based on polymeric textile, are invisible to
      conventional imaging techniques, inclusive "magnetic resonance imaging" (MRI). The ENDOLAP 3D
      mesh visible (Dynamesh), developed by a unique method, contains an amount of iron particles,
      woven in the ordinary structure of the mesh, which allows an imaging in the MRI.
    
  