
    
      HIV infection can result in memory and thinking difficulties in some people, even those
      successfully treated with antiretroviral medications. Tesamorelin is an injectable medication
      already approved by the U.S. FDA to treat abdominal fat accumulation in HIV. Abdominal fat
      accumulation is linked to memory and thinking difficulties, and previous studies have
      suggested that tesamorelin also may be beneficial for memory and thinking, but this has not
      been tested in HIV. The aim of this study is to test whether tesamorelin, in combination with
      a text-messaging application to help with motivation and adherence, will significantly
      improve memory and thinking in HIV. We plan to enroll 100 volunteers with HIV infection at 2
      sites - the University of California, San Diego and the University of Southern California and
      the satellite site, Borrego Health Stonewall Medical Center. Before entry, volunteers will be
      required to show evidence of abdominal obesity and a minimum level of memory and thinking
      difficulties on cognitive tests. This is a randomized trial in which each volunteer will have
      a 60% chance of initially receiving tesamorelin (the immediate group) and a 40% chance of
      initially receiving no treatment (the deferred group). Subsequently, the deferred group
      (those who initially received no treatment) will receive tesamorelin for 6 months and those
      who initially received tesamorelin will receive no treatment for 6 months. Volunteers will be
      trained in the use of a 2-way text-messaging system that will help the research team to
      support volunteers' ability to take the study medication as directed. We will measure
      volunteers' memory and thinking skills before and at the end of treatment. We will collect
      blood at various points during the study to check for safety of the treatment and to
      determine its effects on the body. Volunteers will also be asked to have magnetic resonance
      scans of the head and abdomen to monitor the effects of the study medication on brain
      chemistry and abdominal fat.
    
  