
    
      The investigators hypothesize that DME is a common endpoint caused by differing pathobiology
      which varies between patients. Clinically fluorescein angiography (FA) and optical coherence
      tomography (OCT) are used to diagnose and assess diabetic retinopathy including DME. These
      two imaging modalities provide different biological information with FA giving functional
      data regarding the perfusion and integrity of the retinal water homeostasis system where OCT
      gives structural information including the quantity and location of fluid in patients with
      DME. The investigators believe that careful analysis of both the leakage pattern on FA and
      the characteristics of intraretinal fluid on OCT have potential to provide insight into the
      predominant mechanism of DME in an individual patient. Specifically, it has been proposed
      that at least two forms of DME exist, focal and diffuse. In focal DME, leakage seen on FA
      originates predominantly from leaking microaneurysms present in the retinal microvasculature,
      which are markers for endothelial dysfunction and focal breakdown of the blood retinal
      barrier. Similarly, it has been hypothesized that focal leakage imaged by OCT will result in
      accumulation of noncystic fluid in the extracellular space. In contrast, diffuse pattern
      leakage has no discernable source on FA and it is believed that this pattern represents
      failure of the Müller and RPE cell pump function resulting in accumulation of intracellular
      fluid in the retina. Diffuse leakage imaged with OCT may appear as cystic fluid accumulation
      which represents swollen Müller or other retinal cells.

      In clinical practice, most patients with DME have a mixture of focal and diffuse leakage with
      one type being predominant. The investigators hypothesize that, because they are driven by
      disparate pathobiology, different DME subtypes will respond differently to treatment. Thus,
      it may be possible to use fluorescein angiography and/or optical coherence tomography to
      predict the optimal treatment for an individual patient, thereby improving patient outcomes
      and possibly reducing treatment burden. To date, there are no prospective studies correlating
      FA and OCT imaging parameters with response to specific therapies, nor is there prospective
      data on using imaging parameters to guide choice of treatment modality in subjects with DME.
      As a first step toward determining whether imaging parameters predict treatment response, the
      investigators will prospectively collect imaging, treatment and outcome data in patients with
      diabetic macular edema treated at Duke Eye Center.
    
  