
    
      OBJECTIVES

      The purpose of this prospective, randomized, single-blind, comparative and controlled
      clinical study was to evaluate a new cryotherapy device, the cTreatment® system (Waegener®,
      Belgium) consisting of the Cryoceutical Treatment Server 100 series (CTS) and the
      Cryoceutical Treatment Pad (cPad®), in comparison to the standard cooling protocol, which was
      the cold packs (cold/hot pack, Dahlhausen®) currently used at the Department of Orthopaedic
      Surgery of the Medical University of Graz, Austria, in patients undergoing primary and
      unilateral TKA surgery. It was particularly focused on the device's efficiency in terms of
      eventual improvements in the patient's postoperative rehabilitation and mobilisation, such as
      positive alterations of knee ROM and NRS pain scale, which were set as primary objectives.
      Further contributing elements, such as alterations of the analgesic consumption, knee girth
      and the device's safety were set as secondary objectives.

      METHODS

      Subjects between 18 and 90 suffering from severe degeneratively or traumatically caused
      gonarthritis or gonarthrosis of the knee joint scheduled for endoprothetic treatment with TKA
      could be included when giving their informed consent. Exclusion criteria particularly
      included, on the one side, reasons, which might interfere with the patients' statistical
      comparability regarding the outcome, such as severe pre-existing local and systemic
      conditions others than gonarthritis and foregone surgical interventions others than
      arthroscopy. On the other side it contained conditions, which would interfere with the
      planned study design, for instance, the standardized medication and PCA and long cooling
      intervals during hospitalisation.

      After giving their written consent they were further randomized to the cryotherapy group,
      receiving the cTreatment®, or the standard group, receiving cold pack application. Therefore
      a web-based programme, the "Randomizer", was used (23), considering the patient's sex and
      scheduled design type of endoprostheses to be implanted, which was either the PFC® or the
      LCS® (both from DePuy®, Warsaw, IN, USA) endoprosthesis.

      After being randomized to the therapy group patients were assigned to the locally applied
      cryotherapy treatment by use of the cTreatment® system until the end of the clinical study,
      which was set for POD six. That implied the first cooling session to the extent of one hour
      already preoperatively on the first preoperative day (PreOD), which coincidently was the day
      of admission throughout all cases. Furthermore, the subjects received cryotherapy immediately
      after TKA in the postanaesthesia care unit for six hours in total. During the in-patient
      setting until POD six the cTreatment® was applied each day for four hours in total, divided
      into two hours in the morning and two hours in the afternoon. Also there was the option to
      use the cTreatment® in terms of additional analgesia in the evening for up to four hours on
      each POD.

      PreOD 1 TKA POD 1 POD 2 POD 3 POD 4 POD 5 POD 6

        -  1 h pre-OP 6 h post-OP

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional 2 h morning

           2 h afternoon

           4 h optional Table 1: cTreatment® protocol in therapy group

      According to the manufacturer, the CTS is a class IIa medical device, which thermodynamically
      exchanges heat controlled by a built-in computer. It is able to regulate both the flow rate
      and the fluid's temperature reaching the cPad®. The CTS is operated by use of a touch screen,
      which allows to start, pause, resume and stop a cooling session. According to the instruction
      manual the cPad®, which is connected to the Server with flexible tubes using anti-reflux
      design, is made of flexible Polyurethane, latex free and hypoallergenic. Using hook and loop
      fasteners it is easy to wrap around the knee ensuring a maximum of contact surface.

      The control group was treated abiding by the standard cryotherapy regimen at the Department
      of Orthopaedic Surgery including the usage of common cold packs (cold/hot pack, Dahlhausen®).
      They did not receive any cryotherapy before the surgical intervention corresponding to the
      standard regimen. After TKA cold packs were applied three times per day for 20 minutes each
      throughout the whole trial. In the context of blinding, the cold packs were placed beneath
      the applied cPads® in subjects randomized to the standard group, in order to account for a
      subjectively experienced cold as the CTS was turned off. Besides that, the study setting was
      identical in both groups.

      For the purpose of a better comparability all participating patients received general
      anaesthesia and a postoperative analgetic therapy based on patient controlled analgesia
      (PCA), which was filled with diluted hydromorphone, accounting for 0,2 mg hydromorphone per
      single dose. In addition to that, exclusively Novalgin® 4 x 1 g was administered as a
      non-opiate analgesic. The PCA was removed after 72 hours postoperative.

      The performed physical measurements consisted of the quantification of the knee girth and the
      ROM of the treated knee joint. The measurements concerning the knee girth were performed at
      three different levels, at middle-patella, 7 centimetres proximal of the patellar base and 7
      centimetres distal of the apex patellae. The ROM was evaluated by use of a hand-held
      goniometer and the patient being in a supine position. Among the non-physical evaluations was
      verbally assessing the subjectively experienced pain intensity by use of the eleven-point
      numeric rating scale (NRS) pain score, about which each patients was told that zero was equal
      to "no pain at all" and ten was equal to "strongest pain imaginable". The NRS was always
      evaluated for the state of absolute rest and the state of motion. In this relation the more
      objectively evaluable analgesics consumption was recorded. Therefore the total hydromorphone
      usage administered by use of PCA after 72 hours was noted. The physical examinations of the
      knee joint's ROM and girth and the NRS score evaluation were performed on admission day and
      POD two, four and six. In the course of the regular change of dressings during the medical
      rounds the surgical area was exactly examined for potential cold-induced local alterations.
      In this context, it was particularly searched for signs of frostbite, nerve palsy, inhibited
      wound healing, deep vein thrombosis and infection. In case of occurrence, the patients had
      also been told to immediately call attention to eventual adverse effects related to the cold
      therapy, which they were preliminarily informed about.

      IBM® SPSS® Statistics software version 20 was used in order to perform all statistical
      analyses. In this regard descriptive statistics were conducted using basic calculations of
      means, standard deviations, ranges, minima and maxima. For the comparisons between the two
      study groups on admission day, POD two, four and six measured data was first checked for the
      existence of normal distribution by use of Shapiro-Wilk and Kolmogorov- Smirnov tests. In
      case of normal distribution, the independent-samples t-test as parametric test was performed.
      If a normal distribution did not exist, the Wilcoxon-Mann-Whitney test as non-parametric test
      was performed in order to obtain values of significance regarding between-group distinctions.
      Throughout the statistical analyses, the level of significance, respectively the P-value was
      defined as ≤ 0,05.
    
  