
    
      Sexual health is a complex construct affecting physical, mental and social well-being.
      According to studies, sexual disorders are common in people with HIV infection and 25 to 71%
      of, both men and women regardless of their sexual orientation; and between 39 and 50 % of
      patients infected with Hepatitis C Virus(HCV). The cause is almost always multifactorial,
      with psychological, environmental and physiological components, and there may be an
      iatrogenic effect of treatment. HIV is a chronic disease for people with access to effective
      treatment. And Hepatitis C while curable is a chronic condition when untreated. In this
      context, sexuality is an important dimension of quality of life. But the issues are complex
      and not easily defined. Various studies have highlighted the lack of attention paid to
      sexuality in a medical management of various chronic conditions such as HIV or cancer.
      Indeed, a preliminary review of the literature and analysis of the concepts measured by 25
      questionnaires on sexuality, shows that these instruments are inadequate to capture all
      aspects of the sexuality affecting quality of life of people infected with HIV or HCV. If
      they address physical aspects of sexuality, they address briefly at all socio-psychological
      and relational sexual life (body image, feeling desirable, self-esteem). Only a limited
      number of studies focused specifically on the experience of people suffering of sexual
      dysfunction in HIV and HCV infection. Moreover, these instruments do not assess specific
      issues related to stigma and problems related to transmission of infections of certain
      subgroups, particularly in the gay population.

      It is an international prospective study (Australia, Brazil, Canada and France) with four
      phases:

      Phase 1. A literature review and interview guide writing.

      Phase 2. A qualitative research design based on a grounded theory research perspective:

      realization and analysis of interviews with people affected by HIV and HCV, creation of the
      conceptual framework specific to HIV and HCV.

      Phase 3. Questionnaire creation: creation of an item bank; formalization of a pilot
      questionnaire; forward-backward linguistic validation in each of the target languages
      (French, Portuguese of Brazil, English), cognitive debriefing and international
      harmonization; development of the conceptual model of sexual quality of life.

      Phase 4. Psychometric validation of the new questionnaire: cross-sectional study by
      administration of the new questionnaire to 1 400 patients in the 4 countries, along with
      generic questionnaire about sexuality (Male sexual Health Questionnaire, Female sexual
      Function Index), the HIV sexual risk questionnaire, and the SF-12v2; Statistic and
      psychometric analysis; assessment of characteristics of different sub-populations; Propose
      reference scoring for sub- populations.

      Impact of research: the availability of a meaningful and validated tool to detect and assess
      specifically sexual quality of life in HIV and HCV populations will improve the understanding
      of specific issues of these sub-populations. The questionnaire is intended for use in
      research, clinical practice, and during annual visits.
    
  