
    
      Colorectal cancer is the leading cause of death worldwide. Tumour cell extravasation plays a
      key role in tumour metastasis. There are evidences tumour cell-leukocyte interactions may
      support tumour cell invasion and could create an optimal microenvironment for tumour growth
      at the metastatic site. Neutrophils produce free radicals and proteases; they could cause
      tumour cytolysis, as well as promote tumour growth and metastasis. It seems that neutrophils
      play an important role in the context of tumour and angiogenesis.

      It is not well understood why FasL induces immune privilege in some organs but elicits
      inflammation. To explain these apparently conflicting phenomena, it is important to
      investigate the mechanism of FasL-induced inflammation in detail. Fas/FasL can serve as
      potential targets for effective antitumor therapy. This research will be useful to eludicate
      the importance of neutrophil in colorectal cancer. We will investigate the possible role of
      neutrophil activity and FasL-induced neutrophil infiltration on tumor growth in colorectal
      cancer. sFas and sFasL could be a way to measure the balance of apoptotic and immunoescape
      effect after surgical resection of colon cancer.

      If the number of neutrophils in peripheral blood mirrors the situation in the tumor tissue,
      these data could support the investigation of neutrophil-targeted therapies in anti-cancer
      strategy.

      Inflammation-dependent angiogenesis seems to be a central force in tumor growth and
      expansion, a concept supported by the observation that the use of anti-inflammatory drugs,
      leads to angiogenesis inhibition. The mechanisms of inflammatory angiogenesis could provide
      new approaches to target, cure, or prevent tumor angiogenesis. Investigation of the
      physiologic regulation of IL-17 may thus be useful for the treatment in clinical settings
      characterized by persistent neovascularisation.

      Inhibition of neutrophil elastase might not only reduce the inflammatory response, but could
      also prevent cancer cell progression. Anti-neutrophil elastase therapy after tumour resection
      might be an important strategic approach for managing postoperative complications and
      preventing cancer recurrence.

      Patients will be allocated to laparoscopic or conventional open colorectal surgery after
      eligibility had been confirmed and informed consent given. Randomization will be performed by
      computer; sequencing was based on a list of variable block sizes for a single centre without
      further stratification. The randomization list and opaque envelopes will be generated by
      independent personnel not otherwise involved in the trial. Information on the operation will
      be remain in consecutively numbered and sealed envelopes that will be stored in a specific
      box at the clinical site. The envelope containing the allocation will be added to a patient's
      file shortly before he or she enter the operating theatre. The envelope will be then open and
      the surgeon will perform the assigned procedure. Until the day of discharge of participants,
      nurses and other medical staff will be blinded for the type of surgery performed in patients
      with colorectal cancer by applying a covering abdominal bandage.

      During the trial, all blood samples will be retrieved and assessed by a cytologist and
      molecular biologist blinded to the study arms.
    
  