
    
      Embryo implantation is a very delicate and well-orchestrated process that is governed by the
      interaction between several maternal and embryonic factors, ultimately resulting in adherence
      of the blastocyst to the endometrium. For a short period of time during the normal menstrual
      cycle, the endometrium represents the fertile "soil" for the implanting embryo. The human
      endometrium undergoes complex changes, in response to circulating estrogen and progesterone,
      which culminate at the mid-luteal phase of the menstrual cycle when it becomes suitable to
      host the blastocyst.

      In clinical practice, a thin endometrium, unresponsive to conventional therapies, usually
      results in cycle cancellation and embryo cryopreservation. The evaluation of an adequate
      endometrial growth is performed using grey-scale ultrasound. The minimal endometrial
      thickness required for embryo transfer is now considered about 7 mm at the end of natural or
      medically induced follicular phase Local injury to the endometrium has been proposed as a
      means to improve implantation in women with RIF. Initial non-randomized studies showed a
      doubling of implantation rates after 2-4 endometrial injuries performed at different time
      points of the menstrual cycle in women with previous implantation failure . Following that, a
      number of randomized trials focusing on women with RIF have been conducted. The majority of
      the trials have demonstrated significant improvements in implantation rates, clinical
      pregnancy rates and/or live birth rates following endometrial injury performed in the
      preceding cycle Platelet rich plasma (PRP) represents a relatively new approach in
      regenerative medicine. It is obtained from patient's own blood and contains different growth
      factors and other biomolecules necessary for wound healing. Platelet rich plasma (PRP)
      therapy has accumulated considerable attention over the two last decades, mainly due to its
      potential ability in regenerative medicine. Platelets as a main components of the PRP,
      contain more than 1100 different proteins, with numerous post-translational modifications,
      resulting in over 1500 protein-based bioactive factors These factors include immune system
      messengers, growth factors, enzymes and their inhibitors and factors which can participate in
      tissue repair and wound healing. Another important characteristic of PRP is that represents
      an autologous product, which is prepared from the patient's own blood. Therefore, the use of
      autologous PRP eliminates any concerns about the risk of crossed contamination, disease
      transmission or immune reactions
    
  