
    
      Methylation is a change that occurs to Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) that affects gene usage in
      human cells. Abnormal methylation is very common in leukemias, which is a related disease to
      MDS. Decitabine is a new drug that blocks DNA methylation. Researchers want to find out if
      blocking methylation will help control MDS.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have what are called "screening
      tests". These tests will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the
      study. You will have a physical exam, routine blood tests (between 4-6 tablespoons), and a
      bone marrow aspirate. To collect a bone marrow aspirate, an area of the hip or chest bone is
      numbed with anesthetic and a small amount of bone marrow is withdrawn through a large needle.
      Women who are able to have children must have a negative blood or urine pregnancy test.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will receive decitabine by
      vein over one hour, once a day, for 5 days (1 course). If this is not possible due to
      complications, you will receive the drug as an injection under the skin twice a day for 5
      days (1 course). Treatment will be given every 4 to 8 weeks depending on how well your blood
      counts recover.

      After completing 8-12 weeks of therapy, response will be evaluated. If the response to
      treatment is good, treatment with decitabine will continue. Decitabine treatment may be
      continued for up to 12 courses, or as long as it is judged best to control the leukemia.

      During this study, you will need to visit your doctor periodically for physical exams and
      measurement of vital signs. The frequency of doctor visits will vary depending on your
      physical condition, but will be required at least once a month.

      Blood tests (about 2 teaspoons) will be done about every week during the first 6-8 weeks of
      treatment, then every 1 to 2 weeks for the length of the study. The blood samples will be
      used for routine lab tests. Every 1-3 courses, bone marrow samples will also be taken to
      check cells related to the disease before, during (every 1-3 courses), and after completion
      of this study.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur.

      This is an investigational study. Decitabine is not yet Food and Drug Administration
      (FDA)approved. It will be provided free of charge by MGI Pharma. Up to 40 patients will take
      part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  