
    
      Procedures

        -  All patients will undergo a bariatric surgery. The decision to undergo weight loss
           surgery and the operation chosen will both occur independent of and prior to enrollment
           in the study. The University of Iowa is a Bariatric Center of Excellence with three
           active, board-certified bariatric surgeons.

        -  Serial BodPod examinations will be performed on each patient. The BodPod is a
           commercially available device produced by Cosmed. It uses whole-body densitometry to
           determine body composition. To do this, it takes small changes in the volume of air in
           the BodPod chamber and records the associated changes in pressure. The pressure change
           typically goes unnoticed and is equivalent to the change in pressure while moving from
           the first floor to the second floor in an elevator. The entire process takes
           approximately five minutes with two minutes spent within the machine. The computer will
           then use mathematical formulas to calculate various body composition values.

        -  Laboratory analysis - There is a battery of labs that are ordered in both the
           pre-operative and post-operative time frame. These labs are ordered independent of the
           patient's participation in the study. These labs are ordered to assist in the management
           of the patient's medical comorbidities and to assess for adequate nutritional intake.
           These labs will also be recorded in the research database to assist in quantifying the
           degree of resolution of medical comorbidities.

        -  Queries on nutritional intake and exercise will be made at each post-operative
           appointment. The intake of protein is an important variable and may influence
           maintenance of lean tissue mass. Exercise is an important component of the
           post-bariatric weight loss program. This also will influence the changes in lean tissue
           mass.
    
  