
    
      This is a mixed-methods study with qualitative data informing adaptation and evaluation of a
      common elements intervention delivered by community mental health specialists, named "My
      Pathway to Healing."

      Apache partners selected a wait-list randomized control trial, as it is a rigorous study
      design for understanding whether an intervention works and was endorsed by the community, to
      evaluate the effectiveness of the My Pathway to Healing intervention delivered by community
      mental health specialists (CMHS). This intervention consists of an initial assessment to
      determine treatment priorities and safety. It integrates psychoeducation and addresses safety
      (when identified as a problem area). It can also include teaching relaxation, cognitive
      coping, exposure-trauma memories, exposure-live, cognitive restructuring, behavioral
      activation, and problem solving. The intervention used in the tested arm of our study will be
      adapted to the specific context and culture of White Mountain Apache.

      Those randomized into the My Pathway to Healing group will receive 5-15 hour-long sessions
      with a community mental health specialist, taking place over 12 weeks. The exact number of
      sessions will depend on presentation and symptom level using a stepped care approach where
      participants receive only what they need, but the provider can provide additional sessions if
      needed (i.e., increased element dosage; additional optional elements for specific issues).
      Those randomized into the wait-list control will continue to receive the standard case
      management via the Apache surveillance system. These wait-list control participants will be
      asked to wait until all N=50 My Pathway to Healing participants have started the program and
      then will be offered the program on a rolling basis based on availability of providers

      Participants, will be asked to partake in 5 study assessments. For intervention participants
      these assessments will take place at: baseline, after their last intervention session
      (endline) and 4, 8, and 12 weeks post-endline. For control participants, these assessments
      will take place at: baseline, 12 weeks post-baseline (the maximum time the intervention would
      last; will be referred to as an endline) and 4, 8 and 12 weeks post-endline. These assessment
      visits will be conducted by the Research Program Assistants who will serve as the independent
      evaluators. Assessments will take approximately 45-90 minutes to complete.
    
  