
    
      Assessment of left ventricular function is an essential determinant of overall hemodynamics
      and heart function and therefore of central interest in intra-operative transesophageal
      echocardiography.

      Currently, the most frequently used methods for quantification of left ventricular function
      are fractional shortening (FS) and fractional area change (FAC). These parameters can be
      assessed in the transgastric mid papillary short axis view (TG SAX) to quantify left
      ventricular systolic function. Limitations of these methods are the experience of the
      investigator - the more experienced the investigator the more reliable and reproducible the
      data are, load dependency of these methods and the geometrical assumption of a
      one-dimensional measurement for assessment of a three-dimensional contracting left ventricle.
      Therefore, LV-function will either be over- or underestimated by influence of segmental wall
      motion abnormalities or by missing them.

      Radial strain allows reliable and reproducible evaluation of left ventricular function and
      also allows assessment of myocardial deformation from representative segments of each wall of
      the left ventricle. Myocardial strain is described as the relative deformation of a
      myocardial fiber, normalized to its original length:L1-L0/L0(%). Strain is positive (radial
      thickening) if L1>L0 and negative (longitudinal shortening and circumferential thinning) if
      L1<L0. Radial strain is sensitive to changes in contractility and less influenced by loading
      conditions which occur frequently during anaesthesia in a wide spectrum of non-cardiac
      surgery as a result of blood loss or loss of hemodynamic autoregulation due to anesthetic
      drugs.

      Therefore we want to assess left ventricular function with radial strain, fractional
      shortening (FS) and fractional area change (FAC) in non-cardiac patients during non-cardiac
      operations. The aim of this study is to show that radial strain is as reliable as FS and FAC
      in left ventricular function assessment and more robust to changes in preload and afterload
      conditions.

      Study hypothesis

      The aim of the study is to compare fractional shortening (FS) and fractional area change
      (FAC) with radial strain from TG mid SAX using TEE in the anaesthetized patient undergoing
      non-cardiac surgery. Furthermore we want to investigate the influence of changes in loading
      conditions on these parameters in the anaesthetized non-cardiac patient undergoing
      non-cardiac surgery. Therefore patients are examined in zero position, trendelenburg- and
      anti-trendelenburg-position.

      Hypothesis:

        -  Radial strain correlates with FAC and FS in assessment of left ventricular function in
           patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery. FAC is of primary interest because it has
           several advantages: it is very easy to calculate, it´s considered a surrogate of
           ejection fraction, and several studies have shown that it is an excellent measure of
           left ventricular function even in patients with heterogeneity of regional function.

        -  The parameters radial strain, fractional shortening and fractional area change correlate
           during are changes in loading conditions (zero-position, trendelenburg- and
           anti-trendelenburg-maneuver).

      Study design: prospective cohort study Inclusion criteria

        -  Planned non-cardiac surgery with a minimum duration of 60 minutes, where intubation is
           indicated

        -  Age above 18 years

        -  Signed informed consent Exclusion criteria

        -  No patient's consent

        -  Subjects not able to understand study procedures

        -  Contraindications to transesophageal echocardiography (oesophageal-, gastric disorders,
           hematologic disorders with increased bleeding incidence, ENT-surgery, surgery of the
           oesophagus or stomach)

        -  Medical history of any kind of heart disease, dyspnea or angina pectoris

        -  Hypertension (medically treated)

        -  Diabetes

        -  Atrial fibrillation Study protocol One day prior to surgery the patients are screened
           and invited to participate in the study by the principle investigator. If they consent
           the principle investigator does a physical examination and takes their medical history.

      On the day of surgery patients receive premedication as usual. Arriving at the operating room
      the patients are monitored with ECG, pulse oximetry and blood pressure (either invasive with
      insertion of an arterial catheter, when indicated, or non-invasive blood pressure). A
      peripheral venous line is needed for induction of anaesthesia. Induction and maintenance of
      anaesthesia is performed using standard protocols. After induction of anaesthesia and
      insertion of all needed catheters (central venous catheter, bladder catheter, arterial
      catheter, and eventually pulmonary artery catheter) the transoesophageal probe, covered with
      a special condom, will be inserted.

      The examination will be done by the principle investigator (Dr. Ulrike Weber) under
      supervision of an expierenced investigator.

      Intraoperative TEE-Examinations (T1, T2, T3)

      At T1, T2, T3 TEE-study examinations are performed in zero position, Trendelenburg position,
      and anti-Trendelenburg position. Positioning will follow a random order according to a
      blinded randomization list.

      Trendelenburg-position shall be defined for the study with 10cm head-down from horizontal
      position, anti-trendelenburg position with 10cm head-up (from horizontal position). After
      positioning examination will start after a 3 min delay for reaching a steady-state in loading
      conditions.

      T1 - after induction of anesthesia

      After insertion of the probe a transesophageal echo examination (TEE) is performed -
      including a complete routine clinical examination (T1):

      T2 - Intraoperative TEE, 3min after positioning

      Positioning (zero position, Trendelenburg, anti-trendelenburg) will be performed according to
      randomization. 3min after positioning, under stable hemodynamics, recordings of HR, blood
      pressure, FS, FAC, Radial strain

      T3 - Intraoperative TEE, 3min after positioning

      Positioning (zero position, Trendelenburg, anti-trendelenburg) will be performed according to
      randomization. 3min after positioning, under stable hemodynamics, recordings of HR, blood
      pressure, FS, FAC, Radial strain

      The following measurements are taken for the study (3 times during sinus rhythm):

        -  FS in the transgastric short axis mid papillary view

        -  FAC in the transgastric short axis mid papillary view

        -  Radial strain in the transgastric short axis mid papillary view

      Recordings of the 2D-mode images of the TG SAX shall be taken in triplicate with 3 heart
      cycles per stored clip. The images will be stored digitally in the EchoPAC-raw data format.

      Analysis of data will be performed offline in a dedicated work station (EchoPAC, GE Vingmed,
      Horten, Norway). Three different investigators will analyse all data two times at two
      different time points.

      Expected study population: 33 patients
    
  