
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To compare two strategies of induction bio-chemotherapy followed by the same maintenance
           biotherapy in terms of time to failure in patients with previously untreated metastatic
           colorectal cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the two arms of treatment in terms of response rate, duration of responses,
           progression-free survival, safety, and quality of life of these patients.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to treatment center,
      performance status (0 vs 1), and number of metastatic sites (1 vs ≥ 2). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 induction therapy arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes on day 1. Patients also
           receive FOLFIRI chemotherapy comprising irinotecan hydrochloride IV over 1 hour and
           leucovorin calcium IV over 2 hours on day 1 and fluorouracil IV continuously over 46
           hours on days 1 and 2. Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 12 courses in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive bevacizumab and FOLFIRI chemotherapy (B-FOLFIRI) as in arm I.
           Treatment repeats every 2 weeks for up to 6 courses in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients then receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90
           minutes on day 1 and oral capecitabine once every 12 hours on days 1-14. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for up to 4 courses in the absence of disease progression or
           unacceptable toxicity.

      In both arms, patients achieving stable disease after completion of 6 months of induction
      therapy proceed to maintenance therapy.

        -  Maintenance therapy: Patients receive bevacizumab IV over 30-90 minutes every 3 weeks
           for up to 1 year in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      During or after completion of maintenance therapy, patients with tumor regrowth that is not
      classified as disease progression from baseline and who achieved partial or complete response
      during or after their induction therapy proceed to reinduction therapy.

        -  Reinduction therapy: Patients receive B-FOLFIRI as described previously. Quality of life
           is assessed at baseline, every 3 months during induction therapy, and at discontinuation
           of study therapy.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed for up to 2 years.
    
  