
    
      The established classification criteria for ankylosing spondylitis (AS) rely on the
      combination of clinical symptoms plus radiographic sacroiliitis of at least grade 2
      bilaterally or grade 3 unilaterally. It usually takes several years for definite radiographic
      sacroiliitis to evolve. Diagnosis of AS may be delayed up to 10 years after the onset of
      symptoms, if diagnosis is based on the radiographic findings.

      A group of leading experts in the field of spondyloarthropathies proposed in 2004 the term
      "axial spondyloarthritis" as an attempt to narrow the gap of 5-10 years between the first
      symptoms and the diagnosis of AS (Rudwaleit et al. Ann Rheum Dis 2004; 63:535-43). Using the
      proposed approach, an early diagnosis of AS (or axial spondyloarthritis) can be made with a
      high degree of confidence, when at least two to three spondyloarthritis features (clinical
      findings, laboratory tests or skeletal imaging) are present. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
      of the sacroiliac joints appears to be especially useful tool in the diagnosis of early AS.
      Early diagnosis and treatment could probably prevent structural damage and lead to better
      functional outcomes.

      Treatment of AS has largely consisted of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Most
      disease modifying antirheumatic drugs are not effective in axial manifestations.
      Sulfasalazine has some efficacy on peripheral symptoms. Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) alpha
      blocking drugs infliximab and etanercept are effective in both axial and peripheral
      manifestations of the disease. According to consensus statement, the initiation of anti-TNF
      alpha therapy requires a definitive diagnosis of AS, which is based on radiographic evidence
      of sacroiliitis.

      It is well documented, that oral methotrexate is effective and safe in the treatment of
      rheumatoid arthritis and psoriatic arthritis. Still, studies proving its usefulness for the
      treatment of AS are lacking. To this date, three small randomised and controlled trials to
      clarify this issue have been conducted. The dose of methotrexate used in these studies was
      low, only 7,5 - 10 mg per week. One of these studies showed a benefit in the active treatment
      group. There was no statistically significant benefit of methotrexate in the two other
      studies.

      The purpose of this study is to assess the efficacy of oral methotrexate in adult subjects
      with active axial spondyloarthritis. Subjects will be randomly assigned to placebo or
      methotrexate treatment groups. All subjects in the active treatment group receive at least a
      dose of 15 mg per week of oral methotrexate. To reduce mucosal, gastrointestinal and
      haematologic side effects of low-dose methotrexate all study subjects receive also a dose of
      5 mg per week of folic acid. A stable dose of NSAID during the study is permitted. The
      duration of the double-blinded treatment period is 24 weeks.

      Efficacy of the treatment is measured by reduction in the signs and symptoms of axial
      spondyloarthritis at weeks 12 and 24. If the primary outcome of ASAS20 (ASsessment in
      Ankylosing Spondylitis response criteria, improvement of at least 20 % in patient reported
      symptoms) is not met at the week 12, the dose of methotrexate or corresponding placebo will
      be increased to 20 mg per week during weeks 12 to 24.

      Clinical history of anterior uveitis and its incidence during the study is also recorded. An
      ophthalmologic examination is performed at baseline and week 24.

      To a subset of patients a MRI scan of sacroiliac joints will be done also at week 24, to
      assess changes of active inflammatory lesions as detected by MRI.

      An extension study of radiological progression is also planned. X-ray changes of sacroiliac
      joints and lumbosacral spine will be assessed at baseline and at 3 and 5 years.
    
  