
    
      Objectives and Hypotheses:

      Infants born preterm and of low birth weight are known to be at increased risk for early
      onset of cardiovascular and renal disease in later life. This has been related to low nephron
      mass due to inadequate or early termination of glomerulogenesis in utero and during the
      perinatal period. Risks for subsequent development of hypertension and kidney disease include
      excessive weight gain during early life with insulin resistance and supplemental high calorie
      feedings.

      Specific Aims The long-term goal is for early diagnosis of those infants who are at risk for
      future development of hypertension and kidney disease so that investigators might intervene
      to potentially avert progression to adult disease. The objective of this clinical trial is to
      acquire data on the natural history of neonatal kidney function and size in infants born
      preterm during the first year of life. This will be done through the use of standard serum
      and urine markers as well as non-invasive ultrasound technology. The central hypothesis of
      this clinical trial is that a subgroup of patients born preterm will demonstrate early
      markers of kidney injury including elevated serum cystatin C, proteinuria and hypertension.
      This hypothesis has been formulated on the basis of preliminary data from the group studying
      this question retrospectively in older children born prematurely who have developed overt
      kidney disease. The rationale for the proposed research is to develop early serum and
      demographic markers of pre-clinical kidney disease so that early intervention may occur.

      Study Design. This is a single-center case-controlled prospective observational study with
      the rationale of evaluating parameters of renal function including proteinuria,
      microalbuminuria and cystatin C in preterm infants and associating this with kidney size and
      blood pressure during the first 10 years of life. Demographics including race, gender and
      growth will provide important perspectives relative to formula and/or breast feeding
      with/without high calorie supplements during the first year.

      Part I of the Trial is enrollment from birth with collection of blood, urine and umbilical
      cords for histomorphometry.

      Part II will be the "call-back" at 6 to 10 years of age for follow-up assessment of
      anthropometric and kidney growth, blood pressure and kidney function.
    
  