
    
      2.1 Primary objective The main objective is to evaluate the relative benefit of FET PET in
      comparison to the MRI in differentiating biologically active tumour tissue from
      therapy-related changes in paediatric brain tumours after first line therapy (Δ
      specificityFET PET to specificityMRT) 2.2 Secondary Objectives To assess sensitivity of FET
      PET in comparison with the sensitivity of MRI (Δ sensitivityFET PET to sensitivityMRT) To
      assess the positive and negative predictive values (PPV, NPV) of FET PET in comparison with
      the PPV and NPV of MRI (Δ PPVFET PET to PPVMRT, Δ NPVFET PET to NPVMRT) To evaluate
      specificity, sensitivity, PPV, and NPV by SUVratio analyses of FET PET data To evaluate the
      potential of FET PET for non-invasive tumour grading (WHO I/II vs. III/IV) by kinetic studies
      when histology is available To assess adverse events and toxicity profile

      2.3 Endpoints (Standard of truth1) 2.3.1 Primary Endpoint The primary endpoint is an event
      free survival of the follow-up period of 24 (12) months after first line therapy (confirmed
      by clinical and neuroradiological assessment) or the confirmed diagnosis of progression or
      recurrence of brain tumour tissue (confirmed by histology or clinical and neuroradiological
      assessment).

      The follow-up period for patients with a low risk of tumour recurrence after first line
      therapy, i.e. astrocytoma WHO grade I-II, oligodendroglioma WHO grade I-II, germ cell tumour,
      choroid plexus tumour, craniopharyngioma will be 24 months.

      The follow-up period for patients with a high risk of tumour recurrence after first line
      therapy, i.e. astrocytoma WHO grade III-IV, oligodendroglioma WHO grade III-IV,
      medulloblastoma, supratentorial PNET, AT/RT and other high-grade tumour lesions will be 12
      months.

      2.3.2 Secondary Endpoints To assess the secondary objectives of the FET PET 2010 study, the
      investigators will determine event free survival of the follow-up period of 24 (12) months
      after first line therapy (confirmed by clinical and neuroradiological assessment) or the
      confirmed diagnosis of progression or recurrence of brain tumour tissue (confirmed by
      histology or clinical and neuroradiological assessment).

      Histopathological characteristics of recurrent tumours (WHO grade I-IV) Safety and Toxicity
      (evolution according to CTCEA v3.0 criteria): the NCI Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse
      Events v3.0 is a descriptive terminology, that is used for Adverse Event (AE) reporting. A
      grading scale is provided for each AE term. Attached is a selection of categories, which are
      required to assess safety and toxicity of FET PET examinations.
    
  