
    
      Presurgical planning will be performed in patients that require an open crania-vault
      reconstruction for craniosynostosis. The participants will come from the outpatient clinics
      of neurosurgery and plastic surgery. The treating physician/study team member will explain
      and give a copy of Institutional review board (IRB) approved study information letter to the
      participant's legally authorized representative (LAR).

      The investigators will acquire a pre-operative CT-scan, per standard of care, to help assess
      the synostosis severity, within 4 weeks before the procedure. A week before the surgery, a
      routine preoperative visit will be done where the participant and/or LAR, if agree to
      participate in the study, will sign the informed consent document(s).

      A presurgical plan will be built and will be recorded in a software, iCSPlan. Although this
      plan will not be integrated in the OR workflow, if needed, it would be visualized on a
      desktop monitor, which will be available to the surgical team. This tool will not influence
      any clinical decision making in the study. Instead, it will work as a rely-on tool in the
      preparation of the surgery, which may or may not be followed by the surgeon.

      Demographic information (sex, age), as well as intraoperative information (Anesthesia length,
      anesthesia medications, length of surgery, blood loss, # of blood units transfused,
      complications), will be recorded for analysis. These variables are generally recorded during
      surgery and add no additional operative time.

      Following the surgery, the specialists will evaluate the feasibility of the use of the
      presurgical plan by completing a questionnaire to report their options on (1): Quality of the
      surgical outcome; (2) the quality of the surgical strategy, and (3) the utility of the
      surgical planning in the treatment. The questions will be answered on a 5-point Likert scale,
      ranging from "not useful/strongly dislike" to "very useful/strongly like".

      All study team pre-screening materials that contain participants information will be
      maintained on password protected computers. Only authorized study team members will have
      access to the pre-screening materials. Any pre-screening protected health information (PHI)
      that is collected will be destroyed once study enrollment is completed.
    
  