
    
      The Registry population will include all consecutive patients in whom the Angel® Catheter is
      placed at participating sites. Information about the use of the catheter will be collected
      from placement through three days after device removal, or through death or discharge,
      whichever occurs first. Date of discharge/transfer from the Critical Care Unit will also be
      collected, completing the defined registry observation.

      Information on up to 2,000 patients will be abstracted from a patient chart review. Sites
      will be asked to record data on all Angel® Catheter placements in their institution starting
      with their first Angel® Catheter placement after training by BiO2 Medical, Inc. personnel
      once all necessary institutional approvals are obtained confirming that Informed Consent is
      not required from the patient or LAR to collect, use, or publish patient data from this
      registry.

      The registry population will include all consecutive patients in whom the Angel® Catheter is
      placed, or there has been an attempt to place, at selected Registry sites. The Instructions
      for Use (IFU) for the Angel® Catheter include the following indications:

        -  Pulmonary thromboembolism when anticoagulants are contraindicated; or

        -  Failure of anticoagulant therapy in thromboembolic diseases; or

        -  Emergency treatment following massive pulmonary embolism where anticipated benefits of
           conventional therapy are reduced; and or

        -  Critically ill patients at high risk of pulmonary embolism, not receiving medical
           thromboprophylaxis due to either increased risk of bleeding, active bleeding or heparin
           induced thrombocytopenia.

      Since the Angel® Catheter is indicated for use in pregnant patients, patients who are
      pregnant may be included in this Registry after the proper risks and benefits have been
      assessed by the physician.

      In summary, the Registry Event Schedule and data collection includes the following:

        -  Demographics and Current Medical Condition: Information collected to include
           demographics, medical condition and indication/s for use of the Angel® Catheter as
           recorded in the patient chart.

        -  Device Placement: Placement procedure data will be collected. If the catheter cannot be
           placed for some reason, no further follow up information will be collected on these
           patients.

        -  Angel® Catheter Indwelling experience: While the Angel® Catheter is in place during the
           patient's hospital stay, information regarding anticoagulation use (eCRF form #9), any
           complications, clinically significant PE, lower extremity DVT will be collected through
           three days after device retrieval, discharge from the hospital, or death, whichever
           occurs first.

        -  Device Retrieval: Information on ease of catheter retrieval and other key aspects will
           be collected.

        -  Registry Exit: Information about the patient's status at three days post device removal,
           death, or discharge from the hospital, whichever occurs first will be collected. The
           patient's date of discharge/transfer from the Critical Care Unit will also be collected.

        -  Anticoagulation Therapy: Information about the use of anticoagulation throughout the
           patient's observation period will be collected.
    
  