
    
      Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is the most common blood-borne infection in the United States and a
      worldwide public health problem of epidemic proportions. Benign in the acute phase of
      infection, HCV infection usually becomes chronic in 70% of those originally infected. Chronic
      HCV infection leads to inflammation of the liver (hepatitis), cirrhosis, end-stage liver
      disease, and hepatocellular carcinoma. In the United States alone, there are over 2.7 million
      individuals with chronic HCV hepatitis. Standard treatment of chronic HCV hepatitis is
      combination therapy for 24 to 48 weeks with alpha interferon and ribavirin. This combination
      has limited efficacy, poor tolerability, and significant expense in terms of drug and
      ancillary laboratory testing. It is well recognized that new treatment options are needed
      which are more efficacious, potent, less toxic, and less expensive.

      AVI BioPharma has pursued discovery of a drug against HCV using proprietary Neugene® or
      Phosphorodiamidate Morpholino Oligomer (PMO) synthetic chemistry. Neugene (PMO) compounds, as
      a drug class, are considered safe in humans and do not activate complement, alter clotting
      times, or bind to α-adrenergic receptors (which can produce hypotension) like the
      phosphorothioate antisense compounds. One PMO, AVI-4065, has been identified as likely to
      inhibit all 5 genotypes of HCV based on in vitro and in vivo animal models. There are
      specific data that confirm that AVI-4065 can inhibit HCV RNA dependent PNA polymerase (RdRp
      encoded in NS5) and the HCV protease (NS3), in a non-competitive inhibitory fashion. The 50
      percent Effective Concentration (EC50) is 308 nM, and the efficacy is nearly 100% at 3 μM.
      These data suggest that AVI-4065 is capable of inhibiting HCV protein translation in a robust
      manner at concentrations that should be achievable in patients. In rigorous GLP safety
      pharmacology and toxicity models in a variety of animal species at dosage levels up to 5
      times the maximum anticipated human dosage level, inclusive of non-human primates, AVI-4065
      was considered safe, well tolerated and without dose-limiting toxicities. Additionally,
      AVI-4065 Injection was safe and well-tolerated in the three dose-escalating groups of 31
      healthy volunteers (Part I) with no serious adverse events. Adverse events that did occur
      were few, self-limited and mild to moderate and did not require intervention; this
      observation held true for the first HCV patients receiving AVI-4065 Injection.

      AVI BioPharma's first human use of AVI-4065 Injection involved an open-label, multi-center,
      exploratory, dose escalating design in healthy adult volunteers. The objective of this part
      of the study was to assess safety, tolerability and to design a potentially therapeutic
      dosage regimen. The objective of the second part of the study is to evaluate safety,
      tolerability, pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics and signals of HCV virus response in cohorts
      of HCV patient volunteers that are interferon and ribavirin treatment failures.

      The ability of the drug to effect baseline HCV RNA levels over the study duration will be
      evaluated using a conventional PCR-based assay. If there are promising results from this
      phase of the clinical trial (viz., a 2 log decrease in HCV RNA levels from baseline within
      study surveillance), it will provide the rational basis for additional clinical testing of
      AVI-4065 Injection among HCV patients that are treatment refractory (viz., relapsers and
      non-responders).
    
  