
    
      ◎ Objective

      This study is to evaluate the effectiveness and feasibility of lung cancer screening with
      LDCT for considering implementation of a national Lung Cancer Screening Program in Korea.

      ◎ Recruiting procedure

      K-LUCAS involves 14 general hospitals located nationwide. The participants in K-LUCAS are
      recruited from the visitors in these hospitals for receiving national cancer screenings or
      smoking cessation services. The candidates are evaluated based on the questionnaire that is
      completed in prior to the national cancer screenings or smoking cessation services.
      Invitations will be sent to those candidates who meet our selection criteria to take part in
      LDCT lung cancer screening. Advertising to public including the information both of screening
      benefit and harm will be held in hospitals, newspaper, local bus stations and subways.

      In addition to the criteria-based participant selection, a lung cancer risk prediction model
      will be adopted to improve the effectiveness of participant selection. The lung cancer risk
      prediction model considers various lung cancer risk factors in addition to age, smoking
      history and smoking quit duration which are already examined in the inclusion criteria. The
      model evaluates drinking amount, physical activity, family history of cancer, past history of
      lung disease and so on, in participant selection.

      ◎ Screening procedure

      If the candidate meets the selection criteria or is approved by risk prediction model,
      investigators carefully explain the benefits or harms of the LDCT screening and offer them to
      participate in a LDCT lung cancer screening. If the candidate agrees on screening
      participation, an informed consent form is obtained and LDCT screening date is scheduled and
      confirmed. K-LUCAS also provides a smoking cessation counselling to current smokers on
      revisiting for the result counselling. A follow-up call is made after 6 months from the LDCT
      screening in order to assess smoking cessation status following LDCT screening.

      ◎Reporting LDCT results

      The LDCT screening results are evaluated by radiologists in accordance with Lung imaging
      reporting and data system (Lung-RADS).

      Network-based computer-aided detection (CAD) system will be used in K-LUCAS to assist
      reducing diagnostic errors and increasing lung nodule detection sensitivity.
    
  