
    
      There has been a steady increase in the rate of Caesarean births in Canada and worldwide.
      Almost half of all primary caesarean sections are performed for labour dystocia - when labour
      is abnormally slow or when there is no further progression in cervical dilatation. When
      dystocia occurs, oxytocin is used to increase the frequency and intensity of uterine
      contractions, with the goal of achieving full cervical dilatation and a vaginal birth. The
      actual dose required to produce a clinical response (progressive cervical dilatation) varies
      greatly from patient to patient. There is a wide range of oxytocin regimens currently in use.
      They may be broadly categorized as being of two types: 1) those involving a gradual titration
      of oxytocin dose (or 'low dose') and 2) those with accelerated oxytocin titration (also
      called 'high dose').

      In fact, the frequently used terms 'low dose' and 'high dose' are to a certain extent
      misnomers. Both protocols titrate oxytocin dose to achieve the desired 'physiological
      frequency' of uterine contractions (usually 4 to 5 contractions in a 10 minute interval) that
      are normally sufficient to result in progressive labour. Thus, the target dose should,
      theoretically, be identical and independent of the rate of increase of oxytocin. These
      protocols differ mainly in the rate at which the desired physiologic response is achieved.
      While most patients achieve a response to stimulation at oxytocin concentrations between 4
      and 10 mU per minute, a proportion of nulliparae require higher doses of oxytocin.
      Accelerated titration protocols are also frequently associated with a higher maximum
      concentration of oxytocin. While, most Canadian birthing centres currently follow a 'gradual
      titration' or 'low dose' protocol, there is evidence that 'accelerated titration' or 'high
      dose' protocols may be more effective in correcting dystocia and in preventing caesarean
      section. It is postulated that by more rapidly progressing to the required therapeutic dose,
      cervical dilatation is achieved more rapidly, the likelihood of a spontaneous vaginal birth
      is increased, and the risk of occurrence of complications resulting from prolonged labour
      (such as infection and maternal fatigue) is reduced.
    
  