
    
      CROSSOVER DESIGN After the stroke patients have finished their upper limb rehabilitation with
      CCS and are no longer receiving any physiotherapy or occupational therapy to improve it, this
      study aims to establish if their upper limb function is maintained, deteriorates, or
      improves. In order to do this the investigators will have a waiting list group who wait 9
      weeks after the end of their CCS rehabilitation but are assessed at the same time points
      after their baseline measure as the treatment group. This enables us to compare the results
      of the treatment group with the waiting list group, in other words 'treatment compared to no
      treatment after CCS rehab has ended', and establish if the music therapy has been effective.
      The investigators can also compare the results of both groups and determine if the
      participants who received music therapy earlier performed any differently than the waiting
      list group.

      The five repeated measures using the ARAT and 9HPT also allow each participant to be measured
      against themselves, comparing treatment with no treatment and establishing how the exercises
      using the musical instruments (TIMP treatment) have influenced their paretic arm use during
      activities of daily living.

      STUDY GOALS AND OBJECTIVES

      The study goal is to investigate the feasibility of delivering this music therapy treatment
      in stroke patients' homes twice a week for six weeks with the objective of answering the
      primary research question, which is:

        1. Does TIMP improve upper limb function after statutory rehabilitation has ceased to be
           effective and consequently ended?

           The Secondary objectives are to try and determine:

        2. Is TIMP more effective when delivered immediately after statutory rehabilitation has
           ended compared to 9 weeks later ?

        3. How do participants experience TIMP?

      STUDY DESIGN

      In order to answer the research questions a wait list, crossover design will be used, with
      twelve participants randomly assigned to two groups:

      A = treatment B = wait list Randomisation will be achieved using an envelope system, with
      twelve sealed envelopes containing folded pieces of paper, six with the word 'treatment' and
      six with the word 'wait list' written on them. Each time a patient consents to participation,
      the chief investigator will contact the statistician and ask him to open an envelope and read
      the piece of paper inside.

      There can be enormous variability between patients in terms of speed of recovery following
      stroke and so the inclusion criteria for 'time since stroke' is quite broad. There is no
      clear data that fully confirms differences in degrees of upper limb paresis based on type or
      site of stroke and so all types and sites are included.

      Inclusion criteria for the study is as follows:

        1. Can consent to treatment

        2. aged 18-70

        3. has completed community rehabilitation for upper limb paresis

        4. any type and site of stroke

        5. between 1 month and 2 years post stroke

        6. can lift paretic hand onto a table whilst seated, without assistance from unaffected
           hand

        7. some finger movement, which could be extension of one or more fingers

        8. not receiving any other treatment for upper limb paresis during the course of this study
           (18 weeks from baseline measure)

      Once treatment begins, each participant will receive two, thirty minute music therapy
      sessions per week for six weeks. All participants will eventually receive treatment. Group A
      will begin music therapy immediately after completing their baseline assessment using ARAT
      and 9HPT and completing the semi-structured interview. This means that the first session will
      require approximately two hours in order to allow for setting up equipment and breaks for the
      participant. In the event that the participant is too tired following the assessment to
      continue with the treatment, then the music therapy session will be rescheduled for another
      day in the same week. The end measure will also take place on the same day as the twelfth and
      final session and if the participant is too tired to complete the end assessment then it will
      be rescheduled for another day in the same week.

      METHODOLOGY

      RECRUITMENT Patients who have completed their CCS community occupational and physiotherapy
      rehabilitation will be sent a letter of invitation to participate in this study and an
      information sheet (see attached 'Letter of Invitation' and 'participant information sheet').
      In the letter they will be asked to contact the chief investigator if they are interested in
      participating, explaining that he will answer any questions that they have about
      participation and arrange to visit them in their home in order to demonstrate some of the
      exercises. Then, if they are interested the chief investigator will leave a consent form for
      them to sign and return within a week.

      RANDOMISATION Once a participant has given informed consent, the chief investigator will
      contact the statistician (Mike Parker, medical statistician, Anglia University, Chelmsford)
      and ask him to open one of 12 envelopes, which will have either 'treatment' or 'waiting list'
      written on a piece of paper inside and indicate which group the participant will go into.

      ASSESSMENTS The primary outcome measure will be the Action Research Arm Test (Lyle 1981. See
      diagram 12 under 'Appendix'), which has been used in similar studies (Schneider; 2007,
      Altenmueller; 2009, Grau-Sanchez; 2013) thus enabling some comparison of data with this
      study. It is a 19 item measure that is divided into four categories: grasp, grip, pinch and
      gross movement. Each item, or action, is performed by the participant while seated a measured
      distance from a table (15cm), where all of the assessment items are placed (blocks of wood of
      various sizes, smaller items, etc). The test recreates the movements or sequences of
      movements common to activities of daily living, such as reaching up onto a shelf to pick up a
      can of soup. A table map for the ARAT is laid out flat on the table top and this has markers
      on it to indicate the start and end position for each object used in the test, thus
      optimising consistency between patients and setting.

      The performance of each task is timed using a stopwatch, and scored according to a
      standardised scale.

      The assessment can take up to 30 minutes if the patient needs to complete all items in every
      subcategory, but this is rare. The test usually takes approximately 10 minutes.

      The secondary outcome measure is the 9 hole peg test (Kellor et al, 1971). This is a test
      that the Cambridgeshire Community Services team (host to this study) use. It is a timed test
      measuring finger dexterity using standardised equipment comprising a rectangular plastic tray
      with a rounded, concave tray at one end containing nine small white pegs and at the other end
      nine holes into which the participant must (one at a time) place the nine pegs from the tray
      and then remove them, placing them back into the tray as quickly as possible. The patient
      practices with the unaffected hand first, then the paretic side. The patient is seated while
      performing the test. A non-slip mat is placed between the base of the peg test and the table
      surface. The participant may stabilise the test base if necessary using their unaffected
      hand. The test takes no more than 2 minutes to administer, depending on the age of the
      patient and their existing degree of finger dexterity.

      SEMI-STRUCTURED INTERVIEW Before beginning the music therapy treatment each participant will
      be asked set questions about it and to score how much they think it will improve their
      paretic arm use in activities of daily living. At the end of treatment participants will be
      asked the same questions. The chief investigator will write down responses during the
      interview for later thematic analysis. Interviews will not be recorded. Questions have been
      used that are as open as possible so as to give participants the opportunity to express their
      preconceptions and thoughts. Each question may lead to further questions, for example
      question 1 may prompt a response 'I think it will help me" to which the chief investigator
      may respond "how might it help you?" The purpose of the semi-structured interview is to
      gather qualitative data specifically regarding how participants experienced the treatment.
      The pre and post questions are set out below.
    
  