
    
      The study population will include pregnant women who may be at risk for preterm delivery and
      require the fFN test, as determined by their doctor to aid in patient management. The
      subjects may or may not present with symptoms related to preterm labor and must satisfy the
      device's approved labeling and the eligibility criteria.

      For pregnant women with signs of labor, the Fetal Fibronectin (fFN) test is approved for use
      as an aid to assess the risk of preterm delivery in ≤ 7 or ≤ 14 days from cervicovaginal
      sample collection that have intact amniotic membranes and minimal cervical dilation (< 3 cm)
      and are sampled between 24 weeks, 0 days and 34 weeks, 6 days. It is also approved for use
      with additional clinical information in asymptomatic women with singleton pregnancies when a
      sample is obtained during a routine prenatal visit between 22 weeks, 0 days and 30 weeks, 6
      days of gestation.

      The fFN test is run on The Rapid fFN for the TLiIQ® System and a positive fFN result occurs
      with concentrations ≥50ng/mL and a negative fFN test with concentrations <50ng/mL.

      The current FDA-approved labeling for the collection of the fFN specimen requires a speculum
      examination; however, the collection of the fFN specimen is often needed when the women first
      arrives at the hospital labor and delivery unit, where nurses often are not trained or
      credentialed to perform speculum examinations and a physician may not be readily available to
      perform the collection. Therefore, there is an unmet need for a simpler collection method.

      The test article in this study is the collection of cervicovaginal samples for fFN
      determination using a standardized collection method without a speculum. The control article
      in this study is the collection of a cervicovaginal sample for fFN determination using the
      approved collection method requiring a speculum examination. Both the test and control fFN
      specimen samples will be collected and evaluated using the approved Rapid fFN for the TLiIQ®
      System.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine whether the proposed method of fFN
      specimen collection without a speculum is substantially equivalent to the approved method
      with a speculum examination when obtained at the gestational age of ≥ 24 weeks and ≤ 34, 6
      days in symptomatic women and at the gestational age of ≥ 22 weeks, 0 days and ≤ 30, 6 days
      in asymptomatic women. A finding of substantial equivalency would support a modification to
      the labeling to allow the collection of specimens for fFN determination with or without a
      speculum examination.

      Hypothesis: The method of fFN specimen collection without a speculum is not inferior to
      collection with a speculum within a 5% margin of non-inferiority.
    
  