
    
      This is a Phase IIIb multicentre, randomized, blinded, double-dummy, parallel group study to
      evaluate the efficacy and safety of UMEC/VI Inhalation Powder (62.5/25 mcg) when administered
      once-daily via ELLIPTA dry powder inhaler (DPI) [note: the ELLIPTA DPI may also be referred
      to as the Novel DPI (NDPI) or the DPI] compared with tiotropium (18 mcg) administered
      once-daily via the HandiHaler over a treatment period of 12 weeks in subjects with COPD who
      continue to have symptoms while on tiotropium.

      The target population of the study will include those subjects who continue to have symptoms
      while on tiotropium. The study will screen approximately 650 subjects who continue to have
      symptoms whilst on tiotropium. After a 4 week run-in period on open label tiotropium, those
      subjects who continue to have symptoms and have adhered to the treatment schedule will
      progress into the treatment phase.

      At the end of the run-in phase approximately 490 subjects will be randomised 1:1 to UMEC/VI
      Inhalation Powder (62.5/25 mcg), or tiotropium (18 mcg). During the treatment phase, each
      subject will receive two inhalers, a preloaded ELLIPTA DPI and a HandiHaler dry powder
      inhaler with capsules, for once-daily administration of one active treatment and one placebo
      treatment for 12 weeks.

      There will be a total of 8 study visits. Subjects will sign the informed consent form (ICF)
      at either Visit 0 or Visit 1 and will be assigned a subject identifier. Subjects who meet the
      eligibility criteria at Screening (Visit 1) will enter the open label tiotropium run-in
      phase. After 4 weeks all subjects will be reviewed (Visit 2) and if they satisfy the
      randomisation criteria they will be randomised and enter the treatment phase.

      After Visit 2, there will be a further 6 study clinic visits. Further visits are scheduled at
      Day 2, Week 4, Week 8, Week 12 and Week 12 +1 day (Visits 3 to 7 respectively). Vital signs
      (blood pressure and pulse rate) will be obtained at all clinic visits.

      Trough FEV₁and trough FVC will be performed at Visit 3 and Visit 7. Pre-dose and post dose
      FEV₁and FVC measurement at 5 and 15 mins and 1 and 3 hrs will also be performed at Visit 2,
      Visit 4, Visit 5 and Visit 6.

      At selected study sites, a subset of approximately 200 subjects will perform 24-hour serial
      spirometry at Visit 2 and Visit 6 for evaluation of lung function over the dosing period.

      An assessment of dyspnea will be obtained using the Baseline and Transition Dyspnea Index
      (BDI/TDI). At Visit 2, the severity of dyspnea at baseline will be assessed using the BDI.
      Change from baseline will be assessed using the TDI at Visit 4, Visit 5 and Visit 6.

      In addition to the baseline assessment at Visit 2, health status will be captured using the
      St. George Respiratory Questionnaire for COPD (SGRQ-C) scale at Visit 4 and Visit 6.

      The impact of COPD on the subject's wellbeing and daily life will be measured using the COPD
      Assessment Test (CAT) and the the Euroqol-5D (EQ5D).. In addition to the baseline assessment
      at Visit 2, the CAT and the EQ-5D will also completed at Visit 4 and Visit 6. Furthermore,
      the CAT is also completed during screening.

      The Patient Global Rating of COPD Severity and Change of COPD Severity is a selfreported
      global assessment of severity of illness will be performed at Baseline during Visit 2 and at
      Visit 4 and Visit 6.

      Visits 0/1 through 7 will be clinic visits conducted on an outpatient basis. A safety
      Follow-Up assessment (Visit 8) will be conducted either by phone call or clinic visit where
      required approximately 7 days after the end of the study treatment (Visit 7 or Early
      Withdrawal, if applicable). The total duration of subject participation, including follow-up,
      will be approximately 18 weeks. All subjects will be provided with albuterol/salbutamol for
      use on an "as-needed" basis throughout the run-in and study treatment periods.

      For determination of subject disposition, subjects will be considered to have completed the
      study upon completion of Visit 7 (the last on-treatment clinic visit). There are no plans for
      compassionate use of the study medications.
    
  