
    
      Background: As Coronary Artery Bypass Grafting (CABG) aims to restore adequate blood supply
      to the ischemic heart, the success of the operation should depend mainly on the patency of
      the bypass grafts. Graft failure has consequences similar to those of native coronary artery
      disease: recurrent angina, myocardial infarct (MI), additional revascularization procedures,
      and premature death. CABG is generally performed using cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with
      cardioplegic arrest allowing the surgeon to complete the delicate coronary anastomoses on a
      still heart in a bloodless field. Off-pump CABG surgery using specially designed heart
      stabilizer systems has been proposed as a less invasive approach to CABG avoiding the CPB
      circuit itself. The benefits of off-pump CABG compared with conventional on-pump CABG are
      still intensively debated. Multislice spiral computed tomography angiography (CTA) represents
      a non-invasive method as compared to conventional coronary angiography allowing a
      comprehensive and objective imaging of bypass grafts and native coronaries with elevated
      diagnostic accuracy.

      Rationale: CORONARY trial (NCT00463294) is a large, international, prospective, CIHR-funded,
      randomized controlled trial assessing both the short and long-term clinical outcomes of 4,700
      patients undergoing on-pump or off-pump CABG. However, angiographic evaluation of coronary
      graft patency was not intended in CORONARY.

      Objectives: PATENCY-CORONARY is a new prospective trial of a consecutive subset of 1,200
      CORONARY patients reaching their one-year follow-up who will undergo graft patency assessment
      using CTA and 3D reconstructions. This trial will determine whether off-pump compared to
      on-pump CABG surgery is associated with lower CABG patency when performed by experienced
      surgeons and if there is an association between graft failure assessed by CTA, and the
      occurrence of CORONARY primary outcomes (composite of death, angina, MI, stroke, renal
      failure and new coronary revascularization [CABG or PCI]).

      Primary outcome: CABG patency index (i.e. the percentage of patent [non-occluded] distal
      anastomoses out of the total number of distal anastomoses for all patients) at 1 year after
      CABG surgery by experienced surgeons; Secondary outcomes: 1) graft lesion severity on a
      3-point scale at 1 year (mimicking the FitzGibbon grading ABO); and 2) percentage of patients
      with at least one occluded bypass graft at 1 year; Tertiary outcome: correlation between CTA
      findings (compromised grafts) with CORONARY primary outcomes(composite of death, angina, MI,
      stroke, renal failure and new coronary revascularization [CABG or PCI]), at one and five-year
      of follow-up post-CABG.

      Methods: All CORONARY patients reaching their one-year follow-up will be included
      consecutively in the PATENCY-CORONARY trial until the target of 1,200 CTA is reached and
      reasons for exclusion will be noted prospectively to prevent selection bias. Amount of
      contrast agent used, radiation dose and potential morbidities during this imaging procedure
      will be recorded. Each CTA examination will be assessed by two experienced and blinded
      radiologists and each graft will be classified according to conduit type and portions: body
      of the graft, anastomoses and the distal native coronary bed. In addition of PATENCY-CORONARY
      outcome analyses, patients undergoing CTA will be compared to excluded patients (no CTA) and
      the overall cohort of patients.
    
  