
    
      The CREATION Health Lifestyle intervention is targeted at improving the cardiovascular risk
      profiles (blood pressure, BMI, and Hemoglobin A1C) of participants diagnosed with
      hypertension and/or type 2 diabetes. The intervention is designed to address the whole person
      and is based on the CREATION Health framework. Participants in the lifestyle intervention arm
      will receive 6 individual visits with a CREATION Health Specialist over a 3 month period, and
      one follow up visit at 6 months. The visits include one 2 hour-long initial assessment, four
      60-minute motivational interview sessions, and two 60-minute reassessments. Visits will focus
      on tailoring the intervention care plan to each individual, goal-setting, action plans,
      self-monitoring, identification of personal and social barriers to change, self-regulatory
      techniques, and provision of psychosocial support using motivational interviewing techniques.
      Using the CREATION Health framework, the CREATION Health Specialist will educate the
      participant and make recommendations for lifestyle modifications that lead to reduction in
      cardiovascular disease risk by focusing on: reduced energy intake, primarily via lowering fat
      intake to <30% of caloric intake; increased physical activity to 150 minutes per week;
      smoking cessation; limited sodium intake; and limited alcohol intake.

      Intervention fidelity will be determined by tracking the content of visits on encounter
      forms. There will also be a quality assurance assessment by audio-taping a select number of
      CHS-patient visits. The audiotapes will be reviewed by the study team and CHS for adherence
      to study intervention protocols.

      Participants in the intervention group will also receive a health journal to document
      progress and a CREATION Health workbook that introduces the CREATION Health framework in more
      detail. The workbook explains each concept of the CREATION Health framework: Choice; Rest;
      Environment; Activity; Trust in God; Interpersonal relationships; Outlook; and Nutrition.
      Participants in the intervention group will receive a CREATION Health One-sentence Journal.
    
  