
    
      Pancreatic cancer is the fourth leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide. The 5-year
      survival rate in overall patients is less than 6% due to late clinical manifestation and the
      systemic nature of the disease at presentation. Even in patients with resectable disease,
      estimated 5-year survival rates after resection are between 15% and 20%. Traditionally,
      resection alone is regarded as inadequate for cure. Therefore, systemic and/or combined
      chemotherapy and radiotherapy have been used as preoperative or postoperative therapy.

      Neoadjuvant treatment offers several theoretical advantages over an initial resection. Early
      delivery of systemic therapy for all patients which might lead to the higher rates of
      negative margin resection rate, and enhanced patient selection for surgery. Although
      neoadjuvant treatment has been established as a standard of care for resectable or locally
      advanced disease of breast, gastric, and rectal cancers, the role of neoadjuvant treatment in
      patients with pancreatic cancer is not clear at present.

      There is no global consensus on the management of patients with borderline resectable
      pancreatic cancer. If initially resected, postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy or
      chemoradiotherapy is standard. However, there is no standard regimen for neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy for pancreatic cancer. Recent pivotal phase 2/3 trial has demonstrated that
      FOLFIRINOX improved the response rates and survival outcomes of patients with metastatic
      pancreatic cancer compared to gemcitabine.

      Because of higher response rates (about 30%) with FOLFIRINOX, this regimen is now widely
      investigated in the neoadjuvant setting. Therefore, investigators hypothesize that
      neoadjuvant FOLFIRINOX may enhance the outcomes of patients with borderline resectable
      pancreatic cancer. This study will assess the feasibility and efficacy outcomes of
      neoadjuvant modified FOLFIRINOX and postoperative gemcitabine in patients with borderline
      resectable pancreatic cancer.
    
  