
    
      Many soluble factors found in blood can be detected in saliva and stool. Often levels of
      these factors are found to correlate between body fluids, though the exact relationship
      between systemic (blood) and local (saliva and stool) immunity is not well established yet.
      Saliva- and stool-associated factors are produced in the oral cavity and in the gut, which
      represent mucosal sites that potentially come in direct contact with pathogens. Thus, the
      levels of mucosal-associated soluble factors can better represent the local immune response
      at these sites.

      It is becoming clear now that saliva and stool can be used to analyze inflammatory responses
      as well. In a recent study, 20 possible salivary biomarkers related to obesity were surveyed
      and the authors found four biomarkers that exhibit significant change with increasing body
      weight in a pediatric population. Salivary C-reactive protein (CRP), salivary insulin, leptin
      and adiponectin were found to be different in obese children compared to healthy normal
      weight children. This data suggests that saliva could be a useful blood surrogate for the
      study of metabolic complications of obesity in children, where repeated blood sampling can be
      both traumatic and difficult. The results of this study also provide insight into the early
      development of metabolic disease in children. (Goodson, Kantarci et al. 2014). In another
      study, cytokines-chemokines-growth factors (CCGFs) were measured using multiplex bead assays
      and compared between plasma, saliva and urine collected from 20 male and female healthy
      volunteers. By analyzing more than one sample types from the same subject would increase the
      possibility of identifying biomarker(s) for any inflammatory disease. In this study,
      gender-specific CCGFs were also observed and concentrations of some CCGFs varied between
      genders. This information is also valuable for biomarker discovery that by combining male and
      female subjects in a clinical trial would eliminate false discovery of biomarkers (Khan
      2012).

      The mucosal immune system can be also understood by analyzing stool samples. In a recent
      study, it is shown that a particular bacterial predominance, such as Bifidobacterium sp., may
      enhance thymic development and immune responses to both oral and parenteral vaccines early in
      infancy, whereas a deviation from this pattern, resulting in greater bacterial diversity, may
      cause systemic inflammation (neutrophilia) and lower vaccine responses. Thus, vaccine
      responsiveness may be improved by promoting intestinal Bifidobacteria sp. and minimizing
      dysbiosis early in infancy (Huda, Lewis et al. 2014). Of note, the hallmark of adequate
      mucosal immune responses is the production of secretory immunoglobulin A (SIgA), which can
      prevent infection and remove antigen crossing the mucosal barrier.SIgAis also imperative to
      establish mutualism between host and the intestinal microbiota (Maynard, Elson et al. 2012).
      Hence measurement of SIgA can help to assess the mucosal immunity.

      Despite saliva and stool samples are increasingly studied in order to assess mucosal immune
      response and/or clinical outcomes, there is still a lack of established methodology to be
      routinely used in diagnostic laboratories and clinical trials. Therefore our aim is to
      collect saliva and stool samples using the salimetrics swab and self-stool collection kit
      from a cohort of 60 volunteers, process and store samples in a standardized manner. Following
      this, we intend to perform immunological assays such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay,
      multiplex bead assay and Immunocap to correlate the salivary and fecal levels of biomarkers
      in healthy donors. As this method is non-invasive, we believe that more people will be
      willing to donate samples. It is also easy to self-collect and it is cost efficient.
    
  