
    
      World Health Organization recommends that the rate of episiotomy in various departments will
      be around 10%, which is already a reality in many European countries. The episiotomy should
      be limited and physicians should be encouraged to use their clinical judgment to decide when
      the procedure is necessary. There are no clinical evidence corroborating any indication of
      episiotomy, so not yet known whether episiotomy is indeed necessary in any context obstetric
      practice. Objectives: To compare the maternal and perinatal outcomes in women undergoing a
      protocol of not conducting episiotomy versus selective episiotomy. Methods: A randomized
      clinical trial will be conducted in open Maternity Instituto de Medicina Integral Prof.
      Fernando Figueira, from August 2012 to July 2013. 340 women will be included in labor with
      term pregnancy, maximum dilation of 8 cm, live fetus in cephalic vertex presentation and will
      be excluded women with bleeding disorders of pregnancy , indication for caesarean section,
      women without capacity to consent and without legal guardians. The primary outcomes will be:
      frequency of episiotomy, delivery duration, frequency of spontaneous lacerations, frequency
      of instrumental delivery. frequency of perineal trauma, postpartum blood loss, need for
      perineal suturing, number of sutures, Apgar scores at one and five minutes, need for neonatal
      resuscitation and pH in cord blood. As secondary outcomes will be assessed: frequency of
      severe perineal trauma, complications of perineal suturing perineal pain postpartum evaluated
      according to the visual scale, maternal satisfaction, neonatal morbidity and admission RN in
      NICU. Women will be invited to participate and those who agree should signing the consent
      form. At the beginning of the second stage will open the envelope to determine which group
      included women, with 170 assigned to a protocol of not conducting episiotomy (experimental
      group) and 170 to a group that episiotomy is performed selectively (Control Group ),
      according to the judgment of the provider of care delivery. Statistical analysis will be
      performed using the Epi-Info statistical program 7, adopting the principle of intention to
      treat. The analysis will be performed with the groups identified as A or B by a blinded
      statistician to the meaning of the lyrics, breaking the secrecy only after the results
      obtained and prepared the tables. Categorical variables were compared in contingency tables,
      using the chi-square test of association and Fisher's exact test, as appropriate. The risk
      ratio (RR) shall be calculated as measure of relative risk, determining the confidence
      interval at 95%. Regarding the quantitative variables, if they have normal distribution,
      comparison between groups will be conducted through the Student's t test for unpaired
      samples. If it is found that the distribution is not normal, the nonparametric
      Mann-Whitney-will be used. Ethical aspects, the present study addresses the Resolution 196/96
      of the National Health Council and will be submitted to the iMIP Research Ethics Committee,
      beginning only after your approval. All participants will be included only if they agree to
      voluntarily participate by signing the consent
    
  