
    
      Mild traumatic brain injury (mTBI), an injury or concussion associated with brief loss of
      consciousness or altered mental state, has affected as many as 35% of soldiers wounded during
      recent military actions in Iraq and Afghanistan. Up to 30% of those injured report persistent
      somatic, emotional and cognitive post-concussive symptoms (PCS) which may adversely impact
      family life and community re-integration. Marital conflict and intimate partner violence,
      reported by 54% of OEF/OIF couples, and co-occurring mental health problems may exacerbate
      cognitive dysfunction and delay rehabilitation. A key contributor to marital conflict is a
      lack of knowledge about the Veteran's condition and the skills needed to help him compensate
      for common deficits in memory and planning which create challenges in household management.
      Despite a growing evidence base for couples treatment for PTSD, there is no established
      family-based treatment for OEF/OIF Veterans with mTBI, creating a critical research and
      services gap. The proposed research aims to fill this gap by evaluating a novel form of
      multi-family group treatment designed to improve community integration (CI) among
      married/cohabiting OEF/OIF Veterans with mTBI and/or significant posttraumatic stress (PTS)
      or combat-related stress (CS) by training spouse/partners to aid with rehabilitation and
      employing disability-adapted communication and problem-solving skills to reduce marital
      conflict and improve marital satisfaction.

      Veterans (N=150) with a positive Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center (DVBIC) screen for
      mTBI sustained during the OEF/OIF era, confirmed by the VA Identification Clinical Interview
      and a Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) score 19 or if they either meet diagnostic
      criteria for PTSD or have trauma- or CS of at least moderate severity, as defined by either
      a) PTSD Checklist (PCL) score >34 or b) Customer Effort Score (CES) score of >23, will be
      randomized to receive either: 1) Multifamily Group for TBI for Couples (MFG-mTBI-C), a
      psychoeducational, rehabilitation and skills-building intervention consisting of a 2-session
      multifamily educational workshop providing information about TBI and 12 bi-monthly
      multifamily group meetings providing skills training in problem-solving and communication
      related to cognitive/emotional deficits; or 2) 14 bi-monthly multifamily group sessions
      delivering health education without skills training. Both treatments will be preceded by 2-3
      individual couples sessions. Participants will be assessed pre- and post-treatment and 6
      months post-treatment. Data will be analyzed using an intent-to-treat analysis with paired
      comparisons between treatment groups on primary (Veteran CI, caregiver burden) and secondary
      (anger management, use of social supports) outcome variables using mixed effects regression
      models. It is hypothesized that Veterans treated with MFG-mTBI-C will show improved CI, anger
      management and use of social support, and spouse/partners will show reduced burden compared
      with those treated in the health education group. If efficacious, MFG-mTBI-C has the
      potential to assist Veterans with mTBI and their partners throughout the VA Health Care
      System.
    
  