
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To test the feasibility and safety of infusing anti-CD3 x anti-CD20 bispecific
           antibody-armed activated T cells (CD20Bi-AATC) before stem cell mobilization and
           collection for autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (PBSCT) in patients
           with multiple myeloma.

      Secondary

        -  To explore functional changes in immune cell populations as a consequence of
           immunotherapy to test the hypothesis that CD20Bi-AATC can induce anti-clonogenic myeloma
           precursor cell (CMPC) effect as measured by cytotoxicity; serum cytokine levels; and
           serum antibody titers to myeloma cells pre-immunotherapy, after immunotherapy, and after
           high-dose chemotherapy and autologous PBSCT.

        -  To explore whether the infusion of CD20Bi-AATC reduces the proportion of plasma cells
           with the CD20+ CMPC phenotype in patients' bone marrow as assessed by multi-color flow
           cytometry before and after immunotherapy.

        -  To assess the proportion of bone marrow colony-forming assays before induction or
           salvage chemotherapy, pre-immunotherapy, and post-immunotherapy to determine whether the
           infusion grossly affects the bone marrow progenitor populations.

        -  To explore whether infusions of CD20Bi-AATC induce a B-cell defect causing an
           immunoglobulin deficiency after autologous PBSCT.

        -  To measure immunoglobulin deficiency after autologous PBSCT (e.g., quantitative IgG,
           IgM, and IgA levels and number of circulating T- and B-cell subsets).

      OUTLINE: After completion of induction or salvage chemotherapy, patients receive
      immunotherapy comprising anti-CD3 x anti-CD20-armed ATC IV weekly for 2 weeks. At least 1-3
      weeks after the second infusion, patients receive high-dose chemotherapy and then undergo
      autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation. Patients then undergo leukapheresis
      for G-CSF-mobilized autologous T-cells.

      Blood samples are collected periodically to evaluate antibody titers to recall antigens;
      serum IgG, IgM, and IgA levels; the proportion of circulating B-cells by phenotyping for
      CD19, CD20, CD22, CD23, CD4, CD8, and CD38; the ability of peripheral blood mononuclear cells
      to kill multiple myeloma cell lines or the patient's own cryopreserved myeloma cells via
      cytotoxicity assays and ELISPOT assays; and human anti-mouse antibody responses to murine
      IgG2a (OKT3). Bone marrow biopsies are also collected to analyze the phenotype of cells
      (CD20+, CD138-, CD27+, CD22, etc.) via flow cytometry and the proportion of plasma cells via
      flow cytometry and hematoxylin-and-eosin staining.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for up to 1 year.
    
  