
    
      Learning Readiness Program: This program will include: case management to secure needed
      services, medication consultation (psychiatrist), educational consultation/ liaison,
      Behavioral Regulation Training (BRT). BRT will include teaching parents about: 1) recognizing
      their child's arousal level (to avoid negative episodes), 2) recognizing their own arousal
      and how it contributes to a situation, 3) principles of social reinforcement (e.g., praise,
      ignore, etc), 4) "accidental teaching" (i.e., teaching when a situation/opportunity arises),
      5) resource/support source identification, 6) to communicate choices rather than
      authoritative commands, and 6) reduction of repetitive prompts (nagging). The child will be
      taught: 1) the technique of Escape/No Escape for undesirable tasks, 2) arousal awareness, and
      3) verbalization of situations and actions (e.g., I don't like it when mom yells at me for
      running in the house, so I won't run in the house).

      Targeted Area of Intervention: MATH - 6 weeks of individualized math tutoring. Content of the
      tutoring will be tailored to age levels (either 3-6 yr olds or 6-9 yr olds). The High/Scope
      curriculum will be used (modified so that it can be individualized). In addition, visual
      materials and visual aids will be developed to address deficits in the visual-spatial skills
      of children with FAS/ARND. For teachers, a manual will be prepared to assist them in working
      with children who have FAS/ARND. The educational specialist will review the manual and
      techniques with each teacher involved with the child.

      Parent component: Individual and small group sessions to include: FAS education, information
      on education system procedures, instruction for communicating with professionals, and support
      for advocating for their child. A caregiver manual will be prepared.

      Evaluation Plan: Treatment and control groups will be compared using pre- and post-tests
      measures. Post-tests will be at the conclusion of the intervention and at a 6-month
      follow-up. Process (e.g., parent satisfaction, compliance, etc) and outcome (e.g., math
      skill, behavior, family functioning, etc) measures will be evaluated.
    
  