
    
      Subjects will give informed consent before any protocol specific assessments. Blood samples,
      physical examination, CT scan and bone marrow examination will be performed to determine
      baseline disease status and study eligibility. All examinations must be performed ≤ 14 days
      prior to first infusion, with the exception of the CT scan and bone marrow examination. The
      CT scan and the bone marrow examination will be performed within 6 weeks of first infusion.

      treatment regimen: Rituximab 375 mg/m2 8 weekly infusions (days 1, 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, 43, 50,
      57), then 3 infusion every 28 days (days 85, 113, 141) Ibrutinib 420 mg (3 tablets) daily,
      constantly for 6 months

      Disease status assessments to determine subject response or progression will be performed
      monthly according to NCI Criteria and will include:

        -  Physical examination including lymph node examination, spleen and liver measurement, and
           detection of constitutional symptoms

        -  Peripheral blood sample evaluation of complete blood count (CBC) and differential
           (expressed in % and absolutes)

        -  Direct antiglobulin test

        -  In addition, subjects will be monitored for safety, efficacy.

      After completion of the induction phase, subjects achieving CR or PR (for AIC and CLL) will
      continue maintenance phase. During maintenance phase patients will receive:

      ibrutinib 420 mg (3 tablets) daily, constantly until progression or unacceptable toxicity
      Survival and disease status assessments will be performed 1 month post treatment and every 2
      months until total observation time.

      In addition, subjects will be monitored for safety and efficacy.

        -  Bone marrow examination is required for confirmation of CR 1 months post final rituximab
           infusion. Minimal Residual Disease (MRD) assessment of the bone marrow aspirate will
           also be performed for subjects demonstrating a CR.

        -  In PRCA patients with clinical evidence of response for anemia the bone marrow
           examination is required independently of CLL status at 1 month post last rituximab
           infusion.

        -  All subjects with clinical CR will receive MRD assessment of the peripheral blood during
           maintenance phase. In subjects achieved MRD-negative result in blood in two consecutive
           measurements bone marrow examination is required for confirmation of CR.

        -  CT-Scans will be performed for patients achieving a CR, PR or SD at 1 month post last
           rituximab infusion. CT-Scans must be repeated every 12 months beginning since final
           assessment of response after induction phase.

      Follow-up assessment for subjects experiencing CLL progression or relapse of AIC during the
      maintenance phase requires a 1 month post-treatment safety assessment. Subsequent follow up
      visits include assessment of survival status, date of next CLL therapy, type of therapy and
      response to therapy.
    
  