
    
      People who inject drugs (PWIDs) do so at significant risk to themselves due to transmission
      of blood borne viruses (BBV), injecting injuries, bacterial infections and drug related
      deaths.

      NHS Tayside has a responsibility for improving the health of the population. PWIDs represent
      a particularly vulnerable group who experience significant health inequalities as well as
      stigmatisation and discriminatory attitudes.

      Injecting Equipment Provision (IEP) services contribute to a reduction in BBV transmission
      through the provision of free sterile equipment for each injection. IEP services also provide
      advice on good injecting technique to avoid injecting injuries and bacterial infections.
      Crucially they can also provide "take home naloxone". Intramuscular injection of naloxone is
      a first aid emergency response for potentially fatal opiate overdoses and provides more time
      for emergency services to attend. Supplies of "take home naloxone" are made, along with
      training on overdose awareness, to those individuals at risk of opioid overdose in order to
      reduce the risk of fatality.

      IEP services contribute to a reduction in drug related deaths by engaging with those thought
      to be most at risk, either through poly substance use or those who are not engaged with other
      services

      The aim of this study is to review the current provision of IEP services provided across
      Tayside and consider to what extent they are contributing to keeping this vulnerable
      population safe. The study will look at the coverage provided by the current service and map
      this against the known harms e.g. drugs litter finds, incidences of non-fatal overdoses and
      drug related deaths. This mapping process will then allow recommendations to be made in a
      strategic way to advise future service delivery plans to ensure that services are delivered
      that are reachable to the communities that need these valuable services.

      The protocol has been peer reviewed by the expert working group established to review the
      current provision of IEP and harm reduction and overdose awareness services across Tayside

      Individual consent from patients will not be sought. The data provided by the databases will
      be retrospective 4 digit postcode data and will not include patient identifiable information.
      The data obtained will not be used in any way which may influence the care of the patient.

      Data collection methods will not identify individual patients.

      Researchers will be accessing information from databases which they have access to as part of
      their routine work. Information will remain anonymous and patient confidentiality will be
      upheld.

      Separate consents will be sought to allow council colleagues to provide information on drug
      litter finds.

      Anonymous 4 digit postcode data will be transferred onto Geographic Information System (GIS)
      maps to demonstrate coverage of services mapped against known harms (non-fatal overdoses,
      drug related deaths and drug litter finds). GIS maps do not identify individual postcodes.

      The GIS maps will be used to identify gaps in the provision of services and provide an
      evidence base behind recommendations to improve service provision.
    
  