
    
      Corticosteroid injections and viscosupplementation (Euflexxa and Synvisc)injections are
      routine treatments patients receive for knee osteoarthritis. However, studies are
      limited/flawed outlining their effectiveness. This study aims to analyze the effectiveness of
      these injections on participant's perception of pain. This will be assessed using a visual
      analog scale (VAS). VAS scores will be logged pre-injection by the principal investigator.
      For viscosupplementation injections, a VAS will be logged pre-injection at the second and
      third office visit. Because there is not immediate improvement with injections a VAS will be
      logged via phone call 6 weeks post-injection. To assess the long-term effectiveness, a VAS
      will be logged 3 months post-injection as well.

      Participants will be recruited at their office visit scheduled with the principal
      investigator. Prior to the office visit, one of the surgeons diagnosed the potential
      participant with knee osteoarthritis. They recommended proceeding with a particular knee
      injection based upon previous treatments and insurance authorization. The determination of
      which injection is administered is not being determined by the study need.

      The participant will be assigned a number at random at the first visit. The participant will
      rate their current pain based on the VAS. For participants who receive bilateral injections,
      they will provide a VAS for each knee. This will be documented prior to administration of the
      first, second, and third viscosupplementation injection. Because viscosupplementation
      injections can take up to 6 weeks to be beneficial, a subsequent VAS score will be assessed
      over the phone by the principal investigator. Because some research suggests a maximum
      injection benefit of about 14 weeks, the last VAS will be logged at the 3 month period also
      over the phone, resulting in 5 VAS for each participant. For cortisone injections, an initial
      VAS will be assessed prior to the injection, followed by a VAS at 6 weeks and 3 months over
      the phone.

      Paired t-test (p<0.05 and confidence interval at 95%) for the pre-injection VAS score and
      each documented VAS will be analyzed Based upon 2018 statistics, the principal investigator
      averaged 101 patients per month who received knee injections. The goal is to have a 3 month
      sample (~300 potential participants). With a CI of 95%, the sample size would need to be 169
      participants.

      With the looming changes with UPMC/Highmark patient enrollment, the number of Synvisc
      patients may be reduced. In the event that after the 3 month trial has ended, and there is an
      inadequate number of subjects who received Synvisc, Synvisc will not included in the final
      analysis.
    
  