
    
      Polypharmacy is pervasive amongst elderly patients living with multiple chronic conditions
      and the prevalence is increasing. The Canadian Institute for Health Information recently
      reported that 26.5% Canadian seniors were prescribed ten or more different drugs in 2016. A
      member of our team (S. Dahrouge) has found that number of prescription proved to be the most
      reliable index of persistent complexity and high cost in patients 65 years or older. There is
      also an association between number of prescription and potentially inappropriate
      prescriptions (PIPs). Analyses conducted on 86 practices affiliated with the University of
      Toronto Practice Based Research Network (UTOPIAN) have found that family physicians look
      after a mean of 24 older patients prescribed ten or more medications each year. Polypharmacy
      in the elderly is associated with elevated risks of adverse drug reactions, frailty and
      falls. It also increases healthcare, drug, and hospitalization costs. While several
      medications can be problematic, the following four classes of PIPs have been specifically
      identified by Choosing Wisely Canada and the Canadian Deprescribing Network as targets for
      wiser uses in elders: proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), sedative hypnotics such as
      benzodiazepines, antipsychotics for agitation and medications with a higher risk of
      hypoglycemia such as long-acting sulfonylureas. To improve care for elderly patients living
      with polypharmacy, we propose SPIDER: a Structured Process Informed by Data, Evidence and
      Research. Leveraging existing Quality Improvement (QI) capacity and provision of validated
      EMR data, SPIDER will engage inter-professional practice teams. They will participate in
      Learning Collaboratives and work with QI Coaches to identify areas of improvement, develop
      strategies and implement changes to improve care. The study aims to assess whether SPIDER can
      reduce PIPs in older patients prescribed ten or more medications. Patient experience,
      provider satisfaction and cost-effectiveness of SPIDER will also be evaluated. The study will
      first be tested for feasibility in Toronto, Edmonton and Montreal. Findings will then guide a
      pragmatic cluster RCT in Calgary, Winnipeg, Ottawa, Montreal and Halifax where practices
      enrolled in the SPIDER intervention will be compared with those in usual care.
    
  