
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the maximum tolerated dose of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan, in terms of
           absorbed radiation to critical organs, when administered with high-dose chemotherapy
           followed by autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with
           relapsed or refractory B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.

        -  Determine whether the residual radioactivity detected at the time of stem cell
           reinfusion affects the reinfused cells and delays engraftment in patients treated with
           this regimen.

        -  Determine the duration of response and survival of patients treated with this regimen.

      OUTLINE: This is a dose-escalation study of yttrium Y 90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (IDEC-Y2B8).

        -  Radioimmunotherapy: Patients receive rituximab IV followed by indium In 111 ibritumomab
           tiuxetan (for imaging) IV over 10 minutes on day -22. Patients then receive rituximab IV
           and IDEC-Y2B8 IV over 10 minutes on day -14.

      Cohorts of 3-6 patients receive escalating doses of IDEC-Y2B8 until the maximum tolerated
      dose (MTD) is determined. The MTD is defined as the dose preceding that at which 2 of 3 or 3
      of 6 patients experience dose-limiting toxicity.

        -  High-dose conditioning regimen: Patients receive BEAM chemotherapy comprising carmustine
           IV over 2 hours on day -6, etoposide IV over 2 hours twice daily and cytarabine IV over
           1 hour twice daily on days -5 to -2, and melphalan IV over 1 hour on day -1.

        -  Autologous stem cell transplantation: Autologous peripheral blood stem cells are
           reinfused on day 0. Patients receive filgrastim (G-CSF) subcutaneously daily beginning
           on day 0 and continuing until blood counts recover.

      Patients are followed at 30 days, 3 and 6 months, and then annually for 5 years.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A maximum of 42 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  