
    
      Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) remains a major cause of mortality and morbidity in
      premature infants despite the increased use of antenatal steroids and early nasal continuous
      positive airway pressure (nCPAP) in addition to exogenous surfactant replacement
      therapy(1,2). In recent years, there have been several improvements in treatment, reducing
      the incidence and severity of RDS and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) including early
      treatment with nCPAP, early targeted surfactant replacement therapy, increased used of lung
      protective ventilation together with an overall reduced use of mechanical ventilation(1,3,4).

      However, the majority of premature infants with a gestational age of less than 30 weeks have
      immature lungs and approximately half still require treatment with exogenous surfactant(2).
      Timing of surfactant treatment seems crucial. Prophylactic surfactant treatment followed by
      mechanical ventilation has been widely used, but has now been shown to increase the combined
      mortality and incidence of BPD, as opposed to early targeted rescue treatment, especially
      when combined with nCPAP and avoidance of mechanical ventilation using the "Intubation,
      surfactant, extubation (INSURE) or "Less Invasive Surfactant Administration " (LISA)
      approach(5-8). In addition, evidence shows that very early targeted surfactant treatment is
      associated with a better outcome compared to later treatment(9).

      Consequently, it is necessary to treat with surfactant selectively and very soon after birth,
      preferably even before classical symptoms of RDS are present, in order to further improve
      outcome from RDS. To be able to do so, we need a bedside test that can quickly identify which
      infants have surfactant deﬁciency to target treatment effectively(1).

      Biomarkers expressing lung maturity have been identiﬁed in amniotic ﬂuid, gastric aspirate,
      and oropharyngeal secretions(10-12). These ﬂuids are partially produced in the foetal lungs
      as well as in the kidneys and the amniotic sac and therefore contain lung surfactant(13). The
      classic method to determine surfactant in amniotic ﬂuid has been measuring
      lecithin/sphingomyelin ratio (L/S) with thin-layer chromatography(10,14). Sphingomyelin
      secretion remains fairly constant during pregnancy, whereas lecithin secretion increases in
      parallel with lung maturation. Consequently, L/S-ratio reﬂects lung maturity independently of
      dilution sampling effects(10)

      Gastric aspirate (GAS) and oropharyngeal (OPS) secretion are easier to obtain and measure
      than amniotic ﬂuid, and can be obtained within minutes from birth using routine neonatal care
      measures(15,16). Previously, we have measured the surfactant content in gastric aspirate with
      microbubble stability tests and with lamellar body counts(17,18). In a recent randomized
      clinical trial in very preterm infants we compared early surfactant treatment guided by
      lamellar body counts in gastric aspirate with traditional surfactant treatment, and found a
      significant reduction in the need of oxygen at six hours of age and by day 28, in addition to
      reduced duration of oxygen-dependency and a trend towards a lower incidence of
      bronchopulmonary dysplasia(19).

      However, both the microbubble stability test and lamellar body counts are work and laboratory
      intensive and require a minimum of two to three hours for analysis.

      The investigators have developed a fast method based on Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR)
      Spectroscopy for determining the L/S ratio in gastric aspirate and secretion from the
      oropharynx. In a recent study, the algorithms for FTIR L/S analyses were developed and
      improved 20). Concentrations were measured of the most surface-active lung phospholipid
      dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine and sphingomyelin in frozen gastric aspirates from 89
      premature infants expressed as lecithin/sphingomyelin ratio (L/S) by mass spectrometry as the
      reference method. The same aspirates were analyzed with FTIR spectroscopy. An L/S algorithm
      was developed based on the 89 aspirates. Subsequently gastric aspirates were sampled in 136
      infants of 24-31 weeks of gestation. L/S was measured in these frozen gastric aspirates using
      FTIR spectroscopy and the results were compared with RDS development. Of 136 infants 61 (45%)
      developed RDS. The cut-off value of L/S was 2.2, sensitivity was 92% and specificity was 73%.
      The FTIR spectroscopy analysis required 10 μL of aspirate and took 10 minutes.

      In an effort to increase accuracy and reproducibility, the investigators have continued to
      improve the FTIR spectroscopy method and algorithms by making comparative measurements with
      mass spectrometry using fresh non-frozen aspirates from newborn infants. These improvements
      may also have affected the optimal cut-off value in our test.

      The investigators are in the process of planning a large multicenter randomized clinical
      trial of FTIR spectroscopy guided surfactant treatment using a point of care (POC) device
      based on the FTIR algorithms and techinique using fresh aspirates that can be analyzed
      immidiately in birth suite or the NICU. Before embarking on an interventional study however,
      it is needed to re-validate the updated and improved FTIR spectroscopy test by again
      comparing clinical appearance of RDS with L/S-ratio measured by FTIR spectroscopy on fresh
      non-frozen gastric aspirates froma new population of preterm infants.

      Hypothesis: Fast determination of Lecithin/Sphingomyelin-ratio (L/S-ratio) in gastric
      aspirates by FTIR Spectroscopy, can accurately and consistently predict RDS based on clinical
      criteria.

      Trial design The trial is designed as prospective non-intervention observational cohort
      study, with the aim to assess the efficacy in predicting RDS by a LS-test on fresh gastric
      aspirates and oral secretions based on FTIR spectroscopy, by comparing clinical progress with
      the LS-ratio. Included infants will be treated according to routine guidelines and at the
      discretion of the attending neonatologist. No interventions are planned to be based on the
      result of the L/S test.

      AMMENTMENT:

      We have ammended the project with an attempt to use the same method and AI combined with
      clinical data to predict development of BPD, defined as continued requirements for
      supplemental oxygen to DOL28. Spectroscopic measurements were done again using stored gastric
      aspirate from the first part of the study.

      This amendment has been approved by HREC and measurements were only done after parents gave
      informed consent for participation of this additional part of the study.
    
  