
    
      The group of healthy pregnant women who meet the inclusion criteria will be determined by
      randomization according to the order of application to the delivery room in the latent phase.
      Positions will be changed every 30 minutes using the peanut ball tool in a group
      (intervention group) in active phase and transition phase. These positions are; side-lying
      position, compressed side-lying position, semi-sitting position, forward leaning position,
      upright sitting position and pushing position. All positions will be given to the pregnant
      woman by the researcher and she will be with the pregnant woman during the position
      intervention. How to give the peanut ball positions is indicated in the flow chart with
      photographs. Position application will not be applied to the other group (control group),
      routine procedure of the hospital will be applied.

      Parameters to Look for:

      The researcher will evaluate the progress of the birth process (cervical dilatation and
      effacement, fetal head descent, Fetal Hearth Rate, duration of the first and second stages of
      labor), delivery method and information about the baby (gender, weight, height and head
      circumference length, APGAR) in both groups of women from the hospital's partograph records.
      Information on the progress of the birth process from the active phase of each pregnant birth
      to the completion of the birth process in the hospital is processed in the partograph with 30
      minutes intervals.

      The pain level in each stage and phases of labor will be evaluated by the researcher with a
      visual pain scale.

      The first breastfeeding process will be observed and evaluated by the researcher using the
      "LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic and Evaluation Scale" in the delivery room.

      Finally, when the mother relaxes physically and goes to bed, the researcher will apply the
      "Birth Satisfaction Scale" to assess maternal satisfaction with care at birth.

      Study Group Population: The population of the study will be composed of primiparous pregnant
      women who applied to Ankara City Hospital Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinic Delivery Room.

      Sample of the Study Group: Since there is no reference study (duration of delivery) for the
      main research question created to examine the difference in the intervention and control
      groups, the required sample size calculation will be made in groups of twenty (case: 20,
      control: 20) and the effect width will be calculated and Type I error 0.05 and it will be
      made with 95% power.

      Since the minimum number of samples required is taken into account with loss, 20% will be
      added. The G power program will be used to calculate the number of samples required for the
      study.

      The randomization of the groups for pre-application was done with the computer randomization
      program Random Allocation Software. Pre-application data will be included in the research
      data. The number of pregnant women in the pre-application will be subtracted from the number
      of pregnant women required according to the number of samples determined after the
      pre-application, and re-randomization for the remaining number of pregnant women will be made
      with this program.

      Data Evaluation: The compatibility of the continuous variables to be obtained within the
      scope of the study to normal distribution will be examined with the Shapiro-Wilk test. Mean ±
      standard deviation will be used in the representation of descriptive statistics related to
      the variables that conform to the normal distribution, while the median (Interquartile Width
      - DIAG; minimum; maximum) will be used for distorted data, and the number and percentage will
      be used in the representation of categorical variables. In comparison of the variables
      measured in the groups, the necessary assumptions will be examined and appropriate t-test or
      Man-Whitney u test methods will be used. Comparison of groups and categorical variables will
      be made with the appropriate chi-square tests. All hypotheses will be established bilaterally
      and the statistical significance level will be accepted as p <0.05. IBM SPSS Statistics 23.0
      program will be used for statistical analysis and calculations.

      Data Collection Tools:

      Data will be collected with the data collection form (Case Report Form). The data collection
      form consists of five parts.1. General Information;2. Observations and Findings;3. Visual
      Pain Scale;4. Birth Satisfaction Scale:5. LATCH Breastfeeding Diagnostic and Evaluation
      Scale.
    
  