
    
      The study aims to establish the feasibility and acceptability of the use of medical skin
      camouflage for self-harm scarring in a women's prison. The investigators are interested in
      the use of medical skin camouflage by women who are recovering from self-harm. The research
      location is a Closed Category prison for female adults and young offenders in England. The
      study will involve adult women prisoners (over 18) and staff at the prison.

      Medical Skin Camouflage uses specialised creams/powders to disguise skin conditions or
      scarring with the intention of normalising the appearance of the skin. Studies which have
      examined the use of medical skin camouflage for dermatological diseases or burns have
      reported significant psychological benefits and social benefits. Preliminary findings from
      co-applicant Dr Sandeep Ranote's work, with young people who self-harm in the community,
      indicate that the use of medical skin camouflage can lead to increased well-being, confidence
      and ability to partake in social activities. Currently there is no evidence on the use of MSC
      for self-harm scarring in prisons.

      The research design is intended to provide information necessary to decide whether it is
      feasible and acceptable to conduct a full scale randomised controlled trial of MSC in a
      women's prison. The four phases of the research are as follows:

      Phase 1: Focus groups in prison. Interested prisoners and staff will be provided with an
      information sheet about phase 1 of the project and will have up to 48 hours to decide whether
      they want to take part in this phase of the research. After consent the investigators will
      conduct 2 focus groups with women prisoners (including current self-harmers) and prison staff
      (6-10 in each group; 12-20 in total). The focus groups are designed to achieve two aims: to
      ensure that appropriate outcome measures are used in the phase four pilot trial; and to
      explore any barriers to the delivery of medical skin camouflage in a prison environment. The
      focus groups will last 60-90 minutes.

      In the groups the investigators shall explore the following:

        1. Any potential problems with the introduction of MSC.

        2. How training long-term prisoners as camouflage practitioners will be undertaken (see
           phase 3).

        3. With women prisoners: the investigators will discuss how scarring affects mood,
           self-esteem, self-confidence, resilience, and how others perceive them. These questions
           will be designed to assess how best to collate information about how scarring affects
           prisoner's lives and their mental health informing which outcomes should be measured in
           phase 4. Part of this consultation will involve asking them to help us adapt standard
           measures of wellbeing (such as WEMWES) so they are appropriate for a prison environment.

        4. The investigators will also discuss the use of Assessment, Care in Custody and Teamwork
           data (ACCT) and Inpatient Mental Health Records during the pilot trial. Prisoners who
           are at risk of self-harm are assessed by the prison Safer Custody team who follow the
           ACCT procedures which include recording incidents of self-harm.

      The focus groups will be recorded, transcribed and checked for accuracy. The data will be
      analysed by members of the research team. To mitigate against possible researcher bias, an
      independent experienced researcher will review the findings.

      During phase 1 members of the research team will also be trained to become medical skin
      camouflage practitioners. This training will be delivered by Changing Faces, a third-sector
      organisation. Training is accredited by the Royal College of Nursing (2012). This training
      will be done in preparation for phase 3.

      Phase 2: Guidance protocol

      Using the findings from phase 1, the investigators will refine the study processes and
      procedures ready for the next two phases. This will involve:

        1. The production of a guidance protocol for the use of medical skin camouflage in prisons.
           The protocol will focus on practical aspects of where, when and how treatment is
           delivered, who applies it; how it is applied; how it is prescribed, and storage of
           prescribed products.

        2. Finalising how the training of lifers will be delivered and supported (in preparation
           for phase 3). This includes adapting the Changing Faces training manual so it is
           suitable for use with women prisoners.

        3. Finalising the eligibility criteria for phase 4, e.g. how assessment will be made of
           self-harm scar wounds and how women will be referred to the trial.

        4. Finalising the outcome measures to be used in phase 4.

        5. If necessary, refining our standard operating procedures for monitoring and managing any
           incidents of self-harm during the intervention.

      Phase 3: Training lifers This phase of the research involves the training of long-term
      prisons (lifers) to deliver the medical skin camouflage intervention to the women prisoners
      in phase 4. By training lifers to deliver the intervention the investigators will ensure that
      women prisoners are integral to the delivery of camouflage to other women offenders. Not only
      does this genuinely include stakeholders in research, but it also builds sustainable capacity
      within the prison and is likely to increase self-efficacy/self-worth of those women.

      In phase 3 the MSC trained research team members will implement a rolling programme of
      training and support for 6 or more long-term women prisoners so they are able to deliver the
      MSC intervention. During this phase and in phase 4, the research team will provide regular
      mentoring and advice on practical aspects of the product use. The women lifers will receive
      ongoing supportive liaison throughout the project from members of the research team.. The
      project manager will liaise with the prison lifers to ensure fidelity to the guidance
      protocol.

      Phase 4 Phase 4 is a small scale randomised wait list control pilot. A sample of 40 women
      prisoners with self-harm scarring at the prison will be recruited; 20 participants will be
      randomised to receive the 6 week camouflage intervention; 20 participants will become
      wait-list controls and receive the intervention after completion of the 6-week trial. The
      trial participants will be remand and sentenced women prisoners screened for date of release,
      with at least 6 weeks left on their sentence and self-harm scarring, with closed wounds (to
      allow the MSC to be applied).

      Eligible female prisoners will be identified by the prison, for example using information
      known by the Safer Custody team. Once identified the research team will provide the potential
      participants with an information sheet. Following earlier research in prisons, the
      investigators envisage that potential participants will be allocated a research number
      assuring anonymity from the research team. This process will allow the researchers to send
      out participant information sheets to relevant potential participants and allow participants
      to make an informed decision about participation prior to identifying themselves to
      researchers. Potential participants will be given 24-48 hours to decide whether they want to
      consent to involvement. The Clinical Research Network will assist the research assistant with
      the recruitment to the pilot trial.

      A member of the research team will interview all the women at the start of the trial
      collecting information on the following:

        1. Basic demographics (Bespoke Personal History Questionnaire)

        2. History of self-harm (Deliberate Self-harm Inventory)

        3. Mood (Beck Depression Inventory II, Beck Scale for Suicidal Ideation, Beck Hopelessness
           Scale)

        4. Psychosocial well-being (Warwick Edinburgh Mental Wellbeing Scale) and self-esteem
           (Rosenberg Self-esteem Scale)

        5. Health-related quality of life (SF-12 and EQ5D) and quality of life related to scarring
           (Prison-adapted Dermatology Quality of Life Index)

        6. Zanarini Rating Scale for Borderline Personality Disorder With women's permission the
           research team will record key clinical characteristics from CNomis, SystemOne (the
           prison electronic medical records) and from ACCT documentation.

      The MSC treatment will be provided for 6 weeks. The trained long-term prisoners will run
      regular 1 hour appointments for women in the intervention group. During this appointment, the
      participant will receive information about the specially formulated MSC creams. The lifers
      will take them through the skin tone colour-matching process and will try small amounts of
      cream until they find a match. After this, they will apply the cream to a larger area and use
      special powders to set the cream and make sure it is waterproof. Throughout the appointment,
      an explanation of what they are doing will be given to participants and the participant will
      then be able to try applying the camouflage creams themselves. When they are happy with how
      it looks, the practitioner will complete a prescription form that will be processed by a
      nurse prescriber. The prescription will provide them with one cream and one powder which we
      anticipate will last for 3-6 months. During the intervention the research team will record
      data on new self-harm incidents and related life-events (using ACCT data and Inpatient mental
      health records). All participants will also be asked to complete a weekly diary to record
      their self-harm experiences (thoughts and acts) during the trial.

      At the end of the 6 weeks the research team will meet with participants to collect post
      intervention data. Initial post-intervention testing is at 6 weeks as the average sentence
      length for women in the prison. Six weeks post-intervention the investigators will repeat
      baseline measures apart from the demographic questionnaire. A final follow-up will be piloted
      at 3-months post-baseline. Recruitment, participation, retention and causes of drop-out will
      also be collected.

      Post-intervention the investigators will conduct qualitative interviews with the following
      groups:

        1. All women who received the intervention will be invited to participate in an interview
           to explore their experience of the intervention and its acceptability. The investigators
           will explore the participants views on treatment accessibility and potential impact on
           how women feel about their scarring, mood, self-esteem and self-confidence.

        2. All women in the waitlist control group will be invited to participate in an interview
           to explore their experiences of being randomised to the control group and participating
           in the research.

        3. 6-10 prison health and other staff who have direct contact with the participants will
           take part in a focus group. This will explore their views in relation to the treatments'
           acceptability and perceived effects on participants' well-being, quality of life and
           everyday functioning.

        4. Interviews will be conducted with the lifers who delivered the intervention exploring
           how acceptable the training was, how MSC was used with the participants, feedback on the
           mentoring and support and any benefits or difficulties working with participants.

      During the course of the research the investigators will also be exploring the best way to
      calculate the resource use associated with providing MSC in prisons. The investigators shall
      develop a bespoke resource use questionnaire to pilot the collection of resource use data
      concerning the delivery of the intervention, including time spent by Changing Faces training
      the research team, time spent by trained prisoners delivering the intervention, and
      quantities of MSC products used and prescribed. Descriptive analysis of this data will inform
      future trial design.

      The Secure Facilities Service Use Schedule (SF-SUS) will be used to collect other relevant
      resource-use at 3month follow-up: contact with personal, Safer custody and general prison
      officers, and staff from mental health team; time on one-to-one observation, specialist
      mental health units; recording observations and care plans. SF-SUS records individual-level
      data on service use within secure facilities and external services for economic evaluation.
    
  