
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the feasibility for conducting a clinical trial that uses a 6-month physical
           activity intervention initiated within 45 days after surgery for early-stage breast
           cancer and prior to initiation of adjuvant chemotherapy, hormonal therapy, and/or
           radiotherapy. (phase I)

        -  Determine if participation in a 6-month physical activity intervention initiated within
           45 days after surgery for early-stage breast cancer decreases weight gain in patients
           treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. (phase II)

        -  Determine if participation in a 6-month physical activity intervention initiated within
           45 days after surgery for early-stage breast cancer differentially affects weight change
           in women who are premenopausal compared to those who are postmenopausal at diagnosis.
           (phase II)

      Secondary

        -  Determine if participation in a 6-month physical activity intervention initiated within
           45 days after surgery for early-stage breast cancer decreases gains in adiposity in
           patients treated with adjuvant chemotherapy. (phase II)

        -  Determine if participation in a 6-month physical activity intervention initiated within
           45 days after surgery for early-stage breast cancer differentially affects change in
           adiposity among women who are premenopausal compared to those who are postmenopausal at
           diagnosis. (phase II)

        -  Determine if participation in a 6-month physical activity intervention initiated within
           45 days after surgery for early-stage breast cancer decreases the frequency of
           depressive symptomology and improves quality of life among patients treated with
           adjuvant chemotherapy. (phase II)

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to
      participating site and menopausal status (premenopausal vs postmenopausal). Patients are
      randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (exercise and usual care): Patients receive usual care and are enrolled in an
           exercise and weight control program at Curves® fitness center. The Curves® program,
           which begins during the third week of study, uses aerobic activity and resistance
           training to reduce weight and increase strength and fitness. Patients exercise a minimum
           of 3 times per week, approximately 30 minutes every time, for up to 6 months in the
           absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients' physical activity is
           measured at baseline and at the 3- and 6-month follow-up visits.

      Patients also undergo behavior modification counseling with a study nurse to help them
      overcome the specific barriers to adhering to the recommended exercise routine. Counseling
      sessions are conducted every 2 to 3 weeks during chemotherapy and at least monthly after
      completion of chemotherapy for up to 6 months, starting within 2 weeks after randomization
      and prior to initiation of the Curves® intervention.

        -  Arm II (control: usual care alone): Patients receive usual care and general advice on
           coping with their breast cancer treatment for up to 6 months in the absence of disease
           progression or unacceptable toxicity. Patients receive no counseling or recommendations
           concerning emotional and practical barriers encountered during breast cancer treatment.

      Dietary information is obtained from patients by telephone during three 24-hour dietary
      recalls performed within 2 weeks of baseline and at the 3-month and 6-month follow-up visits
      to estimate total energy intake throughout the study. Patients complete questionnaires at
      baseline and periodically during study assessing demographic characteristics and established
      breast cancer risk factors, medical history, and health changes. Weight, adiposity as
      measured by waist circumference, quality of life, and depressive symptomology are assessed at
      baseline and at the 3- and 6-month follow-up visits.

      After completion of the study intervention, patients are followed for up to 6 months.
    
  