
    
      Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) results in permanent paraplegia or quadriplegia in
      approximately 10,000 Americans annually. All patients with SCI have neuropathic dysfunction
      of the urinary bladder. Progressive neurological syndromes such as multiple sclerosis,
      Parkinson's disease, Stroke, hemiplegia and dementia also induce progressive neuropathic
      bladder dysfunction. Neurologic impairment of the bladder causes or contributes to chronic
      urinary retention or urinary incontinence or both. Several million Americans suffer chronic
      neuropathic urinary retention or incontinence or both. Males tend to develop urinary
      retention and females tend to develop urinary incontinence but both genders commonly develop
      elements of both.

      Current management includes [a] indwelling tubes (urethral catheterization or [b] suprapubic
      (abdominal) catheterization, [c] intermittent urethral catheterization [4+times per day], and
      surgical rehabilitation [e.g. use of autogenous intestinal conduits or reservoirs]. No single
      form of management is ideal. A high percentage of elder and disabled patients are poor
      candidates or non-candidates for surgical rehabilitation because of co-morbidities or limited
      life expectancy. A majority of neurologically impaired patients are managed with chronic tube
      drainage of their bladders [e.g. a-c, above].

      Traditional tube drainage of the bladder may be either via the urethra or via an intubated
      fistula in the lower abdomen. Intermittent catheterization-by the patient or a care
      giver--via the urethra is a well accepted and sometimes used method. This technique is
      occasionally used [by an attendant] in cognitively impaired patients or quadriplegics with
      impairment of the upper extremities. Intermittent catheterization is expensive when provided
      by a professional care giver and is a social and domestic burden when provided by a family
      member. In most chronically impaired [cognitively or physically] patients chronic indwelling
      urethral or suprapubic tubes evolve as the most practical and widely used treatment option.

      Chronic urinary infection and bladder stones are recurrent problems in patients who use
      indwelling tubes. Foley urethral catheters [which are also commonly used as suprapubic tubes]
      are licensed for 30 day use by FDA.

      Indwelling urethral catheters and suprapubic tubes are "open eco-systems' and provide easy
      access to skin flora. Skin microbes migrate along the tubes and gain access to bladder urine
      which becomes colonized in 100% of cases. Both gram-stain positive [gram +] and gram-stain
      negative [gram-] organisms easily gain access to bladder urine. Both type of microbes form
      biofilms on the catheters within 48 hours of colonization. The biofilms are microbial
      sanctuaries that are highly resistant to eradication with antibiotics. Use of antimicrobial
      agents [often for non-urinary indications] may eradicate common urinary pathogens and thereby
      'select' more resistant organisms. Multiple organisms and resistant organisms are commonly
      grown from the bladders of neurologically impaired patients who utilize indwelling urethral
      or suprapubic tubes. Both types of tubes tend to induce bladder spasms and urinary leakage
      thereby soiling under-garments and bed clothes. A majority of such patients smell of
      urine-chronically.

      Urine is normally supersaturated with dissolved salts, notably physiologic concentrations of
      calcium, phosphorus, oxalic acid, and magnesium. Foreign bodies [e.g. the indwelling tube']
      initiate nucleation of the salts which then precipitate and form stones on the catheters. A
      high percentage of neurologically impaired patients have Proteus species of chronic
      bacteriuria. These urea-splitting [urease producing] organisms greatly accelerate formation
      of struvite [magnesium-ammonium-phosphate] stones on the catheters; rapid stone formation may
      necessitate catheter exchanges more frequently than monthly.

      Significant expense attends the chronic use of traditional urinary catheters. Monthly travel
      to clinics and monthly replacement of the drainage catheter and management of febrile
      reactions which may be precipitated by tube changes are routine and expensive. Surgical
      procedures are commonly required to remove bladder, kidney or ureteral stones that develop as
      a consequence of the chronic bacteriuria. Soiled garments and beds and the prevailing order
      of urine cause many disabled patients to be put in to assisted care facilities.
    
  