
    
      Coinfection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and the hepatitis C virus (HCV) has
      risen dramatically since the explosion of the HIV pandemic twenty years ago, with one third
      of all HIV positive persons also infected with HCV. Numerous studies have suggested that HIV
      exacerbates several steps in the natural history of hepatitis C, and as survival among
      HIV-infected patients increases, hepatitis C-related morbidity and mortality is expected to
      follow a similar trend in coinfected patients. Some investigators advocate the initiation of
      highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for this population prior to the initiation of
      HCV therapy. It is postulated that HAART will improve the host immune function by increasing
      the CD4+ cell count and decreasing HIV viral load, thought to be advantageous for patients
      starting HCV therapy. Despite its promising hypothesis, whether HAART ultimately leads to a
      reduction in HCV load in coinfected persons remains controversial. This is a non-blinded,
      randomized controlled trial to evaluate the impact of HAART on the immunologic, virologic,
      and clinical responses to HCV treatment with peginterferon and ribavirin in coinfected
      individuals with CD4 greater than or equal to 500 cells/mm (3) or greater than or equal to
      350 cells/mm(3) and a viral load less than or equal to 40,000 copies/mL. The study will also
      address the safety and efficacy of administering a combination of HAART along with
      peginterferon alpha-2b and ribavirin to HIV-infected individuals. 128 patients who are
      coinfected with HIV and HCV will be recruited for the study and randomized to receive one of
      two treatment regimens: 1) control group: will be treated with peginterferon alpha-2b and
      ribavirin for 48 weeks, or 2) experimental group: will be treated with highly active
      antiretroviral therapy for six months. At that point, they will begin receiving peginterferon
      alpha-2b and ribavirin at the same doses as the control group for 48 weeks. During the
      72-week follow up period, these patients will be monitored for both HCV and HIV viral loads
      and CD4+ lymphocyte counts. The results of the study will enable us to better delineate the
      relationship between the immune reconstitution effects induced by HAART and the clinical,
      immunologic, and virologic responses of coinfected persons treated with peginterferon and
      ribavirin. In addition, evaluating the safety of coadministering peginterferon, ribavirin,
      and HAART will further refine the best therapeutic regimen for this patient population.
    
  