
    
      Project Objectives The primary aim of this study is to develop a self-management intervention
      in collaboration with patient, public involvement, which will consist of experts by
      experience and experts by education. The intervention is aimed at helping individuals with PH
      to manage symptoms of anxiety.

      A secondary aim of the project is to conduct a pilot randomised controlled trial
      investigating the aforementioned self-management intervention. More specifically, the project
      will explore acceptability and feasibility of the intervention itself and research
      methodology proposed to test its effectiveness. Qualitative and quantitative data will be
      collected for this purpose which will focus on: attrition rates; adherence to the
      intervention; participant's acceptability of the intervention and research methodology (i.e.
      eligibility, randomisation, emotional response, perceptions); outcome measures; recruitment
      and data collection procedures; and any adverse effects. Moreover, this project will
      investigate the preliminary efficacy of the intervention on a series of primary (anxiety
      symptoms - Generalised Anxiety Disorder -7) and secondary measures (depression - PHQ9);
      HRQoL- emphasis10); dyspnoea - dyspnoea12; perception of coping - self-mastery questionnaire;
      and cognitive and behavioural processes (Cognitive Behavioural Processes Questionnaire
      (CBPQ), so that effect sizes can be calculated and used to inform sample sizes of any future
      definitive trials.

      Design The study will be a pilot randomised superiority trial. Participants will be
      randomised on a 1:1 basis to either one of two groups, (1) CBT informed self-management
      intervention to help manage anxiety in PH or a (2) controlled waiting-list condition. A
      control condition is required to control for any therapeutic gains associated with being
      involved in a trial. Participants will be asked to complete a series of measures pre-, post-
      and one month following completion of the intervention. As such, a 2 (cognitive-behavioural
      informed intervention or control waiting list) x 3 (pre-, post- and intervention) research
      design will be used. Participants or researchers will not be blinded to condition allocation
      (i.e. participants will be aware they may be randomised to a waiting list condition, and
      researchers may be contacting participants during the intervention for feedback on adherence
      and acceptability).

      Procedure From the study advert promoted by the Pulmonary Hypertension Association,
      participants will be directed to a dedicated webpage for the proposed project.

      From there, participants will be able to read the participant information sheet. Participants
      interested in talking part will be asked to click on a link that will take them to a series
      of questionnaire hosted by Qualtrics. Participants will first be asked to complete an
      eligibility form. Based on their responses, if participants are not eligible they will be
      informed immediately that they are unable to participate in the study. If participants are
      eligible, they will be asked to complete a consent form and a series of questionnaires (see
      below). All data entered on this page will be recorded, as it will help to inform feasibility
      of the inclusion/exclusion criteria (i.e. is the study excluding a large percentage of people
      based on a certain factor).

      Participants will also be informed on the advert promoted by the Pulmonary Hypertension
      Association, that they can contact the lead researcher (Gregg Rawlings) to ask any additional
      questions about the project prior to completing the eligibility form, consent form and/or
      questionnaires.

      Eligible participants will be randomised, using an online randomiser, to either of the two
      arms. The programme used to randomise will be Random.org. Those randomised to the wait-list
      condition will be informed that they will be contacted again in four weeks asking them to
      complete a series of questionnaires and again in an additional month (see below). Those in
      the intervention condition will be sent the CBT intervention.

      Participants in the intervention condition will be instructed to work systematically through
      the intervention. Two weeks after the intervention is sent to participants, participants will
      be contacted by the lead researcher (Gregg Rawlings) to check on adherence and acceptability
      of the intervention using a mixed-methods structured questionnaire. Participants will be
      attempted to be contacted a maximum of three times. Participants will have provided prior
      consent to be contacted.

      Four weeks following the intervention being received and one month thereafter participants
      will be contacted asking them to complete the outcome measures (see below). During this time,
      participants will be contacted asking them to complete a quantitative and qualitative
      questionnaire on their views of participating in the intervention. This will be hosted by
      Qualitrics. Participants will have provided consent to be contacted for this purpose.

      Data analysis

      Quantitative data:

        -  Descriptive statistics, and a series of independent T-tests for continuous data and chi
           square tests for categorical data will be used to compare participants in the two
           intervention arms at baseline. This will help to indicate whether randomisation was
           effective and inform additional analyses i.e. certain variables may need to be
           controlled for using ANCOVAs or ANCOVA.

        -  A series of independent T-tests for continuous data and chi square tests for categorical
           data will be used to compare participants who have dropped out versus those who
           completed the study. This will help to further understand acceptability and reasons for
           attrition.

        -  Descriptive statistics will be reported for rates of attrition and data collected from
           the feedback questionnaires.

        -  To explore the potential effectiveness of the intervention, a mixed ANOVA or ANCOVA
           analysis will be conducted with assessment (pre-, post-intervention and one-month
           follow) being the within subjects factors and intervention arm (self-help intervention
           or waitlist) being the between subject factor. This will be conducted for the primary
           measure and each of the secondary measures. As this is a pilot study and not testing
           effectiveness specifically, intent to treat analysis and Bonferroni corrections will not
           be performed. Cohen's d will be used to interpret observed effect sizes using the
           parameters discussed above. A significance level of alpha (0.05) will be adopted for all
           statistical analysis reported. SPSS25 will be used for all statistical analysis.

        -  To calculate the post-hoc power analysis to inform sample sizes of future definitive
           randomised controlled trials, G*Power software will be used utilising the same
           parameters as above (i.e. two-tailed, alpha level and 80% power) - given the assumptions
           of the ANOVA or ANCOVA were met and therefore the effect size is valid. This will be
           conducted using the results from the primary outcome measure (GAD-7) and an average size
           of secondary measures.

      Qualitative data: Qualitative data gathered from the feedback questionnaires will be analysed
      using a descriptive version of thematic analysis. This will adhere to the stages outline by
      Braun and Clarke:

        1. Become familiar with the transcripts through repeated readings - participant's responses
           will already be in electronic format as it is collected via Qualtrics and so
           transcriptions will not be needed.

        2. Undertake iterative coding of each transcript re-coding each narrative as new codes
           emerge.

        3. Collate and contrast codes to create main- and sub-themes.

        4. Review the themes and discuss the findings with members of the research team.

        5. Final refinement of themes identifying clear titles and selecting appropriate quotations
           in support of each theme.

        6. Write up the report making the outcome of the analysis coherent.
    
  