
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and time to tumor progression in patients with anaplastic
           astrocytoma or mixed gliomas treated with radiotherapy combined with temozolomide vs
           carmustine or lomustine vs temozolomide and carmustine (arm discontinued as of 8/15/02).

        -  Compare the relative toxic effects of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Correlate molecular analyses with overall survival and time to tumor progression in
           patients treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to age
      (under 50 vs 50 and over), Karnofsky performance status (60-80% vs 90-100%), and prior
      surgery (biopsy only vs resection).

      Phase I

        -  Pilot Arms I and II: Prior to initiating the randomization to 1 of 3 treatment arms in
           phase III, Patients are accrued to Arm III regimen to determine tolerability.

      Phase III

        -  Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms (3rd arm was dropped).

             -  Arm I: Patients undergo radiotherapy 5 days a week for 6 weeks. Patients receive
                oral temozolomide on days 1-5 of the first week of radiotherapy. Chemotherapy
                repeats every 4 weeks for a total of 12 courses.

             -  Arm II: Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I. Patients receive carmustine IV
                or lomustine IV over 1-2 hours on days 1-3 of the first week of radiotherapy and a
                second course on days 56-58. Chemotherapy repeats every 8 weeks for a total of 6
                courses.

             -  Arm III (dropped, did not open): Patients undergo radiotherapy as in arm I.
                Patients receive carmustine IV or lomustine IV over 3 hours on day 5 and oral
                temozolomide (2 hours after completion of carmustine or lomustine infusion) on days
                1-5 of the first week of radiotherapy. Combination chemotherapy repeats every 8
                weeks for 6 courses.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 1 year, every 6 months for 2 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Phase I: 30 patients; Phase III: 454 patients (227 per treatment arm)
      within 4 years.
    
  