
    
      Study Groups and Drug Administration:

      If participant agrees to take part in this study, they will be randomly assigned (as in the
      flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 study groups. This is done because no one knows if one study group
      is better, the same, or worse than the other group. Participant will have an equal chance of
      being in either group:

        -  If participant is in Group 1, they will receive the fentanyl nasal spray. The study
           staff will help participant use the nasal spray.

        -  If participant is in Group 2, the emergency center nurse will give them the
           hydromorphone hydrochloride by vein.

      Study Procedures:

      Participant will stay in the emergency department for at least 4 hours and will be monitored
      after receiving fentanyl or hydromorphone hydrochloride. During this time, participant will
      be asked about their pain and any side effects they may be having every 15 minutes for 2
      hours and then every 30 minutes for another 2 hours. The study staff will also monitor
      participant's vital signs, and ask them a few more questions at the end of the study.

      Length of Study Participation:

      Although participant will stay in the emergency department for at least 4 hours, the average
      length of stay for participants with severe pain is about 9 hours. When participant is
      discharged from the emergency department or admitted to the hospital, their active
      participation in the study is over.

      Follow-Up Phone Call:

      About 24 hours after patient's active participation is over, the study nurse will call them
      to ask if they had any other side effects since taking part in the study. The phone call
      should last about 5 minutes. If participant is still an inpatient at the hospital, the study
      nurse may visit them and ask them these questions in person.

      This is an investigational study. Hydromorphone hydrochloride is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of pain. Fentanyl nasal spray is FDA approved and
      commercially available for the treatment of pain. Its use to help with cancer pain in the
      emergency department is investigational.

      Up to 84 participants will be enrolled in this study. All will take part at MD Anderson.
    
  