
    
      The ROR-h Toolkit: The toolkit currently includes one age-appropriate book along with a set
      of educational pamphlets explaining the importance home literacy. These educational materials
      focus on appropriate literacy milestones and descriptions of how parents can engage with
      their children around books. The investigators will conduct pre-study, preliminary testing of
      the toolkit among at least five families and EDCI staff participating in EDCI's Parent Café,
      and incorporate changes. In addition, the investigators will create an information sheet
      outlining zipcode-specific community literacy resources, including location and information
      on how to access the library, where to obtain low-cost books, and a schedule of literacy
      promotion activities in their community (e.g. community reading sessions). All materials will
      also be translated into Spanish by a certified interpreter, and will be reviewed to ensure
      that they are written at a fifth grade reading level using web-based technology (Microsoft
      Word). Additionally, EDCI families receiving this intervention will also receive an
      additional new book at each home visit conducted during the study period.

      The baseline cohort of 50 families will be recruited from families receiving EDCI early
      childhood home visits. Families will be approached by EDCI staff and will be asked whether
      they are interested in being contacted about participation in the study. Because our
      intervention includes children aged 6-12 months, EDCI staff will approach all families with
      children aged 5-11 months who participate in the early childhood program. If a family agrees
      to be contacted, a trained research assistant will contact and consent the family by phone.
      Once consent is obtained, baseline demographic information will be collected via REDCap. This
      information will include patient age, patient race, number of children in the family, parent
      age, parent education, insurance, and primary language spoken in the home. Baseline StimQ
      assessment data will also be collected and entered into REDCap. When possible, information
      will be entered into REDCap electronically by the family from their own electronic device.
      When this is not possible, the research assistant will collect this data electronically in
      person or by phone.

      Once the family is enrolled and baseline StimQ data has been collected, EDCI staff will
      continue to provide their standard home visiting services. After three months, families will
      be sent a follow up StimQ assessment to be completed electronically via REDCap. If the family
      does not complete this follow up, they will be contacted by the research assistant to
      complete this follow up at two week intervals for 6 weeks.

      Once the baseline cohort has completed their 3 month study period, EDCI staff will receive
      tool-kit training. The study PI (Erickson) will conduct a one-hour training session with all
      EDCI home visitors. The training will cover the importance of literacy in health and
      wellness, the impact of exposure to books and reading in children and how this affects their
      social and emotional development, and how to implement this model of teaching in their home
      visit. EDCI home visitors will also complete online modules validated by ROR.

      Once training is complete, recruitment and enrollment for the intervention group will begin.
      Families will be approached by EDCI staff and will undergo the same recruitment and
      enrollment procedure as above. We plan to enroll and additional 50 families in this cohort.
      Demographic information and baseline StimQ data will be conducted as above. Once families are
      enrolled, EDCI staff will provide the literacy toolkit described above at the next scheduled
      home visit and engage actively with the family around the importance of early literacy using
      the kit as a tool to model positive interactions. EDCI staff will provide an additional book
      at each scheduled monthly visit over the next 3 months and an additional fact sheet outlining
      age appropriate literacy milestones at 3 months. At the completion of the 3 month
      intervention period, families will be sent a follow up StimQ assessment to be completed
      electronically via REDCap. If the family does not complete this follow up, they will be
      contacted by the research assistant to complete this follow up at two week intervals for 6
      weeks. Families will also be provided with acceptability surveys at this time.

      For the qualitative portion of this study, 15-20 key informants will be recruited. Interviews
      and/or focus groups will be held at the EDCI office and facilitated by a member of the DOCR
      research services team versed in qualitative data collection and analysis. The facilitator
      will utilize a guide during group discussions and/or interviews which will serve to structure
      conversations around relevant questions. Study participants will be asked to answer a few
      demographic questions before sharing experiences and perspectives. The groups and/or
      interviews will be recorded on a secure digital recorder; the audio file will be uploaded
      immediately to a secure Duke server. Individual participation will last approximately 1 hour
      and refreshments will be provided.
    
  