
    
      Aims and Objectives The goal of this project is to understand if and how uterine fibroid
      tissue stiffness, measured by SWE, can be used to predict and monitor response to medical
      therapy in patients with symptomatic uterine fibroids.

      Aim 1: To assess the feasibility of using SWE for measuring stiffness of non-neoplastic
      myometrium and uterine fibroid tissue in pre-menopausal women Objective 1.1: Assess the
      inter- and intra-session reliability of measuring uterine tissue stiffness with SWE in 60
      women with uterine fibroids and 60 healthy matched control participants.

      Objective 1.2: Using data acquired from the 60 women with uterine fibroids, the validity of
      SWE will be assessed by comparing in vivo uterine tissue stiffness measured by SWE to the
      stiffness of surgically excised uterine tissue samples measured ex vivo by a mechanical
      tester.

      Objective 1.3: To assess the confounding effect of age, parity, contraceptive use, and
      presence of fibroids on myometrial stiffness measured by SWE in 60 women with uterine
      fibroids and 60 healthy matched control participants.

      Aim 2: To assess the clinical applicability of using tissue stiffness measured by SWE for the
      classification and monitoring of uterine fibroids in pre-menopausal women.

      Objective 2.1: Determine if SWE is sensitive enough to identify differences in tissue
      stiffness between non-degenerative and degenerative fibroids, as validated by histology from
      surgically excised tissue samples of 60 women.

      Objective 2.2: Determine if SWE is sensitive enough to identify differences in fibroid tissue
      stiffness in 60 women with uterine fibroids before and after two 3-month courses of SPRM
      therapy and evaluate if medical responsiveness (i.e. symptom relief) is related to baseline
      SWE measures.

      Study Design: This will be a prospective case-control study that will used a mixed model
      (within and between subject) study design (Figure 1). Women with uterine fibroids and healthy
      matched control participants will be recruited and attend two or three US imaging sessions
      (depending on group assignment). Participants with fibroids will have both their myometrium
      and fibroid stiffness measured using SWE. Healthy matched controls will have their myometrium
      measured only. Participants with fibroids receiving surgical intervention will undergo a
      hysterectomy or myomectomy and tissue samples will be harvested and tested in a jig that
      measures stiffness under mechanical tension. Participants with fibroids seeking medical
      management will have an US imaging session before and after two 3-month courses of ulipristal
      acetate (UPA; an SPRM prescribed in Canada20).

      Participants: Three groups of 60 premenopausal women over the age of 18 will be recruited:

        1. Patients seeking surgical management for uterine fibroids (FIB-Sx) will be recruited
           from a list of patients consented for surgery (hysterectomy or myomectomy with primary
           indication of fibroids) by a member of The Ottawa Hospital Minimally Invasive Gynecology
           Group (led by Nominated Principal Applicant, S. Singh). FIB-Sx will be excluded if they
           have >5 fibroids identified on US or suspicion of leiomyosarcoma based on clinical,
           surgical, or gross pathological examination.

        2. Patients seeking medical management for uterine fibroids (FIB-Mx) will be screened from
           a list of referrals to the Shirley E. Greenberg Women's Health Center (SEGWHC) at The
           Ottawa Hospital and recruited at the time of consult if they have been prescribed a
           course of UPA by their attending physician. FIB-Mx will be excluded if they have >5
           fibroids identified on US or previous course of SPRM/GnRH analogues within 3 months of
           recruitment.

        3. Healthy control participants (CON) (matched to FIB in age, parity, and BMI) will be
           recruited from the Ottawa community through advertisement posters, word of mouth, and
           social media. CON will be excluded is they have a history of uterine pathology (e.g.
           adenomyosis, hyperplasia, endometriosis), have irregular menstrual cycles, are currently
           pregnant or have been pregnant within the last six months prior to recruitment.

      Initial assessment: Consented women in the control (CON) and surgical (FIB-Sx) streams will
      attend two evaluations. Consented women in the medical stream (FIB-Mx) will attend one visit
      at their earliest convenience after recruitment, another at three months after treatment
      initiation, and third visit at 6 months after treatment initiaition. At each visit, women
      will undergo shear wave elastography (SWE) and 3D US (Supersonic UltrafastTM Aixplorer®,
      Apexium Medical, Canada) assessments of their uterus as a whole, at 10 healthy sites and at
      up to 5 fibroid sites. SWE and volumes will be recorded in series of 10 frame clips.
      Morphologic measurements of the uterus and selected fibroids will be made and fibroids will
      be given identification numbers based on a 3D size and location map. SWE will be used to take
      relevant measures of tissue stiffness at all sites of interest. Three repetitions of each
      measurement will be performed. Women in the CON and FIB-Sx streams will receive a second
      identical imaging session during their first visit and a single imaging session during the
      second visit. Participants in the FIB-Mx stream will receive a single imaging session at each
      visit.

      Surgical Intervention: the surgical approach (abdominal vs laparoscopic) will be recorded as
      well as secondary outcomes including operating time, blood loss, surgical technique
      conversions, failed/incomplete excisions, and additional procedures performed. These data
      will be used for descriptive purposes and contribute to the development of a database for our
      long-term research goal.

      Tissue Sampling: For participants in the FIB-Sx stream, the surgical approach (myomectomy or
      hysterectomy + abdominal or laparoscopic), course of resection and secondary outcomes
      including operating time, blood loss, surgical technique, failed/incomplete excisions, intra-
      or post-operative complication and additional procedures will be recorded for descriptive
      purposes. Morcellated tissue specimens will be excluded. All surgically excised tissue will
      be sent to pathology for gross inspection and processing following standard procedures. For
      hysterectomy cases, a pathology assistant (trained and under the supervision of collaborator
      S. Strickland) will excise five 1cm3 samples of non-neoplastic tissue from myometrial
      sites-of interest and 1cm3 sections from each fibroid of interest. For myomectomy cases, 1cm3
      sections from each fibroid of interest will similarly be excised. In surgical cases with >3
      fibroids excised, the participating surgeon will include the study specific fibroid
      identification number given at the US imaging session in the pathology requisition. A member
      of the research team will meet the pathology assistant at the time of dissection to ensure
      each sample is placed in individual bottles with isotonic saline and labelled with its unique
      study identification number. Samples will be transported to M. Labrosse's (collaborator)
      laboratory at the Ottawa Heart Institute for mechanical testing.

      Medical Intervention: Medical treatment will be recorded as well as secondary outcomes
      relating to patient symptoms and quality of life.These data will be used for descriptive
      purposes and contribute to the development of a database for our long-term research goal.

      Mechanical Testing: All samples will be stored in saline and tested within 24 hours of
      excision. Samples will be further dissected into 2x10mm slices and loaded into a mechanical
      jig (Biotester, CellScale, Waterloo, Canada) at collaborator M. Labrosse's laboratory and
      tested at 37°C, cyclically in tension (1Hz, 2-3% strain) following procedures developed in
      the literature for mechanical testing on uterine tissue. The modulus of elasticity (E, kPa),
      analogous to stiffness, and stiffness contrast ratio (E_fibroid/E_myometrium ) will be
      calculated three times for each sample and averaged. The mechanical testing protocol will
      take approximately 2 hours to complete. Mechanical loading will be under displacement control
      (2-3% strain) to eliminate the risk damaging tissues, allowing for repeated measurements and
      histological analysis. All samples will be placed in 10% neutral buffered formalin
      immediately after testing and returned to pathology for definitive diagnosis. Pathology
      reports and slides will be retrospectively reviewed to extract descriptive fibroid
      characteristics. Members of the research team acquiring subsequent SWE measurements,
      mechanical stiffness measurements, and reviewing pathology reports will be blinded to results
      of initial SWE measurement.

      Statistical analyses:All data will be tested for normality and equivalent non-parametric
      tests to those described below will be used as appropriate. All tests will be performed using
      SPSS statistical software (v25, IMB Corp., Armonk, USA) and significance will be accepted as
      p<0.05. Appropriate post-hoc comparisons will be performed. Dependent variables of SWE peak
      and mean stiffness are assumed to be interrelated.

      Objective 1.1: Two-way (3x2) multivariate analyses of variance (MANOVAs) will test for
      significant differences in mean and peak stiffness (kPa) as they relate to the independent
      variable of test time (repetition and session) for each measurement site. One-way analyses of
      variance (ANOVAs) and dependent t-tests will be used for post-hoc Bonferroni corrected
      evaluation of significant main effects. Dependent t-tests will determine if measurement plane
      significantly affects SWE stiffness measures. Intra-class correlation coefficients and
      standard error of measurements will evaluate intra- and inter-session, and between-plane
      reliability of SWE stiffness measurements.

      Objective 1.2: Univariate linear regressions will map the relationship between SWE mean and
      peak stiffness and the complex modulus of elasticity, with the complex modulus of elasticity
      considered the criterion standard. For non-linear relationships, appropriate transformations
      will be made.

      Objective 1.3: Two-way multivariate analyses of covariance will test the effect of site
      (cervical junction, isthmus, fundus) and group (FIB vs CON) on peak and mean myometrial
      stiffness and the confounding effects of age, parity and contraceptive use on the adjusted
      group mean difference. Independent t-tests will be used for post-hoc evaluation if a
      significant main effect/interaction is observed. Logistic regressions will map the
      relationship of age, parity, and contraceptive use to myometrial stiffness at each
      measurement site. Acceptable regressions will explain >80% of the variance in the data. For
      non-linear relationships, appropriate transformations will be made.

      Objective 2.1: Based on the pathology report, fibroids will be classified as either
      non-degenerative (i.e. normal) or degenerative (inclusive of all variations in presentation).
      One-way MANOVAs will evaluate between group differences in fibroid type (non-degenerative vs
      degenerative) and uterine tissue peak and mean stiffness measured with SWE, while post-hoc
      evaluation of significant main effects will involve independent t-tests using appropriate
      Bonferroni corrections.

      Objective 2.2: SWE measurements will be ensemble averaged across intra-session repetitions
      for each site. Two-way MANOVAs will evaluate site and time (pre, post-course 1, post-course
      2) differences in mean and peak stiffness measured with SWE One-way ANOVAs and dependant
      t-tests will be used for post-hoc Bonferroni corrected evaluation of significant main
      effects.
    
  