
    
      Objective(s): The primary aim of this study is to examine the effectiveness of two treatments
      for the symptoms of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) with a no therapy, wait list control
      condition. The two treatments are Cognitive Processing Therapy (CPT) as compared to
      Accelerated Resolution Therapy (ART). Additional related symptoms of depression, anger,
      sleep, and physical health will also be assessed. The study will involve both civilians and
      veterans seeking outpatient therapy for PTSD. Data will be obtained via clinician structured
      interviews and self-report measures.

      Research Design: Participants will be recruited from the Cincinnati VA Medical Center, Trauma
      Recovery Center (TRC), and at the University of Cincinnati (UC) Health Stress Center located
      in Cincinnati, Ohio. All eligible participants will be randomized to receive CPT, ART, or
      Wait List (WL) condition. For participants who are randomized to the WL condition, following
      a period of seven weeks will be randomized into one of the two active treatment conditions,
      CPT or ART. Participants in the two active treatment conditions will complete an assessment
      at pre-treatment, post-treatment, 3 month, and 1 year follow-up.

      Methodology: Participants will include 280 males and females ages 18 and older who meet
      criteria for PTSD (or subthreshold PTSD). The investigators will contact potential
      participants to determine eligibility for the study assessing inclusionary and exclusionary
      criteria. All eligible participants will then be asked to complete a pre-treatment assessment
      prior to being assigned their study treatment (CPT or ART or WL). Participants will receive a
      full course of outpatient CPT or ART depending on their assigned study treatment. Once the
      participant and treating clinician determine that therapy has been fully completed,
      participants will complete a post-treatment assessment. Follow-up assessments will then be
      completed 3-months and 1-year following the completion of therapy.

      At each assessment participants will be asked to complete a series of self- and
      clinic-reported measures that include assessments of PTSD symptoms, depression, general
      mental health, pain, sleep habits, and health care utilization.

      Findings: Not applicable at this time.

      Clinical Relationships: The investigators anticipate that understanding the comparative
      effectiveness between CPT and ART therapies will provide necessary information for care
      provided to civilians and veterans suffering from PTSD.
    
  