
    
      The study will be performed in the clinical setting by trained professional operators.

      Group 1: Whole Blood Coagulation Test 1, GEM Hemochron® 100

      Group 2: Whole Blood Coagulation Test 2, Hemochron® Signature Elite® 7000 Whole Blood
      Microcoagulation System

      Ex-vivo whole blood samples destined for discard after all medically directed tests are
      complete will be used from heparinized patients undergoing standard of care interventional
      procedures in different clinical settings. These include, but are not limited to, the
      cardiovascular operating room (CVOR), cardiac catheterization lab, surgical intensive care
      unit (SICU), the electrophysiology (EP) lab, and in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
      (ECMO) applications.

      A distribution of ACT values is necessary to evaluate clinical accuracy. The target number of
      subjects for each site is 100.

      Samples will be examined at baseline (pre-heparin administration) and at the end of the
      procedure. Heparinized samples may be obtained for ACT testing once or multiple times while
      heparin is administered throughout the duration of the procedure. The frequency and time
      intervals of ACT testing will be determined by the Standard of Care. No additional blood
      volume or extra blood draws will occur as the result of this study.

      The work flow for the testing process will be consistent across all sites. Expected duration
      of the study is dependent upon the site logistics but generally is expected to last no more
      than four to six weeks.

      ACT results generated from the GEM Hemochron 100 instrument during this study will be used
      solely for research purposes and will not be used for anticoagulation management of study
      subjects. No patient follow up is required.

      The study will include two GEM Hemochron 100 instruments, trained operators, and two
      Signature Elite instruments for each procedure.

      Guidance was obtained from Point-of-Care Monitoring of Anticoagulation Therapy; Approved
      Guideline (CLSI POCT14-A), CLSI EP09-A3: "Method Procedure Comparison and Bias Estimation
      Using Patient Samples; Approved guideline Third Edition" and peer reviewed literature.

      All study data will be collected on Case Report Forms and all analysis will be performed by
      Accriva.
    
  