
    
      This s a prospective, multicenter, non-controlled, observational study to evaluate the
      outcomes of Medacta Anatomic Ribbon Surgery (M-ARS) in the reconstruction of the anterior
      cruciate ligament (ACL).

      Participants will be informed about the study, both orally and in writing, during a
      preoperative visit. The investigator will answer any questions that may arise and will
      collect the informed consent. During the study, enrolled participants will be able to
      withdraw at any time and for any reason.

      The study is conducted according to the following schedule:

        -  V1 : Inclusion during a preoperative visit

        -  V2: Surgery

        -  V3: Follow-up visit at 1 month ± 15 days post-surgery

        -  V4: Follow-up visit at 6 months ± 30 days post-surgery

        -  V5: Follow-up visit at 12 months ± 60 days post-surgery

        -  V6: Follow-up visit at 24 months ± 90 days post-surgery

      The following data will be collected:

        -  Survival rate of implants evaluating the incidence of implants failure, where implant
           failure is defined as revision, loosening, or any definite change in the position of
           components (V3-V6).

        -  Clinical and functional outcomes, measured with the International Knee Documentation
           Committee (IKDC) score (V1, V3-V6)

        -  Quality of Life, measured with the EQ-5D score (V1, V3-V6)

        -  Occurrence of intraoperative and postoperative complications (V2-V6)

      Depending on standard practice, imaging assessment of implants and bone tunnels may be
      performed.

      A web-based data collection tool will be used as Electronic Data Capture (EDC). All the
      information required by the protocol will be collected in electronic case report forms
      (eCRF).

      The statistical analysis will be performed according to a pre-established statistical
      analysis plan. Missing values will not be replaced by estimated values but will be considered
      as missing in the statistical analysis.
    
  