
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer related death in men and women worldwide
      annually. In North America in 2009, an estimated 246,000 people were diagnosed with lung
      cancer, and 178,000 died as a result. Lobectomy consists of the surgical removal of an
      anatomic lobe of the lung. It represents the standard of care in the treatment of malignant
      lesions involving one lobe of the lung. This operation can be performed either with a chest
      incision with rib spreading (thoracotomy) or with a minimally invasive approach which does
      not include rib spreading (thoracoscopy - Video Assisted Thoracoscopic Surgery; VATS).

      In the last decade, the trend towards implementation of protocols to enhance patient recovery
      and diminish length of stay has been gaining popularity and increasing in prevalence. Those
      protocols are commonly referred to as fast track surgery or enhanced recovery after surgery
      protocol. The rationale behind these protocols is that by combining multimodal therapies that
      reduce surgical stress, having good pain control post-operatively, and involving the patient
      in this process, the treating team has the potential to reduce length of stay.

      In the last few years, many surgeons in their respective centers have implemented the use of
      fast track surgery in the thoracic surgery service. It has been shown to be a safe and
      effective method for managing postoperative patients after lobectomy. Fast track surgery is a
      systemic approach to the management of surgical patients, where all the different actions to
      take postoperatively are standardized and reproducible. Fast track surgery has the potential
      to diminish the rate of postoperative complications, the length of stay, and achieve a
      similar patient recovery. In an era, where medical costs are on the rise, hospital beds are
      limited and nursing staff not always available, fast track surgery has the potential to
      improve increase throughput, improve efficiency, decrease costs and improve surgical
      productivity.

      Currently, at the CHUM - Notre-Dame Hospital, there is no standardized patient care pathway
      for patients undergoing VATS lobectomy. The care given to patient prior to the implementation
      of this protocol was different amongst patients and depended on the surgeon's preferences.
      The implementation of this Enhanced Recovery Program (ERP) will permit a reproducible and
      routine management for patients following their surgery.

      The principal outcomes that will be compared amongst patients pre and post implementation of
      this protocol will be the length of stay and the number of complications. The investigators
      think that the results will be different between these two groups. The rational for this is
      due to the fact that the patients in this Enhanced Recovery Program will have: (1) their
      urinary catheter removed sooner, (2) their thoracic drain removed earlier and (3) they will
      be mobilized more quickly. These differences will enable these patients to potentially have
      less complications post operatively and decrease their hospital stay.
    
  