
    
      Hypertension (HTN), known as the "silent killer" affects 1 in 3 adults in the United States
      at a cost of $50 billion annually and disproportionately affects African Americans (AA).

      A significant proportion of the AA population is living with blood pressures consistent with
      the clinical criteria for prehypertension or hypertension and many are untreated and
      undiagnosed. AAs with prehypertension have a 35% greater risk of progressing to hypertension
      than whites. Salt sensitivity, chronic stress and stress related to racism/discrimination,
      self-efficacy, motivation, and activation are among the factors associated with pre-HTN in
      AAs. The prevention of the progression from prehypertension to hypertension through sodium
      reduction, stress management, and physical activity are a part of the evidence based
      treatment, but the efficacy of self-management interventions for pre-HTN in AAs is lacking.

      The Dietary Approach to Stop Hypertension (DASH) is the gold standard for the prevention and
      treatment of hypertension yet in many studies, it was reported that AAs were less likely to
      adhere to the DASH intervention as compared to whites. The barriers to self-management
      reported by AAs include stress, including perceived stress related to racism/discrimination;
      perceived lack of control over getting hypertension in the future; limited social support;
      and low motivation to change behaviors. AAs who perceive stress as the cause of their
      hypertension are less likely to engage in self-management behaviors. If the brain is in a
      prolonged state of stress, then the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) activity is
      compromised leading to allostatic load (wear and tear of chronic stress on the body)
      increased accumulation of abdominal fat, atrophy of nerve cells in the hippocampus, and
      hypertension. The interventions used in large hypertension trials do not adequately address
      chronic stress and effects of racism/discrimination and cognitive mediators (self-efficacy,
      motivation, activation, decision making, and health information) that hinder the practice of
      self-management behaviors in AAs. In addition, none of these DASH intervention studies in AAs
      have included mindfulness, a strategy that has been widely applied across clinical
      populations to manage obesity, BP, and depression and to motivate patients on a brain level,
      not just the task level.

      Self-management interventions that activate relevant areas of the brain are needed to
      optimize the adaption of health behaviors. There are two distinctively anti-correlated
      networks in the brain: analytic brain processing and emotional brain processing that
      influence self-management behaviors. The analytic brain processing center, located in the
      prefrontal and parietal areas of the brain is activated during attention demanding tasks
      (skills, knowledge, and self-monitoring). In contrast, the emotional brain processing center
      located in the posterior cingulate and medial prefrontal cortices is activated during wakeful
      rest (emotion management, social cognition, and self-awareness). As the activation of the
      analytic brain processing center increases, the emotional brain processing center decreases.
      Thus, a more comprehensive approach that engages both analytic brain processing and emotional
      brain processing is hypothesized to help AAs to improve motivation, activation and
      self-efficacy, and garner the necessary social support to succeed in the management of
      prehypertension. The investigators will test the effects of a promising new self-management
      intervention for AAs, a Mindfulness Attitude to Deliver the Dietary Approach to Stop
      Hypertension (MAD DASH) that departs from conventional interventions to address
      prehypertension by combining two self-management interventions (Mindfulness and DASH) in a
      group setting.

      2) Purpose, specific aims and/or hypotheses

      The purpose of this is to gather pilot data to inform a future study using the following
      aims:

        1. Determine whether there are differences in sodium intake, blood pressure (BP), and
           health related quality of quality of life (HRQoL), among those who receive the analytic
           component (DASH diet education only), emotional component (MAD-DASH mindfulness plus
           DASH diet education) compared to those receiving usual care (DASH pamphlet).

        2. Examine whether patient activation, motivation, decision-making, self-efficacy, and
           health information mediate the relationship between the MAD DASH mindfulness
           intervention and self-management behaviors (diet, self-monitoring, and physical
           activity).

        3. Determine if social support, demographics (gender), and allostatic load moderate the
           proximal (diet, physical activity) or distal (BP, sodium, and HRQoL) outcomes.

        4. Explore differences in brain activation (fMRI) cortical networks, and HPA Axis/stress
           function (cortisol) among MAD DASH intervention, DASH education only intervention, and
           usual care.

           3) Background and significance The investigators hypothesize that the MAD DASH
           intervention will improve the participant's neural brain processing through diet
           education and self-monitoring and the emotional brain processing level through
           meditation, deep breathing, and monitoring emotions to promote prehypertension
           self-management behaviors (diet, self-monitoring, managing emotions, and physical
           activity). The investigators further hypothesize that these behaviors will lead to a
           reduction in blood pressure mediated through the HPA axis functioning and stress
           response (systematic inflammatory effects), cognitive mediators (self-efficacy,
           decision-making, motivation, health information, and activation), and contextual factors
           (social support, demographics, allostatic load) to modify the effects of interventions
           on proximal (increased fruits and vegetables, decreased sodium intake, increased
           physical activity) and distal (BP, sodium, HRQoL, cost) outcomes. These mechanisms are
           hypothesized to lead to performance of self-management behaviors, which in turn are
           expected to lead to subsequent reductions in sodium intake, BP, and improved HRQoL The
           MAD DASH intervention is likely to improve health behaviors due to integration
           Mindfulness practice is a non-judgmental self-awareness of emotions, sensations, and
           cognitions. Mindfulness is believed to affect self-management through self-regulation of
           responses, acceptance of emotions (e.g., stress, anxiety, and depression), and
           self-control of emotions---that interfere with the person's ability to practice health
           behavior management. Improvements in HRQoL are also associated with mindfulness
           practices. The MAD DASH eight-session intervention will include body scan exercise
           (lying down or sitting with eyes closed to deliberately focus on sensations within the
           body), sitting meditation, and yoga exercises along with self-management education
           (self-monitoring of sodium intake, physical activity) to incorporate strategies to
           reduce sodium intake, manage emotions, and increase physical activity. There may no
           direct benefit to subjects, however participation may provide data which will provide
           insight into ways African Americans can reduce their blood pressure and improve their
           overall health. Understanding both the biological and psychosocial factors contributing
           to blood pressure control in African American adults is timely as the population is
           expected to grow over 9.9 million by 2050 and substantial disparities in health outcomes
           exist in this population. Findings from this study have the potential to elucidate
           factors contributing to these disparities in health outcomes in African Americans by
           better characterization of the neurobiological mechanisms for self-management of
           prehypertension.
    
  