
    
      The trochanteric area is defined by AO as the area bordered by the tip of the greater
      trochanter, extracapsular portion of the femoral neck extending to a line parallel to the
      inferior most border of the lesser trochanter.

      Pertrochanteric fracture is a fracture is of the trochanteric area which is usually
      reducible. Unstable pertrochanteric fracture is defined as AO-31A2 or AO-31A3. Instability
      arises from the degree of comminution, the presence, and comminution of the posteromedial
      fragment and lastly, lateral wall involvement The ideal implant for fixation of this kind of
      fractures is still under debate, but intramedullary implants are preferred than
      extramedullary implants in these unstable fractures. On the other hand, unique fracture
      configurations predispose to instability such as reverse obliquity fractures and fractures
      extending to the subtrochanteric area.

      Proximal femoral locking plate as used in unstable pertrochanteric fracture has a high
      complication rate. In one study in 2014, there is up to 41.4% failure rate due to the proud
      plate, screw malposition, too rigid construct when used as a bridge plate.

      Intramedullary implants specifically cephalomedullary nails has been the mainstay of
      treatment in unstable pertrochanteric fractures primarily because of the short moment arm and
      load-sharing properties. It employs relative stability and can be applied in a minimally
      invasive manner.

      In 1997, the AO/ASIF group developed the proximal femoral nail. The proximal femoral nail has
      two proximal screws that traverse the neck to the femoral head. The inferior screw is the
      load-bearing screw, and the superior screw is the anti-rotation screw. Good to excellent
      results were observed using this implant compared to previous implant designs, but
      complications still exist.

      These complications are related to the position of the two screws. There is difficulty
      attaining the ideal placement of proximal locking screws. As a result, the early medial
      cutout of one screw and lateral migration of the second screw occurs which is the so-called
      Z-effect. To address these disadvantages, the AO/ASIF group in 2004 developed a new implant
      design wherein the two proximal locking screws are replaced by a single helical blade. This
      improvement in design maximizes bone purchase and bone contact in cancellous bone hereby
      improving cutout rates.

      Even with the new PFNA implant is not exempted from complications. Zhou and Chang in 2012
      identified 12 cases of helical blade protrusion in 6 papers. Biomechanically, the helical
      blade migrates axially through the porotic bone in the geriatric population.

      The new design of the blade includes a T-shaped anchor for stable fixation in osteoporotic
      bone. The nail also features a flat lateral design with a smooth radius transition from
      proximal to distal portion of the nail compared to the bulky profile of conventional nail
      resulting in easier insertion. Locking mechanism inherent to the nail and blade limits
      gliding and rotation of the blade. One of the advantages of the system is the use of a
      radiolucent arm with targeting options for an anti-rotation pin and determination of the
      superior most aspect of the femoral head for reference.

      This case-series introduces a modification in implant design of the PFNA and aims to observe
      outcomes, advantages, and complications related to its use.
    
  