
    
      This is a blind, randomized, controlled clinical trial. The first investigator (PI) will be
      responsible for evaluations and reassessments; The second investigator (PII) for the process
      of randomization and instruction of the subjects in the intervention protocol and the third
      investigator (PIII) for the statistical analyzes. The study collections will take place from
      April 2017 until November 2017, after approval by the Ethics and Research and Qualification
      Committee and will be developed at the Rehabilitation Outpatient Clinic of the University
      Hospital Onofre Lopes - HUOL.

      The investigators will select 48 individuals recruited non-probabilistically for convenience
      in HUOL. The sample calculation performed in G POWER software version 3.0.0.1 with 80%
      "power" defined the number of 40 individuals, adding to that number the 20% of possible
      losses during the survey. Allocation of the groups will be random, through the website
      http://www.randomization.com, which will include information such as sample size and number
      of groups. From this, the site will generate a specific coding for each group, randomly and
      in the form of blocks, with the following characteristics: sex, women in active cycle and use
      of oral contraceptives and use of analgesics. In this study, four groups will be considered:
      control-placebo group (gCP), cryotherapy group (gCrio), TENS Burst group (gTENSb) and
      Cryotherapy + TENS Burst group (gCrioTENSb). The four groups will receive educational
      sessions on chronic low back pain. The gCP will also undergo TENS bound in placebo mode,
      gCrio will undergo cryotherapy, gTENSb will undergo TENS in Burst mode and gCrioTENSb will
      undergo TENS Cryotherapy + Burst (combined). This protocol is in compliance with the
      recommendations of the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials - CONSORT
      (http://www.consort-statement.org/) for the execution of randomized clinical trials.

      At the outset, all subjects will receive general instructions on the procedures to be
      performed, as well as information about the possible risks and benefits of all stages of the
      research. Individuals will then be enrolled in the survey through a specially prepared
      assessment form containing information on identification, sex, age, body mass index, level of
      education, work activity, employment status, stress, and beliefs about pain, marital status,
      time of onset of symptoms, presence of dermal conditions, sensitivity, ice allergy and
      treatment perspective. These subjects will be subject to the evaluation measures under the IP
      instruction, the IP will not know to which group the subjects belong. The evaluations will be
      performed before the 1st intervention session and will consist of the evaluation of the pain
      through the EVA when performing the movement and the pressure pain; Functional ability by the
      Roland-Morris Questionnaire, Functional Oswestry Index and Finger-to-Ground Distance; Quality
      of life, questionnaire SF 36 and pleasure / dissatisfaction of the intervention by Felling
      Scale. To maintain the blindness of the study, each individual at the time of intervention
      will spend 30 minutes in the intervention room and each group will have a corresponding color
      for the convenience of P2 (being white, blue, green and yellow).

      The remaining AV2 and AV3 evaluations will be performed two days after the 10th treatment
      session and 4 weeks after the last treatment session, respectively, for gCP, gCrio, gTENSb
      and gCrioTENSb. The women will be evaluated and reassessed in the same phase, the follicular
      phase of the menstrual cycle to present higher thresholds of sensory perception, and will be
      used to identify the phases of the cycle of each volunteer following the proposed calendar
      method and the confirmation of regularity by, at least Less, six posterior menstrual cycles.
      The evaluations and interventions will be carried out in the evening shift and in the same
      room with a standard temperature of 24ยบ C. A pilot study will be carried out in order to
      reproduce what will be done during the evaluation and intervention processes, in order to
      identify and correcting possible flaws with regard to the proposed procedures.
    
  