
    
      Background:

      The Swiss population, and in Europe in general, is getting older. Due to this evolving
      demographic trend, the need to develop specific healthcare services for this age group is
      becoming crucial. From the international literature, evidence-based findings have
      demonstrated that physical abilities of elderly people can be increased, and institutional
      placement and mortality can be reduced through specific inpatient rehabilitation programs
      (Bachmann, Finger et al. 2010).

      Adults 65 years and older should carry out aerobic physical activities for at least 150
      minutes of moderate intensity or for 75 minutes of high intensity in a week. Besides it is
      strongly recommended that senior adults perform strengthening exercises minimum twice a week
      and activities promoting balance minimum thrice a week (WHO 2010; NIH 2013).

      In order to increase the training intensity and thus the independence in activities of daily
      living, older patients admitted in Kliniken Valens are instructed with a customized
      self-training program, in addition to the usual rehabilitation services. As for
      therapist-assisted sessions, this self-training program leads to significant improvement of
      patient's physical performance (Olney, Nymark et al. 2006) and represents therefore a proven,
      efficient and cost-effective intervention for inpatient settings. However, the compliance of
      elderly people to execute self-training exercises varies considerably. These programs are
      often considered as tedious and boring, and so prematurely stopped (Phillips, Schneider et
      al. 2004). An alternative to increase patient's motivation could be through serious games
      practice. Kliniken Valens has already experienced promising results with computer-based games
      such as the Nintendo Wii® (Schnurr and Oesch 2012).

      Methods:

      In this study participants are categorized in 4 strata according to their Berg Balance Score
      (BBS) (≤ 44 or ≥45) and their computer skills. Subsequently they are allocated randomly
      either in the intervention group or in the control group. In addition to the usual
      rehabilitation services provided in the clinic, participants of both groups are entitled to 2
      additional time-slots (2 x 30 min/day) devoted to self-training and this during the 10 days
      of the intervention period. This protocol ensures the same conditions for each participant to
      perform or not self-training exercises. For safety measures, participants with a low BBS
      (<45) perform the program in siting, whereas those with a higher BBS (≥45) practice in
      standing position (in front of a bench). The time frame of the intervention phase (from t1 to
      t2) lasts 10 working days and starts after self-training exercises have been instructed. In
      other words, t1 equates to approximately day 4 after the patient's admission in the clinic
      and t2 is 10 working days later, i.e. approximately day 16 after admission.

      Intervention group:

      The participants are instructed by experienced physiotherapists on serious games with
      Kinect®. Additionally, participants wear the Fit Bit® (an activity tracker device) and are
      encouraged to walk and climb stairs instead of using the escalator. Finally participants are
      asked to write down in a logbook, the frequency and duration of their self-training sessions.

      Control group:

      As in the usual rehabilitation services, experienced physiotherapists arrange a customized
      self-training program, instruct the exercises and deliver a hand-out. Additionally, patients
      are encouraged to walk and climb stairs instead of using the escalator. Finally participants
      are asked to write down in a logbook, the frequency and duration of their self-training
      sessions.

      Data collection:

      Data on self-training's intensity (primary outcome) are extracted from the logbook at
      post-intervention (t2) i.e. after the 10 working days of the intervention phase. The Berg
      Balance Scale and the Falls Efficacy Scale (secondary outcomes) are completed by a blinded
      researcher at pre- and post-intervention (before t1 and after t2) i.e. approximately at day
      1-2 after admission and day 16-17 after admission.

      Data analysis:

      Data are analyzed using the statistical software for social sciences (SPSS). The statistical
      analysis of the two groups is performed following a normal distribution of data, with an
      unmatched t-test. For non-normal distributions, the Mann-Whitney U test is used.
    
  