
    
      Study RIN-PH-201 was a multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled, 16 week,
      parallel group study designed to investigate the safety and efficacy of inhaled treprostinil
      in subjects with PH-ILD. Subjects initiated inhaled treprostinil or placebo at a dose of 3
      breaths (18 mcg) 4 times daily (QID) (during waking hours). Study drug doses were maximized
      throughout the study. Dose escalations (additional 1 breath QID) could occur up to every 3
      days with a target dosing regimen of 9 breaths (54 mcg) QID and a maximum dose of 12 breaths
      (72 mcg) QID, as clinically tolerated. Subjects were assessed during Screening and Baseline
      to determine eligibility for the study. Once eligible, 5 Treatment Phase visits to the clinic
      were required at Week 4, Week 8, Week 12, Week 15, and Week 16 (final study visit). An Early
      Termination (ET) Visit was conducted for subjects who discontinued prior to Week 16; all
      assessments planned for the final Week 16 Visit were conducted during the ET Visit, if
      applicable. Subjects were contacted at least weekly by telephone or email to assess tolerance
      to study drug, AEs, and changes to concomitant medications. Efficacy assessments consisted of
      6MWD, plasma NT-proBNP concentration, and time to clinical worsening. Exploratory endpoints
      included change in SGRQ, change in DSP, time to exacerbation of underlying lung disease, and
      PFTs. Safety assessments consisted of the development of AEs, vital signs, clinical
      laboratory parameters, ECG parameters, hospitalizations due to cardiopulmonary indications,
      exacerbations of underlying lung disease, and oxygenation. Subjects who remained on study
      drug, completed all assessments during the 16-week Treatment Phase, and met all eligibility
      criteria were eligible for the open-label extension study (RIN-PH-202). Additionally,
      subjects who withdrew from study drug prior to Week 16 due to clinical worsening and returned
      to the clinic for scheduled visits (excluding the Week 15 Visit) were eligible for RIN
      PH-202.
    
  