
    
      An acute stress reaction is a biopsychological condition arising in response to an event
      which is individually regarded as emotionally stressful. The onset of a stress response is
      associated with specific physiological actions in the sympathetic nervous system, both
      directly and indirectly through the release of adrenaline and to a lesser extent
      noradrenaline from the medulla of the adrenal glands. These catecholamine hormones facilitate
      immediate physical reactions by triggering increases in heart rate and breathing,
      constricting blood vessels. The other major player in the acute stress response is the
      hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.

      Although stress has been described as a non-specific psychophysiological response to
      environmental stimuli, it is possible to discern specific bodily stress responses caused by
      specific emotional reactions to novel, ambivalent or uncontrollable situations and stimuli.
      For example, social stress induces elevated cortisol levels, particularly if the stressor is
      uncontrollable, unpredictable, and constitutes a social-evaluative threat due to the judgment
      of others such as in the Trier Social Stress Test. Usually, the TSST induces a two-fold
      increase in saliva cortisol with peaks around 10-20 min. after stress test termination. Also,
      an average increase in heart rates of around 20 beats per minute (bpm) is observed during the
      TSST. In addition, emotional states and feelings have been shown to be affected by this
      stress test, such as marked increases in stress perception,anxiety and emotional insecurity
      as well as decreases in mood, calmness and feeling awake.

      Preliminary results indicate that Neurexan® may improve coping abilities in stressful
      situations. This study aims to investigate the effect of Neurexan® on subjectively perceived
      nervousness and tension during an acute stressful situation and to characterize the efficacy
      profile of Neurexan®.
    
  