
    
      Intrapartum assessment of the fetal head position and station, and cervical dilatation are
      essential for the management of labor. Precise knowledge of these parameters assists in the
      correct identification of normal versus abnormal labor progression patterns, and in case of
      the latter, indicates when medical or operative intervention may be required.

      Digital examination remains the "gold standard" for evaluation of head station and position
      and cervical dilatation in pregnancy; however, it has inherent variability.

      evaluations of the reliability of cervical dilatation assessment were performed initially in
      models, and more recently in patients during labor. Accuracy in models ranges from 51% to 59%
      and falls under 50% when evaluated in patients.

      However, labor management has changed substantially since then. Induction of labor, oxytocin
      use, epidural analgesia, and fetal heart rate monitoring are very common in contemporary
      practice whereas breech vaginal delivery and mid forceps are rarely performed. The mean body
      mass of women is significantly higher than it was 50 years ago, which may contribute to the
      increased fetal size, and the second stage is prolonged, as it increasingly occurs with use
      of epidural analgesia. Some studies suggested that the Friedman curve was no longer
      appropriate for induced or actively managed labor.

      In addition, once full dilatation is reached, although descent continues, monitoring of
      cervical dilation is no longer useful in the second stage. Descent in the second stage of
      labor is accompanied by rotation of the presenting part as it negotiates the pelvis. Friedman
      and Sachtleben showed that arrest of descent was frequently associated with fetal
      malpositions and suggested that abnormalities of rotation were important prognostic factors
      in the second stage.

      The rates of caesarean section have been a major public health concern. Non progressive labor
      is the leading cause of primary C-sections in the US. It is well known that non-progressive
      labor is over diagnosed, and determination of the patterns of normal and abnormal labor is
      fundamental to the formulation of strategies to reduce caesarean section rates. In the US,
      the total cesarean delivery rate for 2005 rose to the highest level ever reported -
      30.3%.After declining between 1989 and 1996, the cesarean rate has increased by 46 percent
      from the 1996 low of 20.7. The American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists Task Force
      on Caesarian Delivery Rates (2000) recommended a C-section rate of 15.5% for nulliparous
      women for the US for the year 2010.

      The LaborPro provides a tool for frequent non-invasive evaluation of head station and
      position, head descend, head descend during contraction, head position, and head rotation,
      without increasing the risk of maternal/fetal infection related to the number of vaginal
      examinations. In addition, a ruler-like determination of cervical dilatation is available
      during TVDE, as well as measurements of Pelvis diameters.
    
  