
    
      Participants in this research study will be asked to undergo some screening tests or
      procedures to confirm that eligibility. Many of these tests and procedures are likely to be
      part of regular cancer care and may be done even if it turns out that participants do not
      take part in the research study. These tests and procedures include the following: medical
      history, vital signs, physical exam, performance status, electrocardiogram, echocardiogram,
      routine blood tests, pregnancy test and an assessment of tumor by CT or MRI. If these tests
      show that a participant is eligible to participate in the research study, he/she will begin
      the study treatment. If a patient does not meet the eligibility criteria, he/she will not be
      able to participate in this research study.

      Participants will take the study drug once a day, every day of the cycle. Each treatment
      cycle lasts 28 days (4 weeks). Participants will be given a drug diary to record the drug
      they take each day. The diary will also include special instructions for taking the study
      drug.

      For cycles 1-20, participants will visit the clinic to have tests and procedures done at the
      time points listed here: On Day 1-physical exam, vital signs, performance status,
      electrocardiogram, routine blood tests, pharmacokinetic test, clinical exam and assessment of
      tumor. On day 15 of cycle 1-vital signs, routine blood tests and clinical exam.

      For cycles 11 and on, participants will visit the clinic every 6 weeks. Some of these visits
      will happen on Day 1 of the cycle and some of these visits will happen on Day 15 of the
      cycle. At each visit, the following tests and procedures will be done: physical exam, vital
      signs, performance status, electrocardiogram, routine blood tests, clinical exam, and an
      assessment of your tumor.

      Participants will visit the clinic when their study doctor takes them off study drug
      permanently. They will also visit the clinic 30 days after stop taking the study drug. The
      following tests and procedures will be done: physical exam, vital signs, performance status,
      electrocardiogram, routine blood tests, pregnancy test, clinical exam and a tumor assessment.

      Investigators would also like to keep track of participant's medical condition for two years
      after their first study dose. Investigators will contact participants by telephone every 3
      months. If participants still come to the clinic, visits might be used as contact.
    
  