
    
      Recent publications have suggested the use of 11C-acetate as another PET tracer for tumor
      imaging. The accumulation of 11C-acetate in tumor cells is related to the highly active lipid
      metabolism in the cell membrane associated with tumor growth. 11C-acetate is channeled into
      the tricarboxylic acid cycle via acetyl coenzyme A and then incorporated via
      phosphatidylcholine into the cell membrane's phopholipids. Possible biochemical paths of
      acetate incorporation or accumulation include (a) entering the Krebs cycle from acetyl
      coenzyme A (acetyl CoA) or as an intermediate metabolite, (b) esterification to form acetyl
      CoA as a major precursor in ß-oxidation for fatty acid synthesis, (c) combining with glycine
      in heme synthesis, and (d) through citrate for cholesterol synthesis. Of all of these
      possible metabolic pathways, participation in free fatty acid (lipid) synthesis is believed
      to be the dominant method of incorporation in tumors.

      The clinical data on the role of 11C-acetate PET in human tumors is being accumulated. Most
      clinical studies have investigated the role of 11C-acetate PET in detection of prostate
      cancer. 11C-acetate PET was found valuable in the detection of recurrent prostate cancer,
      both in the prostate bed, lymph nodes and distant metastases. The main advantage of
      11C-acetate is that it does not show physiological accumulation in the urinary bladder as is
      the case with 18F -FDG and therefore may be appropriate for the detection of active pelvic
      disease.

      Comparing the uptake of 18F-FDG and of 11C-acetate in patients with lung carcinoma, the
      latter was found superior in the identification of a bronchiolo-alveolar carcinoma which
      often show no intense FDG uptake.

      In the case of hepatic masses, well-differentiated HCC tumors were detect by 11C-acetate
      while poorly differentiated types were detected by 18F-FDG.

      These data suggest that 11C-acetate PET may be valuable in the detection of
      well-differentiation slow growing tumors and may have a complementary role to the routinely
      used 18F-FDG.
    
  