
    
      A VR environment was used training (RehAtt) of post-stroke patients with neglect. Patients
      played the VR games three times a week for five weeks, totally 15 hours.

      A neglect test battery five neglect tests was repeated three times during a five week
      baseline to estabish a chronic state and reduce the test by test learning effect, then again
      after the 5 weeks training period. The main outcome results were thereafter obtained by
      comparing the 5 neglect tests: Star cancellation test, Baking Tray Task, Line Bisection,,
      Extinction and Posner task - unified index by SPSS Repeated Measurement ANOVA from the 3
      baseline visits to the results after intervention. The Catherine Bergego neglect scale was
      used to assess activities in daily life before and after intervention as well as after six
      months.

      Patients were included if they had a neglect that had persisted for more than six months
      after a right sided ishemic stroke.

      Neglect was diagnosed if one or more of the four neglect subtests of the VR test battery was
      below cut off (See below and Appendix for details).

      The exclusion criteria were severe visual impairment, severe medical illness, severe
      depression or cognitive dysfunction (MMSE ≤ 23 points). All patients received oral and
      written information with an informed and signed consent. The Umeå university ethics review
      board (IRB) approved the study (2010-266-31M).

      The hardware consists of a standard PC, a video graphics card, a sound card, headphones and a
      separate numeric keyboard to measure behavioural responses. In the VR test part, we used a
      19" CRT monitor and shutter glasses for stereoscopic vision. A 27" monitor and 3D vision
      glasses (Nvidia, Santa Clara, CA, USA) replaced them in the VR game part. A robotic pen
      (Phantom omni haptic device, Sensable technologies, Wilmington, USA) was used as a pointer
      using the right hand for assessment activities and the paretic left hand when playing the VR
      game for intervention.
    
  