
    
      After contact is established and eligibility confirmed, Participants (N=40) will be enrolled
      and baseline surveys will be conducted to collect information about lifestyle, mental health,
      and anxiety levels. Patient data for those participants who have agreed to be in the study
      and have specifically agreed on the consent form to allow the study team to pull data from
      their prenatal charts. The data being pulled from charts will include patient weights, vital
      signs, blood pressures, current complications, blood analytes, and glucose tolerance test
      results from each prenatal visit. After the baby is born, delivery reports will also be
      obtained in order to collect information on the delivery outcomes (gender, mode of delivery,
      complications, time in labor) and baby's anthropometric data (birthweight, birth length, head
      circumference).

      Compensation will be in the form of Amazon gift cards (delivered electronically). There will
      be 4 time points where they take the online assessments. At each time point, they will also
      be mailed an Actigraph accelerometer to wear for one week. These will be sanitized and mailed
      or dropped off to avoid any contamination from the study team to participants. When the week
      is over, the study team will check in with participants and discuss a plan for pick up. They
      can leave outside for a study team member to pick up (contactless ) or they can mail it back
      (with provided return envelope).

      Each participant will still receive a total of $160. They be recruited and consented online
      around 18-20 weeks. Assessments will occur at 4 timepoints: baseline assessments at 23-25
      weeks gestation ($40), phone check at 30 weeks, second assessment/set of surveys at 35-37
      weeks ($40), delivery outcomes obtained, 6 week postpartum surveys ($40), and 12 week
      postpartum surveys ($40).

      Statistical Analyses:

      Sample Size Determination: Sample size for this pilot study was determined based on
      previously performed physical activity interventions among pregnant women. The effect size
      (0.91) for the main outcome of physical activity was determined from looking at
      post-intervention physical activity data from Asci et al.83. With this effect size, it was
      determined using SAS software with a type I error rate of 0.05 that a sample size of 20 per
      group could detect this difference with 80% power, thus our sample size of 15 per group is
      justified for a pilot project.

      Data Analyses:

      Aim 1: To estimate the success and feasibility of recruitment methods, the number of people
      who will hear about the study via various methods (e.g. health care providers, health fairs,
      word-of-mouth) will be estimated. Then, the number of women who completed initial screening,
      the number of women who meet the eligibility criteria, the number of women who complete each
      of the assessments, the number of women randomized, and the number of women who adhere to the
      intervention will be determined. The exit interview data will be analyzed via standard
      content analyses for qualitative studies as previously described84 (and recently performed by
      our group). Aim 2: Although the investigators may not detect all between group differences
      because the investigators are proposing a pilot project, appropriate statistical tests will
      be performed in order to examine trends, and thus, promise for effect in the larger future
      trial. Normality of the distribution for each variable will be tested using
      Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests, and non-normally distributed data will be transformed as needed.
      The baseline characteristics of the two groups will be compared using t-tests or Chi square
      tests. The potential effect of the intervention on study outcomes will be explored using
      repeated measures ANOVAs (group x time). Specifically, physical activity data between groups
      will be compared from pre-post intervention. All data will be entered in Redcap data
      management system. Analyses will be conducted using SAS or other statistical software.
    
  