
    
      A prospective, randomized, double-blind study conducted in the complementary examination
      department of the Luxembourg Hospital, approved by the ethics and research committee of the
      Luxembourg Hospital / Mário Penna Foundation (CAAE: 56538616.2.3001.5121). The sample size
      was calculated in 21 participants for each group, based on a previous study, considering a
      standard deviation of 7.5, to detect a difference of 7.5 minutes, with a power of 90% and
      significance level of 5% . To cover possible losses, two groups were set up with 25
      participants: midazolam and propofol, B fentanyl and propofol. Patients were invited to
      participate in physical status ASA I and II candidates for elective colonoscopy.

      The randomization was done through the distribution of numbers generated by the site
      www.random.org in two groups A and B, with a sweeping draw. All participants signed a free
      and informed consent form. The syringes were previously prepared by the anesthesiology
      resident with 3mg midazolam or 50 mcg fentanyl and double distilled water to make up to 5ml
      volume. Patients received standard and oxygen monitoring by nasal catheter at 4 liters /
      minute. The anesthesiologist in charge administered a syringe delivered by the resident
      according to the randomization, without knowing which solution was followed, followed by 50
      mg of propofol in increments of 20 mg until reaching the Ramsay stage 4 of sedation and then
      the physician endoscopist was authorized to introduce the colonoscope. The patient was
      maintained in this sedation plan until the device was withdrawn through further 20 mg
      increments of propofol administered according to the subjective evaluation of the
      anesthesiologist. Episodes of patient awakening, movement, oxygen saturation (SpO2) drop
      below 90%, and need for ventilatory assistance were noted if they occurred. The time between
      the introduction of the endoscope and its withdrawal was defined as the examination
      time.Then, the patient was refered to the post-anaesthesia care unit 1(PACU 1) where remained
      monitorized and supervised by a nurse technique and a doctor from anestehsiology team until
      reached the Aldrete Recovery Scale nine score. Reaching this criterion, the patient was
      referred to post-anaesthesia care unit 2 (PACU 2) where he remained seated, without
      monitoring and supplemental oxygen until he was able to walk,and drink water. Then he was
      discharged from the hospital. This time was noted by another nursing technique: SRPA 2 Time.
      Quantitative variables were submitted to the Shapiro-Wilk normality test, which is more
      suitable for small samples. Data that presented normal distribution (parametric data) were
      submitted to Student's t-Test. Non-parametric data were analyzed according to the Wilcoxon
      Test. The Pearson Correlation Tests (parametric data) and Spearman (nonparametric data) were
      used to evaluate the existence of a relationship (positive or negative) between two
      variables. In all tests, the obtained differences were considered statistically significant
      when the value of p was less than 0.05 (p <0.05). The analyzes were performed using
      GraphpadPrism®, version 5.0 for Windows.
    
  