
    
      For patients with advanced breast cancer that has spread around the body, hormone therapy is
      often the best treatment. As well as being very effective, this means that patients do not
      experience the toxicity and inconvenience of chemotherapy. However, eventually the cancer is
      likely to become resistant to hormone therapy and in this situation, although other hormone
      drugs can be used, they sometimes do not work very well. So it is important to find ways of
      getting the cancer to respond to hormone treatment again.

      There are many different ways in which breast cancer cells become resistant to hormone
      treatments, including a 'signalling' pathway in the cells called RET [Receptor tyrosine
      kinase RET] REarranged during Transfection. Research has shown increased activity of RET
      signalling pathways in hormone resistant cancer cells.

      Vandetanib is an oral drug that inhibits RET signalling in cells and has been shown in
      laboratory studies to prevent the growth of breast cancer cells which have become resistant
      to hormone therapy. Hormone therapy drugs include tamoxifen, and the aromatase inhibitors
      (anastrozole, letrozole and exemestane). The investigators therefore believe that giving
      vandetanib together with hormone therapy may help prevent resistance to treatment in patients
      with breast cancer. In this trial the investigators will combine this drug with fulvestrant,
      another hormone therapy drug which is sometimes used alone in patients who have developed
      resistance to aromatase inhibitors, or tamoxifen. So patients entering the trial will have
      one drug, fulvestrant, which is known to work and may also be given the experimental drug,
      vandetanib.

      To properly determine if vandetanib works as the investigators believe, this study will
      compare the activity of vandetanib combined with fulvestrant with fulvestrant combined with
      an inactive, 'placebo' tablet in a group of patients for whom treatment with single agent
      fulvestrant is thought appropriate. The investigators plan to recruit a total of 160
      patients. Half of them will be given fulvestrant and vandetanib and half will be given
      fulvestrant and placebo, and the treatment a particular patient will get will be chosen by
      random chance. Neither the patient nor the patients doctor will know whether the patient is
      getting vandetanib or the inactive placebo. The most important measure of effect will be the
      time until the cancer grows again, but the study will also look closely at the side effects
      of the drugs. The investigators will also look at whether the way in which an individual
      responds relates to the results from laboratory studies on the RET pathways carried out on
      previously stored tumour samples. This will mean that patients will not need to have
      additional biopsy samples taken.
    
  