
    
      Background:

      Self-help groups (SHGs) have become an important component of the system of care for patients
      with substance use disorders (SUDs). SUD patients' participation in SHGs has been linked to
      lower relapse rates and less use of additional treatment services.

      Objectives:

      The first objective was to implement and validate procedures to help counselors make
      effective referrals to SHGs for SUD patients. This project randomly assigned SUD outpatients
      to a standard referral or an intensive referral condition. We are determining the extent to
      which intensive referral increased patients' SHG attendance and involvement in comparison to
      standard referral. The second objective is to determine whether patients who received
      intensive referral to SHGs have better substance use and functioning outcomes over the 1-year
      follow-up period, and less use of formal treatment services, thereby reducing costs for VA,
      than those who received standard referral. The long-term goal is to develop and implement
      guidelines to facilitate SUD patients' participation in SHGs and thereby improve their
      quality of life and decrease their use of VA's specialized SUD treatment services.

      Methods:

      This project used a randomized design in which 345 patients entering VA outpatient SUD
      treatment were randomly assigned to either standard or intensive referral to SHGs. Standard
      referral consisted of the counselor recommending SHG participation. The keys to intensive
      referral included the counselor facilitating direct contact between the patient and a member
      of the SHG, and counselor follow-up on the recommendation for self-help. Patients were
      followed at 6 months and 1 year to determine whether intensive referral resulted in more
      self-help attendance and involvement; in better substance use and functioning outcomes (using
      the Addiction Severity Index); and in less use of VA services and lower treatment costs
      (using methods of the VA Health Economics Resource Center). To make these determinations, we
      are conducting analyses at each follow-up, and then will use hierarchical linear modeling to
      examine the benefits of intensive referral over time.

      Status:

      Project work is ongoing.
    
  