
    
      MSM in India are at increased risk for HIV in a stigmatizing environment that includes
      discrimination and violence. There is a need for evidence-based MSM HIV prevention
      interventions that address HIV risk in the context of these psychosocial issues. This study
      consists of formative qualitative work followed by the development and testing of a pilot
      behavioral HIV prevention intervention for MSM in Chennai, India. Study goals are to maximize
      intervention feasibility and acceptability, estimate an effect size for a power analysis, and
      prepare for a full-scale trial to follow.

      PHASE 1-Intervention Development. This phase involved the collection of formative data
      through MSM focus groups and key informant interviews to develop a subsequent pilot
      behavioral intervention.

      PHASE 2-Open Pilot. Following Phase 1, the team conducted an open-phase non-randomized pilot
      of the intervention. Enrollment involved a baseline assessment that included an
      interviewer-administered behavioral assessment and voluntary counseling and testing for HIV
      and the STIs, syphilis, gonorrhea and chlamydia. Eleven MSM in Chennai then completed 6 group
      sessions and 4 individual sessions over 3 months. A follow-up behavioral assessment was
      administered upon completion of all sessions, and 6 months after baseline participants were
      again administered the questionnaire and HIV/STI testing.

      PHASE 3-Pilot Randomized Controlled Trial. The study is currently in Phase 3, and the data
      articulated in this registry is for Phase 3. We are now conducting a pilot randomized
      controlled trial (RCT) of the intervention among 6 "batches" of 8 MSM in each group (n=48).
      Comparison groups (n=48) will receive the same baseline assessment and voluntary HIV/STI
      counseling and testing as the intervention groups. Based on Phase 2 findings, the
      intervention groups will meet for 4 group sessions and 4 individual sessions. Those assigned
      to receive the comparison condition will not receive these sessions. Participants complete
      the assessments approximately 3 months after randomization, and again 3 months after that.
    
  