
    
      Hypertension affects approximately 50 million individuals in the United States. As the
      population ages, the prevalence of hypertension will continue to increase if broad and
      effective preventive measures are not implemented. Data from the Framingham Heart study
      suggest that the lifetime risk of developing hypertension among 55- to 65-year-old
      individuals is greater than 90%. According to the World Health Organization, hypertension is
      the most common attributable cause of preventable death in developed nations, as uncontrolled
      hypertension greatly increases the risk of cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease,
      and renal failure. Despite the availability of hypertension treatments, hypertension remains
      inadequately controlled; only about one third of patients continue to maintain control
      successfully. To help address these matters, the Seventh Report of the Joint National
      Committee on Prevention, Detection, Evaluation, and Treatment of High Blood Pressure proposes
      a more aggressive intervention to hypertension management with more potent antihypertensive
      agents and combination therapy.

      Takeda Global Research & Development Center, Inc. is developing TAK-491 (azilsartan
      medoxomil) to treat mild to moderate essential hypertension. Azilsartan medoxomil is a
      prodrug that is rapidly hydrolyzed to the activity moiety, azilsartan, which is an
      angiotensin II type 1 receptor antagonist. This study is proposed to evaluate the efficacy,
      safety and tolerability of multiple doses of azilsartan medoxomil at five dose levels in
      subjects with mild to moderate uncomplicated essential hypertension.

      Individuals who want to participate in this study will be required to provide written
      informed consent. Study participation is anticipated to be about 11 weeks. Multiple
      procedures will occur at each visit which may include fasting, blood collection, urine
      collection, vital signs including sitting and standing blood pressure and pulse, body height
      and weight, physical examinations, electrocardiogram Outside of the study center,
      participants will be required to wear an ambulatory blood pressure monitoring device at
      approximately 24 and 36 hour intervals.
    
  