
    
      Goal: To improve the outcomes of depression by applying measurement based care that is
      person-centered and provides individualised feedback to providers and patients within a
      collaborative mental health care framework.

      Background: Depression is a leading cause of disease burden in Canada and globally. Although
      help-seeking and treatment rates have increased, the outcomes of depression remain
      unsatisfactory with high rates of inadequate treatment response, chronicity and recurrence.
      Recent data suggest that measurement-based care with regular ratings of depression symptoms
      coupled with feedback of results to clinicians and patients may improve outcomes. There is
      also evidence for the benefits of person-centered approaches that empower individuals living
      with depression to take active part in shaping their care. Person-centered care that
      integrates measurement-based feedback is yet to be tested.

      Aims: To test the benefits of person-centered measurement-based care in improving outcomes of
      depression in contemporary Canadian primary and collaborative health care context.

      Approach: We will test the benefits of person-centered measurement-based feedback in a
      randomized registry trial. Adults aged 18 or older diagnosed with major depressive disorder
      or persistent depressive disorder will be allocated to have a regular measurement-based
      feedback sent to themselves and their clinicians or not in a 1:1 ratio. The feedback was
      designed with a council of individuals with depression following the principles of
      patient-centered and measurement-based care and the recommendations of the 2016 Canadian
      Network for Mood and Anxiety Treatment guidelines. An on-line registry platform will be used
      to collect self-report and clinician-rated depression severity, role functioning, quality of
      life and person-centered self-defined goals. The primary outcome will be meaningful change in
      treatment and depression severity measured with the self-reported Quick Inventory of
      Depressive Symptomatology at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months after study entry. Secondary measures will
      include remission of depression, core role and occupational functioning, quality of life,
      healthcare cost and self-defined treatment goals. A cost-effectiveness analysis will
      determine the cost of improved outcomes in terms of quality of life.

      Core expertise: The applicants include clinician-scientists, healthcare managers, educators
      and people with lived experience of depression. The applicants have expertise in depression,
      primary and collaborative care, clinical trials, epidemiology, statistics, psychometrics and
      health economics. The registry and feedback forms were developed as part of the Canadian
      Depression Research and Intervention Network which promotes involvement of individuals with
      lived experience in research. The database and statistical analyses are supported by the
      Research Methods Unit.

      Expected outcomes: This project will deliver an innovative platform for person-centered
      measurement-based care for depression through collaborative mental health care. We expect
      that person-centered measurement-based care will lead to significant health benefits by
      optimizing care delivery, reducing burden of depression and improving quality of life at low
      cost. The outcomes of this research will be disseminated through professional networks,
      patient support organizations, on-line media and education of health professionals.
    
  