
    
      Postnatal growth is a crucial in premature infants as it could be correlated with the
      long-term cognitive development. Recent data from the literature show that it is possible -
      with appropriate nutritional care - to reduce the initial weight loss and to ensure that the
      growth deficit accumulated is then less important than was previously observed. The
      quantitative objective is to achieve growth that is at least equivalent to that of the fetus
      (12-18 g/kg.day according to postconceptional age). Children often grow slowly during the
      first 10 days of life, so they accumulate a growth deficit that should be compensated
      secondarily. Therefore, optimum postnatal growth is 20 g/kg.day, rather than 15 g/kg.day. It
      is also important to assess the quality of growth, particularly fat free mass. The objective
      of nutritional care is dual: a sufficient weight gain (close to fetal growth rate) but also a
      relevant body composition. However, there is very little data on body composition of
      premature babies at discharge. It is now possible to measure quickly (one minute), simply and
      noninvasively using pediatric air-displacement plethysmography. Previous studies using more
      complex search techniques to implement (dual energy X-ray absorptiometry) showed excessive
      body fat at discharge in premature babies. Reference values collected using pediatric
      air-displacement plethysmography were published in 2011. Nutritional practices and strategies
      have significantly evolved in the past years to support such objectives: improvement of early
      parenteral nutrient intake, new fortifiers for human milk, new preterm formulas and early
      beginning of enteral nutrition. Individualized fortification of human milk helps to provide
      preterm infants with sufficient amount of nutrients. The modern nutritionnal care in preterm
      infants results in earlier and higher protein and energy intakes than previously performed.
      It improves some anthropometric parameters but little is know about body composition at
      discharge. Furthermore, exposition to high nutrients intake could lead to metabolic and
      hormonal imprinting with an increased risk of diabetes and cardio-vascular diseases in
      adulthood.

      OPTIPREMA aim to focus the link between nutrient intakes during hospitalization, body
      composition at discharge and relationship between fat free mass variations at discharge and
      neurodevelopment at 2 years.
    
  