
    
      The appropriate management of patients with cystic lesions of the pancreas is controversial.
      The identification of small asymptomatic pancreatic cysts is increasing due to an improvement
      in the quality of radiologic imaging and the frequency that imaging is obtained. However, the
      natural history of these lesions is unknown1. The current consensus guidelines established at
      the International Consensus Conference in Sendai, Japan in 2005 suggest that branch chain
      IPMNs and mucinous cystic neoplasms that cause no symptoms, measure <3cm, and have no nodules
      can be observed with periodic imaging. However, the time course of these pre malignant
      mucinous lesions, intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN) or mucinous cystadenomas,
      from benign to malignant has not been determined. Due to the unknown natural history, and
      diagnostic uncertainty, some authors have recommended routine resection2, 3. Resection,
      despite improvements in surgical outcomes after pancreatectomy at high volume centers,
      carries a mortality and morbidity of 1-6% and 35-51%, respectively4-6. More recently studies
      are reporting a more selective approach to avoid the risk of operation in patients with
      benign lesions7. Improved radiographic and endoscopic studies have been able to identify some
      lesions with increased malignant potential8, 9. Thus, most patients will undergo pancreas
      specific radiologic imaging and endoscopic ultrasound with cyst aspiration. Since the natural
      history of cystic lesions is poorly understood no clear guidelines for surgical resection
      have been established. Some of the cysts will grow over time, with an increase in the
      cumulative risk of malignancy. Therefore, the therapeutic alternatives are to wait and watch
      for a change in the cyst morphology or to treat preemptively, which has been restricted to
      surgical resection. Based on the pilot study performed by Dr. William Brugge, at
      Massachusetts General Hospital, ethanol lavage of pancreatic cysts is safe and will result in
      a decrease in cyst diameter in 61% of patients. Additionally, if patients elect to not be
      treated preemptively it is unclear how to best follow these patients in terms of the type and
      the frequency of follow up studies.
    
  