
    
      The hypothesis is that distributing HOMAPAK directly to caretakers is more acceptable to the
      community, cost effective and results in reduced malaria morbidity among children < 5 years
      than distribution through CDDs.

      General Objective:

      To compare the communities malaria seeking behaviour in the two drug distribution methods of
      HOMAPAK in order to provide information that can be used to enhance the HBMF strategy.

      Specific Objectives:

        1. To assess trends in the types and numbers of antimalarials stocked for use among
           children < 5 years in the two study areas

        2. To assess the patterns of health seeking behaviour in the community for fever among
           children under five years of age.

        3. To assess the incidence of malaria, and the associated morbidity (anaemia) in the two
           study areas.

        4. To compare community acceptability of the two drug distribution methods of HOMAPAK in
           the aspects of, utilisation of the services, drug compliance, coverage and
           accessibility.

        5. To assess the cost and compare cost effectiveness of the two drug distribution methods
           of the HOMAPAK on malaria morbidity in the community.

           Study area and population:

           The study will be conducted in Kayunga district, located 80 km northeast of Kampala with
           a total population of 800000 (Uganda Housing and Population Census, 2002) of which 20 %
           is < 5 years. It is hyperendemic for malaria. The study population will consist of the
           children < 5 years and their caretakers. The study areas will be those without HOMAPAK
           being distributed at all.

           Study design:

           Household based intervention study. Two drug distribution methods of HOMAPAK will be
           compared. In the Control arm, HOMAPAKs will be distributed through the conventional
           HOMAPAK distribution method (i.e through the CDDs) while in the Intervention arm,
           HOMAPAKs will be distributed directly to the caretakers.

           A Baseline survey will assess the patterns of health seeking behaviour for the < 5
           children with fever. Types of antimalarials stocked in homes will be established. The
           prevalence of malaria and anaemia among children < 5 years will be established. In the
           intervention phase the two different HOMAPAK distribution methods will be implemented
           and monitored. Active case finding of malaria cases will be combined with passive
           surveillance. A structured questionnaire will be administered to the caretakers and a
           finger prick blood sample for Hb and malaria parasitaemia will be drawn from the
           children. Malaria records at the health facility will be reviewed for number of malaria
           cases seen and their clinical outcome. In the evaluation phase the impact of the drug
           distribution methods on antimalarials stocked in the homes,health seeking behaviour and
           other outcome measures.

           Sample size:

           Baseline and evaluation phase The sample size (n) has been estimated according to
           Kirkwood and Sterne (2003) for comparing of two means. The required sample size is 597
           per group. To cater for loss of follow up, 10 % of the sample size will be added thus
           giving a total of 657 per group.

           Methods The Intervention Phase The study populations will consist of the caretakers and
           children under five years of age in the Control and the Intervention arms. Two CDDs in
           each village will be trained and given HOMAPAKs. In the Control Arm the CDDs will keep
           the HOMAPAKs and will only be distributed when the caretakers seek care for their
           children. In contrast in the intervention area, the CDDs will distribute the drugs to
           all homes with children < 5 years of age. The CDDs will only act as RELAY POINTS for the
           HOMAPAKs. All villages of the study parishes in either arm will be included.

           Activities:

           Community sensitisation/selection of the CDDs Through village meetings the community
           will be informed about the project and be requested to select two people for training as
           CDDs. Two district trainers will conduct a training workshop. Item included: the roles
           of the CDD, issues about malaria (its importance, cause, clinical presentation, case
           management & prevention), HOMAPAK dosage, counselling (preventive, compliance), referral
           of cases, record keeping (HMIS, drug stocks), recognition of a child with fever and what
           to do for her/him, determining what pre-pack to give, recording the treatment and drug
           storage.

           Procurement and distribution of HOMAPAK HOMAPAKs will be procured through the MoH and
           supplied to all CDDs in both study communities. The CDDs in the control arm will only
           give the drugs when the caretakers seek care, while those in intervention arm will
           distribute the appropriate HOMAPAKs to all HH with children < 5 years. In order to
           prevent drug misuse, the CDDs in the intervention group will be instructed to only
           replenish the stocks in the household after the caretaker produces the used packet of
           HOMAPAK.

           Monitoring cases of malaria Three field assistants (FAs) will be stationed in the
           community and will do weekly surveys in households with children with either malaria or
           history of fever in the previous 7 days. A case of malaria will be any child, who either
           currently has a fever (axillary temperature >37.5 C) and any parasitaemia) or has a
           history of fever in 48 hours prior to the survey plus any parasitaemia. Information
           regarding health-seeking behaviour by the caretaker for the child with fever and related
           costs will be obtained by use of a questionnaire. Finger prick blood samples for Hb and
           malaria parasitaemia will be taken from the child. The Hb will be obtained by use of a
           portable haemoglobin photometer (HemoCue) while a thick malaria slide will be examined
           under a microscope. The FAs will give appropriate information regarding malaria control
           and treatment to the caretakers.

           Monitoring and Supervision of project activities Project activities will be monitored
           and supervised by the project staff , the district health team, and the community
           themselves. The project staff will join the district team during their quarterly support
           supervision visits. The PI and the district supervisor will do fortnightly supervision
           in the study area. During the supervisory visits, meetings with the CDDs and community
           leaders will be held to discuss the progress of the project activities. Meetings will
           also be held with the FAs and Field Supervisors. Patient records and drug stock cards at
           both the health facility and CDDs will be reviewed.

           The Evaluation Phase:

           To assess the impact of the distribution methods on patterns of health seeking behaviour
           of the caretakers for fever among children < 5 years, acceptability and related costs
           for the household and government, antimalarials stocked in the homes, malaria morbidity
           among children < 5 years, a second KAP Survey will be conducted 2 years after the
           implementation of the project, in the same villages, on a comparable sample of 657
           caretakers and children < 5 years in each study area using the same structured
           questionnaire and FGD guide.

           Sampling:

           Two sub counties (SC) in the district with similar demographic and socio-economic
           characteristics will be purposely selected. 50% of the parishes in each SC will then be
           randomly selected.

           Baseline and Evaluation phase:

           In order to have at least 30 households (HH) in a village, a total of 17 villages will
           be selected from the sampled parishes in each sub county using probability proportionate
           to size sampling. At village level the list of all the HH in the village will be
           obtained from the chairman of the village. The 30HH will be selected randomly.
           Appointments will be made with the caretakers to agree on the time for the interview. In
           case the caretakers refuse to participate, she will not be replaced. In case the
           selected HH does not have a child < 5 years, it will be replaced by one in the
           neighbourhood with such a child. In case there is more than one eligible caretaker in
           the selected HH like in polygamous homes, then one respondent will be selected by use of
           the ballot method. A similar procedure will be applied in case there is more than one
           eligible child in the HH. After seeking an informed consent from the respondent, an
           interview will be conducted.Participants for the FGDs will be purposely selected from
           the parishes HH that will not be part of the structured questionnaire. Two FGDs for men
           and Two for women will be conducted separately.

           Intervention phase:

           All households with children < 5 years in the study villages in both the control and
           intervention arm

           Outcome Measures:

           Patterns of health seeking behaviour

             -  Types of health services used, factors affecting utilisation of the formal health
                services (individual, community, health system based etc)

           Utilisation of antimalarial in the community

             -  Types of antimalarial drugs used for the malaria among the under five children

             -  Number of antimalarial drugs used to treatment an episode of fever

             -  % change in types and number of antimalarial drugs stocked in the homes

           Acceptability

             -  Proportion of under-five children with fever that are given HOMAPAKS

             -  Proportion of caretakers that use HOMAPAKS as their first choice of treatment for
                fever

             -  Proportion of caretakers that are able to correctly use HOMAPAKs

           Accessibility

           - Proportion of children that get treatment with HOMAPAK within 24 hours of onset of
           fever

             -  % of weeks in the year without stock-outs of HOMAPAKs

             -  % of drug distributors that are always available

             -  % of households with HOMAPAKS for future episodes of fever

           Feasibility/Sustainability

           - % of distributors/households with satisfactory drug storage,% of households with
           expired HOMAPAK

           Compliance

             -  Proportion of febrile under-five children that get appropriate treatment

             -  % of caretakers that show correct dosage for the child

             -  % of under-five children that are given HOMAPAK for only fever/malaria

             -  proportion of under five that get appropriate referral

           Coverage

           - Proportion of under five children with fever that get treatment with HOMAPAK

           Cost & cost-effectiveness

           - Average costs incurred by MoH to deliver HOMAPAK up to HH level

           - Average costs incurred by MoH in treatment of a severe malaria case in a health
           facility

           - Average Costs incurred by a house hold level to seek care for a case of malaria

           - Average cost by a household to treat a case of severe malaria at a health facility

           - Cost effective ratio for a case of severe malaria averted at health facility level

           - Cost effective ratio for a case of blood transfusion averted at health facility level

           Malaria morbidity

             -  % increase in mean Hb levels

             -  % decrease in prevalence and intensity of parasitaemia

             -  % decrease in severe malaria cases (HIS)
    
  