
    
      Background

      Background Like mannan-binding lectin (MBL), ficolins are important soluble receptors for
      microbial associated molecular patterns leading to the activation of the lectin pathway
      complement. Ficolins are structurally related to MBL, but due to their different carbohydrate
      recognition domain represent an own family of lectins (1). The single polypeptide chains of
      ficolins form trimers and the trimers finally form higher order structures (tetramers up to
      hexamers) which constitute the functional protein. Humans have three ficolins: Ficolin-1
      (M-ficolin), -2 (L-ficolin) and -3 (H-ficolin), whereas ficolin-2 and -3 are present in the
      serum, ficolin-1 is found on the surface of monocytes. Both, ficolin-2 and -3 are produced in
      the liver with an additional source for ficolin-3 in the lung. Like MBL, ficolins have to
      assemble with the MBL-associated serin proteases (MASPs) in order to activate the complement
      pathway (1). In our study on a possible role for the influence of the complement system in
      the development of CD-associated anti-Saccharomyces cerevisiae antibodies (ASCAs), we noticed
      that chronic inflammatory bowel disease (CIBD) patients, specifically Crohn's disease (CD)
      patients, exhibited high serum ficolin 2 concentrations.

      Our research group is interested in the interaction of the innate immune system with
      microorganisms of the intestinal flora, focusing on possible defects in innate immune
      mechanisms. We have more than ten years experience in the field, with a special focus on ASCA
      and MBL. We have been able to continuously publish our work about these theories.

      Our earlier and present studies on the role of MBL and the lectin pathway of complement in CD
      led to the finding of increased ficolin-2 concentration in the sera of CD patients. Moreover,
      we found that CD patients with a Harvey-Bradshaw index >3 had significantly higher ficolin 2
      concentrations than those with a Harvey-Bradshaw index of ≤ 3.

      Study Hypotheses

      The following hypotheses are to be tested:

        1. The ficolin 2 concentration is higher in Crohn's patients with active disease than in CD
           patients in remission.

        2. Ficolin 2 correlates with endoscopic activity.

        3. Ficolin 2 correlates with calprotectin.

      Objective

      The findings from the first part of the study are to be confirmed in a prospective and more
      detailed study with a larger patient cohort, testing our (new) working hypothesis that
      ficolin 2 represents a serum marker for disease activity in CD.

      Since it is currently difficult to reliably determine disease activity in CD patients using
      serum and stool markers without simultaneous endoscopic examination, another specific and
      easy to obtain disease marker which correlates well with disease activity would be highly
      welcome. Particularly because the current standard marker, to monitor disease activity
      (faecal calprotectin), is much less accepted than testing for parameters in the blood.

      Therefore, the study aims at answering the question of whether ficolin 2 is present in
      greater concentrations in the blood of Crohn's patients with active inflammation compared to
      CD patients in remission or to ulcerative colitis (UC) patients.

      Methods

      For the purposes of the study, the endoscopic activity index will be recorded using the
      SES-CD (simplified endoscopic score for CD) for Crohn's patients and the Mayo score for
      colitis patients.

      Approximately 5 ml blood will be taken to prepare serum. (5.5 ml or 4.9 ml S Monovette or 4.7
      ml or 4.9 ml serum gel Monovette).

      A second test tube of blood will be taken for CRP determination. In order to measure
      calprotectin, the patient will be asked to provide a stool sample shortly before or shortly
      after the endoscopic examination (within one week).

      Serum ficolin values are measured by enzyme-linked immune sorbent assay (ELISA) in the
      laboratory at the Department of Clinical Research, University of Bern; all other values are
      determined in routine diagnostic laboratories.
    
  