
    
      Aplastic anemia is characterized by trilineage hematopoietic failure with an apparently empty
      bone marrow. While the precise mechanism of disease has yet to be elucidated, much evidence
      indicates an immunologically mediated pathophysiology. Clinical trials have shown that
      approximately 75-80% of patients who are treated with immunosuppressive drugs, especially the
      combination of antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine (CSA), demonstrate a return of
      hematopoieses and improved blood counts. This therapy now is considered standard care for the
      treatment of aplastic anemia in all patients who lack a histocompatibility antigen-matched
      sibling donor and also in older patients regardless of donor status. However, with longer
      length of evaluation of patients after initial treatment, it is becoming increasingly clear
      that a substantial proportion will suffer relapse of pancytopenia. ATG and CSA do not appear
      to cure the disease in these patients but only disrupt a chronic autoimmune process. Recent
      data from our own series of patients treated with ATG and CSA, and studies of European
      patients who are treated with antilymphocyte globulin (ALG) and CSA, indicate that
      approximately 1/3 of responding patients will relapse and require treatment within 1-2 years
      of discontinuation of CSA. About 15% of patients become dependent on continued CSA
      administration in order to maintain blood counts. Chronic CSA toxicities include increased
      susceptibility to infections, hypertension, and irreversible renal damage, as well as
      hypertrichosis, hyperaesthesias, gingival hyperplasia, headaches, tremors, and other
      troubling complaints; there is also a possible increased risk of late malignant diseases.
      Therefore, a major priority in clinical research in aplastic anemia is the development of
      strategies to produce more durable responses, as well as to identify immunosuppressive agents
      that can be used as effectively and with fewer side affects than cyclosporine. Mycophenolate
      mofetil (MMF) is a novel immunosuppressive drug with proven efficacy in the treatment of
      graft rejection in renal transplantation. MMF has a different toxicity profile from
      cyclosporine, and specifically does not damage the kidneys. In this study, we will randomize
      patients who are judged to have relapsed to receive either standard treatment with full dose
      cyclosporine or half dose cyclosporine combined with MMF. We anticipate that the combination
      of cyclosporine with MMF will be as effective as conventional high dose cyclosporine for the
      purpose of treating relapse of aplastic anemia and would provide a less toxic regimen for
      long-term treatment of this disease.
    
  