
    
      Skin appearance is known to be influenced by endogenous and environmental factors, including
      nutrition, hormones, as well as exposure to chemicals, smoking, or ultraviolet radiation. The
      ability of nutritional supplements to enhance skin characteristics has received increasing
      attention as the population continues aging. A recent study assessed the correlation between
      nutrient consumption and skin-aging appearance, including skin wrinkles, dryness, and
      atrophy, and determined that higher intake of linoleic acid and vitamin C, as well as lower
      intake of fats and carbohydrates are linked with improved skin appearance. Moreover, clinical
      trials examining the effects of nutritional supplementation with proteins, vitamins, fatty
      acids, and trace minerals, have suggested that dietary compounds can modulate skin health and
      function.

      As skin gets older it shows a decrease in epidermal thickness, with a flattening of the
      dermal-epidermal junction. The dermis is the skin layer directly below the epidermis and has
      decreases in thickness by about 1% per year throughout the adult lifespan. Structural
      components of the dermis include collagen, elastic fibers, and extrafibrillar matrix. The
      cosmetic industry has focused its research on supporting these connective tissue components,
      as they have been established to repair skin damage (i.e. wounds) and enhance the strength
      and radiance of the skin.

      Collagen is the most abundant protein in mammals and is currently being utilized by a diverse
      number of industries including nutrition, cosmetic, and biomedical fields. Gelatin, which is
      used extensively in the food sector, is a hydrolyzed analog of collagen and is an excellent
      source of protein. A subsequent enzymatic degradation of gelatin results in the generation of
      collagen hydrolysate (CH), which contains peptides of an average molecular weight of 3-6 kDa.
      Human bioavailability studies have demonstrated that hydrolyzed collagen peptides are present
      in the blood within 2 h following oral ingestion of gelatin derived from chicken or fish and
      are present up to 24 h later.

      A double-blind, placebo-controlled trial on 69 women treated with a daily CH treatment or
      placebo for 8 weeks reported that skin elasticity was significantly improved. Skin moisture
      and skin evaporation were also enhanced but did not reach statistical significance relative
      to the placebo group. In addition, other studies have examined the effect of daily ingestion
      of CH (10 g) or placebo on skin hydration in healthy Japanese women over 2 months and found
      that there was a gradual improvement in skin water absorption capacity. The objective of this
      randomized, triple-blind, placebo-controlled study is to evaluate the efficacy of Vinh
      Wellness Collagen, a CH derived from pangasius skin, on skin elasticity, wrinkles, and
      hydration over 12 weeks of use.
    
  