
    
      Huperzine A is a natural cholinesterase inhibitor derived from the Chinese herb Huperzia
      serrata. There is evidence that huperzine A may compare favorably in symptomatic efficacy to
      cholinesterase inhibitors currently in use. In addition, huperzine A has antioxidant and
      neuroprotective properties that suggest that it may be useful as a disease-modifying
      treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The drug is currently available as a nutraceutical in
      this country, and is being used by some U.S. clinicians to treat AD. However, there have been
      no controlled clinical trials outside China assessing its toxicity and efficacy. The present
      study will evaluate huperzine A in the treatment of AD in a randomized controlled trial of
      its effect on cognitive function.

      The primary aim of this multicenter, double-blind, placebo-controlled therapeutic Phase II
      trial is to determine whether treatment with huperzine A 200µg twice a day improves cognitive
      function in individuals with AD. Secondary aims of this study are to: a) determine whether
      treatment with huperzine A 400µg twice a day improves cognitive function in individuals with
      AD; b) determine the effect of huperzine A treatment on global clinical status, activities of
      daily living, and behavior in AD; c) evaluate the tolerability of huperzine A treatment at
      dosages of 200µg twice a day and 400µg twice a day in AD; and d) determine the relationship
      between blood cholinesterase activity and cognitive function in individuals with AD treated
      with huperzine A. A total of 150 participants will be randomly assigned to three groups of
      equal size. This will allow a comparison of huperzine A 200µg twice a day, huperzine A 400µg
      twice a day, and placebo. The primary outcome measures will be the change in score on the
      ADAScog at the 16 week visit. Secondary outcome measures include the ADCS clinical global
      impression of change (CGIC) (Schneider et al 1997) and activities of daily living (ADL)
      (Galasko et al 1997) scales, and the Neuropsychiatric Inventory (Cummings 1997). Volunteers
      must be able to participate in the study for 24 weeks and make 9 visits to the trial site.

      At the end of the double-blind study, participants will be invited to continue huperzine A
      treatment for 6 months in an open-label extension phase. Participants will receive 200µg of
      huperzine A twice a day for six consecutive months, and will be assessed at 3-month intervals
      (months 6, 9, and 12, with month 6 assessments coinciding with the final visit of the
      double-blind phase).
    
  