
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate best overall response rate in patients with measurable disease determined by
      computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To estimate progression-free survival at 1-year. II. To correlate blood pressure control
      and change/discontinuation of antihypertensive medications with tumor responses.

      III. To correlate symptomatology evaluation by the MD Anderson Symptom Inventory (MDASI) with
      tumor responses.

      IV. To correlate plasma metanephrines and chromogranin A with tumor responses. V. To
      correlate plasma C-reactive protein and interleukin-6 with symptoms and tumor responses.

      VI. Toxicity assessment by the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE).

      VII. To correlate both c-MET expression by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as well as MET
      amplification by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in archived samples and correlate
      these biomarkers with overall prognosis and responsiveness to cabozantinib (cabozantinib
      s-malate).

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Best overall response rate in patients with bone metastases only (8 patients) as
      determined by fludeoxyglucose F 18 positron emission tomography/computed tomography
      (FDG-PET/CT).

      II. FDG-PET/CT maximum standard uptake value (SUVmax), advanced volumetric measures including
      peak standard uptake value (SUVpeak), metabolic tumor volume (MTV), and total lesion
      glycolysis (TLG).

      III. Time to skeletal related events. IV. Incidence of skeletal related events at 4 months
      and one year. V. Markers of bone turnover (bone specific alkaline phosphatase and C-terminal
      telopeptide [CTx]).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive cabozantinib s-malate orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-28. Courses
      repeat every 4 weeks through week 24 and then every 8 weeks in the absence of disease
      progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30-37 days.
    
  