
    
      Objective: The investigators aim to evaluate the acute effects of aerobic, resistance and
      combined (aerobic+ resistance) exercise on the BP, hemodynamic and inflammatory parameters,
      as well as arterial stiffness in RHTN patients compared to mild to moderate hypertensive
      (HTN) and normotensive (NT) subjects. Design and Methods: This interventional, randomized,
      single-blind, crossover study will be conducted in 30 patients (RHTN=10, HTN=10, and NT=10)
      regularly followed in the Outpatient Resistant Hypertension Clinic at UNICAMP- Brazil. All
      the subjects will be submitted to a previous adaptation of physical activity, especially to
      determine the load to be implemented in each patient. Then, the modalities of physical
      exercises (aerobic, resistance and combined) will be randomly performed in three isolated
      sessions, which will consist of: a) Aerobic exercise (EA): activity on a treadmill lasting 45
      minutes with intensity of 50-60% of maximum heart rate (HR) obtained from ergometer test; b)
      resistance exercise (RE): 4 series of 12 repetitions of resistance exercises at moderate
      intensity (until moderate fatigue), for 45 minutes; c) combined exercise (CE): EA (25
      minutes) + ER (20 minutes), with an interval of 2 minutes between sessions totalizing 45
      minutes. Body composition (plethysmography) and cardiorespiratory functional capacity
      (ergometry) will be determined before the physical training. In addition, the investigators
      will assess BP recording (by Finometer, office and ambulatory BP), arterial stiffness (by
      pulse wave velocity, Sphygmocor CPV system), plasma biomarkers (TNF-α, interleukins -1, -6,
      -10, and -17 by ELISA) in pre and post periods of each physical exercise. Results: Since the
      physical exercise in its different modalities provides chronic effects on BP in HTN patients,
      the investigators hypothesized that the isolated (aerobic and resistance) and combined
      exercise can acutely promote changes in BP levels in RHTN patients when compared to the
      participants counterparts. Secondarily, some biological mechanisms related to BP control
      (vascular function and cytokines production) may also be involved in these possible
      alterations. Conclusion: The investigators expect to define whether a physical exercise
      program applied to RHTN patients has medical relevance in a realistic clinical setting. These
      findings may guide the prescription of physical activity as an additional therapeutic
      approach, in order to decrease the cardiovascular risk associated to these subjects.
    
  