
    
      This project intends to investigate whether (1) a patient-maintained opioid diary provides an
      accurate measure of opioid consumption (morphine equivalents), (2) improved patient
      educational materials decrease narcotic consumption, and (3) using a pain management
      counselor provides additional benefits in decreasing narcotic consumption when used in
      conjunction with improved educational materials. Furthermore, the investigators would like to
      investigate the effect of the patient-maintained diaries, the improved educational materials,
      and the pain management counselor on pain levels, nausea, sleep quality, and patient
      satisfaction. The enrollment of the study will depend on the amount of patients that fall
      into each treatment arm - each of which will last for a fixed period of time. The expected
      enrollment is approximately 1000-1200 patients.

      All patients undergoing orthopedic surgery at Brigham and Women's Faulkner Hospital and meet
      all eligibility criteria will be informed about the study and asked whether they would like
      to participate. Those who agree will be assigned to a treatment group based on which arm of
      the study is being tested at the time (the treatment arms are sequential). Members of Group 1
      (control group) will receive the current standardized institutional discharge care for
      orthopedic surgery and an added tracking diary. Members of Group 2 (experimental group 1)
      will receive more detailed educational materials regarding postoperative pain management -
      including instructions to how to taper their narcotic usage - as well as a tracking diary.
      Members of Group 3 (experimental group 2) will receive not only the educational materials of
      Group 2, but also regular phone calls from a clinical patient educator to remind them of
      proper use of the diary and narcotic tapering.

      Each enrolled patient will be given verbal and written (printed and/or electronic format)
      instructions about narcotic medication by the nursing staff upon hospital discharge. The
      instructions will explain when to use such medications, how to taper off them, and how to
      document them. Following discharge, patients will record their opioid consumption on their
      own and document their pain, nausea, sleep and satisfaction. At the first post-operative
      appointment, patients' levels of opioid use will be recorded and actual tablets consumed
      compared with prescription received. If they receive a new prescription they will receive a
      matching diary for the total length of planned opioid treatment, including directions on how
      to wean themselves off the opioids. Outcome measures will be collected at both post-operative
      visits, the first a week after surgery and the second 2-3 months following. Additional data
      including length of stay, postoperative complications including infection and readmission,
      Emergency Department visits, and routinely collected postoperative functional outcome
      measures (PROMs) will be recorded.

      The Principal Investigator (PI) will review all pain, satisfaction, narcotic usage and
      proprioception data on a weekly basis with the research assistant (RA) as it is collected.
      These checks will help to ensure validity and patient safety. Privacy and confidentially will
      be assured by using codes as deidentifiers in place of identifying information on any data
      sheets used in analysis. Data which identifies the patient will be made available only to
      investigators and stored only in a private folder on department computers protected with a
      firewall. No data will be shared outside of Partners. Adverse events will be promptly
      reported to the Partners Human Research Committee (PHRC) as per PHRC rules.
    
  