
    
      We hope to determine whether in preterm infants < 34 weeks' gestation at birth receiving
      respiratory support with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or nasal cannula (NC),
      CPAP compared with NC will decrease the number of episodes with oxygen saturations less than
      85% of ≥10 seconds in a 24-hour randomized controlled trial.

      This study will include preterm infants < 34 weeks' gestation on respiratory support via CPAP
      with a PEEP ≤ 5 and FiO2 ≤ 30%. There will be three randomization strata [≥ 22+0/7 to ≤
      25+6/7 weeks, ≥ 26+0/7 to ≤ 29+6/7 weeks, and ≥ 30+0/7 to ≤ 33+6/7 weeks. The purpose of
      stratification is to ensure an appropriate distribution of risk between study arms. This
      study will not be powered to detect outcome differences within or between strata.

      Following informed consent, randomization, stratified by gestational age at delivery, will be
      performed using sequentially numbered sealed opaque envelopes. Each envelope will indicate
      either Treatment group (CPAP group) or Control group (NC group). The envelope will only be
      opened after informed consent has been obtained and just before starting the study on each
      infant.

      This will be a single center randomized controlled trial with a 1:1 parallel allocation of
      infants to CPAP or NC oxygen using stratified permuted block design. 15-30 minutes will be
      provided as a washout period at the beginning of the intervention, followed by 24 hours on
      the intervention. Infants enrolled must meet CPAP stability criteria that are based on prior
      randomized clinical trials of weaning from CPAP to NC.

      All infants enrolled in the study will have routine monitoring, uniform target saturation
      ranges of 91-95% with alarm limits set at 88-95%, and standard care for the duration of the
      study. The high alarm limit will be increased to 100% if an infant is weaned to 21% FiO2.
      Supplemental FiO2 will be titrated per unit routine to achieve goal target saturations. Pulse
      oximetry recordings will be downloaded using ixTrend (iexcellence, Wildau, Germany) software
      to a secure computer system or via Bedmaster software for later data analysis. The target
      oxygen saturations (91 to 95%) are based on data from the meta-analysis of randomized
      controlled trials of oxygen saturation targets which included data on 4911 infants from the
      SUPPORT, COT, and BOOST II trials.

      Primary and secondary outcomes are described below. Other safety outcomes include recordings
      of episodes of bradycardia and circumstances surrounding the event. Pulse oximetry recordings
      will be downloaded using ixTrend software to a secure computer system for later data
      analysis. Abdominal and cerebral NIRS will also be performed with subsequent data analysis..
    
  