
    
      The prevalence of obesity has increased dramatically in recent years . It is commonly
      associated with type 2 diabetes, coronary artery disease, and hypertension, and the
      coexistence of these diseases has been termed the metabolic syndrome. White Adipose Tissue
      (WAT) has been increasingly recognized as an important endocrine organ that secretes a number
      of biologically active "adipokines" . Of these adipokines, adiponectin has recently attracted
      much attention because of its antidiabetic and antiatherogenic effects and is expected to be
      a novel therapeutic tool for diabetes and the metabolic syndrome . Adiponectin directly
      regulates glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity by activation of AMPK.

      Adiponectin expression is reduced in obese, insulin-resistant rodent models. Plasma
      adiponectin levels are also decreased in an obese rhesus monkey model that frequently
      develops type 2 diabetes. Levels have also been reported to be reduced in obese humans,
      particularly those with visceral obesity, and to correlate inversely with insulin resistance.
      Prospective and longitudinal studies have shown that lower adiponectin levels are associated
      with a higher incidence of diabetes.

      Hypoadiponectinemia has been demonstrated to be independently associated with the metabolic
      syndrome. Reduced plasma adiponectin levels are also commonly observed in a variety of states
      frequently associated with insulin resistance, such as cardiovascular disease, ischemic heart
      disease, and hypertension. In women, lower adiponectin levels were associated with breast
      cancer, endometrial cancer, and polycystic ovarian syndrome.

      By establishing normal serum levels of Adiponectin, researchers will be able to demonstrate
      deviations from the norm associated with investigated diseases and variables. When applied to
      pregnancy, it will help identify obstetrical complications associated with abnormal levels.
    
  