
    
      Background: Frail Veterans are at increased risk for poor surgical outcomes. Although
      surgeons operate safely on even the oldest old, if the elder is also frail, the stress of
      surgery can result in significant mortality, morbidity, and institutionalization. Frailty is
      a clinical syndrome marked by muscle atrophy, diminished strength, decreased physical
      activity, and exhaustion. It is independent of any specific disease, but it increases with
      age, and is a more powerful predictor of increased perioperative mortality, morbidity, length
      of stay, and cost than predictions based on age or comorbidity alone. As the Veteran and US
      populations grow older and more frail, it is critically important to identify effective
      strategies for improving the surgical outcomes of these patients.

      "Prehabilitation" has the potential to improve surgical outcomes among the frail. Prior
      research demonstrates that inter-disciplinary rehabilitation strategies deployed after
      surgery enhance recovery and improve outcomes by building strength, improving nutrition, and
      optimizing home supports. Based on this success, there is growing interest in deploying
      similar interventions before surgery in what some call "prehabilitation." By modifying
      physiological and environmental risks, prehabilitation aims to augment patients' capacity to
      compensate for the stress of both surgery and recovery. Frail patients will likely benefit
      disproportionately from prehabilitation because they have the most diminished capacity to
      adapt to the stress of surgery. However, prehabilitation has not yet been studied in either
      Veteran or specifically frail populations.

      Objectives: We will examine the feasibility of a novel, multifaceted pre-habilitation
      intervention aimed at improving postoperative outcomes for frail Veterans undergoing major
      abdominal surgery. Specific aims are to:

        1. Estimate rates of recruitment, randomization, retention, and compliance with the
           prehabilitation intervention;

        2. Measure (a) physical performance, (b) pulmonary function, and (c) nutrition at baseline
           and 2-week intervals to estimate changes over time and explore the optimal duration of
           prehabilitation (2 vs. 4 vs. 6 weeks); and

        3. Estimate overall and treatment-specific summary statistics for postoperative outcomes in
           terms of 30- and 90-day (a) mortality, (b) major complications, (c) length of hospital
           stay, (d) health-related quality of life, (e) quality of surgical care, and (f) change
           in level of independent living.

      Methods: This randomized pilot study will enroll a consecutive cohort of up to 50 Veterans
      identified as frail using a standardized frailty assessment and scheduled for major abdominal
      surgery on the general or urological surgery services at the VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System.
      We will randomize participants 1:1 to receive either: (1) standard preoperative optimization
      by the Interdisciplinary Medical Preoperative Assessment Consultation & Treatment Clinic
      (IMPACT), or (2) prehabilitation + standard IMPACT optimization. The 6-week long
      prehabilitation intervention will include (1) strength and balance training; (2) inspiratory
      muscle training; and (3) nutritional coaching and supplementation. Assessments will include
      standard postoperative outcomes as well as the Short Physical Performance Battery to measure
      physical performance, Maximal Inspiratory Pressure to measure pulmonary function, and both
      prealbumin and the 7-point Subjective Global Assessment to measure nutrition. Outcomes will
      be assessed 30 or 90 days after surgery. Compliance with the prehabilitation regimen will be
      assessed through patient logs and pedometers. Analyses will inform the development of a
      larger randomized controlled trial testing the prehabilitation intervention. Findings will be
      relevant for the as many as 42,000 frail Veterans scheduled for major elective surgery each
      year.
    
  