
    
      Myocardial perfusion reserve is the ratio of global myocardial blood flow at stress vs. rest.
      Traditionally, it has been measured non-invasively using quantitative positron emission
      tomography (PET) or cardiac magnetic resonance (CMR). Several recent studies have suggested
      that measurement of myocardial perfusion reserve provides significant additive prognostic
      information during stress perfusion imaging in patients with known or suspected coronary
      artery disease. Myocardial perfusion reserve depends not only on trans-stenotic pressure
      gradient of the epicardial arteries and thus stenosis severity but even more on the ability
      of the coronary microvasculature (especially the pre-arterioles) to dilate. Therefore,
      coronary microvascular dysfunction, which impairs pre-arteriolar function, reduces myocardial
      perfusion reserve independently of the presence of epicardial coronary stenosis. Hence, the
      ability to measure myocardial perfusion reserve allows a more comprehensive assessment of the
      entire coronary circulation, beyond the current paradigm of the epicardial arteries.

      However, both PET and current CMR techniques are cumbersome, and in the case of PET require
      radiation as well as on-site Rubidium-82 generators. Therefore, they are challenging for
      routine clinical practice and have been limited to specialized research centers. An
      alternative, simple CMR method for measurement of myocardial perfusion reserve by quantifying
      change in coronary sinus flow has been described. The coronary sinus drains approximately 96%
      of total myocardial blood flow and provides a potentially convenient location for measurement
      of global myocardial blood flow. This method has been validated against both invasive and PET
      techniques. The investigators hypothesized that measurement of coronary sinus flow at stress
      and rest may provide a simple and rapid assessment of myocardial perfusion reserve during
      regadenoson stress perfusion CMR.

      This study will use phase contrast images obtained from patients during their clinically
      indicated CMR stress study to calculate myocardial perfusion reserve as the ratio of maximum
      myocardial blood flow to baseline blood flow - at the coronary sinus. Coronary sinus flow
      will be calculated by post-processing of images after the patient has left the scanner. In
      brief, the contour of the coronary sinus will be traced on the flow images throughout the
      cardiac cycle. Coronary sinus flow is calculated by integrating the momentary flow rate
      values from each cardiac phase over the entire cardiac cycle and multiplying by the mean
      heart rate during the acquisition. Patients will be followed for the occurrence of major
      adverse cardiac events (death, myocardial infarction, late revascularization, hospitalization
      for heart failure or unstable angina).
    
  