
    
      Purpose of the study is; to investigate the effect of exercises combined with blood flow
      restriction on strength, proprioception and functional motor performance in healthy
      individuals. In recent years, the prevalent blood flow restricting exercises seem to favor
      the development of skeletal muscles in different populations. Studies show that muscular
      hypertrophy can be achieved also with low-intensity resistance exercises by restricting blood
      flow. Moreover, exercises combined with blood flow restriction with low mechanical stress and
      minimal muscle damage do not require a long regeneration process. In this regard, it is
      stated that the blood flow restricting exercises have lower risk of injuries than the high
      intensity resistant exercises. It has been shown that similar positive results can be
      obtained with low-intensity resistance exercises performed by restricting blood flow with
      classical strengthening exercises performed without limiting in the muscle cross section
      area. In addition to strength, proprioception and neuromuscular control is important in
      individuals' therapeutic benefit rates, skills and functionalities, in returning to sports
      after sports injuries. The investigators believe that classical strengthening exercises may
      be a contribution to proprioception and consequently to functional motor performance because
      of the contribution to the proprioception, the low intensity resistant exercise technique
      performed by restricting blood flow, as well as providing similar muscle growth muscle
      growth, being painless and harmless to the musculoskeletal system. In this regard, there is
      no randomized controlled study of the effect of upper extremity exercises performed by
      restricting blood flow on the joint sensation of individuals and functional motor performance
      in healthy individuals. For this reason, purpose of the study is; to investigate the effect
      of exercises combined with blood flow restriction on strength, proprioception and functional
      motor performance in healthy individuals. Pain intensity with the numerical pain rating scale
      (NRS), muscle strength with digital hand dynamometer, shoulder and elbow proprioception with
      inclinometer, functional motor performance with Upper Extremity Closed Kinetic Chain
      Stabilization Test, Functional Throwing Performance Index, Single Arm Shot Put Test, Modified
      Pull-Up Test evaluation of 60 healthy individuals without neck and upper extremity pain, the
      fracture and surgical history for the upper extremity, cervical and thoracic area that
      prevent them to participate in the study will be made. Participants will randomly be
      separated into 2 groups of 30 people each. Elbow bending exercises with blood flow
      restriction will be performed to the exercise group during 6 weeks for 3 times a week
      accompanied by a physiotherapist. Control group will continue daily activities and a brochure
      on strengthening exercises and protection from injuries. Evaluations will be repeated 2 times
      and analyzed before the treatment and at the end of the 6th week. With the project, the
      investigators aim to improve the strength, proprioception and functional motor performance in
      healthy individuals by performing exercises restricting blood flow. With the achievement of
      the targets, exercises combined with blood flow restriction can be considered among the
      treatments protective for injuries, healing proprioception. The investigators also believe
      that the project will blaze the trail for the studies to be performed on athletes.
    
  