
    
      Accurately quantifying food intake is vital to promoting health and reducing chronic disease
      risk. Food intake encompasses energy intake, nutrient intake (macronutrients, micronutrients,
      vitamins, minerals), and intake of various food groups (e.g., fruits, vegetables), and thus
      reflects the nutritional status of individuals. Nutrition affects disease risk, including
      risk of developing obesity, diabetes, and cancer, all of which negatively affect the United
      States (U.S). Nonetheless, accurate assessment of food and nutrient intake has remained
      challenging, despite an improvement in methods. Self report methods, namely food records, are
      a mainstay of nutritional epidemiology research, with food recall being another popular
      method. These methods rely on the participant to accurately estimate portion size and, for
      food recall, remember what was consumed. The accuracy of these methods have been questioned
      and the problems with human recall have been comprehensively outlined. As a result, there
      remains a significant need for methods that are sufficiently accurate to provide researchers
      with good outcome data and to guide health promotion efforts.

      The PortionSize™ app was designed by our laboratory to overcome the limitations outlined
      above, and to guide users to follow specific diets. PortionSize relies on users capturing
      images of their food selection and waste. Food intake data are immediately provided since the
      user relies on built in tools, including templates, to estimate portion size. However,
      despite promising early indications, the PortionSize app's validity has yet to be extensively
      tested. Determining the accuracy of PortionSize is vital before users can utilize the app to
      obtain immediate feedback about their food intake. We accordingly aim to test the validity of
      PortionSize in a controlled laboratory setting. We will also test the validity of the
      MyFitnessPal© app, which is similar to an electronic food record.
    
  