
    
      Thromboelastography (TEG), a computerized analysis that has been used since the 1940s, is the
      only stand alone test that can provide integrated information on the balance between the two
      separate but simultaneously occuring components of coagulation, thrombosis and lysis. It
      measures the coagulation process from initial clotting cascade to clot strength.

      TEG may be used to assess the coagulation status of patients with acute stroke, whether
      ischemic or hemorrhagic. TEG might also be a useful way to predict and assess the degree of
      fibrinolysis that is achieved by tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Currently tPA is given
      as a standard dose determined by the patient's body weight, thus given the variability in
      patient outcome after tPA, this dose could sometimes be too small or too large, leading to
      thrombolysis or bleeding, respectively. One of the purposes of this observational study is to
      evaluate how effective TEG is on predicting and assessing the degree of thrombolysis
      following tPA therapy, by producing a range of TEG values correlated with optimal
      thrombolysis.

      The results of the recent FAST trial demonstrated the need to identify patients with
      spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) who are at increased risk for hematoma
      enlargement. Such identified patients, could benefit from a therapeutic advantage of
      activated factor VII or other hemostatic agents may be more clearly studied. Therefore,
      another purpose of this study is to evaluate how effective TEG is on predicting further
      bleeding for patients with spontaneous ICH.

      The study will consist of 208 ischemic patients and 80 hemorrhagic patients, whom which are
      approached from all stroke patients admitted to Memorial Hermann Hospital Emergency
      Department receiving a confirmatory CT or MRI scan. Patients who agree to participate will
      have blood drawn the day of hospital arrival, will then be followed for 36 +/- 12 hours after
      the stroke, and 90 +/- 30 days after the stroke, all during which two more blood samples will
      be obtained.

      Normal controls will be age and sex matched to the investigators' research population. A
      one-time blood draw will be obtained and information collected will be age, sex and TEG
      values.
    
  