
    
      The investigators propose to develop and test a novel automated asynchronous interpretation
      tool. The proposed project builds on previous research, piloting the automated asynchronous
      interpretation tool. This 5-year project will be conducted in two phases. In Phase 1 the
      investigators iteratively evaluate and refine the automated asynchronous interpretation tool
      already developed in prior studies. In Phase 2, the investigators evaluate this tool using a
      two-group randomized cross-over trial. Investigators compare:

        -  Method A (current gold standard of in-person real-time interpreting practice). A
           Spanish-speaking patient is diagnostically assessed in-person by an English-speaking
           psychiatrist through a Spanish-speaking interpreter.

        -  Method B (comparative practice - ATP). A Spanish-speaking patient is interviewed in
           Spanish by a trained mental health interviewer. The interview is recorded in real time,
           translated into English using the automatic interpretation tool and adding sub-titles to
           the video file, and sent to an English-speaking psychiatrist to asynchronously - that
           is, at a later time - review the video and make a diagnosis.

      All patients will undergo evaluation by both methods. Half of the patients will be randomized
      to be assessed by Method A first, followed by Method B and half to be assessed by Method B
      first, followed by Method A. The specific aims of the study are :

        -  Aim 1: To iteratively evaluate and refine the automated asynchronous interpretation tool
           already developed in prior studies.

        -  Aim 2: To compare patient satisfaction of Method A vs. Method B.

        -  Aim 3: To compare the diagnostic accuracy and psychiatrist inter-rater reliability of
           Method A vs. Method B and demonstrate psychiatrist inter-rater reliability for Method B.

        -  Aim 4: To compare the interview and language interpretation quality and accuracy of
           Method A vs. Method B.
    
  