
    
      Obesity is a chronic devastating disease and is becoming a major health and socioeconomic
      issue worldwide. Obesity significantly exacerbates many other chronic illnesses and increases
      mortality and morbidities of patients.1-2 Although the situation in Asians is less apparent
      and critical than in Caucasians, the problem is emerging rapidly. In Hong Kong, there are
      approximately 29% of adults classified as obese according WHO Asian criteria 3 and there is
      an increasing demand for obesity treatment in Asia-Pacific region.4 The first practical aim
      of treating obesity nowadays should focus on a sustained body weight loss of 10-15% to
      alleviate obesity-related illnesses such as hypertension, diabetes and obstructive sleep
      apnoea.

      Intragastric balloon (IGB) was initially developed from observing the effects naturally
      caused by bezoars and the first documentation in human use was reported in 1982.5 However,
      earlier balloon designs were plagued by high balloon failure rates and serious
      complications.6-8 Since then, balloon design has undergone several major modifications in
      terms of material, shape and filling substances. The newer design of balloon (Bioenterics®
      Intragastric Balloon (BIB®) system) was introduced in 1999 9 and has undergone extensive
      evaluation recently in Europe with promising results.10-11 It is placed inside the stomach
      endoscopically for a maximum of 180 days to decrease stomach capacity and gastric emptying.
      It facilitates patient's compliance to the restricted diet prescribed and together with
      increasing level of physical activities, most reports have shown moderate body weight loss of
      15 % or more.10--12 More importantly, the newer design balloon (BIB) is more reliable and
      predictable. The reported premature balloon rupture and serious complication is rare if it is
      removed within the recommended period and followed up carefully by a dedicated obesity team
      in a multidisciplinary approach.10-12 Sibutramine (Reductil®) is a serotonin and
      noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor and is one of the FDA approved weight reduction
      pharmacotherapy. Its central action on neurotransmitters causes an enhancement of satiety
      (fullness) after eating. In addition, it causes sympathetically mediated thermogenesis, which
      prevent the reduction in basal metabolic rate (BMR) normally seen in individual on restricted
      diet and thereby effectively increases resting energy consumption and promotes weight loss. A
      combination of sibutramine and lifestyle modification program has been shown up to 10 % of
      body weight loss while intragastric balloon and sibutramine are the two most commonly used
      non-surgical method for weight reduction. There is lack of randomized controlled trial in
      comparing these two methods in the treatment of obesity. Since these two types of therapy are
      most efficient in non-morbid obese patients, we are designing a trial to compare the effect
      of the two different weight reduction therapies in this group of patients in a double-blind
      manner.
    
  