
    
      The context in which primary care is delivered is rarely evaluated as part of quality
      improvement initiatives or research projects. Data from the MEMO Study (Minimizing Error,
      Maximizing Outcome) confirm a relationship between the work environment, provider reactions,
      and patient care. Time pressure is associated with physician satisfaction, stress, burnout,
      and intent to leave as well as lower quality care for hypertensive patients. Lack of values
      alignment between physicians and leaders is associated with physician satisfaction, stress,
      burnout, and intent to leave as well as poorer diabetes care and fewer prevention activities.
      Thus, providers are not the only ones at risk in adverse work conditions. An important
      coexisting factor is the impending primary care physician shortage. Less than optimal work
      conditions are associated with physician intent to leave and with reduced medical student
      interest in primary care. This randomized study assessed the impact of applying a novel
      quality improvement strategy designed to create "healthy workplaces".

      The investigators hypothesized that addressing adverse primary care work conditions
      (workflow, work control, organizational culture) would lead to greater clinician
      participation in programs to improve health care delivery. As part of MEMO, the investigators
      developed the Office and Work Life (OWL) measurement tool. The OWL assesses the primary care
      workplace and identifies specific working conditions that impact provider outcomes and
      quality of care. The current proposal assessed the ability of the OWL and a focused QI
      process to facilitate changes in the work environment and improve outcomes for providers and
      patients.

      Thirty-four primary care clinics were recruited in New York City and the upper Midwest.
      Physicians, physician assistants, and nurse practitioners (n=165) were surveyed to collect
      OWL data on provider outcomes, and organizational structure and culture. Managers were asked
      to provide information on clinic structure, policies and procedures. Eight patients per
      provider (n=1131) with hypertension and /or diabetes will be surveyed on health literacy,
      quality of life, medication compliance, satisfaction, and trust. Patient charts were audited
      to assess hypertension and diabetes management. The data was then compiled into an OWL
      measure for each clinic.

      34 clinics were randomized. Local leaders, providers, and staff in 17 intervention clinics
      received their OWL measure and discussed the successes and challenges to care illustrated by
      the data. Assisted by the study team, they developed QI plans focusing on workplace variables
      that investigators found contributed to care quality: time pressure, work control, work pace
      (chaos), and organizational culture. Twelve months later (Aug. 2012 - Jan. 2013), OWL data
      was recollected in all 34 clinics and compared.

      New OWL data was fed back to personnel in the 17 intervention clinics to formalize its role
      in continuous QI processes. Control clinics received their OWL data at study end. Subsets of
      data were analyzed to determine the best ways to modify the work environment to improve
      outcomes for underrepresented groups (women and minority providers and minority patients).
    
  