
    
      Lung cancer is the most common cancer, accounting for 20% of cancer-related deaths worldwide.
      In 2015, an estimated 610,200 patients (22 per cent of cancer-related deaths) died of lung
      cancer. Non-small cell lung cancer ((NSCLC)) accounts for 80% to 85% of lung cancer. Most
      patients are locally advanced or metastatic diseases at the time of diagnosis. Some IIIA
      tumors are considered resectable, but many IIIA (with larger N2) and IIIB (T4, any NM0, any
      TN3M0) are not considered suitable for surgery.

      Since the 1990s, simultaneous radiotherapy and chemotherapy ((CHRT)) has become the
      cornerstone of (NSCLC) in locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). At present,
      there is no clinical evidence of survival benefits of synchronous radiotherapy plus TKI
      targeted therapy for unresectable stage Ⅲ A and stage Ⅲ B non-small cell lung cancer.
      However, a HELPER STUDY study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of continuous
      intravenous infusion combined with EP regimen plus concurrent radiotherapy in the treatment
      of unresectable stage Ⅲ NSCLC. The median survival time was 34.7 months and the 3-year
      survival rate was 47.7%. anlotinib capsule is a small molecule multi-target tyrosine kinase
      inhibitor. Compared with bevacizumab, its anti-tumor therapy has three unique advantages: 1.
      Inhibition of multiple targets, such as VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR, c-Kit, etc., improves the
      effectiveness against a variety of malignant tumors, mainly in the following three aspects:
      first, it is aimed at several fatal pathways of tumor cells themselves, namely, driving gene
      pathways. Seal them all off one by one; Secondly, blocking vascular targeting: inhibition of
      vascular endothelial cell receptors such as VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR and so on. These three
      tyrosine kinase receptors and their corresponding ligands play an important role in
      angiogenesis: VEGF can proliferate cells, FGF and PDGF make vascular endothelial cells
      chemotactic to the vicinity of the tumor to form neovascularization. Let the pericytes of the
      blood vessels be covered to form a complete structure of the blood vessels; Finally, it can
      inhibit both tumor cells and tumor angiogenesis: because only suppressing tumor growth, tumor
      cells secrete some factors to save themselves, resulting in dense compensation for the
      vascular network, so that the tumor is supplied with blood. Will madly proliferate again,
      forming drug-resistant tumors. two。. Oral drug, convenient and effective: pharmacokinetic
      studies on the metabolism of anlotinib in vivo have found that the peak time of the drug in
      blood is 4 to 11 hours after administration, and the half-life is about 90 hours. Stopping
      for one week for two weeks can keep the blood drug concentration in the treatment window
      stably, which is safe and effective, more tolerant, convenient to use, and can improve the
      quality of life of patients. 3. Compared with the macromolecular monoclonal antibody
      represented by bevacizumab, the half-life of the drug is shorter, the long-term use of TKI,
      is smaller, the corresponding side effects are less, and the incidence of adverse events is
      lower than that of bevacizumab. In the II phase study of erlotinib combined with bevazumab,
      the incidence of hypertension with JO25567,3 degree or above was as high as 60%, and the
      tolerance of the patients was relatively poor. In the ALTER 0303 test, the common adverse
      reactions in the anlotinib group were fatigue, hypertension, skin toxicity and so on, but the
      incidence of grade 1-2 AE,SAE was lower (15.3%). And most of them can be relieved by
      symptomatic treatment or reduction, and the safety of the drug is good. This study was a
      clinical study on the treatment of locally advanced unresectable NSCLC with anlotinib
      hydrochloride combined with platinum-containing simultaneous radiotherapy. To observe and
      evaluate the safety and tolerance of anlotinib hydrochloride combined with cisplatin plus
      etoposide or pemetrexed in the treatment of locally advanced NSCLC patients. To determine the
      maximum tolerable dose of (MTD) and / or stage II clinical recommended dose (RP2D) and
      evaluate its preliminary efficacy. In the first stage of this study, 12 patients with locally
      advanced NSCLC were divided into 3 experimental groups. After taking three different doses of
      anlotinib combined with platinum simultaneous radiotherapy, the dose limited toxicity was
      observed, and the maximum tolerable dose was determined in the second stage. 78 patients were
      enrolled according to RP2D, and the indexes such as ORR were evaluated. To evaluate the
      safety and efficacy of anlotinib combined with platinum-containing simultaneous radiotherapy
      in the treatment of locally advanced NSCLC.

        1. Administration regimen: anlotinib (21 days as a cycle, 2 weeks, 1 week). Group 1: 8mg po
           qd, Group 2: 10mg po qd, Group 3: 12mg po qd;

           Combined chemotherapy:

           Cisplatin 50 mg 2, ivgt, D1, 8, 29, 36, etoposide 50 mg 2, ivgt, D1-5, 29-33; Or PC:
           carboplatin AUC2, paclitaxel 45-50 mg 2 per week; Cisplatin 25 mg 2, ivgt, D1-3, 22-24,
           pemetrexed ivgtt,500 mg/m2,ivgtt,d1, d22; (non-squamous cell carcinoma).

           Simultaneous radiotherapy: 3D-CRT or IMRT external radiotherapy (60-66 Gy, 2.0 Gy /
           day).

           The curative effect was evaluated after 6 weeks of simultaneous radiotherapy and
           chemotherapy combined with alotinib, and then the efficacy of alotinib or chemotherapy
           was maintained until PD.

        2. Observation index.

           Main outcome measures:

           Phase I main outcome measures: maximum tolerated dose (MTD), dose limited toxic (DLT).

           Main indicators of II: objective remission rate (ORR). Secondary indicators: disease
           control rate (DCR), progression-free survival (PFS).

        3. Administration cycle: patients with complete remission of (CR), partial remission of
           (PR) and stable (SD) continued to give drugs until disease progression (PD), intolerable
           toxicity or patients asked for withdrawal or progression of (PD).

        4. Effectiveness evaluation and analysis: effectiveness evaluation is conducted every two
           cycles (the time is based on the number of calendar days and is not affected by drug
           withdrawal), and the evaluation time is within 7 days of the end of the cycle (except
           statutory holidays). CT should be performed in the evaluation (CT evaluation is
           recommended every two cycles and PET-CT evaluation is performed once a year). The
           imaging techniques used in the evaluation of the same patient should be the same, and
           all imaging data should be retained.5. Treatment of possible toxic and side effects of
           anlotinib hydrochloride.

      The results of phase I anlotinib monotherapy tolerance test showed that the main adverse
      reactions associated with alrotinib hydrochloride were hand and foot syndrome, hypertension,
      albuminuria, diarrhea, gastrointestinal bleeding, thrombocytopenia and albuminuria,
      hyperlipidemia. Hyperglycemia and so on.

      5.1 hand and foot Syndrome (Palmar-plantar erythrodysesthesia syndrome)). Hand and foot
      syndrome is palm-foot sensation dull or limb turn red, obvious discomfort, swelling,
      tingling, pressure or stress area performance is more obvious. Tumor patients can occur
      during chemotherapy or molecular targeted therapy. Grade 1 showed painless mild skin changes
      or dermatitis (such as erythema, edema, hyperkeratosis), grade 2 showed painful skin changes
      (such as exfoliation, blisters, bleeding, swelling, excessive keratosis). Affect tool daily
      life activities; Grade 3 showed severe skin changes (exfoliation, blistering, bleeding,
      edema, hyperkeratosis) with pain and affected personal activities of daily life.

      For patients with grade 1 toxicity, there is often no need for support treatment, grade 2 or
      above toxic patients consider the following symptomatic support treatment: including:
      strengthen skin care, keep the skin clean, avoid secondary infection, avoid pressure or
      friction; Use moisturizing creams or lubricants, topical lotions or lubricants containing
      urea and corticosteroids, and local antifungal or antibiotic treatments if necessary.

      5.2 Hypertension. Blood pressure should be monitored daily for the first 6 weeks of this
      study. If there is an increase in blood pressure, it is necessary to actively communicate
      with the doctor. When blood pressure rises, conventional antihypertensive therapy can be
      controlled. For uncontrollable increases in blood pressure, they can also be alleviated by
      reducing the amount of targeted drugs or stopping them.

      Suggestions on staging and routine treatment of hypertension.

      Hypertension refers to a pathological increase in blood pressure, which is repeatedly
      measured over and over 140/90mmHg. Severity rating:

      Grade 1: prehypertension (systolic blood pressure 120-139, diastolic blood pressure 80-89
      mmHg) there is no indication of antihypertensive drugs, only blood pressure is monitored.
      Grade 2: the first stage of hypertension (systolic blood pressure 140159mmHg, diastolic blood
      pressure 90-99mmHg), the need for medical intervention, repeated or lasting (greater than or
      equal to 24 hours), symptomatic systolic blood pressure increased more than 20mmHg or the
      previous normal range increased more than 140mmHg; Blood pressure needs to be monitored with
      single drug treatment, and most of them use thiazide diuretics, but also consider angiotensin
      converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI), angiotensin Ⅱ receptor blocker (ARB), β receptor blocker
      and calcium channel blocker. Stage 3: stage II hypertension (systolic blood pressure greater
      than or equal to 160mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure greater than or equal to 100mmHg);
      requires medical intervention; requires a variety of drugs, usually thiazide diuretics and
      ACEI or beta blockers or calcium channel blockers. Level 4: life-threatening (e.g. malignant
      hypertension, transient or persistent nerve damage, hypertension crisis); requires emergency
      treatment. At present, there is no unified classification at home and abroad. Recently, it
      has been divided into two types from the point of view of clinical treatment.

      The main results are as follows: (1) hypertensive emergency (Hypertension emergencies),
      diastolic pressure > 120 mmHg, is associated with acute or progressive target organ damage,
      such as cerebral infarction, intracranial or subarachnoid hemorrhage, hypertensive
      encephalopathy, etc. Among them, progressive or rapid hypertension based on chronic essential
      hypertension was the most common (about 40% to 50%).

      (2) (Hypertension urgencies), diastolic blood pressure > 120 mmHg in hypertensive emergency
      was not accompanied by or only slight organ damage.

      Sodium nitroprusside or nifedipine was used to reduce blood pressure rapidly, diazepam and
      phenobarbital were used to stop convulsions, furosemide and mannitol were dehydrated, sodium
      excretion and intracranial pressure were reduced.

      In the event of hypertension crisis, the patient should stop taking the drug and withdraw
      from this clinical study.

      5.3 treatment of diarrhoea. Patients with grade 1 or 2 diarrhea can be given supportive
      treatment, such as the earliest onset of Lopebutylamine (such as oral administration of 4 mg,
      and then oral 2mg every 2 hours until diarrhea is relieved).

      5.4 Management of Digestive tract Hemorrhage. Gastrointestinal bleeding, including fecal
      occult blood (+ +), hematemesis or bloody stool, should be treated actively. Patients with
      upper gastrointestinal bleeding should fast, stop acid, protect gastric mucosa, stop bleeding
      (hemostatic cyclic acid, standing hemostasis, etc.), transfusion and supporting treatment,
      and octreotide can be used if necessary. Patients with lower gastrointestinal bleeding should
      be given hemostasis, blood transfusion and supporting treatment, etc.; if the bleeding is
      uncontrollable, surgical assistance should be requested.

      5.5 suggestions for the treatment of albuminuria. During the whole period of treatment,
      proteinuria was closely monitored in all patients, and 24-hour urinary protein determination
      should be performed in those with a history of hypertension and two consecutive times of
      urinary protein ≥ + +.

      After the occurrence of albuminuria, the principles of dose adjustment are as follows:
      urinary protein + or < 3g/24h continue to be given according to the plan and symptomatic
      treatment; If albuminuria ≥ 3G for 24 hours, the administration was suspended and treated
      symptomatically until the urine protein < 3g/24h lowered a dose level and continued to be
      administered. If the dose is reduced, the second occurrence of urinary protein ≥ 3g 24 hours,
      can be restored to < 3g/24h and then reduced by one dose level of treatment. However, if the
      third occurrence of urinary protein ≥ 3g 24h, the test would be terminated.

      If 4 degrees proteinuria (nephrotic syndrome) occurs, the drug will be permanently
      discontinued and withdrawn from this clinical study.

      5.6 Management of hyperlipidemia and hyperglycemia. The pre-treatment state and eating habits
      of patients with hyperlipidemia should be taken into account. In addition to diet, grade 2 or
      higher hypercholesterolemia (≥ 7.75mmol/L), or grade 2 or higher hypertriglyceridemia (≥ 2.5
      times the normal upper limit), HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors (atorvastatin, etc.) or
      appropriate lipid-lowering drugs should be used.

      Dose adjustment of anlotinib hydrochloride. In the event of drug-related toxicity, the
      toxicity was graded according to NCI CTCAE (version 4.0).
    
  