
    
      The management of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest is complex and multifactorial. With an
      incidence between 5 and 15 per 10,000 (46,000 patients per year in France) and a survival
      rate of only 5% to 15%, the room for improvement remains significant even today and is based
      on fast and optimal care. Thus French and international recommendations insist on the central
      element of external chest compression (ECC) and especially its quality (Monsieurs KG and Al.
      Resuscitation 2015; 95: 1-80). Improving the chest compression fraction (CCF) by limiting
      time without cardiac massage (No-Flow) is a second major point of the recommendations
      (Vaillancourt C and Al. Resuscitation 2011; 82: 1501-7). The survival of cardiac arrest
      victims is closely related on this No-Flow time. The principle of the chain of survival
      (early warning - ECC - defibrillation - resuscitation) implies that the deterioration of a
      single link threaten the whole of the care. To meet these qualitative needs, ECC guidance
      devices have been developed. They make possible to improve the quality of the ECC achieved
      (Hostler D and Al. BMJ 2011; 342d512). Their use is one of the areas of improvement mentioned
      in the recommendations. Our team studied in simulation the prolonged effects of guidance on
      the quality of the ECC during a prolonged resuscitation, with encouraging results (Buléon C
      and Al. Am J Emerg Med 2016; 34: 1754-60). The investigators propose a study evaluating the
      efficiency of the guidance of the ECC and the impact of the time of relay on the CCF. The
      investigators formulate two hypotheses that they wish to test simultaneously using a 2x2
      factorial design, in a multicenter randomized trial. The first assumption is that a 4-minute
      relay rate improves the CCF (by reducing the No-Flow time) compared to the currently
      recommended 2-minute relay rate. The second hypothesis is that a guiding device improves the
      quality of the ECC.

      This study should, over a period of 2 years, include 500 patients with cardiac arrest for
      whom specialized resuscitation is undertaken. The investigators hope by this study to improve
      the knowledge on the optimal rhythm of the ECC and to validate "in vivo" the interest for the
      guidance found on manikin. This study should make it possible to clarify the recommendations
      with a high level of evidence in this field and thus contribute to improving the prognosis of
      the victims of an out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

      Cardiac arrest (CA) remains a challenge for pre-hospital care. With an incidence of between 5
      and 15 per 10,000 (46,000 patients per year in France) and a survival rate of only 5% to 15%,
      there is yet room for improvement in treatment to reduce morbi-mortality of these patients.
      The quality of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is at the heart of the last three
      five-year recommendations. (1-3) The latest recommendations emphasize the importance for
      professionals to work at the highest quality of CPR and External Chest Compression (ECC)
      possible. (3) The ratio of the time during which the ECC is performed (Low-Flow) to the total
      time of the resuscitation is referred to as the Chest Compression Fraction (CCF). During CPR,
      it is essential for the patient's survival to minimize ECC disruption times and therefore to
      increase the CCF, as this is an independent element in CA survival's improvement. (4,5) ECC
      interruptions are deleterious to at least two titles. First, they are a source of direct stop
      in cerebral and coronary perfusions potentially altering the neurological prognosis and the
      probability of Return of Spontaneous Circulation. (6) Secondly, the quality of the cardiac
      output generated by the ECC at the time of resuming of the ECC after an interruption is less
      good for more than 30 seconds: time need for that several chest compressions can restore the
      best flow possible. (6,7) Reducing these interruptions and improving the ECC is therefore a
      major goal of improving CPR. The guidelines are that CCF must be greater than 60% and some
      experts estimate that a CCF of 80% is possible. (8,9) The outcome of patients with
      pre-hospital CA is significantly, positively and independently correlated with the
      consistency to different CCF targets, ECC frequency, ECC depth, and brief pre-external
      electric shock pause (<10 seconds). (10) There is evidence that ECC's guidance improves
      adequacy to guidelines and allows to be closer with the ECC frequency, depth and release
      objectives. (11) The investigators have proved in simulation that the guidance of the ECC
      delays the deterioration of the overall quality of the ECC and its components (frequency,
      depth and relaxation) related to fatigue during a prolonged ECC beyond the 2 ECC relay
      minutes currently recommended. (12) Strategies to get closer with the guidelines regarding
      the quality of the ECC associated with an improvement in CCF should add or even enhance their
      beneficial effects for the management of CA victims. Achieving high quality CPR requires the
      measurement of quality of CPR (ECC and CCF). (13,14) This idea of a support strategy enhanced
      by "bundles" of concepts is developing in the literature. Thus Cheskes S et al. Describe a
      "high quality CPR" such as the association of a CCF greater than 70% and achievement of the
      objectives of the recommendations for the frequency and depth of the ECC. (15) The place of
      devices for guiding the quality of the ECC needs to be specified. Indeed, studies of their
      use in real-life situations are criticized for their methodological qualities and their size.
      (16) The use of a real-time guidance device is proposed as a possibility in the latest
      guidelines without being an indispensable element due to the lack of current evidence. (3)
      Its use or non-use does not imply any obvious loss of chance for patients. Evidence as to its
      usefulness therefore remains to be sought.

      For this reason, the investigators wish, through an original, randomized, multi-center study,
      to provide some answers to the questions about the possibility of an improvement in CCF by
      the lengthening of the time between two ECC relays and the effect of guidance on the quality
      of the ECC. The design of the study will also allow to approach a possible combined effect of
      ECC relays rhythm and guidance. The currently recommended duration of a two-minute ECC cycle
      between two relays does not have a consistent evidence based and corresponds to a duration
      for which the ECC effort can be maintained in principle with efficiency. (3) Objective
      measures have shown that the quality of the ECC can be maintained beyond 2 minutes. Extending
      the duration of an ECC cycle could reduce the number of ECC interruptions and thus improve
      the CCF.

      The investigators therefore formulate two hypotheses that they wish to test simultaneously
      using a 2x2 factorial design, in a multicenter randomized trial. The first assumption is that
      a 4-minutes relay rhythm improves the CCF (by reducing the No-Flow time) compared to the
      currently recommended 2-minutes relay rhythm. The second hypothesis is that a guiding device
      improves the quality of the ECC.

      The CPRmeter® (guidance device used in this study) will record data on the ECC and its
      quality (depth, frequency, relaxation, CPRmeter® use time, No-Flow time and Low-Flow time) as
      well as ECC guidance for the group which will benefit from it (the other group will have the
      screen masked by a screen cap).

      This study should, over a period of 2 years, include 500 major patients presenting a
      non-traumatic CA for whom a specialized CPR is undertaken. The investigators hope by this
      study to improve the knowledge on the optimal rhythm of the CEE and to validate "in vivo" the
      interest for the guidance found on manikin. This study should clarify the guidelines with a
      high level of evidence in this area and thus contribute to improving the prognosis of victims
      of out-hospital CA.
    
  