
    
      Background

      Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is defined as carbohydrate intolerance with onset or
      first recognition during pregnancy. If insulin resistance and hyperglycemia are recognized
      before pregnancy, the term pregestational diabetes (PGD) is used. In the last years, much has
      been invested to uniformly define worldwide the diagnostic criteria and the management of
      gestational diabetes. Recently, the American Diabetes Association stated that a general
      screening in a low risk population should be implemented into routine prenatal care. However,
      there are still controversies on which diagnostic criteria to use. Similarly, screening of
      pregnant women at high risk for PGD is also a matter of debate. This is an important issue as
      the prevalence of this group is increasing worldwide. Of interest, the ADA as well as the
      international expert committee on diabetes published a consensus statement in which the use
      of HbA1c was supported for the diagnosis of diabetes rather than the measurement of fasting
      or post-prandial plasma glucose in a non-pregnant population. A value of ≥6.5% (≥48mmol/mol)
      was proposed as criterion for diagnosis. There is no doubt that the measurement of
      glycosylated haemoglobin may be of value in particular preconceptional in diabetes type 1.
      Difference exist in using HbA1c during pregnancy. At the pregnant state, the different red
      cell turnover and other physiologic changes in pregnancy may interfere with HbA1c. Indeed,
      mean HBA1c levels in healthy pregnant women are lower than in the non-pregnant women.
      Moreover, O'Connor et al. showed that first and second trimester HbA1c values are
      significantly different to a non-pregnant population, whereas no difference was found
      comparing HbA1c values from the third trimester. Therefore, it has been suggested, that only
      blood glucose criteria should be used to diagnose or exclude PGD in particular during the
      first trimester as the data on HBA1c in the first trimester is limited .

      Objective

      To observe the values of HbA1c obtained from pregnant women in the early pregnancy, the
      difference between those who develop GDM and those who do not and the comparison of first
      trimester HBA1c, Plasma Glucose and angiogenesis factors.

      Methods

      This is an observational prospective cohort study conducted in our Department of Obstetrics.
      All women are tested for HbA1c at the first antenatal visit during the first trimester. First
      trimester was defined as up to 12 6/7 weeks of gestation. Between 24 and 28 weeks of
      gestation the women are screened, as internationally proposed, by a "one-step" standardized
      75g oral glucose tolerance test (oGTT). Venous blood samples were collected at 0, 1, and 2h
      after the glucose load. Women with pre-existing diabetes mellitus or a first trimester HbA1c
      ≥6.5% are excluded from the study und medical care for pregestational diabetes is provided.
    
  