
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Determine the efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy, in terms of disease-free survival, in
           women with radically resected loco-regional relapsed breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  Determine the systemic disease-free and overall survival of patients treated with this
           regimen.

        -  Determine the sites of recurrence, incidence of second (non-breast) malignancies, and
           causes of death without relapse of breast cancer in patients treated with this regimen.

        -  Determine the quality of life of patients treated with this regimen (QOL portion closed
           11/13/08).

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to prior
      chemotherapy (yes vs no), estrogen receptor (ER) positive and/or progesterone receptor (PR)
      positive (yes vs no), and location of recurrence (breast vs mastectomy scar/chest wall vs
      regional lymph nodes). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive radiotherapy* within 6 months after surgery.

        -  Arm II: Within 10 weeks after surgery, patients receive at least 3 courses of an
           adjuvant chemotherapy regimen as determined by the investigator. Patients also receive
           radiotherapy* within 6 months after surgery and after the completion of chemotherapy OR
           integrated with chemotherapy.

      NOTE: *Patients with clear margins (R0) who received prior adjuvant radiotherapy are not
      required to receive further radiotherapy

      Patients with ER and/or PR positive tumors also receive standard hormonal therapy.

      Quality of life is assessed at baseline and at 9 and 12 months (QOL portion closed 11/13/08).

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years, every 6 months for 3 years, and then
      annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 265 patients will be accrued for this study within 4 years.
    
  