
    
      Participants will be randomized into 2 groups: intraoperative ketamine infusion during
      operation or routine anesthesia with no ketamine. Participants are pre-medicated in the
      operating room with the same regimen: Gabapentin 300mg, Ultram 50mg, and Tylenol 1000mg.

      For participants in the ketamine group, a pain dose of ketamine 0.3mg/kg IV bolus dosing will
      be given prior to incision. If the procedure lasts longer than 1 hour, an additional bolus
      dose will be given. All participants will undergo general anesthesia and receive routine
      anesthesia care, aside from ketamine verus no ketamine. All participants will also receive
      standard local anesthesia including a local regional perianal nerve block.

      The procedure will be performed by three different surgeons, with the surgery done the same
      way using ligasure hemorrhoidectomy. Participants will all be sent home with the same
      post-operative instructions and pain medications to include: Tylenol 1000mg, oxycodone 5mg,
      ibuprofen 800mg, fiber/miralax, and tub baths twice daily for 15 minutes.

      A patient pain handout will be given to participants upon discharge with instructions to rate
      pain according to a numeric rating scale and the Wong-Baker FACES pain scale. Participants
      will be contacted by a member of the research team to assess their post-operative pain based
      on a numeric rating scale. All participants will undergo post-operative clinic follow-up at 2
      weeks post-operation. At that time they will be instructed to bring their oxycodone bottle to
      assess how many pills the participant required. The clinic medical assistant will count the
      number of remaining pills and record this in the electronic medical record. If a participant
      forgets their pain scale record or medications, a post-operative phone interview will be
      performed after the clinic appointment to gather this information.

      The investigators will randomize 50 participants to the ketamine group and 50 participants to
      the placebo group. Study will take place until all participants have been analyzed,
      approximately 8-12 months. Randomization will occur using a statistical method with study
      arms placed into individual envelopes that will be stored at the University of Oklahoma (OU)
      Surgery Center. The investigator will blindly pull an envelope from the stack which will
      identify the participant's treatment arm. The participants will be blinded and not informed
      of their arm of the study as to not create bias toward subjective pain. Practitioners will
      not be blinded for ease of medication administration. The procedures will occur at OU Surgery
      Center by one of three surgeons. Anesthesiologists will administer ketamine based on study
      arm.
    
  