
    
      Cirrhosis-associated immune dysfunction syndrome (CAIDS) is a well-recognized phenomenon. It
      affects all immune cells as well as the humoral immune system. Because of this deficiency
      patients with liver cirrhosis often suffer from severe infections that can be complicated by
      sepsis, acute renal or liver failure, and lead to prolonged hospitalization and ultimately to
      the death of the patient. The humoral immune system is a first-line defence mechanism and
      consists of cell-free molecules that are partly produced by the liver and target pathogens
      through opsonisation, growth inhibition and lysis. A cirrhotic liver cannot reach its full
      protein expression capacity and consequently, quantitative and qualitative changes of
      complement factors and immunoglobulins have been observed in liver disease patients before.

      Liver transplantation remains the only curative option to treat liver cirrhosis and its
      extrahepatic manifestations; however due to limited organ supply this option is not
      applicable in all cases. Therefore, liver cirrhosis and its complications (eg. infections)
      need to be managed by health care professionals, who often lack appropriate tools for risk
      assessment. To meet this clinical need, a novel biomarker was recently established (Acellular
      Growth Retardation Ability, short AGRA) that uses the state of the humoral immune system to
      predict the future occurrence of severe infection in liver disease patients. However, it is
      still unclear how this biomarker develops after liver transplantation and how valid its
      predictions are for post-operative infections.

      Therefore, patients scheduled for liver transplantation will be included in the trial. AGRA
      measurements before and after the transplant (1, 7, 90 days after the end of antibiotic
      treatment) will be performed. Additionally outcome data regarding severe infections are
      collected for one year before and after transplantation. The respective organ donors are
      included as a control group.
    
  