
    
      Treatment-induced communication impairment is one of the most common and distressful symptoms
      to mechanically ventilated intensive care unit (ICU) patients and is associated with anxiety,
      panic, anger, frustration, sleeplessness, and distress.This Phase II Small Business
      Technology Transfer Research (STTR) will deliver a comprehensive solution that may help
      decrease days in delirium, decrease anxiety levels, and reduce sedation exposure which are
      proximal outcomes known to be associated with decreased mechanical ventilation days, shorter
      lengths of ICU and hospital stay, and lower healthcare cost. The primary goal of this Phase
      II STTR proposal is to further define user requirements and product specifications and
      develop a prototype of VidaTalk (previously TouchTalk), a patient-centric, touch pad
      communication software, to provide mechanically ventilated (MV) patients an evidence-based
      solution for effectively communicating their needs to care providers and family. A secondary
      goal is to test the impact of the VidaTalk on clinical outcomes (e.g., patient-reported
      communication difficulty and frustration, anxiety, sedation exposure, delirium/coma-free
      days, and improved patient and family satisfaction with ICU care). This study will use mixed
      methods including observations and interaction with hospitalized patients as they use the
      VidaTalk communication tool, surveys and medical record data extraction, product evaluation
      and brief interview, satisfaction survey with family members of ICU patients and focus groups
      with Registered Nurses. Our Phase I STTR successfully delivered a beta prototype that met
      technical feasibility criteria; however, additional requirements emerged as a common theme
      from user testing and market analysis. The current study will meet the identified needs for
      VidaTalk to operate on android devices, be customizable to patients' unique message needs,
      use pictures symbols for communication, and be able to route patient requests to providers
      who are not present at the bedside.

      Specific Aim 1 (Preliminary to Clinical Trial). Develop a commercial prototype of VidaTalk
      that will include multilingual and customizable messages, compatibility with tablet devices,
      picture symbols, and integration with mobile communication devices.

      Specific Aim 2 (Preliminary to Clinical Trial). Demonstrate usability with iterative user
      assessment testing in a clinical setting.

      Specific Aim 3. Test the clinical efficacy of VidaTalk via android application with MV
      patients by examining qualitative and quantitative endpoints in a clinical setting. Aim 3
      hypothesis: MV patients using VidaTalk will demonstrate notable reductions in
      patient-reported frustration and communication difficulty, anxiety, sedation exposure,
      delirium/coma-free days, and improved patient and family satisfaction with ICU care compared
      to MV patients receiving attention-control.

      Specific Aim 4. Validation of electronic visual analogue scale, versus current standard paper
      scale.

      Specific Aim 5. Test the effect of the communication tablet (VidaTalk) on psychological
      symptoms in family caregivers.
    
  