
    
      Immediate implant placement and provisionalization, short for IIPP, is one of a very viable
      option for failing anterior teeth. It has been advocated with documented success for more
      than 20 years. Despite the decent results, the challenges remains on the altered of the
      facial implant tissue architecture. To avoid the facial contour change and the possible
      following esthetic problem, clinicians have tried several ways to preserve the contour, like
      bone grafting in the gap between the facial bone and implant, or enhance facial gingival
      tissue thickness through augmentation procedures.

      The concept of retaining part of the root, or root shield in conjunction with IIPP was
      proposed around 8 to 9 years ago. So-called socket shield technique. It has claimed to have
      successfully preserve the facial contour. Animal studies and couple clinical studies have
      showed decent results.

      The purpose of this clinical controlled study is to compare the facial gingival level change
      between IIPP with bone graft and with socket shield technique. There are two groups in this
      study, 13 patients each. Extrusion criteria including male under 21 years old, female under
      23 years old, smoker, pregnant patient, history of head and neck radiation, soft tissue
      defect like inflammation, recession, active infection. On the control group, patient will
      received IIPP with bone graft; On the test group, IIPP and socket shield technique will be
      provided. All clinical examinations and data collections will be performed by one
      investorgator, who will do the measurement at presurgical appointment, Tps, the time of
      implant placement, Tm0, 6-months Tm6, and 12-months after implant placement Tm12. Data
      analysis will be blind. Intraexaminer reliability will be performed.

      We are looking at 12 elements in this study. The main variable will be facial gingival level
      change. We will use Intraoral scanner and the 3D images obtained at different time point will
      be superimposed, to see if there is any significant change between two groups.
    
  