
    
      Open-label, uncontrolled, single arm study to evaluate PerioSept® as adjunct to Scaling and
      Root Planing in Subjects with moderate to severe Periodontitis.

      Up to 12 adult subjects will be enrolled to obtain at least 10 evaluable subjects.

      4 study visits will take place for each enrolled subject (V1-V4 within 120 days). An
      additional optional follow-up visit (V5) at 6 Months might be added later on. On the baseline
      visit at Day 1 (V2) and if needed Day 2 (V2a) patients will undergo full mouth SRP followed
      by administration of PerioSept® 3% gel into gingival dental pockets. Treatment of PerioSept®
      3% (without SRP) will be repeated at V3.

      Eligible subjects must have a minimum of 4 qualifying target teeth defined as a tooth with at
      least one periodontal pocket with a probing pocket depth (PPD) >= 6mm and bleeding on probing
      (BOP) at baseline defined as study pockets. All study pockets will be treated with SRP and
      PerioSept®. Additional teeth identified by investigator as needing SRP per standard of care
      but not meeting target teeth criteria will be defined as non-target teeth/treatment sites and
      may also be treated with SRP and PerioSept®.

      Dental parameters will only be assessed on the target teeth and each of the 6 sites
      associated with these teeth (assessment sites). Thus, each eligible patient will have at
      least 4 Target teeth, a minimum of 4 study pockets and a minimum of 24 assessment sites (6
      sites per tooth x 4 target teeth, inclusive of the 4 study pockets) that will be assessed for
      all study outcome measures.

      Overall for all 10 evaluable patients there will be at least 40 target teeth, 40 study
      pockets and 240 sites for which the study outcome measures will be assessed as specified
      further below.

      Assessments will be conducted over a 12 weeks' and optional 24 weeks' (3 and 6 months
      respectively) period including safety assessments, assessments of dental parameters (PPD,
      Clinical attachment level, BOP, recession, Plaque index, Gingival Index) and tolerability
      assessment.
    
  