
    
      A total of eight participants will be enrolled into this study. We will take direct
      measurements of bronchial mucosa temperature. This can only be tested accurately in asthma
      participants because anesthesia is known to lower the body temperature. The proposed study
      using and experimental procedure called a segmental bronchoprovocation challenge with
      allergen in asthmatic patients offers a unique approach to test our hypothesis.

      Individuals enrolled into this study will participate for eight weeks and will take part in
      four visits each estimated to last 2 and 8 hours. Participants will also participant in one
      follow-up phone call following Test day 2.

      Patients with asthma and healthy participants will be recruited to participate in this study
      through advertisement postings in the Kentucky Clinic and/or the University of Kentucky
      Hospital as well as on main campus. The study will also be added to a website using the same
      posting.

      Patients with asthma who have been prescribed for a diagnostic or therapeutic bronchoscopy
      procedure at the UK Pulmonary Clinic will be identified and recruited by qualified physicians
      in that clinic. The medical history and records of the patients will be made available which
      includes data form a complete spirometry test and other clinical tests, physical examination,
      smoking history, symptoms, current medication use, drug allergies, laboratory and imaging
      data.

      After eligible patients are identified and meet proper inclusion criteria, informed consent
      will be obtained.

      Participants will receive an explanation of the research project including any potential
      risks. In addition, the participant will be shown the actual size of the temperature probe to
      be used in this procedure. The participation of these individuals in the study will in no way
      affect their current treatment. No bias will be held against the individual by any clinical
      staff if they elect not to participate in the study. Informed consent will be obtained after
      the potential participant is fully informed via verbal/written information of the procedures
      and nature of the research, the risks involved, and their rights as a research subject.

      The experimental procedure will be carried out in the University of Kentucky A.B. Chandler
      Hospital.

      Direct measurements of the airway mucosal temperature will be performed before and at ten
      minutes after the SBP-Ag challenge. This miniature probe will be positioned in the airway
      lumen using an Olympus fiberoptic bronchoscope (model MP160F), and connected via a cable to a
      battery-operated thermometer (model FLL) manufactured also by Physitemp Instrument Inc. The
      probe (outside diameter of 0.4 mm) will be passed through the instrument channel (inner
      diameter: 2.0 mm) of the bronchoscope. By maneuvering the control knob of the bronchoscope,
      the blunted tip of the probe will be gently pressed against the airway mucosa at 5-6
      different positions in segmental and sub-segmental bronchi, each for five to ten seconds. The
      entire protocol of the temperature measurement will require no more than 5 minutes to
      complete. The contact of the temperature probe on the airway mucosa should not cause any
      tissue damage, and is relatively non-invasive compared to other procedures involved in the
      routine bronchoscopy such as biopsy, cytology brushing, etc

      Physical Examination: It will include assessment of subject's general condition, head and
      neck, chest and respiratory auscultation, cardiac auscultation, and limited abdominal,
      extremity and neurological exams.

      Vital signs: Heart rate, blood pressure, body temperature and arterial oxygen saturation.

      Screening Visits 1 and 2: Following procedures will occur on the screening visit after
      obtaining written informed consent.

        -  Collection of demographic information (Demographic data to be collected on screening
           visit will include name, initials, address, social security number, coded study number,
           medical record number, height, weight, age, race, ethnicity, gender, telephone number
           and email address.)

        -  Collection of medical and medication history

        -  Urine pregnancy test

        -  Vital signs

        -  Skin prick test

        -  Spirometry

        -  Limited physical examination

        -  Study eligibility review

        -  Whole lung allergen inhalation challenge

        -  Adverse Event assessment

        -  Concomitant medication

      Visit 3 (Test Day 1)

        -  Review eligibility criteria

        -  Vital signs

        -  Spirometry

        -  Urine pregnancy test

        -  Physical examination

        -  Bronchoscopy with lavage

        -  Segmental allergen challenge

        -  Adverse Event assessment

        -  Concomitant medication

      Visit 4 (Test Day 2)

        -  Review eligibility criteria

        -  Vital signs

        -  Spirometry

        -  Physical examination

        -  Bronchoscopy with lavage

        -  Adverse Event assessment

        -  Concomitant medication

      Follow-up Phone Call. A follow-up phone call will take place 1 day following the last study
      visit. During this phone call the participant will be asked questions regarding any adverse
      events they may have experienced since the last visit along with the use of any concomitant
      medications.
    
  