
    
      One issue in managing rectal cancer is identifying which patients will benefit from less
      radical surgery, which is much safer and better tolerated. However it does not remove lymph
      nodes where cancer cells may have spread. If lymph nodes containing cancer are left behind,
      the cancer may recur. So this surgery is only suitable in early rectal cancers not involving
      lymph nodes. Unfortunately, current investigations do not always accurately identify involved
      lymph nodes.

      Sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB) is a technique to surgically remove the first lymph node
      where cancer cells spread. If this lymph node contains cancer, radical surgery is needed to
      reduce the risk of recurrence. However if it is clear, less radical surgery should be
      sufficient. This is standard practice for breast cancer and avoids unnecessary major surgery
      in many patients.

      The investigators aim to assess whether SLNB is useful in rectal cancer. The investigators
      will determine whether the Sienna+/Sentimag system effectively identifies the sentinel lymph
      node, and whether the node can then be removed surgically.

      The investigators will recruit patients in Oxford hospitals about to undergo surgery for
      rectal cancer. Patients will receive an injection of magnetic tracer during endoscopy prior
      to surgery. Some patients will have an extra MRI scan. During or after surgery, depending on
      the type of operation planned, a magnetic probe will be used to locate the sentinel lymph
      node in the tissue around the rectum. The removed specimen will be examined by a pathologist.
      Funding to undertake this study has been granted by the National Institute for Health
      Research (NIHR). Endomagnetics, the manufacturer, will supply the magnetic tracer and probe
      for use in this study.

      If successful, the investigators will plan a larger clinical trial. This could have a major
      impact on improving outcomes for patients by allowing less radical surgery to be used where
      it is most appropriate.
    
  