
    
      This research study is a Phase II clinical trial. Phase II clinical trials test the safety
      and effectiveness of investigational drugs to learn whether the drugs work in treating a
      specific disease. "Investigational" means that the drugs are being studied.

      The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved [1] venetoclax- obinutuzumab and [2]
      ibrutinib individually as treatment options for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small
      lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL). However, the combination of all 3 drugs has not yet been approved
      by the FDA.

        -  Venetoclax is a targeted therapy drug that works by blocking a protein called Bcl-2 in
           cancer cells. Bcl-2 helps cancer cells survive and resist the effects of cancer
           treatments. By blocking Bcl-2, venetoclax may kill cancer cells and/or make them more
           open to the effects of other cancer treatments.

        -  Obinutuzumab is a drug that targets a protein called CD20, which is found on the surface
           of B cells, the white blood cells that are affected by CLL. When obinutuzumab attaches
           to CD20, it directly both destroys the B cells and makes them more "visible" to the
           immune system. The immune system then attacks and destroys the cancerous B cells.

        -  Ibrutinib works by blocking Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) signaling. This helps stop
           cancerous B cells from surviving and multiplying, which may slow the spread of cancer.
           It is hoped that the combination of these study drugs might be an effective treatment
           for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) or small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL).

      On this study, participants will receive obinutuzumab and venetoclax. We will monitor for
      minimal residual disease (MRD) using a test called "Adaptive ClonoSEQ" after treatment with
      obinutuzumab and venetoclax. MRD is a molecular test, which can detect whether there is any
      evidence of CLL/SLL in the blood or bone marrow. For participants with detectable MRD despite
      treatment with obinutuzumab and venetoclax, ibrutinib will be added with the goal of
      achieving undetectable MRD. Additionally, for participants who have progressive CLL/SLL
      despite venetoclax and obinutuzumab, ibrutinib will be added.

      The research study procedures include screening for eligibility, study treatment, end of
      treatment visit, follow-up visits and an off-study visit.

        -  Participants will receive study treatment for 2 or 3 years.

        -  Participants will be followed for 2 years after completion of the study.

        -  It is expected that 40 people will take part in this research study

        -  Genentech is supporting this research study by providing venetoclax and obinutuzumab.
    
  