
    
      Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are commonly prescribed for patients with chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease (COPD), but their role in the management of COPD is currently being
      re-evaluated in light of new evidence and the emergence of alternative treatments. Studies
      have shown that the use of ICS and particularly ICS combined with long acting
      beta2-adrenoceptor agonists (LABA) in individuals with COPD reduces the frequency of COPD
      exacerbations and improves health status and lung function compared to LABA alone or placebo.
      The current National Institute for Care Excellence (NICE) guidelines for COPD recommend ICS
      for patients with a forced expiratory volume in 1 second below 50% predicted, or for patients
      with higher lung function who have persisting symptoms or exacerbations despite treatment
      with long acting bronchodilators. Data suggests that up to 75% of patients with COPD in the
      United Kingdom (UK) are subsequently prescribed ICS.

      The daily dose of ICS utilised in COPD treatments are much higher than those used in asthma
      treatments, with licensed daily doses being 1000 mcg fluticasone propionate (2000 mcg
      beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP) equivalents) or 800 mcg budesonide (800 mcg BDP
      equivalents).

      Recent concerns have been expressed about the safety of ICS in COPD following several
      randomised controlled trials of fluticasone propionate and fluticasone furoate, among others,
      demonstrating an increase in rates of pneumonia as an adverse event. Several systematic
      reviews and observational studies confirm an association between ICS use and risk of
      pneumonia.

      All ICS preparations have been associated with an increased risk of pneumonia in either
      randomised trials or observational studies leading to warnings from national regulatory
      authorities and leading experts.

      It is likely however, that the risk of pneumonia is not equal across all ICS doses and
      molecules. Research into this area is greatly limited by the lack of head to head comparisons
      between different ICS preparations in COPD.

      It is hypothesised that the anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effects of ICS lead to
      increase susceptibility to colonisation of the upper respiratory tract with pathogenic
      bacteria associated with pneumonia such as S. pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae. This
      study will establish one potential mechanism for the increased susceptibility to pneumonia in
      ICS users and assess intraclass differences in ICS molecules used in COPD and the effect of
      ICS dose. It is known that changes in the microbiome in COPD are associated with disease
      severity and with lung inflammation. Demonstrating that different COPD treatments can have
      different effects on the lung microbiome is an important step in understanding clinical
      differences in the safety and effectiveness of different treatments for severe COPD. The
      longer term clinical objective of this study is therefore to determine whether a proportion
      of patients with COPD might be more safely managed with either lower dose, pharmacologically
      different ICS preparations or with LABA/LAMA therapies to reduce the risk of pneumonia.

      Hypothesis Fluticasone propionate will facilitate a higher level of bacterial airway
      colonisation by pathogens associated with pneumonia compared to budesonide or treatment
      exclusively with bronchodilators, therefore providing a mechanistic explanation for increased
      pneumonia risk associated with ICS.

      STUDY OBJECTIVES To determine a potential mechanism of inhaled corticosteroid associated
      pneumonia in COPD by demonstrating ICS effects on the upper (throat and nasal swabs) and
      lower airway (sputum) microbiome.

      To determine the mechanism of observed differences in pneumonia risk between fluticasone
      propionate, and budesonide by demonstrating differential effects on the airway microbiome.
    
  