
    
      This study is to demonstrate that chronic disease patients (hypertension, diabetes and
      dyslipidemia) with ICT-based self-management and educational program can improve clinical
      outcomes and overall health status, including quality of life and health habits.

      In addition to the economic burden, people with chronic disease experience various
      psychosocial crises such as anxiety and depression, which causes the deterioration of overall
      quality of life and increases social burden. However, standard Chronic Care Model (CCM) have
      limitations in that they do not provide self-management strategies of the patient in detail.
      Therefore, to improve the effectiveness of the CCM model, it is required to propose a new
      approach to the utilization of IT-based self-management program that is currently being
      developed to increase accessibility and efficiency of health care service.

      Primary outcomes of this study are as follow: Improvement of clinical indicators in patients
      with hypertension, diabetes and hyperlipidemia.

      Participants in this study will respond a baseline questionnaire about health habits, health
      behavior patterns and quality of life, diet, exercise, etc. After that, participants will be
      allocated randomly into the intervention group and the control group. The intervention group
      will receive self-management and educational program with ICT ("S Healthing") while the
      control group will receive basic educational material with same contents on the disease. "S
      Healthing" is based ICT- program and includes educational contents and self-management
      program based on Smart Management Strategy for Health (SMASH). The intervention group will
      conduct self-management for 3 months through smart phone application and web program.
      Participants will receive a questionnaire about the quality of life and health habits with
      the clinical examination 3 months after baseline survey was conducted. The result from two
      questionnaires (baseline, post-intervention) and clinical outcomes will be compiled and be
      compared with each other.
    
  