
    
      Early-life nutrition plays a critical role in mid-term and long-term metabolic and
      nutritional outcomes. However, the mechanisms underlying the effects of early nutrition on
      health are yet to be fully understood. Recently, it has been shown that alterations in
      intestinal microbiota and modulation of the immune response induced by food serve as the main
      mechanisms involved in the development of inflammatory conditions such as asthma,
      inflammatory bowel diseases, and cardiovascular disease. The Mediterranean diet has been
      shown to reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease, cancer, depression, colorectal cancer,
      diabetes, obesity, asthma, cognitive decline and premature death in general. Some studies
      also reported a positive effect of Mediterranean diet on glycemic control. However, whether
      this diet is a benefit to all individuals is unknown. Likewise, whether gut microbiome and
      its responses to diet is involved in these effects, or whether different Mediterranean diets
      may be optimized at the individualized level remains unstudied.

      Recently, the investigators developed an algorithm enabling to predict the personalized
      postprandial glucose responses to food in adult healthy individuals. However, personalized
      nutrition was never tested on children.

      In this study, children will be followed up in different bio-geographical locations. The
      primary aim of the study is to develop specific pediatric algorithms for predicting the
      personalized glucose response to food for individual children. This prediction will be based
      on multiple measurements, including blood and urine tests, anthropometric measurements,
      personal lifestyle and gut microbiome. This may allow the investigators to design
      personalized Mediterranean algorithm-based diets which may potentially reduce the burden of
      non-communicable disease in adulthood as well as the burden of obesity in the pediatric age.
    
  