
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  To determine CEA levels in nipple secretions and blood samples from breast cancer
           patients and normal controls.

        -  To determine the sensitivity and specificity of measuring CEA levels in nipple
           secretions and blood samples for the detection of breast cancer.

        -  To validate the optical biosensor CEA levels measured in blood and nipple secretions in
           breast cancer patients and normal controls compared with standard protein assays.

        -  To develop a profile of proteins present in affected vs unaffected breasts using mass
           spectrometry.

      OUTLINE: Patients and participants undergo nipple secretion and blood sample collection at
      baseline and at 1 month for evaluation of levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and
      patterns of protein expression that may indicate the presence of early-stage breast cancer.
      Nipple secretions are obtained from both the affected and unaffected breasts via capillary,
      aspiration (nipple aspirate fluid [NAF]), and nipple blot . CEA levels are measured in serum
      samples, NAF, and other nipple secretions using standard CEA protein assays. Nipple
      secretions obtained by nipple blot are analyzed by nipple blot assay to determine the
      feasibility of using this technique. The results of the nipple blot assay are then compared
      with the results of standard protein assays to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of
      the nipple blot test. CEA expression is also determined in breast tissue specimens obtained
      from patients undergoing diagnostic biopsy. Specimens are examined by IHC for tissue CEA
      levels. Proteomic profiles in NAF and serum samples are measured using liquid chromatography
      mass spectrometry and then compared with proteomic profiles in normal healthy controls.

      Once the feasibility of the nipple blot assay has been determined, an optical biosensor will
      be developed to detect fluorescent-labeled antibodies directed against CEA found in serum and
      breast sections. Optical biosensor CEA levels measured in breast cancer patients and normal
      controls will then be compared to standard protein assays for evaluation of the sensitivity
      and specificity of biosensor measurements.

      After completion of study intervention, patients and participants are followed for 5 years.
    
  