
    
      COVID-19 that is caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection is a rapidly escalating global pandemic(9).
      The pandemic is on an upward and escalating trajectory in most countries though some
      countries like China have shown a substantial decrease in the number of new cases being
      recorded. It is unclear if there will be a second wave of the epidemic.

      Most cases of COVID-19 are either asymptomatic or have minimal symptoms (~80%) and act as
      carriers for disease transmission. Recent longitudinal studies indicate that the SARS-COV-2
      viral load in the pharynx is highest during the prodromal phase of COVID-19. Thus, early
      therapeutic intervention, prior to respiratory tract dissemination and disease amplification,
      is likely to be a promising strategy. Although such persons are advised to be in self
      isolation, many, especially in resource-poor settings (due to several factors including
      poverty, overcrowding, environmental conditions, personal beliefs, stigma and human
      fallibility), continue to have contact with others thus fuelling the epidemic. Therefore,
      reducing the period of infectiousness in ambulatory patients will have major public health
      impact by shortening the epidemic, thereby reducing morbidity and mortality.

      Retarding the progression of the 15 to 20% that will develop more severe disease will have
      benefits for the public health system, which is struggling to cope with a surge in cases and
      will thus have a likely impact on mortality. Thus, therapeutic agents that can reduce viral
      load, viral shedding, the duration of illness and progression to severe disease are urgently
      needed. It is important to note that HIV-infected persons and certain sub-groups (including
      those > 35 years of age, and with comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension etc.) may have
      'enhanced risk' of disease progression. Collectively such persons would constitute an
      enhanced risk group and are at the highest risk of disease progression. The risk of disease
      progression in HIV-infected persons and whether they will respond to the NTZ intervention to
      the same extent as HIV uninfected persons remains unknown.

      NTZ is licensed in the USA for treatment of diarrhoea caused by Cryptosporidium parvum and
      Giardia lamblia. NTZ is a pro-drug for tizoxanide, which also has broad spectrum antiviral
      properties, has many viral indications and shows promising pharmacodynamics against
      Coronaviridae. NTZ was identified as a first-in-class broad-spectrum antiviral drug and has
      been repurposed for the treatment of influenza. In vitro studies evaluating tizoxanide, the
      active circulating metabolite of NTZ, inhibits the replication of broad range of influenza A
      and B, HIN1, H3N2, H3N2V, H3N8, H5N9, H7N1 and oseltamivir resistant strain and coronaviruses
      see (table 1 below) (13-17). It has been shown to have anti-viral activity against several
      viruses including Ebola, hepatitis B and C, rotavirus and norovirus.

      A Phase 2b/3 clinical trial recently published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases found that
      oral administration of NTZ slow release formulation 600 mg twice daily for five days reduced
      the duration of clinical symptoms and reduced viral shedding compared to placebo in persons
      with laboratory-confirmed influenza. These dosages are suitable for treating viral
      respiratory infections caused by influenza and other viruses as in vitro IC50s are typically
      between 0.1 and 1ug/mL. The same study also suggested a potential benefit for subjects with
      influenza-like illness who did not have influenza or other documented respiratory viral
      infection.

      The broad-spectrum antiviral activity of tizoxanide is attributed to interference with host
      regulated pathways involved in viral replication. These pathways include IFN and mTOR1
      (autophagy) signalling pathways. NTZ upregulates the innate anti-viral mechanisms by broadly
      amplifying cytoplasmic RNA sensing and type I IFN pathways. It is also a potent driver of
      autophagy, an antiviral and anti-bacterial mechanism. Thus, NTZ interferes with the viral
      infection by upregulating the precise host mechanisms that viruses target to bypass host
      cellular defences. Additionally, NTZ inhibits replication of a broad range of influenza
      viruses, including neuraminidase inhibitor-resistant strains by blocking the maturation of
      viral haemagglutinin at the posttranslational level. NTZ impairs intracellular trafficking
      and insertion of viral haemagglutinin into the host plasma membrane. In cell culture studies,
      NTZ acts synergistically with neuraminidase inhibitors.

      NTZ may inhibit the glycosylation of the SARS-CoV-2, similar to its action on the
      hemagglutinin antigen of the influenza virus. Additionally, NTZ also exhibits inhibitory
      activity against IL-6 production from murine macrophages both in vitro and in vivo. Moreover,
      there is a good possibility that diseases associated with IL-6 overproduction (cytokine
      storm) like SARS-CoV-2 could be ameliorated by NTZ.

      NTZ may be useful for the early treatment of COVID-19 when viral load is at its highest in
      the pharynx; and could serve to limit viral shedding thus significantly reducing disease
      transmission. In the same group it may retard progression to severe disease. Although only 15
      to 20% of patients with COVID-19 may develop severe disease, large numbers of such patients
      will totally overwhelm healthcare systems as currently being experienced in the USA and the
      Western Cape province of South Africa. Thus, whether NTZ is useful in patients with mild to
      moderate COVID-19 disease remains unclarified and urgently needs to be addressed.
      Unreliability with using duration of illness (pre-symptomatic period is variable and symptom
      onset is subject to substantial recall bias) and viral load (may be different in different
      anatomical locations and will depend on tolerance and host immunity) as proxy measures means
      that the investigators have to embark on a phase IIB/III study to determine whether NTZ
      effects a clinically meaningful outcome.

      Study design: A single-stage, double-blinded, randomised, placebo-controlled trial.

      Primary aim: To evaluate the effectiveness of nitazoxanide (NTZ) in reducing the progression
      from mild to severe COVID-19 in non-hospitalised patients.

      Significance and impact: The investigators will perform a randomised placebo-controlled trial
      recruiting 960 mildly symptomatic non-hospitalised COVID-19 patients at 7 sites from 4 cities
      in South Africa. The primary outcome measure will be time-specific (30- and 60-day) disease
      severity based on the WHO clinical progression scale. This will have implications for disease
      transmission and amplification of the epidemic. The rate of progression to severe disease
      will determine hospitalisation rates, morbidity, and mortality. It will also have
      implications for reducing healthcare burden, costs and improving healthcare worker safety.
      The investigators predict that the progression to severe disease (need for presentation or
      admission to hospital) will be reduced with NTZ. As disease progression will more likely
      occur in those who are HIV-infected or with enhanced risk (older patients or those with
      immunosuppression), the investigators will stratify randomisation for HIV-infected and
      enhanced risk patients (described in detail later).
    
  