
    
      The primary prevention of cardiovascular (CV) events is often more intense in individuals at
      lower risk and vice versa (the so called "risk-treatment paradox") in part due to unawareness
      of each person's CV risk, of their preferences for prevention interventions, and of their
      feasibility in each person's daily life. Clinical practice guidelines recommend that
      clinicians and patients work together to arrive at an effective and feasible prevention plan
      that is congruent with each person's CV risk and informed preferences, a process called
      shared decision making (SDM). Despite the availability of an innovative and effective tool
      that estimates CV risk, shows the impact and features of available lifestyle and
      pharmacological preventive interventions, and thus can facilitate CV treatment discussions
      between clinicians and patients, this type of SDM does not routinely happen in practice.

      The challenge therefore is to identify strategies to increase adoption of this type of SDM in
      real-world clinical practices. This 4-year study - proposed by a multidisciplinary team with
      expertise in preventive cardiology, SDM, and implementation science - aims to integrate an
      SDM tool (the CV Prevention Choice tool) in the primary care practices of three diverse
      health care systems in the U.S. and study both the tool and tailored strategies that foster
      its adoption and routine use. The study will use a mixed method, hybrid
      implementation-effectiveness (Type III) step-wedge clustered randomized trial design to
      determine:

        -  Implementation effectiveness (Aim 1) by evaluating the settings (including local
           workflow and policies) in which the CV Prevention Choice tool is implemented and the
           engagement of users in implementation strategies; implementation outcomes (e.g., reach,
           adoption) associated with these strategies; and how implementation fosters routine
           adoption of SDM and the CV Prevention Choice tool in primary care practices, and

        -  SDM effectiveness (Aim 2) estimated by the extent to which individual CV prevention
           plans are feasible and congruent with each person's estimated CV risk and preferences.

      The investigators hypothesize that efforts to assess local needs and use them to develop
      tailored implementation approaches will foster greater adoption of SDM in practice. They
      further hypothesize that individual preventive care plans will be congruent with estimated
      risk when clinicians adopt the SDM tool. The broad goal is to promote patient-centered care
      that effectively reduces the substantial burden of CV disease among Americans. By the
      project's end, the investigators expect to have (a) identified the most effective
      implementation strategies to embed SDM in routine practice and (b) estimated the
      effectiveness of SDM to achieve feasible and risk-concordant CV prevention in primary care.
    
  