
    
      In this phase 1 dose ranging study, four dose cohorts (1 µg, 5 µg and 25 µg) of 26 subjects
      will be sequentially enrolled, of which: 16 subjects without previous exposure to SARS-CoV-2,
      confirmed through the absence of anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG; 5 subjects previously positive for
      SARS-CoV-2 confirmed by RT-PCR, with mandatory presence of antibodies against SARS-CoV-2; and
      5 subjects with previous positive diagnosis for SARS-CoV-2 by RT- PCR, asymptomatic, and with
      persistent negative result for anti-SARS-CoV-2 IgG.

      The study will begin with the 16 subjects without previous exposure to SARS-CoV-2 (naïve
      subjects). Each dose cohort subjects will be randomized with equal probability to receive the
      second dose, of the same dosage, at either 28 days or 56 days after the first dose. For each
      of the three dose groups, a sentinel group of 4 subjects will be initially enrolled and
      followed through Day 8 post dose one for safety. If no halting rules are met by Day 8
      enrollment will proceed to the remaining 12 subjects. Following enrollment of the first
      cohort, the second dose cohort will be enrolled in a similar fashion, with the sentinel group
      enrolled after a 7-day safety observation period has elapsed following vaccination of the
      last subject in the first cohort. Cohort 3 will be enrolled in a similar fashion following
      cohort 2. The 10 subjects with previous positive RT-PCR history for SARS-CoV-2 will be
      enrolled in the study only after the end of doses of each cohort they are inserted in.

      There is no placebo group in order to more easily perform important interim analyses and to
      avoid the time and expense of recruitment and enrollment of subjects, and collection of data
      and samples, including PBMC samples, from those not exposed to the vaccine. Inclusion of a
      small number of placebo subjects would likely not meaningfully improve assessment of
      causality of adverse events. At the screening visit, serum specimens will be obtained for
      testing by IgG ELISA to identify persons seropositive to SARS-CoV-2 S protein, who will be
      excluded from enrollment in order to perform this first assessment of safety and
      immunogenicity in a homogenous cohort of naïve subjects. Subjects that present IgG
      anti-SARS-CoV-2 in serum samples may be excluded of the study as long as they present
      positive history of RT-PCR for (5 subjects of each cohort) and the enrollment and
      investigation of these subjects in the study will only begin after the end of the
      immunization of the naïve subjects.
    
  