
    
      At USC University Park, computer science collaborators have programmed the robot to speak the
      script which will be used for interaction with participants (see additional supporting
      documents).

      At CHLA, patients arriving to the radiology suite for IV placement prior to MRI and utilizing
      Child Life Services will be approached and consented for inclusion. No participant will
      receive a IV purely for the purpose of the study; only participants already ordered to
      receive IV by the medical team will be included. After consent participants will be
      randomized in blocks using a random-condition generating document to one of three test
      conditions: (1) control, with the usual distraction services provided by one of the
      hospital's child life specialists (2) usual child life + non-coping robot or (2) usual child
      life + coping robot.

      Prior to the procedure participant's parent (or legal guardian) will complete a short survey
      related to pain with previous IV insertions, anxiety related to procedures, and attitudes
      toward robots. Participant's parent/guardian will also complete a validated measure of child
      temperament. Participants will complete a baseline measure of their temperament. Participants
      will then rate current level of pain using the Wong-Baker FACES scale. Participant's anxiety
      level will be assessed using the Children's Fear Scale. Participant's baseline heart rate and
      blood pressure is recorded.

      The IV placement itself will be video recorded for all conditions. Independent assessors not
      aware of the research aims will review the tape to score measures of the strength of
      robot-child interaction and pain behaviors. One research team member will record the number
      of attempts needed to place the IV. A trained research team member will be responsible for
      operating the robot if randomized to that condition.

      The robot used is the MAKI - an open-source 3D printable robot designed by Hello Robo Inc.
      The company has not provided any funding to this project. During the interaction the robot
      will speak in a child-like, gender neutral voice. It will ask short questions of participants
      and have pre-recorded response options (see MAKI script in supporting documents).
      Participants will interact with either child life or the robot by touching tablets. This is a
      minimum risk study, similar to the risk involved in watching a video on a screen. The robot
      is small and only moves its facial features, participants are not touching it.

      Pre- and post-intervention participants will repeat the FACES and Fear Scales. The
      participant and parent/guardian will then be given a short post-survey regarding thoughts on
      the utility of the interaction and the amount of the participant's pain. Heart rate will be
      monitored continuously throughout the interaction. Videos will be evaluated using the
      modified Yale Preoperative Anxiety Index and The Child-Adult Medical Procedure Interaction
      Scale-Short Form (CAMPIS-SF).
    
  