
    
      This multi-centre open label single arm non randomized observational study will compare the
      efficacy in terms of overall response rate and progression free survival of tamoxifen as
      first line therapy in 3 groups of postmenopausal women with measurable hormone dependent
      large, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The 3 groups are women with a normal and
      those with a low 'tamoxifen activity score' based on genetic polymorphisms for CYP2D6 and
      other genes that are important in the metabolism of tamoxifen using SEQUENOM's MassARRAY
      technology.

      The study is subject to Ethical Commission approval and patient consent. The study will
      necessitate collection of blood for genetic analyses.

      We will investigate the relation between the studied genotype, the use of drugs that
      interfere with tamoxifen and tamoxifen-related endpoints like regression of metastatic or
      locally advanced or large oestrogen receptor positive breast cancer in tamoxifen users. The
      'tamoxifen activity score' has been used by a group in the US showing a link with tamoxifen
      compliance. The score will be adapted to the Belgian situation based on the prevalence of
      polymorphism in a Belgian population. The efficacy of tamoxifen will be correlated with a
      predefined 'tamoxifen activity score' which is based on the presence of single nucleotide
      polymorphisms (SNP) in relevant genes combined with the effect of well known drugs that
      interfere with the metabolism of tamoxifen.

      The study will be conducted in several clinical sites in Belgium. All patients will receive
      tamoxifen 20mg daily. Patients with a large operable or inoperable non-metastatic breast
      cancer will be considered for surgery no more than 4 months on tamoxifen. If operable, they
      will postoperatively receive the most appropriate adjuvant therapy and for hormone therapy
      either continue tamoxifen or receive an oral aromatase inhibitor as decided by the clinician.
      If women with a locally advanced inoperable breast cancer are not operable after the 4 months
      of neo-adjuvant therapy, another appropriate salvage therapy will be proposed. Women with
      metastatic breast cancer will continue treatment until clinical or imaging progression or
      unacceptable toxicity development. Patients that experience progression of their disease as
      defined by RECIST criteria will receive salvage therapy by an oral aromatase inhibitor if
      tamoxifen is given in first line but some patients may require another therapy like
      chemotherapy. The study will require approximately 14 months to recruit and another 7 months
      to events/data analyses as the estimated time to progression in this setting is 9-12 months
      if tamoxifen is given as first line endocrine therapy for those in the metastatic setting
    
  