
    
      Cardiac involvement is among the most feared complications of sarcoidosis, and it is the
      second leading cause of death from sarcoidosis. Autopsy studies and serial imaging studies in
      patients without cardiac symptoms suggest that approximately 25% of U.S. sarcoidosis patients
      have evidence of cardiac involvement. 3 Major manifestations of cardiac sarcoidosis include
      conduction delays, dysrhythmias, and cardiomyopathy. Given the increased recognition of
      cardiac involvement, prompt screening and diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis has been
      emphasized as a key priority for sarcoidosis research. Screening for cardiac sarcoidosis
      conventionally has relied on symptoms and electrocardiogram. However, there are no validated
      screening instruments for symptom assessment, and the usefulness of individual components of
      the medical history (e.g. palpitations, chest pain, presyncope) has not been assessed. In one
      study, symptom assessment was found to be less than 50% sensitive for identification of
      individuals with abnormal cardiac imaging studies. ECG performed poorly, with less than 10%
      sensitivity. Holter monitoring and echocardiogram were more sensitive than ECG in that study,
      identifying 50% and 25%, respectively, of those with imaging findings suggesting cardiac
      sarcoidosis (CS). The intensity of screening for CS in unselected sarcoidosis patients is
      controversial. The Heart Rhythm Society working group could not agree that echocardiogram or
      ambulatory ECG added significantly to conventional testing of eliciting cardiac symptoms and
      ECG; therefore, the working group was unable to recommend adding these procedures as a
      routine for all sarcoidosis patients. In a large series of Greek non-cardiac sarcoidosis
      patients, echocardiogram and ambulatory ECG added little prognostic information to usual
      care. On the other hand, more sophisticated echocardiographic techniques such as speckle
      tracking seem to provide independent prognostic information. In a second study, Holter
      monitoring and echocardiography abnormalities were both more common in those with MRI
      findings consistent with CS, although the usefulness of the tests disappeared in
      multivariable analysis. While history and ECG are considered the standard of care at present,
      there is a continuing need to identify markers of poor outcomes. Cardiac MRI and/or cardiac
      FDG-PET scan can identify large proportions of individuals with asymptomatic imaging
      abnormalities, but they are expensive, require specialized expertise to interpret, require
      radiation (PET scan) and are likely impractical for widespread use in all sarcoidosis
      patients. A second unresolved issue concerning screening for cardiac sarcoidosis is the
      frequency of re-screening sarcoidosis patients who demonstrate no evidence for cardiac
      sarcoidosis on an initial screen. The investigators hypothesize that screening using
      conventional history, physical and ECG in the general sarcoidosis population, followed by
      appropriate advanced imaging testing, will result in the identification of a higher
      percentage of ascertained cardiac sarcoidosis than has been reported historically (2-5%). The
      investigators hypothesize that routine use of echocardiogram with strain and ambulatory ECG
      will identify additional patients who will have advanced imaging abnormalities or who meet
      criteria for cardiac sarcoidosis. The investigators further hypothesize that re-screening
      patients after 24 months with repeat echocardiogram and ambulatory ECG will identify
      additional patients with suspicion for cardiac sarcoidosis who had no abnormalities on the
      initial screening tests.

      Aims

        1. To evaluate the rate of diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis during standard of care
           clinical practice that relies on patient symptoms and ECG.

        2. To evaluate whether second-tier screening tests (echocardiogram and ambulatory ECG)
           improve the rate of diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis beyond conventional screening
           methods.

        3. To evaluate the rate of diagnosis of cardiac sarcoidosis in sarcoidosis patients who had
           initial negative conventional and second-tier screening tests after undergoing these
           screening tests again at two years.
    
  