
    
      This will be a randomized controlled trial to evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of
      recombinant pichia pastoris blood stage malaria vaccine Apical Membrane Antigen 1
      (PfAMA-1-FVO[25-545]) versus tetanus toxoid, in healthy Malian adults in Bandiagara.

      A phase Ia trial is currently ongoing and its interim results will be used to select the best
      dose/adjuvant combination to be brought to Africa. The trial is evaluating safety and
      immunogenicity of AMA-1 (10 µg or 50 µg) adjuvanted with aluminum hydroxide or Montanide ISA
      720, or ASO2.

        -  Primary objective:

           - To evaluate the safety of one dose of AMA-1 (10 µg or 50 µg) adjuvanted with aluminum
           hydroxide or Montanide ISA 720, or ASO2, given at D0, D28 and D56 in healthy Malian
           adults.

        -  Secondary Objectives:

             -  To assess the humoral response to the vaccine antigen by measuring the variation in
                the level of IgG and its ability to recognize the native protein on merozoites.

             -  To assess the cellular immune response by measuring the T cell proliferation and
                cytokine production following in vitro stimulation with the vaccine antigen.

      The primary immunizations will be administered on days 0, 28 and a boost given at day 56. The
      participants will be followed up actively during the vaccination phase, and passively for one
      another 9 months. The will be 19 scheduled clinic visits and following will the the schedule
      for obtaining serology data D-28, D0, D28, D56, D84, D140 and D365

        -  The primary evaluation will include the following:

             -  Solicited adverse events measured from day 0 to day 7 after each dose;

             -  Unsolicited adverse events measured up to one month after each dose;

             -  Serious Adverse Event (SAE) measured during the 12 months of study duration.

             -  Biological safety: two and four weeks after each vaccination, and thereafter every
                12 weeks, in reference with the baseline before the first dose, by measuring the
                following RBC, hemoglobin, hematocrit, MCV, MCH, MCHC, platelets, WBC with
                differential counts, potassium, sodium, ASAT, ALAT, total bilirubin, alkaline
                phosphatase, γGT, creatinin.

        -  Secondary evaluation criteria:

             -  The humoral response to the vaccine antigen: assessed by measuring the level of IgG
                by ELISA.

             -  An IFA for at least two parasite strains will be used to verify that the antibodies
                elicited by the vaccine recognize the native protein on merozoites

        -  Statistical methods:

      Descriptive methods shall be employed to evaluate the above criteria.
    
  