
    
      Even with the addition of durvalumab to concurrent chemoradiation, approximately only half of
      the patients are alive at 3 years, and more have progressed already, either locally or
      distant. Not much is known regarding to identification of patients that will benefit from
      adjuvant durvalumab, or regarding resistance to adjuvant durvalumab after chemoradiation.
      Most data on immunotherapy resistance come from metastatic patients treated with monotherapy
      PD-(L)1 antagonists. Depending on PD-L1 expression level, 10-44% of patients respond well to
      PD-(L)1 antagonists. The majority of patients are either unresponsive, or experience a tumor
      recurrence after achieving an initial response. The development of individual immunological
      treatment strategies (e.g. selection of best treatment: mono- or combination ICI, ICI
      combined with chemotherapy, or the addition of radiotherapy) is hampered by the lack of
      knowledge in the best timing, sequencing, and dosing of all modalities and the lack of
      optimal biomarkers for monitoring the treatment response. This highlights the need of clear
      biomarkers that can be used to select the best treatment for each individual patient and
      predict whether patients will benefit from adjuvant immunotherapy. Currently, there is only
      limited data available on the functional immune changes after concurrent chemoradiation in
      NSCLC patients. Identifying the effect of the treatment on immune cells (e.g. T-, B-,
      NK-cells, dendritic cells, macrophages) and what their functional consequences are is an
      essential first step to come to prognostic and predictive biomarkers.

      Many studies investigating the role of immunomodulatory effects of treatment are carried out
      in either in vitro or in vivo animal models. However, identified factors frequently hamper
      clinical validation. In addition, as mentioned earlier, although several immunogenic factors
      have been shown to be released by irradiated tumor cells, so far, only a limited number of
      studies searched for potential predictive and prognostic immunological biomarkers.

      This will be the first time that the immune effects of both treatment modalities will be
      studied, with, in addition, the immune changes during durvalumab treatment, which are also
      unknown at present. By getting more insight in the treatment-induced immunomodulatory
      effects, ultimately, in subsequent projects, this will allow to determine optimal immune
      stimulation and hence improved outcomes of subsequent durvalumab immune therapy.
    
  