
    
      Evaluation at study entry will include blood tests, computerized tomography (CT) scans or
      other types of scans needed to measure other disease sites. A biopsy of one tumor is required
      for tumor analysis. If the patient's cancer has spread to other locations that may be easier
      to obtain tissue from and be less invasive, then the biopsy specimen may be collected from
      one of several possible locations that may exist within the patient's body. These possible
      sites include lung, bone, liver, adrenal glands, lymph nodes, nodules under the skin, or in
      cases of brain involvement requiring surgery, brain tissue. Sometimes fluids build up between
      the lining of the lung and the lung itself. If this happened to the patient and their doctor
      tells them the fluid should be drained, then this fluid may also be a source of cells we can
      use to analyze the patients cancer. In very rare cases, other sites might be identified.

      Chemotherapy will consist of the assigned two drugs. Chemotherapy will be repeated every
      three or four weeks for at least two times. Patients will then have a CT scan to measure
      their tumor's response. Response can be reduction of tumor size, no change of tumor size, or
      increased tumor size. Doing CT Scans or other tests after every two cycles of chemotherapy
      will assess for response. If we see a favorable response we will continue chemotherapy for a
      maximum of two times after the best response we can see in the patient's tumor. If the
      patient's tumor grows larger, then we discontinue the study and the patient will discuss
      other treatment options with their doctor.

      During treatment, a blood specimen will be obtained to check the patient's blood counts at
      the beginning and end of study, and prior to administration of every dose of chemotherapy.
      Approximately 3 teaspoonfuls (15 mls) of blood will be drawn each time.
    
  