
    
      Impairments in postural control are linked to low back pain and reductions in physical
      function in the elderly. Unfortunately, many techniques to assess the neural control of
      movement are not feasible or directly applicable to the trunk musculature. We have developed
      an innovative approach to study these muscles. Further development of these techniques will
      have applicability for the study of the physiological effects and mechanisms of many
      complementary and integrative health practices (e.g., mind and body approaches). Many of
      these approaches are used to target back pain (e.g., spinal manipulation, acupuncture) and/or
      involve therapeutic strategies that have a large focus on postural control (e.g., yoga, Tai
      Chi). Thus, developing novel and reliable techniques to study the neural control of the trunk
      muscles will have broad impact to the complementary and integrative health field.

      Specific Aim 1. To develop a reliable neurophysiological technique to examine activity of the
      motor neural networks of selected trunk muscles. Approach: We have previously conducted pilot
      testing exploring the feasibility of obtaining high quality MRI data with various
      standardized trunk tasks and biofeedback variations. Once we identified the most promising
      tasks and MRI compatible data collection techniques, we conducted an optimization study in
      order to ascertain which method of task performance resulted in the highest level of image
      quality. We will now conduct a test-retest reliability experiment to determine the
      reproducibility of our targeted outcome measures. We will focus our reliability analysis on
      the bilateral primary sensorimotor cortex (Brodmann area 4a, 4b, 1, 2, 3a and 3b) and
      premotor cortex (Brodmann area 6). In addition, contrasts between two testing sessions will
      be completed to determine if any brain regions activated significantly more or less between
      sessions.

      Specific Aim 2. To develop a reliable neurophysiological technique to examine spatial muscle
      activity of selected lumbopelvic musculature (e.g., psoas, iliacus, multifidus, erector
      spinae, quadratus lumborum). Approach: We have conducted pilot testing that explored the
      feasibility of obtaining high quality MRI data of various muscles under resting conditions as
      well as following different standardized tasks. We first identified the most promising
      muscles to evaluate and then explored which tasks (or tasks sequences) resulted in increased
      transverse relaxation times (T2) of these muscles. We refined our pulse sequence protocol to
      optimize our ability to detect an increase in T2 associated with task performance. We will
      now conduct a test-retest reliability experiment to determine the reproducibility of the
      primary outcome measures of interest (resting T2 and percent increase in T2 following task
      performance).

      Exploratory Specific Aim 3. To examine the association of the novel neurophysiological
      measures from Aim 1 and 2 with classic biomechanical and muscle function measures (e.g.,
      trunk extensor strength, trunk extensor force-matching steadiness). The neurophysiological
      assessments developed as a part of Aim 1 and 2 provide unique information regarding the
      mechanisms of motor control related to trunk musculature that have typically been very
      difficult to quantify. This mechanistic approach is bolstered by the ability to correlate the
      underlying neurophysiology of trunk function with the more traditional clinical measures of
      performance. Such an approach bolsters the translational capability of this investigation as
      the neurophysiology of low-cost clinical measures are established in addition to the
      development of novel intervention outcome tools.

      Study Participants: Up to 50 individuals will participate in the reliability experiments. To
      increase the generalizability of our findings and allow for preliminary data for effect size
      estimates for future work, we will enroll four cohorts of study participants: healthy young
      adults, young adults with chronic low back pain, healthy older adults and healthy older
      adults with expertise in trunk muscle control (i.e., individuals with expertise in Pilates).

      Expected Outcomes: We anticipate being able to demonstrate test-retest reliability utilizing
      two newly developed neurophysiological imaging techniques that will permit 1) examination of
      the activity of the motor cortical networks during an active trunk task, and 2) examination
      of muscle activation patterns of small and deep trunk extensor muscles that are very
      difficult, if not impossible, to study with more classical techniques such as
      electromyography. Our goal is to demonstrate an association with outcomes of these new
      imaging techniques with more classic neurophysiological motor outcomes for broad
      applicability to numerous patient populations that we believe, in the long term, will advance
      our understanding of trunk muscle control and function.

      In this application we propose to perform the test- retest reliability experiments for the
      fMRI and mfMRI techniques that were previously developed in the pilot testing.
    
  