
    
      Background: Approximately 800,000 HIV-infected infants are born each year, two thirds of them
      in sub-Saharan Africa. The rate of HIV transmission from mother to infant is estimated at
      13-48% in the absence of antiretroviral treatment. Interventions currently available to
      prevent mother to child transmission in resource-limited settings among breastfeeding
      populations child HIV transmission during the breastfeeding period. Because safe alternatives
      to breastfeeding are not currently a viable option for many HIV-infected women in sub-Saharan
      Africa, it is important to identify interventions to decrease transmission to the infant
      during this period.

      Objective: To demonstrate that a regimen using highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART)
      to maximally suppress maternal viral load in the late antenatal period and during the first
      six months of lactation is safe, effective and can be implemented in resource poor settings
      in order to reduce the risk of HIV transmission to the infant.

      Study Design: The study will be an open label Phase II trial of Zidovudine/Lamivudine and
      depending on maternal CD4 count, either Nevirapine or Nelfinavir to assess the safety,
      tolerance and activity of maternal HAART to reduce the risk of transmission among
      breastfeeding HIV infected women in Kisumu Kenya.

      Justification: Transmission through breastfeeding accounts for 25-40% of all mother-to-child
      transmission of HIV. This trial will assess the safety and activity of a potent triple drug
      combination to lower maternal viral loadprenatally, intrapartum and during breast feeding.
      The regimen will be given to HIV infected women from 34 weeks gestation through 6 months of
      breastfeeding postpartum. Infants will receive a single dose of NVP. Women will be encouraged
      to breastfeed exclusively and wean abruptly at 6 months. Mother and infant will be followed
      for 24 months. Clinical and laboratory evaluations will be performed periodically to
      determine infection status of the infant and side effects of medications to mother and
      infant. The estimated sample size needed to address both transmission reduction of HAART in
      comparison to single dose NVP as well as related safety of the two HAART regimens is 520
      mother-infant pairs. Comparison will be made with data from previous studies (HIVNET O12 in
      Uganda and the malaria vertical transmission study in Kisumu) and with data from current
      Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission (PMCT) programs in Kisumu.

      Expectations and significance: A HAART regimen of this nature may potentially show a dramatic
      decrease in transmission when compared to existing PMCT regimens. Given the continued
      decreasing costs of ARVs and the relatively low efficacy of existing PMCT regimens, such a
      regimen would be seriously considered for wide implementation in resource poor settings and
      elsewhere.
    
  