
    
      This research is a pretest, posttest, follow-up, randomized controlled experimental study.
      The research was carried out in Şehitkamil and Şahinbey districts, which are two central
      districts of Gaziantep Province. 60 parents with disabled children were included in the study
      (intervention: 30 parents, control: 30 parents). The research data was collected as pretest,
      posttest and follow-up test from the intervention group between April and December 2019, and
      the control group between April and September 2019 in three stages. Parental Identification
      Form, Acceptance and Action Questionnaire (AAQ-II), Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale
      (DASS-21), Adult Psychological Resilience Scale (RSA-21) were used as data collection form.
      After the pre-test data was collected, the Acceptance and Commitment Therapy Based
      Intervention Program was applied to the intervention group in six sessions. The duration of
      each session lasted on average 60-90 minutes. A session was held for each parent once a week.
      The control group participated in the training carried out by the guidance service.

      The intervention programme based on ACT was prepared with the aim of reducing levels of
      psychological inflexibility, caregiver burden, depression, anxiety and stress, and of
      increasing levels of psychological resilience in parents of CSN.

      In the preparation of the interventions and planning of the sessions based on ACT, the
      researcher utilised studies in the literature and the basic ACT training she had received.
      After preparation of the ACT intervention protocol, it was given its final shape by obtaining
      the views of specialists working in this field. The sessions were prepared based on six
      components of psychological flexibility found at the basis of ACT.

      Keywords: Acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), special needs child, psychological
      inflexibility, resilience, depression-anxiety-stress levels, caregiver burden, public health
      nurse.
    
  