
    
      There is limited evidence regarding the precise BP level at which antihypertensive therapy is
      indicated during pregnancy for chronic hypertension. Given the limitations of data as well as
      higher likelihood of outpatient therapy with less frequent blood pressure monitoring,
      treatment has been suggested in pregnant patients when systolic BP is ≥ 160 mmHg and at a
      lower diastolic BP threshold of 105 mm Hg , however some providers may initiate therapy at
      systolic BPs ≥ 150 mmHg.

      Antihypertensive therapy has not been shown to improve fetal condition or to prevent
      preeclampsia. However, such therapy controls acceleration of BP, reduces antepartum
      hospitalization due to severe hypertension and should help prevent maternal complications
      from uncontrolled hypertension such as cardiovascular (congestive heart failure and
      myocardial ischemia), renal (renal injury or failure), or cerebrovascular (ischemic or
      hemorrhagic stroke) damage.

      Drugs such as methyldopa, labetalol, and nifedipine in many occasions are used as first line
      agents for control of hypertension in pregnancy.

      Calcium channel blockers are a class of drugs that have not been extensively studied in
      pregnant women with chronic hypertension, however they are still considered standard of care
      for treatment of elevated BPs during pregnancy and after delivery. Small amounts have been
      shown to cross the placenta, however to date no known association with birth defects have
      been found with reassuring long term follow-up of babies up to 1.5 years. It is not
      associated with adverse perinatal outcomes and furthermore, nifedipine does not appear to
      adversely affect uterine or umbilical blood flow.

      Nifedipine is a peripheral arterial vasodilator and an ideal first line antihypertensive
      agent due to its low maternal side-effect profile. Conventional nifedipine can be started at
      10 mg twice daily with a maximum dose of 120 mg/d, but frequently extended release tablets
      are preferred due to steady blood pressure control with once daily administration. The
      extended release tablet consists of a semipermeable membrane surrounding an osmotically
      active drug core and has been designed to provide nifedipine an approximately constant rate
      over 24h.
    
  