
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Much of the medical and epidemiological research on the causes of cardiovascular disease has
      concentrated either on individual life style behaviors such as smoking and exercise or on
      biomedical risk factors such as hypertension, and diabetes. This research has provided the
      basis for improvements in personal health behaviors and in the treatment of hypertension
      which has reduced the incidence of cardiovascular disease in this country. However, even the
      best statistical models, incorporating all such risk factors, leave a significant proportion
      of cardiovascular disease mortality and morbidity unexplained. Major differences in
      cardiovascular disease rates have also been observed between different social classes and
      different societies. These findings have led epidemiologists and sociomedical researchers to
      investigate other types of variables, including psychosocial factors, such as personal
      predispositions, social support networks, and work-related stress. A series of studies, in a
      variety of disciplines, suggested that occupational stress may contribute to the development
      of cardiovascular disease.

      A major source of data was the Swedish Survey of Living Conditions (ULF). The ULF was drawn
      from a sample which included the total occupational and demographic variation of an entire
      society. The survey contained information on age, sex, marital status, occupational class
      background and nationality of respondents and parents, residence, education, past employment
      history and income data.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this non-concurrent prospective study, ten years of follow-up data were linked with five
      years of data from the Survey of Living Conditions collected between 1976 and 1980. Total and
      cause-specific mortality data were obtained from the Swedish National Death Registry and
      morbidity incidence data from the Registry of Hospitalizations. The relationship between the
      duration of exposure time and disease risk was examined utilizing occupational history
      information which was combined with Theorell's Occupational Psychosocial Scoring System.
      Logistic regression analysis was used to examine the relative risks associated with adverse
      work characteristics and to test for potential interactions and confounding effects. Cox's
      proportional hazards model was used as an approximation of life table methods. Analysis was
      performed separately for men and women.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  