
    
      Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) continues to be a leading cause of morbidity and
      is currently the third most common cause of mortality worldwide (1).

      In most patients with severe COPD, chronic airflow limitation, lung emphysema with
      parenchymal destruction and the development of air bullae also occur (2-3) Pulmonary
      hypertension (PH) is a common consequence of COPD, although the actual overall prevalence of
      PH in COPD remains unclear (4). Among COPD patients who were to undergo lung-volume-reduction
      surgery or lung transplantation, mild PH was observed in 50.2%, moderate PH in 9.8%, and
      severe PH in 3.7%(5). While in most COPD patients who develop PH, pulmonary arterial pressure
      is only mildly or moderately elevated, (6) PH has an independent prognostic impact on
      survival. (6,7) The therapeutic options for COPD patients with severe emphysema are limited.
      Lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) has been performed as treatment in selected cases, but
      the referral of patients has been severely influenced by the marked perioperative morbidity
      and mortality [8]. Less invasive techniques have been developed with the aim of improving
      patients' pulmonary function, symptoms, and quality of life (QoL) [9]. Among them, the one
      most commonly used is the endoscopic placement of one way endobronchial valves (EBV) [10-12].
      So far patients with severe emphysema and established PH have been excluded from LVRS as well
      as from endoscopic lung volume reduction (ELVR) therapy.

      Whether bronchoscopic lung volume reduction in COPD patients with silver nitrate or
      histoacryl influences the severity of PH in patients with severe emphysema and PH has yet to
      be elucidated.

      This study is designed as a prospective pilot study, with the primary endpoint being changes
      in pulmonary hemodynamic parameters after ELVR in patients with severe emphysema.

      Secondary endpoints will be changes in lung function parameters, exercise capacity, and QoL.

      Materials and Methods This is Prospective descriptive study on 20 COPD Patients with
      predominant emphysema especially with heterogeneous and upper lobe predominance emphysema
      admitted in chest department at Kasr al Ainy Hospital. All patients will be on optimal
      medical treatment for COPD according to Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung
      Disease guidelines [13] All patients will be subjected to the following at base line.

        1. full history taking.

        2. full clinical examination.

        3. plain chest x ray.

        4. an electrocardiogram, High resolution computed tomography of the chest.

        5. Pulmonary function tests and ABG.

        6. 6-minute walk test.

        7. 2-D echocardiography at rest

        8. Right heart catheterization (RHC)

        9. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy with application of silver nitrate or histoacryl. The patients
           will be followed up every month by

      1. Dyspnea score (using mMRC score) 2. 6-minute walk test. 3. ECG At 3rd Month 2-D
      echocardiography at rest will be done At 6th Month 2-D echocardiography at rest And RHC will
      be done .
    
  