
    
      Introduction:

      Half of patients with hemodialysis vascular access will present at least one episode of
      dysfunction within 1 year after creation, mainly due to intimal hyperplasia and stenosis.
      Paclitaxel is an antiproliferative drug that can limit intimal hyperplasia in vessels.
      Paclitaxel-coated balloons already have indications in the treatment of peripheral arterial
      disease.

      Main objective:

      To show that the use of Paclitaxel-coated balloons to treat stenosis of vascular accesses
      will improve post-interventional patency and reduce numbers and days of hospitalization for
      access maintenance in hemodialysis vascular access.

      Hypothesis:

      Paclitaxel-coated balloon angioplasty (PTX) prolongs primary patency of the access after
      treatment of vascular access stenosis compared to plain balloon angioplasty (PBA)(standard
      treatment).

      Methodology:

      We designed a prospective, single-blinded, multicenter, randomized, controlled trial, which
      aim to enroll 120 patients.

      Patients diagnosed with a stenosis on their dysfunctional vascular access line
      (brachial-cephalic autogeneous fistula or brachial-axillary prosthetic graft) will be
      randomized to either arm of the study after completion of a successful pre-dilation with a
      standard plain balloon catheter.

      Randomization will be stratified according to type of access (brachial-cephalic autogeneous
      fistula or brachial-axillary prosthetic graft).

      Primary outcome measure will be primary patency of the vascular access at 12 months after
      treatment. Secondary outcome measures will be primary patency at 6 months, assisted-primary
      and secondary patencies at 6 and 12 months, number of re-interventions and number of days of
      hospitalization for re-intervention at 12 months.

      Clinical significance:

      By prolonging the vascular access lifespan, Paclitaxel-coated balloon angioplasty can limit
      morbidity and cost of vascular access maintenance for hemodialysis patients.
    
  