
    
      Topiramate is a medication that is approved for the treatment of seizures. In accordance with
      International guidelines, studies are conducted after a drug is marketed to continue to
      evaluate and expand the knowledge regarding its safety. This is an open-label, multi-center
      observational safety study to collect safety information for oral topiramate given in
      addition to other medications for 3 types of seizures in adults and in children aged 2 years
      and older.The 3 seizures types are focal epilepsy, LENNOX-GASTAUT syndrome epileptic seizures
      and generalized tonic-clonic seizures. Patients whose previous treatment for seizures (one or
      more antiepileptic drugs) has been judged by their physician to be non-satisfactory will
      receive 6 months of treatment with topiramate in addition to other antiepileptic medication
      as prescribed by their physician. Topiramate will be given at low doses initially and
      gradually increased as necessary to control seizure activity in accordance with Summary of
      Product Characteristics (SmPC). Patients will be asked to keep a diary of adverse events and
      seizure activity. Safety evaluations (incidence of adverse events, physical examinations,
      vital signs and laboratory tests) will be performed throughout the study per investigators
      usual standard of care. At the end of the study, the treating physician may continue
      treatment with topiramate and other medication as appropriate. The study hypothesis is that
      topiramate given in combination with other antiepileptic medications will be effective in
      achieving and maintaining control of seizure activity and is well-tolerated. 225 adult
      patients and children aged 2 years or older will be enrolled in the study. Study participants
      should demonstrate focal epilepsy or epileptic seizures of the LENNOX-GASTAUT syndrome or
      generalized tonoclonic seizures, who have undergone treatment with one or more antiepileptic
      drugs and whose treatment should be judged by the investigator as non-satisfactory.
      Observational study - No investigational drug administered.
    
  