
    
      Nearly 2.5 million individuals in the United States have opioid use disorder (OUD), with the
      vast majority (2 million) reporting abuse of prescription opioids. Patients with a history of
      substance use are particularly vulnerable to experiencing pain. Indeed, a large percentage of
      patients with OUD who receive the effective opioid agonist treatments (OAT) buprenorphine or
      methadone (MMT), report that pain preceded any use of addictive substances, and that the
      primary reason for starting opioid use was to reduce pain. Among methadone patients, 37-61%
      suffer from chronic pain that is often severe and interferes with daily activities.
      Similarly, in studies of chronic pain in buprenorphine patients, approximately 48% of
      patients report chronic pain. OAT recipients report far higher rates of chronic pain than the
      wider US population.

      Chronic pain has been associated with negative substance use outcomes in persons receiving
      buprenorphine for opioid detoxification and in people receiving MMT. Providers may prioritize
      the treatment of substance use in OUD patients, leaving the concurrent pain untreated. Lack
      of treatment encourages patients to use illicit opioids for pain relief. Indeed, for persons
      using buprenorphine, greater pain severity in a given week was significantly associated with
      increased likelihood of opioid use in the following week.

      Pain contributes to other negative outcomes. Pain is an independent risk factor for suicide
      including in samples of substance use disorder patients. Further, compared to MMT patients
      without pain, those with pain have significantly greater health problems and psychological
      distress. Pain, poor health, and low energy are the most commonly cited reasons that OAT
      patients are physically inactive. The continued physical and social problems in patients with
      pain influence the perception of (lack of) treatment benefits by both patients and providers.

      Duration of opioid agonist treatment (OAT) is a key predictor of long-term abstinence and
      outcomes improve across a variety of domains if patients remain in care for at least one
      year. Although buprenorphine is a growing ambulatory treatment, retention in care remains
      problematic. Across practice sites and, despite variations in visit frequency, the 12-month
      retention rate ranges from 50-80% with the majority of treatment drop-out occurring during
      the first three months of treatment. Though few studies have yet examined the role of pain,
      pain has been found to negatively impact buprenorphine treatment retention.

      Studies estimate that approximately one third to one half of MMT and buprenorphine recipients
      suffer from depression. Several studies have reported that opioid dependent patients with
      chronic pain have greater depressive symptoms and a greater probability of occupational
      disability compared to patients with lower level or no chronic pain. Amongst MMT patients,
      higher psychiatric distress is associated with lower general functioning. Methadone
      counselors report difficulty treating patients with chronic pain due in part to these
      patients' co-occurring psychiatric symptoms. In the only study of antidepressant treatment
      for depressed persons initiating buprenorphine, the investigators found in a secondary
      analysis that pain is prevalent, interferes with functioning, and its severity plateaus after
      one month of buprenorphine. Importantly, as with chronic pain, depressive symptoms have been
      associated with greater likelihood of relapse to opioid use in OAT patients. The substantial
      overlap of pain and depression in OAT patients suggest that functioning may improve most when
      depression and pain are simultaneously treated in an integrated fashion that is
      theoretically-based.

      TOPPS is a type of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) that consists of three main components:
      1) psychoeducation about pain, depression, opioid misuse, their interaction, and the
      maintaining role of avoidance; 2) coaching in being an informed, activated patient; and 3)
      behavioral activation with a focus on acceptance. Modern behavioral activation is idiographic
      and responsive to each patient's unique environment, needs, and goals. The function of a
      behavior is analyzed, and if the function is avoidance (e.g., of social contact, personal
      engagement, or physical activity), the behavior is targeted for change. Patients are taught
      to consider behavioral options, and to choose an option inconsistent with avoidance. There is
      an implicit attitude of acceptance of thoughts and feelings, as behavior is not dependent on
      changing thoughts and feelings. Behavior activation for depression focuses on helping
      patients to set goals in meaningful life areas, and then to break down long-term goals into
      smaller weekly goals. This process is incompatible with behavioral avoidance and instead,
      encourages patients to approach meaningful life goals. Barriers that arise in achieving
      short-term goals are addressed in treatment.

      TOPPS focuses on the relationship of pain, depression, opioid and other substance misuse, and
      functioning. It has a structured agenda, uses behavioral activation, involves explicit and
      ongoing psychoeducation, and includes a BHS trained extensively in the nature of pain and
      opioid misuse and relapse. Devised specifically for primary care patients receiving
      buprenorphine, TOPPS is collaborative (physician, interventionist, and patient) and focuses
      on depression, pain and physical symptoms in order to decrease the need to turn to substance
      misuse to avoid pain, increase overall functioning and to foster patient's abilities to
      achieve their long-term life goals.
    
  