
    
      Depression is a commonly diagnosed mental health disorder that represents the most prevalent
      cause of disability worldwide. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) is the best-evidenced
      treatment for depression, but despite demonstrated efficacy, many individuals cannot access
      adequate psychotherapeutic treatment due to the limitations of face-to-face delivery. In
      recent years, CBT has been integrated with mindfulness meditation (CBT-M) following strong
      evidence for increased efficacy when the two modalities are combined. Previous RCTs have
      demonstrated that online CBT-M is effective in depressive symptom reduction, but direct
      comparisons to in-office CBT delivery assessing cost and treatment outcomes are required to
      facilitate innovation and clinical policy change.

      Objectives: To assess whether online group CBT-M plus standard psychiatric care is
      non-inferior in efficacy and more cost-effective than office-based, on-site group CBT-M (plus
      standard psychiatric care) per outcomes at post-intervention and at 6-month follow up in
      adults diagnosed with major depressive disorder (MDD). The study will assess whether
      digitally recorded adherence data (i.e. online workbooks completed, Fitbit tracked step
      count, online text-messages exchanged, phone sessions completed) predict outcome benefits in
      the online-group participants as measured by changes in depressive symptoms.

      Methods: This single-centre, 2-arm non-inferiority randomized controlled trial will employ
      both assessor-blinded and self-report outcome measures and will include a full economic
      evaluation.

      The research site is the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health (CAMH), a large
      research-based psychiatry institution located in Toronto, Canada. Participants will be
      identified from wait-lists for CAMH services and through contacts with other Toronto
      outpatient clinics.

      Interventions: All participants will receive standard psychiatric care (1 pharmacotherapy
      focused visit/month with a psychiatrist of 15-30 minute duration). Experimental participants
      additionally receive online CBT-M while control participants receive standard care in-office
      group CBT-M. The online group CBT-M program (in collaboration with NexJ Health, Inc.)
      combines exposure to smartphone and computer accessed workbooks with phone-based mental
      health counselling (16 hours in 16 weeks) that coordinates with ongoing software interactions
      (e.g. secure text messaging, Fitbit tracked walking). Each participant is loaned a Fitbit-HR
      Charge 3 to assess physical activity as measured by daily step count.
    
  