
    
      As many as 80% of Veterans with the hepatitis C virus (HCV) engage in harmful drinking. This
      is a major health challenge given that even light and moderate alcohol consumption can worsen
      the course and consequences of HCV and can be a barrier to receiving antiviral therapy. In
      response, the VA Uniform Mental Health Services Package has made it a priority that HCV and
      other ambulatory clinics provide evidence-based mental health services to all Veterans
      engaging in harmful drinking within two week (but preferably the same day as the clinic
      visit). The investigators' CREATE partners, the VA Office of Mental Health Services, VA
      Operations (10N), and the VA Office of Public Health, are strongly committed to achieving
      this standard throughout the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). However, the cost and
      organizational challenges to meeting this mandate in HCV clinics are enormous, but may be
      surmountable through the use of self-directed technology that minimizes demands on scarce
      staff time.

      The primary objective of this study is to implement and evaluate a web-based brief alcohol
      intervention (BAI) for treating Veterans with HCV and seeking care at two VA HCV clinics -
      Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System (VAPAHCS) and San Francisco Veterans Affairs
      Medical Center (SFVAMC). This study will have three aims: First (Aim 1), the investigators
      plan to assess patient, provider, and system factors that may impact the initial adoption of
      this intervention in two VA HCV clinics. These data will result in the development of a
      protocol for the initial implementation of the web-based BAI at the investigators' two study
      sites. A secondary aim will involve obtaining patient and provider feedback on an existing
      web-based BAI (see www.bmi-aft.org, VA Intranet Only) to help inform its redesign for use
      with this population. Second (Aim 2), the investigators will implement and examine the
      effectiveness of a web-based BAI in two HCV clinics to reduce alcohol consumption in Veterans
      with HCV at three- and six-months post-treatment. Third (Aim 3), the investigators will
      conduct a budget impact analysis to estimate the short-term costs (1-3 years) of adoption and
      diffusion of the web-based BAI and the trajectory of health care spending for study
      participants.

      This mixed-methods study will utilize qualitative and quantitative methods to achieve its
      three primary aims. To address aim 1, qualitative interviews will be used to collect data
      that will inform the initial implementation and re-versioning of a web-based BAI for use in
      two HCV clinics located at the Palo Alto and San Francisco. To address aim 2, the
      investigators will use a randomized, hybrid (type 1) design with patient level clinical
      outcome data and formative evaluation data collected to examine the effectiveness of the
      web-based BAI. "Hybrid" designs also integrate formative evaluation into experimental designs
      to identify factors that impact the effectiveness of implementation efforts. Formative
      evaluation (e.g., site visits, clinic observation, and interviews with staff and patients)
      will be used to improve the adoption of the web-based BAI at both sites and to provide
      evidence-based guidance to the investigators' CREATE operational partners for nationwide
      implementation. To address aim 3, the investigators will conduct a budget impact analysis to
      estimate the short-term costs (1-3 years) of adoption and diffusion of the web-based BAI and
      the trajectory of health care spending for study participants. The investigators plan to
      collect several types of utilization data, including outpatient, inpatient, and pharmacy
      utilization, and calculate total dollars.
    
  