
    
      In this study the patient will receive 4 courses of high-dose methotrexate. High-dose
      methotrexate is normally given at weekly intervals, in blocks of two.The first two courses
      will be given on weeks 1 & 2; the second two courses on weeks 4 & 5. Two courses will be
      given with folinic acid rescue (standard high-dose methotrexate), and the other two will be
      given with glucarpidase rescue as well as folinic acid. This will enable us to compare
      whether there is any difference in side effects with and without glucarpidase and also how
      quickly patients recover from them.

      Half of the patients will receive standard high-dose methotrexate on weeks 1 & 2 and
      high-dose methotrexate with glucarpidase on weeks 4 & 5 (arm A) and half of the patients will
      first have high-dose methotrexate with glucarpidase on weeks 1 & 2 and then standard
      high-dose methotrexate on weeks 4 & 5 (arm B).

      All patients receiving methotrexate have daily blood tests to monitor the levels of
      methotrexate in their body, and monitor their kidney function. However, patients on this
      study will have extra blood tests for chemotherapy drug levels and glucarpidase antibody
      levels. During each hospital admission for chemotherapy, blood samples will be taken as
      follows:

      Day 1: Just before starting methotrexate (extra blood test) and at the end of methotrexate
      infusion (extra blood test) Day 2: 24 hours after starting methotrexate (routine blood test)
      and 20 minutes after the 24-hour blood test (i.e. just after the glucarpidase/placebo
      infusion) (extra blood test) Day 3+: Routine daily blood tests until the body has got rid of
      the methotrexate Extra blood samples will also be taken 15 days after starting each cycle and
      1 month, 3 and 6 months, after starting the second cycle.

      Patients will also be asked to complete mucositis assessment and quality of life
      questionnaires.
    
  