
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Compare disease-free survival of patients with resected stage III or IV squamous cell
           carcinoma or lymphoepithelioma of the head and neck treated with adjuvant cetuximab in
           combination with chemoradiotherapy comprising docetaxel vs cisplatin.

      Secondary

        -  Compare the safety and efficacy of these regimens in these patients.

        -  Compare locoregional control and overall survival rates in patients treated with these
           regimens.

        -  Correlate epidermal growth factor receptor (total and phosphorylated), pMAPK, pAKT,
           Stat-3, Ki-67, cyclo-oxygenase-2, and cyclin B1 expression with outcome in patients
           treated with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Zubrod
      performance status (0 vs 1), risk category (positive margins vs high risk [i.e., ≥ 2 positive
      nodes or extracapsular nodal extension]) and use of intensity-modulated radiotherapy (no vs
      yes). Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive cetuximab IV over 2 hours on day 1 (week 1). Patients then
           receive cetuximab IV over 1 hour and cisplatin IV over 1 hour before radiotherapy on
           days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and 43 (weeks 2-7). Patients undergo radiotherapy once daily, 5
           days a week, beginning on day 8 for a total of 6 weeks (weeks 2-7).

        -  Arm II: Patients receive cetuximab and undergo radiotherapy as in arm I. Patients also
           receive docetaxel IV over 30 minutes before radiotherapy on days 8, 15, 22, 29, 36, and
           43 (weeks 2-7).

      Treatment in both arms continues in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      Patients are followed every 3 months for 2 years and then every 6 months for 4 years, and
      then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 230 patients (115 per treatment arm) will be accrued for this
      study within approximately 29 months.
    
  