
    
      Turkey has been affected country from a busy and stressful lifestyle in our changing world
      and that leads to pelvic floor dysfunction has increased rapidly in Turkey. Pelvic pain that
      has in 1 out of every 7 women causes overactivity of pelvic floor muscles with increasing
      stress factors. In addition, it becomes chronic due to both the diagnosis process and the
      time-out of the right treatment and deteriorates the quality of life of women. There is no
      special pelvic floor physiotherapy for the management of pelvic pain in our country, which
      also causes psychosocial problems. On the other hand, myofascial trigger point release
      technique, which is proposed in addition to medical treatment alone or in pelvic floor
      physiotherapy, has been one of the current research areas in the world. However, there is no
      study in the national and international literature comparing internal and external myofascial
      trigger point relaxation techniques and also evaluating transperineal ultrasound. This study
      is unique in terms of comparing two different applications (internal and external trigger
      point relaxation technique) with ultrasound measurements in the literature.

      33 women diagnosed with pelvic pain between the ages of 18-55 will be included in this study.
      Orthopedic tests for pelvic pain will be performed after routine gynecological examinations.
      After perineometer measurement, pelvic floor muscle sensitivity grading, ultrasound and pain
      score evaluation, participants will be randomized and divided into 3 groups. The first group
      will receive internal myofascial trigger point release technique, the second group will
      receive external myofascial trigger point release technique, and the third group will be
      shown a video of relaxation exercises related to pelvic pain. After the application,
      measurement of perineometer and pelvic floor muscle sensitivity grading, ultrasound and pain
      evaluations will be repeated.
    
  