
    
      The study will include 42 ALS patients with 2:1 allocation in 2 groups of subjects (28 FMT vs
      14 placebo); computerized randomization will be stratified by progression rate (ΔFS) </≥0.7.
      Randomization time will last 18 months. Treatment will be double blinded to patients and
      physicians, and will be done at baseline and at month 6. FMT is regarded as the active
      treatment. Post-treatment follow up will be 6 months.

      ALS patients will undergo upper GI endoscopy with small-intestine biopsies (n° 4 biopsies of
      small intestine, performed with a standard biopsy forces) at baseline and after 6 months. At
      baseline patients will be randomized (2:1) to either an allogenic (from donors) infusion of
      collected feces (fecal microbiota transplantation, FMT) (or no procedure in case of
      allocation to placebo) in the duodenum-jejunum. The infusion will be performed through a
      standard nasojejunal tube, that will be placed during endoscopy. Infusion of feces will be
      performed at time 0 and repeated at month 6. The patients allocated to placebo arm will not
      receive treatment, but will undergo intestinal biopsy.

      Upper GI endoscopy 12 months after FMT will be performed only to identify specific microbioma
      and mucosal immunological evaluation. Fecal samples and small intestine biopsy samples (at
      baseline, before treatment, and at month 6 and 12) will be obtained from patients to perform
      the gut microbiota typing.

      Every endoscopic procedure will be performed with sedation of the patient. Feces for FMT will
      be obtained by healthy donors for C. difficile infection. Procedures that are usually
      performed for the selection of donors for transplantation of feces are as follows. Potential
      donors stool will be chosen in healthy volunteers that will have given a questionnaire with
      questions about lifestyle, health status, current therapy, etc., significant clinical
      symptoms of gastrointestinal disease, etc.. Based on this questionnaire, the potential donor
      will be considered eligible if excluded: I) Habits of life and risk behaviors, II)
      Concomitant significant known disorders, III) chronic or recent use of concomitant
      medications that may interfere with the state of the intestinal microflora (eg, antibiotics),
      IV) Clinical symptoms indicative of gastrointestinal disease or other diseases of importance,
      V) Personal or family medical history known of neurodegenerative diseases or other autoimmune
      diseases.

      Moreover, each suitable potential donor will be subjected to the following screening tests:
      I) Examination of stool for Clostridium difficile bacterial pathogens and protozoa and
      helminths of the small intestine and colon, Vancomycin-resistant Enterococci (VRE ),
      Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), Gram-negative Multidrug-Resistant
      Organisms (MDR), II) Serological screening for hepatitis virus A,B and C, HIV 1-2, Treponema
      pallidum, H. pylori, blood count with differential, dose transaminasemia, creatinine and
      C-reactive protein.

      Potential donors negative for this screening will be considered definitively suitable and
      will be invited to give a stool sample to prepare than for the fecal transplant. The donation
      will be made in the appropriate circles in the Department of Internal Medicine and
      Gastroenterology, and the preparation of faeces (manual homogenization in 500 mL of saline
      solution) for infusion will be performed at the Unit of Analysis 2 ° (Virology and
      Microbiology).

      Analysis of T cell sub-populations will be performed both in peripheral blood and gut mucosa:
      especially the ratio T Regulatory cells (Tregs)/Th17 cells A Contract Research Organization
      (CRO) will be in charge for study monitoring.
    
  