
    
      Introduction: With the increased focus on early discharge after surgery and anesthesia, it is
      important to identify objective criteria that can be used to assess home-readiness after
      ambulatory surgery. Premature discharge may lead to a higher rate of patients suffering
      complications and to an increased readmission rate. Time-consuming objective evaluations of
      postoperative vigilance status like EEG registrations are not practicable in routine
      postoperative clinical practice.

      In this study an approach to a more quantitative judgment of postoperative vigilance and
      consciousness is made by recording pupillometric measurements using a portable infrared
      pupillometer. The findings of this study may provide new important insights to the meaning of
      pupillary responses for postoperative vigilance measurement.

      Aim: With regard to the lack of knowledge about mechanisms that enable the central nervous
      system to restore consciousness after the deep functional disorder of the anesthetized state,
      this study aims to compare general anesthesia techniques (volatile, intravenous) on
      postoperative changes in pupillary reactivity by using infrared pupillometry.

      The primary aim of this study is to investigate changes in pupillary reactivity (pupillary
      light reflex (PLR, %) in the early postoperative phase (2 hours) after common used types of
      general anesthesia techniques (inhaled - sevoflurane versus intravenous - propofol).

      Secondary aim is to examine whether decreased postoperative PLR predicts a decline in
      neuropsychological testing (alertness).

      Hypotheses: The investigators hypothesis that changes in PLR within the first 2 postoperative
      hours differs depending on the anesthesia technique used, with a lower decline in PLR after
      propofol compared to sevoflurane anesthesia.

      Furthermore, the investigators hypothesis that postoperative PLR correlates with changes in
      alertness measured by a neuropsychological test.

      Design: This study will be a prospective, randomized double blinded study.

      Methods: The study is approved by the local ethics committee and written informed consent
      will be obtained from each patient. A total of 108 patients aged ≥18 and ≤99 years, with
      American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) physical status scores I-II, scheduled for
      elective ENT surgery will be enrolled. Baseline assessment of pupillometry and
      neuropsychological test will be carried out before surgery (baseline) and at predefined time
      intervals during the first 2 postoperative hours after the end of anesthesia. Results (AUC,
      PLR%) will be compared between both anesthesia groups.

      Primary outcome parameter will be the AUC of PLR (percentage change, %) measured every 15
      minutes during the first 2 postoperative hours. Secondary outcome parameter will include the
      neuropsychological test score (Digit Symbol Substitution Test (DSST), the Visual Intrinsic
      Alertness Test (VIA) and the Trail making Test (TMT)) will be performed every 30 minutes
      after general anesthesia (sevoflurane, propofol maintained).), assessed every 30 min up to 2
      hours after discontinuation of anesthesia.
    
  