
    
      This is an, open-label, protocol designed to evaluate the activity of targeted therapy in
      anaplastic/undifferentiated thyroid cancer. Arm A will evaluate ATC/UTC with mutations or
      rearrangements detected in the ALK gene.

      There is no effective treatment for anaplastic thyroid cancer in the locally recurrent or
      metastatic setting. Ceritinib will be administered to the patient until disease progression
      by RECIST 1.1, unacceptable toxicity, withdrawal of consent, or discontinuation of the trial
      for any other reason.

      The primary focus of this arm of the protocol is identifying ceritinib's activity in
      anaplastic or undifferentiated thyroid cancer patients. Those patients with mutations
      identified in their ALK gene by sequencing their tumor samples, or with the established ALK
      abnormalities will be treated with ALK-inhibitors. These include the Ventana assay and Vysis
      FISH probe, and patients with tumors positive by this assay will also be considered eligible
      for therapy on the trial.

      The goal of this multi-center, multi-arm trial is to measure the impact of treating
      metastatic anaplastic thyroid cancer patients with targeted therapy selected for these
      patients due the presence of a genetic mutation or other aberration. This trial will serve as
      a framework by which new biomarker-drug combinations can be identified and added as new arms.

      Therapeutic Portion:

      ARM A: ALK Abnormality IND Ceritinib 750 mg orally daily on Day 1 Continue q4 weeks x 2
      cycles

      Primary Endpoint: The development of progression; new recurrence or distant metastasis, as
      well as enlargement of an existing metastasis on radiographic imaging. CT scans of the neck,
      chest, abdomen and pelvis will be performed at baseline and every two cycles (cycles are 28
      days long) according to standard of care. Other imaging of these areas such as PET/MRI will
      be allowed if CT cannot be performed. MRI of the brain will be performed at baseline and as
      clinically indicated. Wherever it can be safely given, radiographic contrast agents should be
      given for the imaging studies.

      Secondary Endpoints:

        1. Overall response rate for patients treated with ceritinib as part of the study.

        2. Death of study participant due to any cause.
    
  