
    
      Prospective, Phase III, UK, Open, Multicentre, Superiority, Randomised Controlled Trial of a
      CE marked medical device and an Investigational Medicinal Product (CTIMP).

      Potentially eligible patients will be identified by their obstetrician or midwife, based on
      the need for induction of labour. Once the decision to induce labour is made, women will be
      approached to participate in the trial and will be given a patient information leaflet (PIL)
      enclosed in the induction admission letter. Patients wishing to enter the trial will be
      confirmed for eligibility by an obstetrician. Prior to patients undertaking any trial-related
      procedures, informed consent will be obtained.

      Participants will then be randomised in a 1:1 ratio to either 1) synthetic osmotic cervical
      dilator or 2) a 10-mg controlled-release dinoprostone vaginal insert. Randomisation will be
      provided by a computer generated programme. A research assistant discloses the nature of the
      assignment only after enrolment. Investigators have calculated that 860 patients (430 in each
      arm) will need to be recruited over a 2 year period. Given the nature of the intervention,
      the SOLVE trial will not be a blinded trial.

      Full data collection will be conducted for those patients giving informed consent, from
      medical records. This will include baseline data, and details of mother and child at birth.
      Patients will also be asked to complete a maternal satisfaction questionnaire before they are
      discharged. There will be no further follow-up of patients post-discharge from care unless a
      Serious Adverse Event requires this. If the patient withdraws her consent during the study,
      data collection will be stopped. Only anonymised data will be entered into the Case Report
      Forms (CRFs) by the study team. Details of all patients approached about the trial will be
      recorded on the trial Screening Log, and fully anonymised copies returned to the trials
      office for review.
    
  