
    
      The proposed study utilizes a randomized, controlled between-subjects design that will
      compare and contrast MARS data collected in the sitting versus standing position, and will
      determine the relationship between PTSD severity and MARS outcome measures. Fifty-five
      subjects will be recruited from Johns Hopkins and VA facilities, International Association of
      Fire Fighters Center of Excellence, Veteran Centers in Baltimore/District of
      Columbia/Northern Virginia area, as well as the Florida panhandle and through social media
      venues. When potential participants respond to advertisements, study coordinators will
      explain the purpose of the study and study procedures by phone before arranging a
      face-to-face meeting with the research team. Once a potential participant indicates
      willingness to participate, a study team member will meet with the participant at the their
      residence, or at the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, where the consent document will be
      reviewed and MARS testing will take place. Recruitment will continue until a total of 55
      participants have been consented.

      Volunteers shall sign a participation waiver acknowledging the inclusion/exclusion criteria
      and will be verbally briefed about the experimental proceedings. After consent procedures are
      complete, volunteers will provide a saliva sample and breathalyzer for "on the spot" drug
      screens. If drug screens are negative for sedatives and stimulants (both of which can alter
      the acoustic startle response), research volunteers will be interviewed using the Structured
      Interview for PTSD (SI-PTSD).

      After completing the SI-PTSD (and it is clear that the subject meets criteria for PTSD), the
      subject will be be instructed to don earphones as well as noise insulating earmuffs. The MARS
      evaluation will then proceed in either a sitting or standing position, and the sound stimuli
      will be conducted at two frequencies [500 and 4000 Hertz (Hz)] at three volumes [65, 90, and
      105 decibels (dBs)] for a total of 12 acoustic test sets, in random order. The MARS shall
      record both left and right eye reactions to each of these 12 acoustic/posture sets. The MARS
      protocol shall be administered for approximately 6 minutes while the volunteer is
      sitting/standing quietly and looking forward at the mobile device (which will be located
      approximately 60 centimeters away).

      Within 3 weeks of MARS measurements, the study psychiatrist will conduct a private interview
      with the participant via remote video. The study psychiatrist (Dr. McCann), who will be blind
      to MARS data, will interview subjects using the Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale for the
      Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-5 (DSM-5) (CAPS-5).

      Investigators will determine the statistical relationship between PTSD severity (as measured
      on a numerical scale from 1-5) and eye blink parameters. All data points will be entered into
      machine learning software (a.k.a. deep learning software) both to analyze interconnections
      between outcome measures and PTSD severity, but also to make predictions for future studies
      in PTSD patients evaluated using the MARS.
    
  