
    
      A new method to assess insulin sensitivity (IS) has been proposed and investigated by the PI
      and his group at the University of Padova. The new insulin sensitivity index, named "SISP" is
      calculated from data derived from insulin pump and continuous glucose monitoring (CGM)
      uploads. The efficiency of the SISP has been tested in-silico using the University of
      Virginia/Padova T1D simulator by mimicking a single-meal scenario with patient-specific
      optimized carbohydrate ratio (CR) (increased or decreased by 20%) and optimal CR. In all the
      simulations the use of the optimal CR, calculated with the proposed method, has improved the
      overall glycemic control. The simulator (S2013) used for this purpose has been valdated and
      is approved by the FDA as a substitute for preclinical trials for insulin treatments,
      including closed-loop algorithms. It is comprised of data from 100 in-silico patients that
      represent the biological variability of a generic real diabetic population. Thus, an
      algorithm that is tuned on the basis of in-silico analysis can be safely implemented in
      real-life setting.

      The method to estimate SISP and to optimize the CR from SAP data, could be easily applied to
      the daily management of patients with T1D and in a closed-loop context since several
      closed-loop algorithms, currently used in clinical trials, are based on the pre-programmed
      open-loop insulin therapy.

      Once the individualized SISP is calculated, it can be used to customize the CR using the
      in-silico tested algorithm to determine an individualized CR (CRIND).

      Consequently, the CRIND can be tested in outpatient setting safely, and adjusted in a
      run-to-run framework, using a well described approach of self-learning, the latter allowing
      titration of the insulin therapy based on CGM data using a self-learning algorithm as
      previously described.

        -  Phase 1: "Control period". This phase represents the control frame-time, during which
           patients, once enrolled, will use their SAP without any adjustment of the CR and
           correction factors, according to the parameters recorded at the screening visit. This
           phase is aimed to record the CGM data and will represent the control period of the
           study. It lasts 3 weeks.

        -  Phase 2: "Build-up period" This phase is aimed to obtain an adequate amount of data for
           customizing the insulin pump parameters to the specific features of each subject
           according to the proposed algorithms. It consists of three standardized meals (Figure 2)
           and a run-in phase.

      Subjects will be randomly assigned to two different pre-meal insulin CR groups in a 1:1 ratio
      to determine parameters that will be used to adjust the IS algorithm for pediatric patients
      with T1D. The post-prandial blood glucose pattern after a pre-meal bolus of CR, CR 20%
      increased, CR 20% decreased are validated parameters necessary to customize the algorithm for
      a specific patient population with T1D, therefore subjects will be challenged with two
      different CRs, depending on the randomization, to collect sufficient data to fine tune the
      algorithm.

      Each subject will go through three meal studies;

      Group 1. Meal 1: CR with 20% increase; Meal 2: CR home; Meal 3: CR individualized Group 2.
      Meal 1: CR with 20% decrease; Meal 2: CR home; Meal 3:CR individualized

        -  Before the 1st meal subjects will be randomly assigned to receive a modified premeal
           bolus (increased or decreased of 20%, CR+/-20%) in a 1:1 ratio. This change of the home
           CR (CRHOME) will allow us to estimate the accuracy and error of the CRHOME and to
           calculate, according to the described algorithm ((21) and below), the optimized CR
           (CRIND). This latter will be tested in both groups as third meal at home.

        -  The three meals are followed by a 7 day- run-in period necessary to collect a minimum
           amount of CGM data to run the algorithm calculations used in the intervention phase.
           During this period subjects will adopt the CRIND obtained after the standard meals.

        -  Phase 3: "Intervention period". This phase is aimed to test the efficacy of the CRIND on
           mitigating post-prandial hyperglycemia by a home-based study, using periodical
           adjustment of CR and basal rate according to the "run-to-run" approach. It consists of a
           self-learning algorithm method to adjust insulin regimen (the basal rate and the CRIND)
           based on CGM post-meal blood glucose patterns and pre-meal insulin bolus.

      Subjects will use the SAP tuned according to the individualized ISR2R and CRR2R obtained from
      the run-in period, along with an individualized insulin basal rate (BasalR2R). During the
      run-to-run period subjects will receive weekly revised parameters based on run-to-run
      algorithm according to data analysis of the past seven days. It will last 3 weeks.
    
  