
    
      Chronic low back pain (cLBP) is one of the most common and disabling conditions among US
      military Veterans, and the prevalence is rising even more rapidly than other chronic
      conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Studies have shown that physical activity (PA)
      can improve outcomes in patients with cLBP, but a major gap in this research is the lack of
      studies focusing on older adults; patient samples have been primarily middle-aged and have
      included few patients' age 65 years. Therefore, the investigators' lack an evidence base for
      the feasibility and effectiveness of PA interventions in this vulnerable group of patients
      with cLBP. This is particularly important given the accumulating evidence showing that older
      adults with cLBP have significant lower extremity functional limitations, resulting in
      difficulty performing necessary daily tasks. Another area of limited investigation among
      older adults with cLBP is whether there is added benefit of incorporating cognitive
      behavioral therapy for pain management (CBT-P) skills with PA interventions. CBT-P can help
      to restructure pain perception and improve pacing of PA. Some patients with cLBP do not
      respond favorably to isolated PA interventions, and it is possible that heightened pain
      sensitization may underlie this lack of response in some patients. Since CBT-P has been shown
      to alter pain processing, older adults with cLBP who have greater pain sensitization may
      respond better to a program that combines PA and CBT-P (vs. PA alone); however, this has not
      been studied. This information has practical implications for a larger trial to determining
      whether a subset of patients with greater central pain sensitivity may need additional
      intervention to supplement a PA program.

      The investigators will conduct a pilot study of a 12-week home-based PA and PA + CBT-P
      programs, both with weekly telephone support, compared with a waiting list control group.
      Participants will be 60 older Veterans (age 65) with cLBP. Enrollment of participants will
      occur via referrals from geriatric and primary care clinics at the Durham VAMC. The PA
      program will be comprehensive, including stretching, strengthening, and aerobic activities,
      and the specific types and intensities of the activities will be geared toward older adults.
      The CBT-P program will include five different skills, woven into the telephone-based
      sessions, with specific application to PA and cLBP. Both interventions will be jointly
      delivered by a physical therapist and exercise counselor, who has complementary areas of
      expertise (e.g., training in clinical exercise prescription and motivational interviewing
      skills to encourage PA adherence, respectively). Telephone calls will involve
      patient-specific goal-setting and address barriers to PA and CBT-P skills. Participants will
      receive a booklet with instructions and photographs for stretching and strengthening
      exercises, as well as an exercise video appropriate for older adults with cLBP. Participants
      in the combined intervention will also receive written and audio instructions regarding CBT-P
      skills. Feasibility measures will include the proportion of completed intervention calls,
      adherence to home-based PA recommendations and CBT-P skills use, and participant feedback on
      the programs. Outcomes will be assessed at baseline and 12-week follow-up. Primary measures
      of efficacy will be assessments of general physical function, both objective and
      self-reported (PROMIS Health Assessment Questionnaire). Secondary outcomes will include
      measures cLBP-specific pain and disability. Central pain sensitivity will be assessed via
      Pain Pressure Threshold (PPT) testing and the Central Sensitization Inventory (CSI).
      Statistical analyses will include comparison of baseline and follow-up outcomes across study
      groups, as well as examination of potential trends for differential intervention response
      according to baseline PPT and CSI scores.
    
  