
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  Evaluate the changes in molecular markers of angiogenesis before and after treatment
           with celecoxib in tumor tissues of patients with resectable head and neck squamous cell
           carcinoma.

      Secondary

        -  Evaluate the changes in molecular markers of angiogenesis before and after treatment
           with celecoxib in blood tissues of these patients.

        -  Evaluate the effects of celecoxib on indirect measures of tumor perfusion, as measured
           by perfusion CT scan, in these patients.

        -  Evaluate the effects of celecoxib on apoptosis and proliferation rate on tumor cells and
           on endothelial cells in these patients.

        -  Identify potential new markers of the activity of cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors and
           identify new pathways of potential interests by performing gene expression profiling of
           tumor tissues before and after exposure to celecoxib.

      OUTLINE: This is an open-label, nonrandomized, uncontrolled study.

      Patients undergo panendoscopy and tumor biopsy on day 0. Patients receive oral celecoxib
      twice daily beginning on day 1 and continuing for at least 14 days*. Patients then undergo
      definitive surgery.

      NOTE: *Treatment continues until the day before surgery.

      Tumor, blood, and urine samples are collected at baseline and periodically during study.
      Tumor quantification by perfusion CT scan is performed at baseline and after treatment with
      celecoxib. Biological markers are detected by immunohistochemistry and enzyme immunoassay.
      Blood vascular density, apoptosis, proliferation, and endothelial cell:tumor ratio are
      measured by indirect hemagglutination. Gene expression is measured by microarray analysis.

      After surgery, patients are followed at 4 weeks and then periodically thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 24 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  