
    
      Adherence to antiretroviral medications is necessary to achieve sufficient HIV suppression
      and nonadherence can lead to the development of treatment resistant genetic variants of HIV.
      Research has demonstrated that people living with HIV/AIDS who have low-levels of health
      literacy experience greater treatment non-adherence than their higher-literacy counterparts.
      Interventions are urgently needed to improve treatment adherence in people with poor literacy
      skills. This application proposes to test a theory based behavioral intervention for
      improving HIV treatment adherence in people living with HIV/AIDS who have low-literacy
      skills. Grounded in the Information - Motivation - Behavioral Skills (IMB) model of health
      behavior change, the experimental intervention has been tailored for people with low-levels
      of health literacy and has been pilot tested in preliminary intervention development
      research. The intervention is delivered in three one-on-one counseling sessions and one
      maintenance-focused booster session. The intervention will be conducted in a community care
      setting in Atlanta. Men and women will be recruited from a AIDS services and infectious
      disease clinics throughout the Atlanta metropolitan area. Following screening, informed
      consent and baseline assessments participants will be randomly assigned to receive one of
      three conditions: (a) Theory-based literacy tailored treatment adherence intervention; (b)
      standard of care non-tailored time-matched adherence counseling intervention; (c)
      noncontaminating time-matched attention control intervention. Participants will be followed
      for 12-months observation. Assessments will include measures of information, motivation, and
      behavioral skills pertaining to HIV treatment adherence, self-report and objective medication
      adherence, and viral load. The study will test the hypothesis that a theory-based HIV
      treatment adherence intervention that is tailored for people with low-literacy will improve
      HIV treatment adherence and health relative to the standard and attention control conditions.
      The study will also examine the influence of IMB theoretical constructs on intervention
      outcomes. The intervention under investigation will be among the first to address treatment
      adherence among people with poor literacy skills. If shown effective, the intervention model
      will be ready for immediate dissemination to clinical and community adherence enhancement
      services for people living with HIV-AIDS.
    
  