
    
      Rationale for the study

      In France, around 150000 people require palliative care every year. Since 2002, palliative
      care has been organized at several levels: palliative care units, palliative care mobile
      support teams, health network for palliative care and home-based hospital care. These
      structures have made possible for some patients in need of palliative care to be treated in
      appropriate service, in facility-based or community-based programs. With these important
      advances around palliative care, it appears important to assess the quality of care provided
      to patients. However, no generalizable study has been conducted in France, and no formal tool
      is available to help at this end.

      In order to enhance the effectiveness of these services, it is important to conduct studies
      with the aim of developing the adapted and standardized tools that will enable assessment of
      quality for palliative care, as well as its determinants, for example the organization of
      structures, management of teams, etc. To this end, it is relevant to adopt a more holistic
      perspective and take into account the views of different concerned people, including the
      patients, their families and healthcare professionals, all while considering the
      organizational and management aspects.

      The evidence from other countries has demonstrated the necessity of a rigorous, exhaustive
      and systematic evaluation as a requirement for any palliative program of quality. Many tools
      have since been developed to assess the multidimensional needs of patients, but none of these
      tools have been adapted to be used in the French palliative care settings.

      Among of different tools used in palliative care, InterRAI Palliative Care (RAI-PC) has been
      chosen as the most reliable and complete tool. The RAI-PC allows a comprehensive evaluation
      of patients, as well as capabilities, preferences and needs. The medical, psychological,
      functional and social indicators are defined. This tool has been applied in the palliative
      care field in Canada and USA, but not yet in France. It has proven itself as an appropriate
      tool for needs assessment and evaluation of quality of care.

      Goals of the project

      This project aims to develop and validate a comprehensive and standardized instrument that
      will serve:

        1. As a support to individual care, emphasizing the individual characteristics and needs of
           patients, informing planning care, outcome measurement, quality indicators, and case-mix
           classification.

        2. As a standardized assessment tool adaptable to various palliative care structures

      Study design

      This study is a multicenter, prospective, observational study with representative stratified
      sample from different categories of palliative care services: palliative care units,
      palliative care mobile support teams, health network for palliative care and home-based
      hospital care. Twenty-three palliative structures, spread across the country are
      participating in this project.

      The survey will involve the healthcare professionals of each center, trained on collecting
      information and using InterRAI instrument. Data collection involves patient clinical
      assessment, reviewing medical and nurse record and interview with family and professionals of
      healthcare.

      Criteria for judgement

      The quality of the tool will be judged in terms of satisfactory of psychometric properties,
      operational characteristics and clinical acceptability, adaptability of the tool to the needs
      of patients and its relevance in different palliative care structures.
    
  