
    
      Recurrent mood disorders can have devastating long-term effects, and the cost of these
      illnesses in terms of human suffering, productivity and health care is enormous. It is now
      recognized that, for many patients, the long-term outcome is often much less favorable than
      previously thought, with incomplete inter-episode recovery, and a progressive decline in
      overall functioning observed. Indeed, according to the Global Burden of Disease Study, mood
      disorders are among the leading causes of disability worldwide, and are likely to represent
      an increasingly greater health, societal, and economic problem in the coming years. Dietary
      and nutritionally derived botanical compounds offer promise both for experimental
      therapeutics of complex diseases and for chemoprevention of illnesses such as depression.

      Genistein is a polyphenolic molecule and the active form of the soy isoflavone, genistin. It
      has both phytoestrogen and protein tyrosine kinase inhibiting properties. Since tyrosine
      phosphorylation is involved in central nervous system regulation of neurotransmission
      inhibition by genistein may be a novel strategy to directly modulate synaptic activity and
      treat neuropsychiatric illnesses. Genistein's specific hormonal properties may also have
      salutary effects on brain function in depressed patients. Genistein increases dopamine and
      other monoamine activity, affects neurotrophic factor transcription, and has neuroprotective
      properties.

      This is an 8-week double blind parallel study that will examine the efficacy and safety of
      Novasoy® (Registered Trademark) (CAS 446-72-0), a marketed botanical dietary supplement, in
      acutely depressed male and female patients (n&eq;60 in each group). The study has two
      Periods. Study Period I is a washout phase (1 week) and evaluation period. Study Period II is
      a monotherapy 8-week parallel, placebo controlled, acute treatment phase in which the
      efficacy and tolerability of isoflavones is compared to baseline. After completing the 8-week
      study period, subjects will be followed at the mood disorders clinic at NIMH for any
      necessary treatment adjustment and referred back to their clinician for further treatment.

      Patients, ages 18 and over, with a diagnosis of major depression (without psychotic
      features), will be titrated onto an isoflavone mixture, Novasoy® (Registered Trademark), to a
      specific target dose (genistin &eq; 270mg/day in divided doses). At the end of week 5
      nonresponders (less or equal to 50% improvement) will have one further titration to a higher
      dose (genistin&eq;360 mg/day in divided doses). Primary efficacy will be determined by
      demonstrating a greater response rate using a well-validated rating scale. Subjects will be
      randomized 1:1 with stratification for sex. Improvement in depressive symptoms is
      hypothesized to be significantly greater in the active soy isoflavone group.
    
  