
    
      AIM:

      CHRONOS-A

      Pilot: To determine if men will agree to participate in a randomised controlled trial that
      randomly assigns them to focal therapy alone or radical therapy (radiotherapy or
      prostatectomy).

      Main: To determine if focal therapy alone is non-inferior when compared to radical therapy
      (radiotherapy or surgery) in terms of progression-free survival at 5 years in men with
      clinically significant non-metastatic cancer.

      CHRONOS-B

      Pilot: To determine if men expressing a preference for focal therapy will agree to
      participate in a multi-arm, multi-stage Randomised Controlled Trial that randomly assigns
      them to focal therapy alone or focal therapy in combination with neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant
      agents.

      Main: To determine if focal therapy combined with neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant agents,
      compared to focal therapy alone, will improve failure-free survival at 5 years, in men with
      clinically significant non-metastatic cancer.

      OBJECTIVES To deliver a trials framework that fits with existing patient and physician
      equipoise so that the investigators can answer the next generation of research questions to
      evaluate medium-term outcomes following minimally invasive focal therapy in the treatment of
      clinically significant, non-metastatic prostate cancer.

      Embedded internal pilot objectives:

        -  Determine patient acceptance to randomisation.

        -  Conduct an embedded qualitative study of patient and clinician acceptance and experience
           of the linked randomised controlled trial CHRONOS design.

        -  Establish the feasibility of an economic evaluation alongside the main trial.

        -  Determine acceptability and completeness of resource use and utility measures.

        -  Identify the relevant NHS and non-NHS resource use to be collected alongside the main
           trial.

        -  Identify the relevant items to populate the Cost and Consequences framework.

        -  Perform preliminary analysis of pattern of missing data.

      MAIN STUDY PRIMARY OBJECTIVES

      CHRONOS-A:

      To evaluate progression-free survival rates of focal therapy alone compared to radical
      therapy (radiotherapy or surgery) in the treatment of non-metastatic clinically significant
      prostate cancer. Progression-free survival is defined as time from randomisation to salvage
      whole-gland or systemic therapy, prostate cancer metastases or prostate cancer-specific
      mortality.

      CHRONOS-B:

      To evaluate Failure-Free-Survival rates of focal therapy alone compared to focal therapy
      combined with other therapies as a neoadjuvant strategy. Failure-Free-Survival is defined as
      time from randomisation to further focal therapy session or salvage whole-gland or systemic
      therapy or prostate cancer metastases or prostate cancer-specific mortality.

      MAIN STUDY SECONDARY OBJECTIVES

      Disease control:

      Determine the histological, biochemical and oncological disease control for men undergoing
      radical therapy, focal therapy or focal therapy with neo/adjuvant treatments.

      Adverse events and Functional Outcomes:

      Determine the adverse events and functional outcomes after radical therapy, focal therapy or
      focal therapy with neo/adjuvant treatments

      Health economics:

        -  Establish the NHS costs of the different interventions.

        -  Determine the Cost per QALYs (CUA), cost per PFS/FFS (CEA) and cost and consequences
           (CCA).

        -  Determine acceptability and completeness of resource use and utility measures.

      Qualitative:

        -  Patient experience of consent and recruitment, including reasons for declining
           participation.

        -  Participants' motivation to accept randomisation to and compliance with an intervention,
           which may or may not include neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatments.

        -  Patients' understanding and experience of each trial arm.

        -  Patients' experience of toxicities, focusing on erectile dysfunction and urinary
           symptoms.

        -  Patients' attitudes to the predicted survival rate.

        -  Potential improvements to recruitment processes.

        -  Healthcare professionals' attitudes to intervention arms and trial design and whether
           this might impact on recruitment.

      Imaging and Histology:

        -  Compare MRI outcomes with histology at time-points in which both are mandated.

      Biobank and databank objectives:

        -  Evaluate cancer infiltrating immune cells and immune gene signatures following ablation.

        -  Build a biobank and databank of matched imaging, blood, serum, plasma and pre-digital
           rectal examination urine as well as FFPE biopsy samples.

      DURATION :

      Pilot: Recruitment 12 months. Minimum 3 months follow-up. Main study: Recruitment further 48
      months. Total including follow-up = 96 months

      SAMPLE SIZE :

      Pilot Study - CHRONOS-A & B - 60 patients each over 12-months. Main study - CHRONOS-A - 1190
      patients / CHRONOS-B - 1260 patients. PATIENT POPULATION: Men with non-metastatic prostate
      cancer who are suitable for focal therapy and radiotherapy.

      PRIMARY ENDPOINTS (Main Stage) CHRONOS-A: Progression-Free survival (PFS) defined as
      biochemical failure (radical therapies only) or salvage therapy (local or systemic) or
      prostate cancer metastases or prostate cancer specific mortality.

      CHRONOS-B: Failure-Free survival (FFS) defined as more than one focal therapy session or
      salvage therapy (local or systemic) or prostate cancer metastases or prostate cancer specific
      mortality.

      SECONDARY ENDPOINTS (Main Stage)

      Disease control:

        -  Rates of positive biopsy for any prostate cancer and significant cancer defined by a
           number of different thresholds on biopsy following focal therapy (treated and untreated
           side).

        -  Rates of second or third focal therapy sessions, in-field or out-of-field.

        -  Rates of radiotherapy as adjuvant or salvage therapy following surgery or focal therapy.

        -  Rates of prostatectomy as adjuvant or salvage therapy following radiotherapy or focal
           therapy.

        -  Rates of systemic therapy as adjuvant or salvage therapy following surgery, radiotherapy
           or focal therapy.

        -  Rates of prostate cancer-specific mortality.

        -  Rates of all-cause mortality.

        -  Long-term health outcomes of those participants consenting to longitudinal follow-up
           will be reported in subsequent studies pending further funding.

      Adverse events and functional outcomes:

        -  Rates of cystoscopic interventions following treatment.

        -  Rates of implant insertion for treatment of incontinence and erectile dysfunction.

        -  Rates of medication and/or pump devices used for erectile dysfunction following
           treatment.

        -  Rates of endoscopic investigations of the lower bowel following treatment.

        -  Rates of pad-use and quantity per day for urinary incontinence following treatment.

        -  Rates of pad-use and quantity per day for faecal incontinence following treatment.

        -  Rates of adverse event rates and complications.

        -  Genito-urinary and rectal side-effects using patient-reported outcome measures using
           validated questionnaires including evaluation of return to baseline function for
           erectile and urinary function and various minimum decreases in PROMS scores.

      Health economics:

        -  To establish the NHS costs of the different interventions.

        -  To determine the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALYs)gained over the
           estimated lifetime of participants for focal therapy versus radical therapy.

        -  To determine the incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALYs) gained over the
           estimated lifetime of participants for focal therapy versus focal therapy with
           neoadjuvant and/or adjuvant strategies.

      Qualitative:

        -  The impact on participants' overall health-related quality-of-life including adverse
           events and impact on genito-urinary and rectal functional status using validated patient
           reported outcome measures.

        -  Descriptive analyses of the questionnaire data, and use of questionnaire and qualitative
           interview datasets in a multi-methods analysis to look for overarching themes in
           barriers and facilitators to participation in CHRONOS-A and CHRONOS-B.

      Imaging and Pathology

        -  Accuracy and variability of multi-parametric MRI (mpMRI) in detecting disease at
           baseline prior to focal therapy and absence or presence of recurrence of cancer based on
           histology outcomes on biopsy. Target definition for recurrence will be defined as
           significant prostate cancer as per inclusion criteria.

      Translational, Biobank and Databank:

        -  Analysis on the localisation and nature of cancer-infiltrating immune cells and the
           immune-relevant gene expression within the cancer tissue.

        -  The creation of a biobank and databank of matched blood, serum, plasma and pre-digital
           rectal examination urine as well as imaging as well as FFPE biopsy samples.
    
  