
    
      OBJECTIVES: I. Compare the effectiveness of nicotine inhaler vs bupropion vs nicotine inhaler
      plus bupropion on smoking cessation and prevention of relapse in participants who currently
      smoke. II. Compare the reduction in the rate of relapse to smoking after initial abstinence
      in participants treated long term with these regimens.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter study. Patients
      are stratified according to gender, cigarettes smoked per day at time of screening (10-39 vs
      40 or more), and total length of smoking in years (less than 5 vs 5-9 vs 10 or more).
      Participants are randomized to one of three treatment arms. Arm I: Participants receive 6-16
      nicotine inhaler cartridges per day. Arm II: Participants receive oral bupropion 1-2 times
      daily. Arm III: Participants receive 6-16 nicotine inhaler cartridges per day and oral
      bupropion 1-2 times daily. In all arms, treatment continues for 12 weeks. After 12 weeks,
      participants are randomized a second time based on whether they continue to smoke or are
      smoke-free. Participants randomized to arm I who continue to smoke are randomized to one of
      two treatment arms. Arm IV: Participants receive oral bupropion 1-2 times daily for 12 weeks
      Arm V: Participants receive oral placebo 1-2 times daily for 12 weeks. Participants
      randomized to arm II who continue to smoke are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm
      VI: Participants receive 6-16 nicotine inhaler cartridges per day for 12 weeks. Arm VII:
      Participants receive 6-16 placebo inhaler cartridges per day for 12 weeks. Participants
      randomized to arm III who continue to smoke do not receive any further therapy. Participants
      randomized to arm I who are smoke-free are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm VIII:
      Participants receive 6-16 nicotine inhaler cartridges per day for 40 weeks. Arm IX:
      Participants receive 6-16 placebo inhaler cartridges per day for 40 weeks. Participants
      randomized to arm II who are smoke-free are randomized to one of two treatment arms. Arm X:
      Participants receive oral bupropion 1-2 times daily for 40 weeks. Arm XI: Participants
      receive oral placebo 1-2 times daily for 40 weeks. Participants randomized to arm III who are
      smoke-free are randomized to one of four treatment arms. Arm XII: Participants receive 6-16
      nicotine inhaler cartridges per day and oral placebo 1-2 times daily for 40 weeks. Arm XIII:
      Participants receive 6-16 placebo inhaler cartridges per day and oral bupropion 1-2 times
      daily for 40 weeks. Arm XIV: Participants receive 6-16 nicotine inhaler cartridges per day
      and oral bupropion 1-2 times daily for 40 weeks. Arm XV: Participants receive 6-16 placebo
      inhaler cartridges per day and oral placebo 1-2 times daily for 40 weeks. All participants
      are followed every month for 6 months.
    
  