
    
      OBJECTIVE Primary The purpose of this investigation is to evaluate the efficacy of the
      sympathectomy in the reduction of VT episodes in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy.

      Secondary

        -  To compare the efficacy of sympathectomy with ablation of VT and with the optimal drug
           therapy.

        -  To evaluate the density of ventricular premature beats 24-hour Holter and monitor the
           events recorded by the ICD and the impact of the treatment performed.

        -  To evaluate the length of the hospital stay according to the type of intervention.

        -  To evaluate the rate of clinical complications according to the type of intervention.

        -  To evaluate the impact of treatment on left ventricular function.

      Follow up Outcomes Assessment in six months and one year

        -  Recurrence rate of appropriate therapies;

        -  Density of ventricular ectopies;

        -  Complication rates per type of intervention;

        -  Time of hospitalization per type of intervention;

        -  Rate of inappropriate therapies by ICD;

        -  Assessment of LV function;

      METHODS This is a single-centre, pilot, randomized study in patients with Chagas disease and
      multiple appropriate ICD therapies.

      This study consists of three groups: (1) medical treatment, (2) catheter ablation and (3)
      left sympathectomy, being included 10 patients in each group.

      Inclusion Criteria: Patients with chronic Chagas' with at least four appropriate ICD
      therapies in the last six months; use of amiodarone and beta blockers optimized or maximum
      tolerated dose treatment; life expectancy of more than one year; Conditions for following the
      plan of clinical follow-up of the study.

      Exclusion criteria: Pregnant Woman; less than 18 years-old; renal insufficiency with
      creatinine >2.5; mobile thrombus in the left ventricle; ejection fraction of the left
      ventricle <10%; unstable angina; aortic stenosis, mitral insufficiency with rupture of the
      package leaflet; functional class of heart failure IV; previous cardiac surgery or scheduled.

      The patients will be recruited consecutively in the outpatient clinic of Cardiac Pacing Unit,
      or in outpatient clinic of Arrhythmias Clinical Unit or in the Emergency Clinical Unit.

      Group 1 - Medical Treatment - patients allocated to this group will receive amiodarone
      reimpregnation, incremental dose of beta-blocker and if possible ICD reprogramming.

      Group 2 - Catheter ablation - patients allocated to this group will undergone epicardial and
      endocardial catheter ablation with the use of irrigated contact sensor tip catheter. Voltage
      electroanatomical mapping using Carto System will be performed in all cases and if
      hemodynamically stable VT is induced activation mapping will also be performed. The aim of
      the ablation is to eliminate the clinical VT additionally to substrate modification. The
      result of ablation will be defined as (1) complete success; (2) partial success and (3)
      failure.

      Group 3 - Left trunk sympathectomy - left truck sympathectomy will be performed using video
      assisted thoracoscopy using the Ethicon Ultracision device. The denervation consisted of left
      lower 1/3 stellate ganglion and T3- T4 thoracic interspinal space videothoracoscopic cutting,
      isolating the whole sympathetic chain between these two points using ultracision device on
      the nerve branches. The cephalic portion of the stellate ganglion was preserved to avoid
      Horner's syndrome and the electrocautery use was also avoided due to the same reason. The
      nerve was blocked using Ultracision device to avoid thermic lesion of the stellate ganglion.
      Hemodynamic and echocardiographic behaviors were continuously monitored during these surgical
      maneuvers. After the application, 10 ml of 0.25% bupivacaine solution was injected along the
      site of the pleural dissection for postoperative analgesia. The lung was reinflated under
      direct vision and a small tube was inserted to remove the air through the upper incision,
      which was removed at the end of the operation. The two port sites were closed primarily with
      absorbable stitches.

      The study conformed to the principles outlined in the Declaration of Helsinki and was
      approved by the ethics committee and institutional review board of our hospital. All patients
      will provide written informed consent before randomization.
    
  