
    
      Offenders having both mental illness and chemical abuse (MICA) disorders are a population of
      interest, in part because their special needs place exceptional demands on criminal justice
      and treatment systems, as well as on individuals and families. This study examines the
      crucial point of transition from prison to the community, where continued treatment for
      offenders is generally considered necessary to sustain gains made by prison treatment
      efforts, and to achieve successful outcomes. The project has two specific aims; Aim 1 is to
      test the effectiveness of Re entry MTC treatment relative to a control condition, and Aim 2
      is to assess the relative impact on treatment outcomes of the type of treatment received
      while in prison and of the progress achieved in re-entry treatment.

      On their release from prison, male offenders with MICA disorders who elect to participate in
      this study (N = 332), will be placed in either the experimental condition, (E) Re-entry
      Modified Therapeutic Community (Re-entry MTC) or the control condition, (C) Parole
      Supervision and Case Management currently provided, using a randomized block assignment
      procedure. The research employs a prospective, longitudinal, repeated measures assessment
      with five data collection points: baseline (Time 1, or T1) corresponding to entry into the
      Community Corrections facility and at 3 (T2), 6 (T3), 12 (T4), and 18 (T5) months
      post-baseline. The major study hypothesis is that the E condition (compared to the C
      condition) will produce significantly greater improvement in the presenting problems of the
      study participants, as measured by substance use, mental health symptoms, and criminal
      activities.

      This project will advance scientific knowledge through a controlled study of the
      effectiveness of the MTC model, with demonstrated success in community settings, as a
      re-entry strategy for offenders with MICA disorders, thereby expanding the range of treatment
      models available to such clients in the community. In addition, the study will examine the
      degree to which prior prison treatment moderates the effectiveness of the Re-entry MTC, or
      the extent to which positive outcomes are independent of the type of treatment received
      during the prior incarceration. This distinction will inform program planning by establishing
      the value of MTC treatment in prison plus MTC during re-entry versus MTC re-entry treatment
      alone. Finally, the study tests a specific hypothesis about the degree to which the
      effectiveness of Re-entry MTC treatment is mediated by client progress during reentry, which
      will increase our understanding of the relationship between progress in treatment and
      post-treatment outcomes for offenders with MICA disorders.
    
  