
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Compare the overall survival and progression-free survival of patients with
           intermediate- or high-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma treated with high-dose
           chemoradiotherapy and autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation (APBSCT) vs
           conventional dose cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) (or
           CHOP plus rituximab for CD20+ disease) with possible late APBSCT.

        -  Compare the toxic effects of these regimens in this patient population.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized study. Patients are stratified according to disease risk
      (intermediate-high vs high).

      Patients receive CHOP chemotherapy comprising cyclophosphamide IV over 15 minutes,
      doxorubicin IV, and vincristine IV on day 1 and oral prednisone on days 1-5. Patients with
      CD20-positive disease also receive rituximab IV on day 1 (or day 0 during course 1 only).
      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks for 5 courses in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      Within 35 days of completing the fifth course, patients with partial or complete response are
      randomized to one of two treatment arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive CHOP (or CHOP plus rituximab [CHOP-R]) as above. Treatment
           repeats every 3 weeks for 3 additional courses. After completion of chemotherapy,
           patients are encouraged to undergo harvest of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) for
           possible use at time of relapse. After completion of 8 courses, patients receive no
           additional therapy until disease progression or biopsy-proven disease.

        -  Arm II: Patients receive one additional course of CHOP/CHOP-R followed by filgrastim
           (G-CSF), sargramostim (GM-CSF), or other colony-stimulating factors used singly or in
           combination according to center preference. PBSC are harvested and selected for CD34+
           cells. Patients under age 61 receive one of two preparative regimens: a total body
           irradiation (TBI)-based regimen comprising irradiation administered twice daily on days
           -8 to -5, etoposide IV over 4 hours on day -4, and cyclophosphamide IV over 1 hour on
           day -2 OR carmustine IV over 2 hours on days -6 to -4 and etoposide and cyclophosphamide
           as in the TBI-based regimen. Patients age 61 to 65 receive the augmented regimen
           comprising carmustine, etoposide, and cyclophosphamide as above. Patients receive
           involved field radiotherapy prior to the preparative regimen only if there is
           biopsy-proven residual bulk disease and at the discretion of the center. PBSC are
           reinfused 36-48 hours after completion of cyclophosphamide. If both bone marrow and PBSC
           are harvested, bone marrow is reinfused on day 0 and then PBSC are reinfused either the
           same day or the following day.

      Patients are followed every 6 months for 2 years and then annually thereafter.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: Approximately 360 patients (at least 135 per treatment arm) will be
      accrued for this study within 5 years.
    
  