
    
      The current study examines ICBT for panic and depression in Israel. Compelling evidence
      regarding the efficacy of ICBT has been reported for the treatment of depression and various
      anxiety disorders (Mayo-Wilson & Montgomery; 2013). This the first study to examine ICBT for
      panic and depression in Israel. The primary focus will be on treatment outcomes (symptom
      reduction and improved functioning), attrition, and acceptability and comparing outcomes to
      previous studies of face to face and internet treatments, including on the main proposed
      mechanism of change; interpretation of bodily sensations via the BBSIQ. The efficacy of ICBT
      has been established in many studies, but is insufficient for implementation without
      adaptation to local cultural needs and language. We will also examine changes in healthcare
      utilization and costs according to the results.

      For the full programs of the current study see: https://www.iterapi.se/sites/icbt_israel and
      https://www.iterapi.se/sites/depression_israel/

      The limited role of the therapist in ICBT is mainly to allow greater scaling. a second goal
      of the current study is to fill this gap by examining different aspects of the alliance with
      treatment outcomes and attrition using a newly developed self-report measure, the Internet
      Patient Experiences and Attunement Responsiveness (I-PEAR). We propose that the I-PEAR and
      its subscales (I-PEAR program; hereafter I-PEARp, I-PEAR therapist; hereafter I-PEARt; and
      Therapist-rated I-PEAR; hereafter thI-PEAR) will explain more variance of the outcome and
      dropouts than traditional scales (i.e., WAI-6, WAI-T). In the current study we examined the
      relationship between the alliance measures to treatment outcomes and attrition. Alll
      secondary measures will be examined in terms of change and how their change is related to
      change in symptoms (PDSS, ASI, MI in panic, PHQ, HAM-D in depression). These analyses include
      changes in attachment, insight, and emotions. Research is limited about the role of insight
      in panic disorder, therefore another secondary aim of this study is to examine the role of
      clinical (i.e., SAIQ and SAI) and cognitive insight (i.e., BCIS and BABS) in panic disorder,
      if they change and their relationship to symptom severity (i.e., PDSS, ASI, MI), symptom
      change, and correlates (e.g., cognitive flexibility, metacognition, jumping to conclusions,
      and implicit theories). Secondary studies will examine changes in self-criticism, emotion
      preferences and goals, sexual functioning, and curiosity and their relationship to outcomes.
    
  