
    
      This NIMH-Stanley Foundation Bipolar Network (the "Network") study will be the first
      systematic assessment in bipolar depression of the comparative efficacy of bupropion
      (Wellbutrin), sertraline (Zoloft), and venlafaxine (Effexor), three newer antidepressants
      which have very different mechanisms of action. Bupropion is largely dopaminergic while
      sertraline is a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) and venlafaxine is a mixed
      serotonin, norepinephrine, and to a lesser extent dopamine reuptake inhibitor. Subjects
      enrolled in this study will be bipolar patients on prophylactic treatment who experience a
      breakthrough major depressive episode. Subjects will be assigned in a double-blind manner
      using a three-arm forced randomization procedure to antidepressant therapy with either
      bupropion, sertraline, or venlafaxine for a ten-week acute response trial. The study
      medications will be assigned as adjuvant treatment to mood stabilizing medication(s) which
      have proven unsatisfactorily effective within therapeutic range(s) or at maximum tolerated
      dose(s). All subjects will receive active drug at dosages established as clinically relevant
      for unipolar major depressive disorder. Subjects and research personnel conducting
      cross-sectional and longitudinal rating assessments of mood and functioning will be blinded
      to treatment group assignment. The primary outcome measures will be the Inventory for
      Depressive Symptoms - Clinician form (IDS-C), the Clinical Global Impression (CGI-BP) scale,
      and the Life Charting Methodology (LCM). Subjects who worsen from baseline to week four of
      treatment will be considered non-responders to the initially assigned medication, and will be
      offered re-randomization to either of the two drugs to which the subject was not originally
      randomized (e.g., for bupropion non-response, to either sertraline or venlafaxine) for an
      additional ten-week acute response trial. Responders to the acute trial enter a 12 month
      trial of continuation therapy to assess long term effects on prophylaxis of depression and
      possible induction of mania or cycle acceleration. We also wish to explore possible clinical
      and biological correlates of acute and long term response to these antidepressants which have
      received almost no systematic study in bipolar illness. One hypothesis of this study is that
      the acute efficacy for the three antidepressants would be the same. Another hypothesis is
      that because of the potent noradrenergic (NE) effects, venlafaxine would have a higher rate
      of inducing mania compared with bupropion or sertraline.
    
  