
    
      This is a prospective, open, randomized, multi-center study. Primary screening of patients
      would take place in the Emergency room or Orthopedic ward according to the inclusion and
      exclusion criteria (see below). All patients (>= 65 yr) with a proximal hip fracture would be
      required to provide either written or verbal informed consent prior to being included in the
      study. Subsequently, NT-proBNP would be taken and if this is above the recommended levels
      suggesting cardiac failure (> 900 ng/l in patients 65-75 yrs old, and >1800 ng/l in patients
      > 75 yrs), the patients may be included into the study. Included patients would then be
      randomized into two groups: Standard management according to existing hospital routines and
      Optimized Management Patients with a normal NT-proBNP would be listed but would not be
      included in the study. Patients with proximal femur fracture who are > 65 yrs old and have an
      increased NT-proBNP and who have given informed consent would be randomized to either
      Standard Management or Optimized Management. The former group would be managed according to
      the hospital routines and cared for by a Specialist Anaesthesiologist and Orthopaedic surgeon
      preoperatively.

      Group O= Optimization Patients who are randomized to the Optimization group would be
      transferred to a Holding Area, which is close to the Operating Rooms 4-6 hours prior to
      planned surgery. The main aim of optimization is to achieve a normal oxygen delivery to the
      tissues preoperatively i.e. DO2: 500-600ml/min/m2. Optimized management means that patients
      first have an Echocardiography to evaluate myocardial function. Subsequently, an arterial
      line is inserted and optimization achieved by using this arterial line connected to a
      Flo-track system (Vigileo, Edwards). The system uses pulse wave analysis to assess several
      parameters including: stroke volume index (SVI), cardiac index (CI), systemic vascular
      resistance index (SVRI), as well as oxygen delivery (DO2).The main aim of goal-directed
      therapy is to achieve a normal oxygen delivery to the tissues i.e. DO2 500-600ml/min/m2.• Hb
      would be optimized to > 90 g/l

        -  SaO2 > 96%

        -  Stroke volume index (SVI) > 30

        -  Heart rate should ideally be < 80

      Stroke volume index (SVI) > 30 is achieved by repeated volume substitution in the form of
      100-200 ml colloid. If, despite bolus doses of colloids, the SVI is < 30, one would have to
      use ionotropic drugs e.g. dobutamine or levosimendan, in order to achieve this goa

      The study would be done in three hospitals: University Hospital, Linköping, University
      Hospital, Örebro and Jönköping Hospital. A total of 200 patients (100 in each group) would be
      included. It is expected that the study would be ongoing during a period of two years.
    
  