
    
      Objective/Hypothesis:

      Our overarching hypothesis is that acupuncture is beneficial following acute traumatic SCI
      with respect to severity of neuropathic pain syndromes, patient-perceived quality of life
      measures, and functional outcomes. The current literature suggests that acupuncture may
      improve upon traditional pharmacological treatment results for SCI related pain, and that
      patients are seeking improved pain management in order to improve their quality of life.
      While data is limited, there may also be improvement in motor functional recovery with the
      use of acupuncture. We do know that SCI related pain limits patient participation in
      rehabilitation, thus advances in the management of SCI related pain is a priority in SCI
      research in order to improve outcomes after SCI.

      Specific Aims:

      Specific Aim 1: To determine whether patients treated with acupuncture started during acute
      care have better immediate and long-term pain scores and decreases in self-reported pain
      interference.

      Specific Aim 2: To determine whether patients treated with acupuncture started during acute
      care will have better overall quality of life measurements and improvements in self-reported
      well-being and resilience.

      Specific Aim 3: To determine whether patients treated with acupuncture started during acute
      care will have improvement in functional recovery in comparison to the control group.

      Study Design:

      This trial will compare pain scores and patient-perceived quality of life for individuals who
      receive early and regular acupuncture therapy to a control group. Patients with blunt or
      penetrating traumatic SCI will be included. The Investigators will enroll 100 subjects over a
      36-month period from the R Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center (STC). Once consent is obtained,
      enrolled patients will be evaluated using the ISNCSCI examination. Information about
      neuropathic pain and quality of life will be scored using NIH CDE recommended validated
      instruments within 72 hours of injury, during the 8-week treatment period, and at 3 and 6
      months. The primary outcome is the improvement in NRS. The secondary outcomes are
      improvements in quality of life and functional recovery. Statistical analyses will involve
      constructive repeated measures mixed models to estimate the effect of treatment.

      Clinical Impact:

      The proposed trial will investigate the promising intervention of acupuncture for the
      management of neuropathic pain related to SCI. Improvement in neuropathic pain management is
      crucial in improving patients' rehabilitation, quality of life and ultimate outcome.
    
  