
    
      The prevalence of hypertension in black adults is higher than in any other race/ethnicity in
      the US, and among the highest in the world. Hypertension is a risk factor for several major
      cardiovascular diseases. Racial disparities in blood vessel function are well documented.
      Moreover, racial disparities in hypertension persist despite advances in pharmacotherapies.
      Therefore, a major knowledge gap remains in identifying the mechanism(s) underlying racial
      disparities in hypertension, and ultimately cardiovascular diseases.

      Our goal is to investigate reasons for the higher prevalence of blood vessel dysfunction and
      hypertension in black individuals, and to identify effective preventive strategies. Excess
      free radicals contribute to blood vessel dysfunction, kidney dysfunction, and thus
      hypertension as both blood vessel health and the kidneys contribute to blood pressure
      regulation. Moreover, excess free radicals contribute to blood vessel dysfunction in black
      adults. Mitochondria are a major source of free radicals. Mitochondria antioxidants improve
      blood vessel function in rodents and in human trials. A prior aging study demonstrated that
      acute MitoQ (single 160mg-dose mitoquinone) restored blood vessel function in older adults.
      Anohter recent study demonstrated that a single 80mg dose elicited similar improvements in
      adults with peripheral artery disease. however, the role of mitochondrial free radicals in
      racial disparites in blood vessel function is unclear. Our central hypothesis is that
      mitochondrial free radicals play a role in reduced blood vessel function and kidney in black
      adults. We will test our hypothesis using a randomized, placebo-controlled, crossover design,
      acute MitoQ supplement study in black and white adults (we will not exclude other races
      though). We will also measure blood pressure and urine biomarkers that are indicative of
      kidney injury in this proposal.

      Regarding methodology, we will perform blood draws, vascular testing, and record nervous
      system activity before and one hour after acute MitoQ and placebo consumption. We will also
      measure urine biomarkers of kidney function and blood pressure in the hours following acute
      MitoQ and placebo consumption in adults (19-75 years old).
    
  