
    
      The study will be carried out with prior authorization from the Local Research and Ethics
      Committee. Patients entitled to our healthcare services and complying with screening criteria
      will be included.

      Patients with scleroderma included in our database will be invited to participate in the
      study through a telephone call. Patients complying with the screening criteria and accepting
      to participate in the study will be given a date.

      On the day of the interview, they will be given the informed consent form. Once it has been
      signed, they will be asked to complete clinical recorder and serum samples were collected for
      biochemical determinations including Vitamin D status.

      Once patients have completed the initial evaluations, another visit will be scheduled two
      weeks later. Patients with hypovitaminosis D result will be randomly assigned to one of two
      groups: Group 1. Vitamin D3 supplementation and Group 2. Dietary recommendations. Two groups
      given instructions to follow dietary recommendations or to receive vitamin D3 supplementation
      and complete the medical measurements. Additionally, the investigators included SSc patients
      with vitamin D sufficiency and another one with healthy donors.

      On the second visit (four weeks later), clinical data and the following parameters will be
      recorded: calcium, phosforus, parathyroid hormone by quimioluniscencia 25-hydroxyvitamin D
      serum status by ELISA, intracellular cytokine (IL-2, INF-γ, IL-4 and IL-10) production from
      Th1, Th2 and Treg lymphocytes by flow cytometry.

      Group 1. Daily oral dosages of 5,000 UI vitamin D3 during 4 weeks.

      Group 2. Dietary recommendations according to the recommendations for normal daily intake of
      vitamin D in food during 4 week.

      And additionally, the investigators are including SSc group with vitamin D sufficiency and
      healthy donors both as comparators.

      Each group will be given written instructions regarding the drug use. At the end of the
      supplementations another visit will be scheduled to check for treatment compliance (remaining
      capsules will be counted) and patients will complete the second clinical evaluations and
      calcium, phosforus, parathyroid hormone by quimioluniscencia 25-hydroxyvitamin D serum status
      by ELISA, intracellular cytokine (IL-2, INF-γ, IL-4 and IL-10) production from Th1, Th2 and
      Treg lymphocytes by flow cytometry. At the end the statistical analysis will be carried out.

      Participants will also be asked to complete a form recording symptoms and potential adverse
      events.

      Lymphocyte Separation Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were isolated by density
      gradient centrifugation (Ficoll-Hypaque; Sigma-Aldrich) from freshly drawn venous blood.
      Intracellular cytokine production in PBMCs (1x106 cells/tube) were stimulated at 37ºC for 4h
      with Ionomicyn calcium salt from Streptomyces conglobates (1μg/ 1 x106 cells, Sigma-Aldrich),
      Brefeldin A (10μg/ 1 x106 cells, Cayman chemical company) and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate
      (PMA-25ng/1 x106 cells, Sigma-Aldrich).

      Cell Surface and Intracellular Staining of T Cells PBMCs were resuspended with (PBS)
      phosphate-buffered saline (pH 7.2) (Thermo Fisher Scientific) and stained with monoclonal
      conjugated antibodies with either fluorescein isothiocynate (FITC), peridinin chlorophyll
      protein complex (PerCP), phyco-erythrin (PE) or allophycocyanin (APC) and directed to CD69
      (L/78), CD25, CD3, CD4 (BD PharmigenTM and BD Bioscience) for 20 min. For intracellular
      staining of IL-4 (BD PharmigenTM), IL-2, INF-γ (BD Fast Immune), FoxP3 (Affymetrix) and IL10
      (eBioscinence), cells previously were fixed using fixation buffer (BioLegend) for 20 min at
      room temperature followed by a washing step with permeabilization buffer (Perm/Wash Buffer BD
      Pharmigen TM) according to the manufacture's protocols, then staining cells were incubated
      with monoclonal antibody for 20 min at room temperature and resuspended in PBS buffer.
      Evaluation of Th1, Th2 and Treg subpopulations by flow cytometry were determinate as IL-2+
      and INF-γ+ percentages expression for Th1 lymphocytes, IL-4+ for Th2, and CD25+FoxP3+IL-10+
      for Treg within the CD3+CD4+ gate. Data were acquired and analyzed using a four-parameter
      flow cytometer FACS Calibur using ProCellQuest software (Beckman Coulter; BD Biosciences) and
      Flowing Software (Version 2.5.1) Cell Imaging Core .
    
  