
    
      Seventy per cent of ankle fractures are unimalleolar injuries, the Weber B -type of fibula
      fracture being by far the most common type. The ankle mortise can either be stable or
      unstable in this type of fracture depending on the accompanying soft tissue injury. The
      stability of the ankle mortise has fundamental clinical relevance, as it dictates the
      subsequent treatment strategy. If left untreated, an unstable ankle mortise may lead to
      fracture healing complications and increased risk of post-traumatic osteoarthritis and
      subsequently poor functional outcome. Therefore, current clinical practice guidelines
      recommend surgical treatment for these injuries. The gold standard surgical treatment for
      unstable ankle fractures is open reduction and internal fixation (ORIF) using 1/3
      semi-tubular plates and screws.

      The most common complication following operative treatment of ankle fracture is wound
      infection, the incidence ranging from 6.1 to10% in unselected patient materials.

      To date, there is only one published randomized trial comparing operative and non-operative
      treatment in patients with an unstable unimalleolar fibula fracture. In this 1-year
      follow-up, the authors concluded that patients managed nonoperatively had equivalent
      functional outcomes compared with operative treatment; however, the risk of fracture
      displacement and problems with union was substantially higher in patients managed
      nonoperatively. In turn, 10/41 (24%) patients treated operatively were re-operated; five
      patients had a post-operative infection and five patients required hardware removal.

      This prospective randomized non-inferiority trial is designed to compare surgical and
      non-operative treatment of ER-stress positive unimalleolar ankle fractures. The primary,
      non-inferiority, intention-to-treat outcome is the Olerud-Molander Ankle Score at 104 weeks
      or 24 months (OMAS; range, 0-100; higher scores indicating better outcome and fewer
      symptoms). The predefined non-inferiority margin for the primary outcome at the primary
      assessment time point is 8 points. Secondary outcomes are ankle function, pain, quality of
      life, ankle range of motion, and radiographic outcome. Follow-up assessments are performed at
      2, 6, 12, and 104 weeks (primary time point). Treatment related complications and harms;
      symptomatic non-unions, loss of congruity of the ankle joint, and wound infections are also
      recorded.

      The ER-stress test is performed by a consultant trauma orthopedic surgeon or a trauma
      resident who has completed trauma rotation. Medial clear space opening of 5 mm or more will
      be considered a positive ER stress test. Patients are randomized to non-operative or surgical
      treatment using a sealed envelope method. Surgical treatment is carried out using a standard
      open reduction and internal fixation with 1/3 semitubular plate and screws. Post-operatively,
      surgically treated ankles are placed in a below-the-knee cast for six weeks. They are advised
      to carry out partial weight-bearing (15 to 20 kilograms) for the first four weeks and then
      weight-bear as tolerated for the remaining two weeks. The non-operative treatment protocol is
      similar to that of the surgically treated patients: six-week below-the-knee cast with partial
      weight-bearing for the first four weeks and then weight-bearing as tolerated for the
      remaining two weeks.
    
  