
    
      Cancer of the ovary, fallopian tube and peritoneum (referred to as epithelial ovarian cancer,
      EOC) remains the leading cause of death from gynecologic cancer in the US and is expected to
      account for 22,000 cases and 14,000 deaths in 2016. Patients classically present with
      peritoneal carcinomatosis and ascites, a reflection of the dissemination pattern of this
      cancer in the peritoneal cavity. Malignant cells in EOC disseminate throughout the peritoneal
      cavity forming tumors on the parietal and visceral peritoneum. The majority of patients will
      be found to have advanced International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage
      III and IV disease at initial presentation. Patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis from EOC
      most often succumb to advanced locoregional disease in the form of intractable ascites,
      malignant visceral obstruction and cancer cachexia.

      Primary cytoreductive surgery (PCS) followed by systemic chemotherapy has been the standard
      of care for women presenting with advanced EOC. The ability to achieve optimal surgical
      cytoreduction is historically the most important prognostic factor for women with EOC. The
      Gynecologic Oncology Group defines optimal cytoreduction as a post-operative residual disease
      of ≤ 1 cm in largest diameter . Wide variability in the extent and effort of cytoreductive
      surgery is seen in clinical practice with surgical cytoreductive efforts ranging from
      standard procedures (hysterectomy, salpingo-opherectomy, omentectomy) to complex multiviceral
      resections that may require radical upper abdominal surgery. There is increasing evidence
      that the patients who ultimately gain the most benefit from surgery are those with no gross
      residual disease (R0 resection) at the completion of PCS . An examination of 2,655 patients
      with epithelial ovarian cancer or primary peritoneal cancer enrolled in the Gynecologic
      Oncology Group 182 study demonstrated improved OS and PFS in those patients with in whom PCS
      resulted in a complete gross resection . Patients presenting with bulky upper abdominal
      disease (UAD) have a particularly poor prognosis. Women presenting with bulky UAD have been
      shown to have inferior PFS and OS survival compared to patents with no or limited UAD even
      among patients in whom optimal debulking surgery is successfully performed . Importantly, the
      presence of bulky UAD is associated with diminishing rates of successful PCS.

      Advanced stage EOC is heterogenous, ranging from limited intra-abdominal disease to diffuse
      carcinomatosis involving the majority of the peritoneal surfaces. Use of a universal staging
      system for peritoneal malignancy may aid the clinician in treatment planning and
      prognostication. While several attempts have been made to develop peritoneal cancer scoring
      systems, the most widely used is the Peritoneal Cancer Index (PCI) as described by Jacquet
      and Sugarbaker in 1996 . The PCI quantitates the volume of tumor implants in 13 different
      abdomino-pelvic regions which are added up to form a score ranging from 0-39. While the PCI
      may be used as a prognostic indicator, it does not directly correlate with resectability of
      the disease. Tumor involvement of critical anatomic sites, for example regions 9, 10 and 11,
      representing the jejunum and ileum, may be associated with unresectable disease despite a low
      PCI score .

      Two recently published randomized controlled trials demonstrated that neoadjuvant
      chemotherapy (NACT) and interval cytoreductive surgery (ICS) was non-inferior to PCS and
      adjuvant chemotherapy and resulted in a lower incidence of treatment related morbidity and
      mortality. These trials, however, have been criticized for lower optimal debulking rates and
      significantly lower median overall survival rates compared to prior trials in advanced EOC.
      The choice between PCS and NACT remains controversial and clinical guidelines have recently
      been published to aid clinicians in the choice between these treatment plans .

      Patients who are not candidates for PCS due to medical comorbidities, poor performance status
      or clinically apparent or obvious unresectable disease constitute a group with a particularly
      poor prognosis. These patients are preferentially treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy
      (NACT). NACT is associated with decreased peri-operative morbidity and an increased
      likelihood of optimal cytoreduction at surgery compared with primary surgery, however, to
      date a survival benefit or improvement has not been demonstrated . A recent
      multi-institutional observational study evaluating the use of NACT in patients with stage
      III/IV EOC at 6 NCI designated cancer centers demonstrated a significant increase in the use
      of NACT since 2010, from 16 - 34% in stage III and from 41 - 62% in stage IV EOC . Patients
      who received NACT were more likely to undergo optimal CRS but were less likely to require ICU
      admission or re-hospitalization. Among women with stage IIIC disease who had optimal CRS to
      ≤1 cm, NACT was associated with decreased overall survival when compared to PCS. This
      difference in survival, however, did not persist in NACT patients in whom CRS resulted in no
      gross residual disease.

      Because of the tendency for EOC to remain confined within the peritoneal cavity for much of
      the course of disease, the use of post-operative intra-peritoneal (IP) chemotherapy has been
      extensively evaluated in women who have undergone successful cytoreductive surgery (CRS).
      Four large randomized clinical trials have been performed by the Gynecologic Oncology Group
      (GOG), three of which demonstrate improved overall survival in patients treated with an IP
      regimen. GOG 172 demonstrated a striking 16 month improvement in overall survival in
      patient's receiving IP cisplatin and paclitaxel when compared to patients receiving
      intravenous cisplatin and paclitaxel, a survival difference that was sustained in a follow-up
      publication after a median 10 year survival . Despite randomized controlled trial (RCT)
      evidence supporting a survival advantage for IP chemotherapy, its use remains low, largely
      due to potential toxicity and possible IP catheter complications. Despite optimal CRS and
      systemic chemotherapy the majority of patients will ultimately experience recurrence of the
      disease.

      Heated intra-operative peritoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) has garnered interest in the
      international oncology community for the treatment of peritoneal surface malignancies. HIPEC
      has demonstrated clinical efficacy for the treatment of pseudomyxoma peritonei, appendiceal
      cancer, colon cancer and malignant mesothelioma. HIPEC allows for the treatment of residual
      microscopic disease at the completion of CRS. HIPEC takes advantage of the plasma-peritoneal
      barrier to allow for peritoneal drug levels 20-1000 times that seen in plasma . HIPEC to
      >41°C may have anti-tumor effects as well as allow for better penetration of the drug into
      residual tumor . The use of HIPEC at the time of surgery, prior to the formation of
      adhesions, may allow for improved distribution of chemotherapy throughout the peritoneal
      cavity.

      HIPEC has been investigated as a treatment for patients with newly diagnosed EOC as well as
      for patients with recurrent disease. Retrospective and case-control studies show a survival
      advantage for patients in both the primary and recurrent disease setting.

      A recent randomized controlled study performed in Europe was the first well-designed,
      randomized, prospective clinical trial to demonstrate a survival advantage for HIPEC in EOC .
      This phase 3 randomized trial evaluated the administration of HIPEC using cisplatin in women
      undergoing interval cytoreductive surgery after NACT and demonstrated a significant
      improvement in progression free and overall survival with acceptable toxicity.

      By far, the most common drug evaluated in HIPEC for EOC is Cisplatin. Cisplatin (CDDP) is a
      heavy metal complex containing a central atom of platinum surrounded by two chloride atoms
      and two ammonia molecules in the cis- position. It has biochemical properties similar to that
      of bifunctional alkylating agents producing inter- and intra-strand cross-links in DNA. It is
      non-cell-cycle specific. Approximately 95% of the dose is absorbed from the peritoneal cavity
      in 1.0 hour. CDDP concentrates in the liver, kidney and intestine and is excreted by the
      kidneys. The dose of CDDP recommended for normothermic intraperitoneal administration is the
      same as that recommended for intravenous administration and ranges from 75 -100 mg/m2. The
      major dose-limiting toxicity of CDDP is dose-related cumulative renal insufficiency. Other
      toxicities include ototoxicity, myelosuppression, nausea and vomiting, hair loss and
      peripheral neuropathy.

      A recent phase I multicenter trial of NACT followed by HIPEC in EOC using CDDP established a
      dose of 70 mg/m2 as a tolerable dose in patients who had received 6 cycles of carboplatin and
      paclitaxel neoadjuvant chemotherapy . The results of this recently published phase I clinical
      trial are encouraging. However, in current clinical practice, patients tend to receive 3
      cycles of NACT with carboplatin and paclitaxel based regimens followed by CRS, as opposed to
      6 initial cycles of NACT given in the phase I study.

      The investigators propose a pilot study evaluating the feasibility of HIPEC in women
      undergoing interval CRS and achieving optimal tumor cytoreduction after 3 cycles of NACT. The
      safety, tolerability and efficacy of HIPEC will be evaluated in this cohort of EOC patients
      with historically inferior outcomes.
    
  