
    
      Over the last 20 years, laparoscopic colonic surgery has become an accepted first-line
      treatment for colon cancer. A population-based study showed that laparoscopic colonic
      resections can be performed with lower hospital costs up to 90 days after discharge when
      compared to open surgery. Laparoscopic colonic resections have also been associated with
      fewer postoperative complications and lower mortality.

      New Zealand has one of the highest rates of bowel cancer in the world, and it is the second
      highest cause of cancer deaths in New Zealand. With the implementation of a bowel screening
      programme in New Zealand, the projected numbers of stage 1 bowel cancers are expected to
      increase. More avenues to improve perioperative care need to be explored to improve patient
      outcomes.

      Controlling postoperative pain effectively has been shown to reduce the length of hospital
      stay and improve patient/clinical outcomes. Opioids work as μ-receptor agonists in the spinal
      cord and brain, and although opioids are excellent at reducing pain, they are associated with
      nausea, vomiting, dizziness, decreased blood pressure, and urinary retention. Epidurals have
      been incorporated into Enhanced Recovery After Surgery protocols for controlling
      post-operative pain. However, epidurals are an invasive procedure with significant side
      effects such as hypotension, urinary retention, respiratory depression, motor blockade and
      rarely epidural abscess and meningitis. It has also been shown that up to 30 percent of
      epidural catheters dislodge, block or leak. These complications have led to a movement
      towards other regional analgesia techniques which allow local anaesthetic (LA) to target the
      abdominal wound specifically.

      Intraperitoneal local anaesthetic (IPLA) has shown promise in reducing pain after colonic
      surgery with a meta-analysis9, and a recent IPLA colorectal study conducted at Counties
      Manukau health showing that it reduces pain and opioid use over and above the effect of an
      epidural10, which is primarily aimed at the abdominal wound. After an IPLA bolus serum local
      anaesthetic levels are detectable within 2 minutes. Some studies show reduced early
      postoperative pain and opioid consumption with intravenous lignocaine infusion alone. The
      question remains however if there is a benefit from using intraperitoneal local anaesthetic
      compared to administering it intravenously as the IPLA should block both the intraabdominal
      wound, via a local action, and the skin wound via a systemic action.. This has been
      investigated in four studies, however none of these studies compared intravenous local
      anaesthetic (IVLA) and IPLA for colon resection.

      The aim is that, by optimising analgesia regimes using local anaesthetic, we can improve
      patient experience of pain and recovery thereby achieving an earlier discharge and early
      recovery from surgery. This has significant economic benefits for all involved.
    
  