
    
      Pneumonia is a common infectious disease of the lung, often requiring treatment in the
      hospital. Clinical scoring systems are available, identifying patients not requiring
      hospitalization. However, the course of disease of patients in the hospital remains hard to
      predict. While most patients will recover quickly, some will, despite appropriate treatment,
      develop a severe course leading to sepsis and systemic responses resulting in organ
      dysfunction. The PROGRESS study aims to identify clinical, genetic and other molecular
      markers and combinations thereof predicting a severe course of pneumonia in the hospital.
      Such predictors will, for instance, support decisions on earlier transfer of patients to
      intensive care and thus improving outcome.

      The PROGRESS study was initially approved by the ethics board of the University Hospital
      Jena, Friedrich-Schiller-University Jena, Germany (2403-10/08, November 6th, 2008) and
      subsequently by the ethics committees of all recruiting study centers.

      In this observational, longitudinal case-cohort study, patients are enrolled within 48 hours
      of hospitalization and patient's progress is followed in much detail for up to six days
      thereafter. Further data are collected until discharge from the hospital. Patients are
      followed up on at days 28, 180, and 360 after enrollment.

      Baseline assessment comprises sociodemographic, anamnestic, family history, and live style
      information. Upon enrollment, Pneumonia Severity Index (PSI) and CURB-65 are determined. For
      the day of enrollment and up to six subsequent study days routine laboratory and clinical
      observations and information on therapy are documented as well as data for determining the
      Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score, Systemic Inflammatory Response Syndrome
      (SIRS) status, and organ dysfunction. Starting with enrollment, up to six consecutive sets of
      biomaterials are collected comprising serum, plasma, and materials for extraction of RNA.
      Blood for extraction of DNA is collected once.

      Follow up comprises vital status, housing situation, recurrence of pneumonia, and a quality
      of life questionnaire.

      Analysis of cross sectional and time series data will identify clinical, genetic, and other
      molecular markers predicting a severe course of pneumonia in the hospital. Analysis of
      multilevel 'omics data in conjunction with clinical data will provide new insights into
      pathomechanistic details of pneumonia progression.
    
  