
    
      Delays in starting patients with multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) on appropriate
      medication treatment lead to worsened patient outcomes and increased risk of transmission. In
      Peru, the National Tuberculosis Program (NTP) has provided treatment for patients with MDR-TB
      since 1996, with cure rates ranging from 48% to 83%. Nonetheless, significant delays exist in
      the diagnosis of MDR cases and timely treatment initiation, in particular since MDR-TB
      treatment has been scaled to a national level. Our preliminary work has found that the
      average turn-around-time (TAT) from the request of a DST to the prescription of appropriate
      treatment was 148 days (4.9 months).

      An information system could be used to virtually eliminate part of this delay: the time to
      communicate results between the different institutions. In 2001 we developed and deployed a
      web based medical record system, the PIH-EMR, to assist in the clinical management of these
      MDR-TB patients. This system includes a substantial set of data entry and analysis tools for
      laboratory results including sputum smears, cultures and DSTs. Over the last six months the
      PIH-EMR has been modified to support the decentralization of DSTs in the regional
      laboratories. This laboratory component of the PIH-EMR, termed "e-Chasqui," permits web-based
      entry of culture and DST results at all regional and central laboratories performing these
      tests. In addition, the system includes applications to assess quality control, generate
      aggregate reports, notify health centers of new results or contaminated samples, and track
      enrolled patients and the status of pending laboratory tests.

      The NTP and the National Reference Laboratory (NRL) have agreed to integrate e-Chasqui into
      the current management of patients at risk of MDR-TB in two regions, and if effective, to
      provide a national network of all laboratories performing DST. Because of the intensive
      initial demands on resources and training, the implementation of the information system will
      occur in stages (parts A and B of this study).

      Broadly put, this study will provide data on whether the use of information systems can be
      shown to improve quality of patient care. More specifically, it will assess the impact of
      e-Chasqui on reducing reporting delays and laboratory data errors, and improving patient
      outcomes.

      This is a prospective observational controlled study to compare the effects of a web-based
      laboratory information system (e-Chasqui) between a network of health establishments with
      e-Chasqui access (intervention group) compared with a network of health establishments
      without e-Chasqui access (control group). The data is being collected by the overarching
      study "Operational Assessment of Diagnostic Methods for MDR-TB in Lima, Peru."

      The study is planned in two parts: Part A will be a simultaneous control study occurring in
      the "transition" period comparing endpoints in those health establishments with e-Chasqui
      access to those in matched health establishments without e-Chasqui access. Part B will be an
      historical control study comparing endpoints in the establishments which gain initial
      e-Chasqui access, before (historical control) and after (intervention) the implementation.
      Data sources include: patient charts, interview with health providers to confirm or clarify
      accuracy of data in patient charts, microbiology registries at local, regional and national
      laboratories, and the information system database. The total number of subjects to be
      enrolled study-wide is 1849.
    
  