
    
      Neck pain is a common disorder, affecting 30-50% of the general population annually,
      comprising approximately 25% of the patients receiving physiotherapy in outpatient clinics.
      Symptoms include pain and stiffness in the neck, headache, dizziness, and pain radiating to
      the shoulders or upper limbs. Physical impairments associated with neck pain can include
      decreased cervical range of motion (ROM), increased fatigability, compromised strength and
      endurance of the cervical muscles, and impaired sensorimotor control.

      A variety of Physiotherapeutic interventions have been described for the treatment of neck
      pain. Taping is a passive technique, widely used for the treatment of sport injuries, muscle
      imbalance, and impaired neural control. Clinically, taping is used for neck pain in spite of
      lack of research regarding its effectiveness. In addition, the mechanism by which elastic
      tape application affects tissue and function is yet unknown, but various effects have been
      described such as the ability to increase ROM, facilitate muscles and proprioception, and
      decrease pain.

      A literature search retrieved only 3 relevant studies examining the use and efficacy of
      elastic tape on the cervical spine. Gonzalez-Iglesias et al. (2009) conducted a randomized
      trial in whiplash patients, Karatas et al. (2012) studied the effect of taping in surgeons
      with cervical pain after performing surgery, and Saavedra-Hernandez et al (2012)- in patients
      with mechanical neck pain.

      All three studies demonstrated short-term effectiveness of elastic taping on pain relief and
      cervical ROM. However, all samples were small, of mostly young participants, and effect size
      was not described. Reported changes were small implying that further research is needed.

      The objective of this study was to evaluate the short-term effect of cervical elastic taping
      on pain intensity, disability and neck kinematics in patients with chronic neck pain.

      Materials and Methods

      This study was a non-controlled trial with a pre-post test design and a single intervention
      group. Ethics approval was obtained from the ethics committee, the Faculty of Social welfare
      and Health Sciences at the University of Haifa, and from the Helsinki committee at Rambam
      Health Care Campus Helsinki Committee.

      Participants

      A convenience sample of 27 individuals, 13 males and 14 females, was recruited via electronic
      media. Inclusion criteria were (a) chronic neck pain (>3 months), with or without referral to
      the upper limb; (b) age of 18 years or more; (c) pain intensity≥ 30% on Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS). Subjects were excluded if they had physiotherapy in the previous 2 months, known skin
      allergy to the tape, evidence for active vestibular disorders, medical conditions that may
      affect performance such as Rheumatic Arthritis, Diabetes Mellitus, neurological disorders,
      head injuries, lower limb pathologies, local or systemic infections, inability to communicate
      and provide informed consent, unstable fracture/dislocation, post-orthopaedic surgery in the
      upper body or spine, and pregnancy. Following screening, each participant signed a consent
      form.

      Virtual Reality Assessment

      A neck virtual reality (VR) system was used to assess cervical motion kinematics by the
      protocol of Sarig-Bahat et al. (2010). This system included off-the-shelf hardware and
      customized software. Hardware included a head-mounted display with a built-in tracker.
      Virtual environment software was developed using Unity-pro software, version 3.40f520.

      Cervical motion was elicited by interaction with images during a video game displayed on the
      two monitors embedded in the HMD. All dynamic motion data was recorded during the VR session
      and analysed by the software in real-time. During the game, the participant acts as a pilot
      flying an airplane. The position of the airplane was controlled by the participant's head
      motion. Yellow targets were displayed on the HMD monitors and the participant had to contact
      them within 5 seconds by aligning the airplane with the virtual target. Once the target was
      contacted, a new target would appear at a random location and the player's task was to move
      towards it. Based on this principle, the VR assessment included (a) evaluating cervical ROM,
      (b) cervical motion velocity, and (c) cervical motion accuracy during a smooth head pursuit
      task.

      Taping Technique

      Kinesio®Tex Tape 23 was used in this study. Two strips of tape were applied: The first layer
      was a Y-shaped strip with 2 tails on 2 sides of the cervical vertebrae, placed over the
      posterior cervical extensor muscles and applied from the insertion to origin. The second
      strip was an I-shaped approximately 20cm long, transversally applied over the C5-C7 vertebra
      with a tension-on-base technique in a space correction technique.

      Study Procedure

      Patients were screened by inclusion and exclusion criteria. The physiotherapist performing
      the assessments and taping techniques was a qualified physiotherapist with 13 years of
      clinical experience in musculoskeletal physiotherapy and was a qualified Kinesio® taping
      practitioner.

      Each patient was assessed 3 times: pre- and 20 minutes post-taping on day 1, and in a
      follow-up assessment 7 days later.

      Following the subjective examination and completion of the questionnaires, an explanatory VR
      session was provided to minimize training effects and to reach a stable level of VR control.
      Patients were evaluated in upright sitting position, with the trunk strapped to the back of a
      rigid chair to eliminate thoracic motion. Calibration was performed at each session for each
      participant, as instructed by the manufacturer. Each VR evaluation took up to 15 minutes.
      Breaks were provided when needed. Following the assessment, tape was applied. After a washout
      period 20 minutes post-taping application, the second examination was performed. No other
      physiotherapy procedures were provided. Patients were instructed to maintain the elastic tape
      for up to 5 days. They were instructed to remove the tape if symptoms were aggravated or if
      any topical irritation appeared. The third examination was one-week after the initial
      examination and included VR assessment without tape application.

      A paired-samples t-test was used to evaluate the pre-post differences in studied outcome
      measures. Two paired-sample t-tests were run: pre- vs. immediate post-, and pre- vs. one week
      post-taping. Significance level was set at 5%. Cohen's d was calculated to determine the
      effect size. Data were analyzed using the SPSS software, version 17.
    
  