
    
      The proposed experimental design relies on an established task that can induce a short-term
      stress response to enable us to the test of efficacy of the smart toy in helping children
      regulate their emotions in controlled settings. The investigators will use an adapted version
      of the well-established Trier Social Stress Test for Children (TSST-C). The TSST-C was chosen
      as it is one of the most popular and standardised methods to induce a strong psychosocial
      stress response in experimental settings, due to its socio-evaluative character and
      uncontrollability. Prior literature shows that (i) the TSST-C is suitable for children in our
      age range; and (ii) stress returns to normal levels shortly after children receive positive
      feedback from the experimenters.

      The original TSST-C protocol consists of a preparation period, public speaking task and
      mental arithmetic task. The investigators have chosen to only use the preparation period,
      public speaking task and anticipation of the mental arithmetic task as stressors, as pilots
      suggest that these suffice to elicit a strong-enough stress response that will allow us to
      test the toy's efficacy; and it would be unethical to subject children to unnecessary tasks.

      == Study protocol: ==

      On arrival to the room where the experiment will take place, children in both groups will be
      informed that there are three tasks involved in the study:

        1. giving a speech,

        2. a calculation task, and

        3. helping a newly discovered creature (the toy) which appears to be anxious calm down.

      The children will then be fitted with the Empatica E4 wristband which will continuously and
      non-intrusively monitor their heart rate and skin conductance, and introduced to the toy in
      order to limit the impact of the novelty effect associated with it. Participants in the
      control group will be asked to imagine that the toy is a creature which is anxious, while
      participants in the experimental group will also be told that the creature's heartbeat is
      fast when it is anxious and slows down when it calms down. The researcher will demonstrate
      three soothing interactions with the toy (cuddling, stroking, and slow breathing) for 30
      seconds and then give the children the toy for 1 minute, after which it will be returned to
      the researcher.

      Following this introduction, participants will stay in the room for 10 minutes reading
      pictures books if they would like to in order to establish baseline stress levels. After 10
      minutes have passed, the researcher will administer the state anxiety scale of the State
      Trait Anxiety Inventory for Children (STAI-CH).

      Participants will then hear the beginning of a story and will be asked to finish it in a
      manner as exciting as possible in front of a microphone and a camera. Participants will be
      told that other study participants will do the same and will be prompted to perform better
      than them, even though in reality they will not be judged for their performance. Participants
      will remain in the room for 5 minutes preparing their story.

      After the preparation period the researcher will administer the state anxiety scale for the
      second time. Following this, participants will be asked to stand in front of the microphone,
      the camera and the researcher, and finish the story as excitingly as possible in 3 minutes.
      If the participant finishes the story in less than 3 minutes, the researcher will ask them to
      continue in a friendly, supportive manner for a maximum of 3 times, using lines like "You are
      doing very well. You have to continue for a little bit longer, there is still more time to
      say your story."

      After the speech task is completed the researcher will administer the state anxiety scale for
      the third time. Following this, the researcher will tell participants that it is time for the
      calculation task, which will supposedly be asking them to mentally subtract by 7's from a
      three-digit number. After saying this, the researcher will pretend that there are some issues
      with the camera that need to be fixed before they can start, and that they will have to shift
      the order of the two remaining tasks so that they have more time to fix the camera. At this
      point children will be exposed to one of the two conditions (interactive or non-interactive
      toy) for 5 minutes, following which they will complete the state anxiety scale for the final
      time.

      The researcher will then tell children that due to the technical issues and time constraints
      they will not have to do the calculation task, but can rather move on to the last part of the
      study which is a 10-minute debriefing and feedback session. Every child will be told that
      they performed extremely well and that the experimenters pretended that they competing with
      the other participants to induce competitive conditions. The debriefing session will include
      a manipulation check (how stressfully the experienced the preparation period, speech task and
      anticipation of mental arithmetic task period) and a short interview about their experience,
      which will be audio-recorded.

      At the end of the procedure, children will be allowed to relax in the room for 15 minutes.
      The researcher will suggest that they play with the interactive toy; sit down and take deep
      breaths; listen to guided mindfulness sessions; or read one of the age-appropriate books in
      the room.
    
  