
    
      Mitral regurgitation (MR) is the most common heart valve condition in the world. MR occurs
      when the mitral valve does not close properly, allowing blood to leak back into the upper
      chamber of the heart. As a result, the heart may try to pump harder in order to compensate
      for the decrease in blood flow to the rest of the body. Patients with severe MR suffer from
      debilitating symptoms such as shortness of breath, heart palpitations, lightheadedness, and
      fatigue. These patients are at risk of poor quality of life, marked limitation in activity,
      repeated heart failure hospitalizations, and increased mortality. Chronic severe MR is often
      associated with heart failure and can lead to death if left untreated.

      While mitral valve repair or replacement surgery is currently regarded as standard of care,
      many patients with clinically significant MR are at an unacceptable risk of morbidity and
      mortality and are therefore not appropriate surgical candidates. To optimize afterload
      reduction and treatment of fluid load, these patients are often treated with medical
      management (i.e., beta blockers, ACE inhibitors, angiotensin II receptor blockers) which may
      relieve MR symptoms, but does not address the underlying cause of the condition. As a result,
      a significant portion of patients treated medically continue to progress to heart failure and
      experience an increasingly debilitating quality of life. A significant unmet clinical need
      thus exists for the treatment of moderate-to-severe and severe MR in high surgical risk
      patients.

      The MitraClip System has been in clinical use for treatment of significant MR since 2003. The
      MitraClip System received CE (Conformité Européenne) Mark for both DMR and FMR indications in
      March 2008 and was approved by FDA for DMR indication in October 2013 and for FMR indication
      in March 2019. The system is approved for use in more than 102 countries or regions
      worldwide. More than 100,000 patients have undergone the MitraClip procedure worldwide. On
      June 15, 2020, the MitraClip System has been approved for clinical use in China.
    
  