
    
      This is an observational (investigators observe participants and measure outcomes without
      assigning a treatment), non-product specific, regional multicenter (conducted at multiple
      sites) and multicountry, cross-sectional (observation of all members of a population at one
      specific point in time), epidemiological study (study of the patterns, causes, and effects of
      health and disease conditions in defined populations). The study will be conducted in 3
      steps. In Step 1 (screening phase), all adult participants visiting their gastroenterologist
      (for any condition) within a 3 month period will be screened using the ANMA screening
      worksheet. In Step 2A (diagnosis phase - during investigator chosen consecutive consultation
      days), all the eligible participants will be required to complete a combination Diagnosis
      Questionnaire to obtain a diagnosis of CC based on different criteria: self-defined,
      investigator-judgement, ANMA tool, and ROME III criteria. Details about previous examinations
      and demography will also be collected during Step 2A of the study, together with Patient
      Assessment of Constipation Symptoms (PAC-SYM). Participants with a positive response to the
      ANMA diagnosis tool will proceed to Step 2B. In Step 2B (documentation phase), more
      information about the participant will be collected using the documentation questionnaire:
      demography, medical history, history of CC, current symptoms of CC, comorbidities, past and
      current medications for CC. The Patient Assessment of Constipation-Quality of Life (PAC-QOL)
      scale will be used to assess participant's satisfaction with their current treatment.
      Approximately 2000 participants will be screened to yield approximately 400 participants with
      suspected chronic constipation for whom the Diagnostic and Documentation Questionnaire will
      be filled in. Safety evaluations will include assessment of adverse events and special
      reporting situations such as pregnancy.
    
  