
    
      Identifying the optimal time when patients are ready to be weaned from invasive ventilation
      is challenging and often arbitrary. To identify weaning candidates, current guidelines
      recommend that clinicians use a combination of subjective clinical assessments and objective
      measurements. However, clinician's subjective assessments of weaning readiness underestimate
      the probability that patients can be successfully liberated from mechanical ventilation. Even
      the most objective measurement, the respiratory frequency to tidal volume ratio or rapid
      shallow breathing index (f/VT), has only limited value [Likelihood ratio + 1.58 (1.30 -1.90)]
      in predicting successful extubation after a trial of spontaneous breathing trial (SBT).

      More than two decades of research support the use of specific strategies to limit the
      duration of invasive ventilation including the (i) use of multidisciplinary screening
      protocols to identify SBT candidates, (ii) conduct of SBTs in patients who meet screening
      criteria, and (iii) use of specific modes and techniques Pressure Support (PS) and once daily
      SBTs [e.g., PS or T-piece (no support)] to discontinue support in patients who fail an
      initial SBT and require weaning. Compared to usual care, earlier trials have shown that
      protocolized weaning, led by allied health care providers (RTs, nurses) reduced weaning time.

      A systematic review and meta-analysis of 11 trials involving 1,971 critically ill patients,
      conducted by one investigative member of the study team (KB), demonstrated that screening
      protocols reduce the total duration of mechanical ventilation, the time spent weaning and ICU
      length of stay. Only 1 trial (n=385) compared twice daily screening led by RTs and bedside
      nurses to usual care (requiring a physician order to conduct an SBT) and found a
      significantly shorter duration of ventilation and a trend toward a lower
      ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) rate in the twice daily screening group. The
      investigator's prior work demonstrates that once daily screening is the current standard of
      care nationally and internationally.

      Further, no trial has compared two of the most frequently used SBT techniques internationally
      [PS and T-piece]. Consequently, little is known about how frequently patients should be
      screened and what technique should be used to conduct SBTs in Canadian ICUs today. The FAST
      trial will address these important gaps in knowledge.

      The proposed study is novel in seeking to identify the optimal screening and SBT strategies
      to minimize patients' exposure to invasive ventilation and the complications associated with
      it. It will evaluate how weaning strategies are delivered to critically ill adults and
      determine whether alternative delivery strategies may improve patient outcomes. Only one
      weaning trial has been conducted in Canada previously by members of the investigative team
      (KB, MM). Establishing the role for more frequent screening is appealing to ICU clinicians
      (intensivists, RTs, nurses, physiotherapists) because it is a sensible and low-risk
      intervention that represents a cost-effective use of current resources. Moreover, this simple
      intervention holds promise as a strategy that could change clinical practice, enhance the
      care delivered to critically ill adults, and improve patient outcomes.

      In the FAST Trial,eligible patients will be randomized to a screening frequency (once vs. at
      least twice daily) and an SBT technique (PS vs. T-piece). The investigators propose to
      evaluate the feasibility of conducting an open-label, multicentre, factorial design trial
      involving 100 critically ill adults which compares screening frequency and SBT technique in
      12 Canadian ICUs. In the pilot trial, the investigators will (i) evaluate their ability to
      recruit the desired population, (ii) assess clinician adherence to the screening and SBT
      protocols, (iii) identify potential confounders, (iv) characterize trial participants based
      on weaning difficulty, and (iv) obtain preliminary estimates of the effect of the alternative
      screening and SBT strategies on important outcomes.

      In the pilot trial, the investigative team will also assess 'current practices' with regard
      to sedation, analgesia, and delirium management, as well as, timing of mobilization prior to
      screening assessments to identify practices that may bias duration of ventilation and require
      protocolization in the future, planned large scale weaning trial. All participating adult
      ICUs currently titrate sedation use to either the Sedation-Agitation Scale (SAS) or Richmond
      Agitation Sedation Scale (RASS), have dedicated RT personnel present 24 hours per day/7 days
      per week and have either full time, part time, or consulting Physiotherapists.

      The investigators will determine if the proposed multicentre screening randomized control
      trial (RCT) is:

      A. Feasible, specifically, can the investigative team:

        1. Recruit critically ill adults breathing spontaneously on Pressure Support (PS) or
           proportional assist ventilation (PAV), or triggering breaths on volume or pressure
           Assist Control (AC), volume or pressure Synchronized Intermittent Mandatory Ventilation
           (SIMV) ± PS, Pressure Regulated Volume Control (PRVC) or Airway Pressure Release
           Ventilation (APRV) into a trial comparing 'once daily' to 'at least twice daily'
           screening to identify weaning candidates,

        2. Comply with 'once daily' and 'at least twice daily' screening assessment protocols with
           minimal contamination in 'once daily' arm,

        3. Comply with PS and T-piece SBT protocols with minimal contamination in either arm,

        4. Quantify potential co-interventions (sedation, analgesia and delirium management and
           timing of mobilization) that may lead to performance bias and may require
           protocolization in the future, planned, large scale weaning trial,

        5. Identify barriers (clinician and institutional) to recruitment,

        6. Classify trial participants as those requiring (i) simple, (ii) difficult or (iii)
           prolonged weaning using established definitions,

        7. Obtain preliminary estimates of the impact of the alternative screening ('once daily'
           vs. 'at least twice daily') and SBT techniques (PS vs. T-piece) on important outcomes
           [e.g., time to first SBT and first successful SBT, time to first extubation and
           successful extubation, total duration of mechanical ventilation, ICU and hospital length
           of stay, ICU and hospital mortality, the use of noninvasive ventilation (NIV) after
           extubation

      B. Safe, with regard to the proportion of patients experiencing weaning related complications
      (self-extubation, reintubation, tracheostomy) in both screening and SBT strategies.

      Information obtained from the pilot trial will inform the design of the planned large scale
      trial evaluating the time to first successful SBT completion (SBT outcome) and the time to
      first successful extubation (weaning and extubation outcome). In this manner, the
      investigators will assess the feasibility of conducting a multicentre, multinational RCT
      addressing this important research question.
    
  