
    
      SARS-CoV-2 infection has become an urgent public health event in China. As of 24:00 on
      January 26, 2020, there are 2744 confirmed cases and 461 severe cases in China, the number is
      still increasing. There is currently no vaccine and no specific antiviral treatment
      recommended for SARS-CoV-2 infection. About 20% of the patients were severe and some died of
      respiratory failure or multiple organ failure. Therefore, it is urgent to find a safe and
      effective therapeutic approach to pneumonia patients infected with SARS-CoV-2.

      In the last year, the promising features of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), including their
      regenerative properties and ability to differentiate into diverse cell lineages, have
      generated great interest among researchers whose work has offered intriguing perspectives on
      cell-based therapies for various diseases. These findings seem to highlight that the
      beneficial effect of MSC-based treatment could be principally due by the immunomodulation and
      regenerative potential of these cells. The investigators found that infusions of UC-MSC
      significantly improved liver function in decompensated liver cirrhosis and primary biliary
      cirrhosis (PBC) patients, increased the survival rate in acute-on-chronic liver failure
      (ACLF) patients . MSCs could significantly reduce the pathological changes of lung and
      inhibit the cell-mediated immune inflammatory response induced by influenza virus in animal
      model .

      The purpose of this study is to investigate safety and efficiency of MSCs in treating
      pneumonia patients infected with SARS-CoV-2. This multi-center trial will recruit 20
      patients. 10 patients received i.v. transfusion one round (3 times) of 3.0*10E7 cells of MSCs
      as the treated group, all of them received the conventional treatment. In addition, the equal
      10 patients received conventional treatment were used as control. The clinical symptoms,
      pulmonary imaging, side effects, 28-days mortality, immunological characteristics (immune
      cells, inflammatory factors, etc.) will be evaluated during the 180 days follow up.
    
  