
    
      The establishment of Advanced Life Support by emergency medical services (EMS) has led to an
      increasing number of procedures being carried out in the field. These procedures, such as
      intravenous (IV) fluid administration and endotracheal intubation can be beneficial in rural
      settings where transportation to definitive care is prolonged. In addition, it can provide
      benefit to patients with traumatic brain injury. However, data on field procedures carried
      out in penetrating trauma patients in urban locations is less convincing and actually shows
      that these procedures result in worse morbidity and mortality, where penetrating injury is
      defined as resulting from gunshot, shotgun or stab wounds. In fact, studies have shown that
      pre-hospital intubation clearly does not confer a survival advantage to penetrating trauma
      patients in urban locations. Yet pre-hospital procedures continue to be performed in urban
      Philadelphia on a regular basis. In a recently published study at Temple University Hospital
      from 2006-2010, of the 1,615 gunshot and stab wound victims that were highest level trauma
      activations, 152 (9.8%) were intubated in the field. In another study carried out at Temple
      University Hospital looking at the most critically ill penetrating trauma patients that
      required emergency room thoracotomy, 71.8% of patients transported by EMS were intubated and
      67.0% received IV fluids. This demonstrates that these procedures are being carried out with
      regularity in severely injured penetrating trauma patients.

      Patient recruitment and randomization will occur at the time that the distress call is
      received by the EMS dispatcher and an ALS crew is dispatched. The dispatcher will assign the
      patient to advanced life support current practice or immediate transport with basic life
      support current practice based on even or odd dispatch number. All participating paramedics
      will be given face to face training in the conduct of the trial, and provided with resources
      for online refreshers and reminders. Compliance with enrollment procedures will be monitored
      through redundant mechanisms including notification at hospital arrival, cross referenced to
      monthly monitoring of EMS reports.

      Subjects randomized to the study group will receive basic life support (BLS) level care. This
      means that pre-hospital procedures such as endotracheal intubation and intravenous fluid
      administration will not be carried out. However, passive oxygen and needle thoracostomy, if
      required for tension pneumothorax, will be permitted if medically necessary. For patients in
      the control group, ALS responders will perform advanced life support current practice,
      including intravenous fluid administration and endotracheal intubation as deemed appropriate.
    
  