
    
      ADHD is a chronic neurobiological condition that affects people of all ages, genders, and
      races. Symptoms of ADHD may include, but are not limited to, the following: poor attention
      span; physical restlessness or hyperactivity; excessive impulsivity; chronic procrastination;
      frequently losing things; poor organization, planning, and time management skills; and
      excessive forgetfulness. Not every person with ADHD exhibits all of these symptoms, and the
      severity of the disorder can range from mild to severe. While there is no cure for ADHD, the
      condition can be managed with an accurate diagnosis and proper treatment. Left untreated,
      individuals with ADHD may experience significant impairment in social, emotional,
      occupational, and academic functioning. Stimulant and non-stimulant medications are usually
      effective in alleviating symptoms of ADHD in adults. However, some research suggests that
      medications may not effectively treat self-management functioning problems and that as many
      as one-third of adults with ADHD have inadequate responses to medication treatment.
      Additional research on the benefits of psychosocial treatments for ADHD in adults is needed.
      This study will determine the effectiveness of group cognitive-behavioral therapy as compared
      to a problem-solving social support group in treating problems of time management,
      organization, and planning in adults with ADHD.

      Individuals interested in participating in this study will first undergo an assessment of
      their eligibility for inclusion in the study. The assessment will last approximately 6 hours,
      but can be broken up into as many as 4 separate visits. Eligible participants will be
      randomly assigned to either receive group cognitive-behavioral therapy or join a
      problem-solving social support group. Both groups will meet once a week for 12 weeks. Each
      session will last roughly 2 hours and will focus on building time management, organizational,
      and planning skills. Time management, planning, and organizational skill levels will be
      assessed at the treatment mid-point, immediately following the intervention, and at 3 and 6
      months following the treatment. Self-esteem and symptoms of depression and anxiety will also
      be measured at these visits.
    
  