
    
      Barriers to widespread and routine implementation of WGS-enabled clinical care exist at
      several levels. Surveys of clinicians indicate discomfort in their understanding of genomics
      and ability to communicate results to patients, and also concern about the time required to
      do so. Medical geneticists and genetic counselors are disproportionately concentrated in
      large academic centers, and their numbers are inadequate to support the number of patients
      that may benefit from WGS. This limitation will have a disproportionate effect on patients in
      rural and/or medically underserved areas. For example, all but one of the genetic counselors
      in Alabama are based in Birmingham or Huntsville (lone exception is in Mobile), which means
      that the southern 2/3 of the state, including major rural underserved areas, have little to
      no local access to genetic counseling services.

      These barriers are especially apparent in neonatal care. For parents of sick neonates, their
      first interactions with the healthcare system take place in the NICU. Neonatology training
      traditionally emphasizes critical care and can neglect communication, with one study
      reporting that 93% of fellows stated that their training in this area should be improved.
      There is a particular lack of training in genomic neonatal medicine, with few didactic
      lectures, role play sessions, simulated experiences, or hands on training in clinically
      relevant scenarios. When infants are diagnosed with congenital anomalies in utero, prenatal
      consultation with subspecialists can be confusing for genetic conditions with a spectrum of
      causes and outcomes, and inconsistent information given by different providers, e.g., the
      neonatologist and the pediatric surgeon.

      A central premise underlying the proposal is that non-genetics health care providers,
      including those outside of academic medical centers, can be empowered to use WGS-testing in
      their practices. There is ample precedent for implementation of complex technology in primary
      care: pediatricians, internists, and family practitioners routinely use advanced imaging
      technologies without a deep understanding of the underlying technology. Bringing WGS-enabled
      genomic medicine to community health care providers requires, at the least, straightforward
      criteria to identify patients who may benefit, a user-friendly consent process, clearly
      worded laboratory reports, easily accessible patient education materials, ready access to
      support from medical geneticists and genetic counselors, and basic training in how WGS can be
      applied routinely. The study investigators seek to demonstrate that, if these factors are
      provided, WGS can be carried out and relevant results returned by newborn medicine providers,
      and that the patient experience will be at least equal to that achieved with the traditional
      approach of face-to-face counseling by a geneticist or genetic counselor.

      In order to compare technology-assisted WGS result delivery by trained healthcare providers
      to formal genetic counseling by genetic counselors (standard of care), a series of surveys
      have been developed and will be completed online using the Genome Gateway platform/website
      developed for this trial. The survey time points are enrollment (specimen collection from the
      infant/proband), return of results (ROR) (roughly 2-3 months post-enrollment when WGS results
      are available), 1-month post-ROR counselling, 4-months post-ROR counselling, and 4.5 months
      post-ROR counselling.
    
  