
    
      Whiplash is the most common injury associated with motor vehicle accidents and a major cause
      of disability and litigation. An acute whiplash injury follows sudden or excessive
      hyperextension, hyper flexion, or rotation of the neck affecting the soft tissues. It
      typically results from rear-end or side-impact motor vehicle collisions. Patients commonly
      present with pain and stiffness in the neck, headache, and upper backache with or without
      paraesthesia of the upper limbs. Chronic whiplash syndrome is characterized by symptoms that
      persist for more than 3 months. With over half a million people making whiplash injury claims
      per annum in the UK, it has a major impact on the healthcare and legal systems and also the
      economy. In 1995, whiplash-associated disorder (WAD) was defined by the Quebec task force as
      'Whiplash is an acceleration-deceleration mechanism of energy transfer to the neck. The
      incidence of WAD is very variable, averaging to about 9 per 1000 people in the UK, the
      highest in Europe.

      Around 40% of patients suffer from symptoms of WAD beyond 3 months (chronic whiplash) and 2 -
      4.5% of patients are left permanently disabled.

      There is evidence that neck pain in WAD could arise from either cervical facet joint or due
      to impaired function of neck muscles (Cervicothoracic Myofascial Pain Syndrome, CTMPS) or
      both. The investigators have recently reported on ultrasound guided cervical plexus block
      with depot steroids in the management of refractory cervicothoracic myofascial pain. This
      intervention involves a single injection that targets a number of muscles that are commonly
      involved in causing chronic WAD. The treatment has a definite end point that helps to
      standardize the intervention with a good safety profile.

      The present study is an observational study on the effectiveness of two types of cervical
      plexus block (CPB-Local Anaesthesia and CPB-Steroids) treatment as a part of standard care in
      providing durable analgesia. The objective is to collect data to inform the design a larger
      multicentre study
    
  