
    
      This is a multicenter, open label clinical trial evaluating the safety of the combination of
      belantamab mafodotin + the combination treatment VRd (bortezomib, lenalidomide,
      dexamethasone) in newly diagnosed (ND) transplant eligible multiple myeloma (MM) patients.

      The study comprise the following phases:

      Induction: Cycles 1-6

      Cycles will be of 8 weeks of duration for belantamab mafodotin and 28 days of duration for
      VRd:

        -  Belantamab mafodotin will be administered at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg/every 8 weeks on day
           1, intravenously.

        -  Bortezomib will be given subcutaneously, at 1.3 mg/m2, on days: 1, 4, 8 and 11 of every
           28-day cycle.

        -  Lenalidomide will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 25 mg/day on days 1-21.

        -  Dexamethasone will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 20 mg on days: 1, 2, 4, 5,
           8, 9, 11 and 12.

      Peripheral stem cell harvest will be performed after the fourth cycle of treatment to prevent
      mobilization failure.

      Intensification with high-dose melphalan (200 mg/m2) and autologous stem cell transplant
      (ASCT) will be performed as per routine practice. Mobilization of hematopoietic stem cells
      (HSCs) will be carried out using high-dose G-CSF after the fourth induction cycle with VRd.
      The dose of G-CSF used will be at the discretion of each site according to the local rules.
      Apheresis will be initiated on day 4-5 of stimulation, once the number of CD34+ cells in
      peripheral blood have reached the minimum to proceed with the collection. The minimum number
      of CD34+ cells needed to carry out the transplant will be determined at the discretion of
      each site, although a minimum of 2 x106 CD34+/Kg is recommended, as well as cryopreservation,
      storage, defrosting and infusion of HSCs. If mobilization fails using G-CSF alone, the
      recommended action is to utilize plerixafor during the same procedure in order to save this
      time. Sites should administer plerixafor in accordance with their own established procedures.
      If this second attempt fails, the site can proceed to a third mobilization attempt using
      cyclophosphamide plus G-CSF.

      Consolidation: Cycles 6-8

      At day +90, after autologous stem cell transplant patients will receive consolidation
      treatment with 1 additional cycle of belantamab mafodotin + 2 additional cycles of VRd
      following the same scheme as in the induction:

        -  Belantamab mafodotin will be administered at the dose of 2.5 mg/kg/every 8 weeks on day
           1, intravenously.

        -  Bortezomib will be given subcutaneously, at 1.3 mg/m2, on days: 1, 4, 8 and 11 of every
           28-day cycle.

        -  Lenalidomide will be given as an oral drug, in the dose of 25 mg/day on days 1-21.

        -  Dexamethasone will be given as an oral drug, at the dose of 20 mg on days: 1, 2, 4, 5,
           8, 9, 11 and 12 of every 28-day cycle.

      Maintenance:

      After completion of the consolidation treatment, all the responding patients will receive
      maintenance treatment with Lenalidomide (10 mg/day) + belantamab mafodotin (2.5 mg/kg/every 8
      weeks, intravenously). Lenalidomide will be administered continuously until disease
      progression, patient withdrawal, unacceptable toxicity loss to follow up, end of study or
      death. Belantamab mafodotin will be administered for 2 years until disease progression,
      patient withdrawal, loss to follow up, unacceptable toxicity, end of study or death.

      The trial has the following objectives:

      Objectives:

      Primary objective

      ● To evaluate the safety and tolerability of the combination of belantamab mafodotin + VRd in
      newly diagnosed transplant eligible multiple myeloma patients.

      Secondary objectives ● To assess the efficacy of belantamab mafodotin in combination with VRd
      in terms of response rate focusing on complete response and MRD.

      • Efficiency of hematopoietic stem cell collection after 2 induction cycles of treatment of
      belantamab mafodotin + 4 induction cycles of treatment of VRd.
    
  