
    
      Chronic subacromial bursitis (SAB) is a common shoulder disorder characterized by chronic
      shoulder pain with a painful arc of motion, which commonly occurs during abduction and
      sometimes during internal rotation of the shoulder. In addition, the extremes of all passive
      movements are painful. The range of motion (ROM) of the shoulder is usually not limited or is
      limited in a non-capsular pattern (mainly abduction and internal rotation). All resisted
      movements are painless or equally painful, and there is also tenderness over the deltoid
      region. The diagnosis of SAB remains doubtful until it is confirmed by an infiltration with
      local anesthetic.

      The injections can be performed by palpation (using anatomical landmarks to place the needle)
      or with ultrasound (US) guidance (with visualization of the needle tip at the target
      location). The chief advantage of an ultrasound-guided intervention is the ability to use
      real-time, dynamic imaging without ionizing radiation. Previous studies have demonstrated
      that ultrasound-guided injection ensures correct needle placement and delivery of the
      medicine to the target, and improved clinical outcomes with ultrasound-guided
      subacromial-subdeltoid (SASD) corticosteroid injections.

      Although SASD corticosteroid injections has been proven effective in treatment of chronic
      subacromial bursitis, in clinical practice, some patients fear the side effects of the
      corticosteroids. In the last few years, hyaluronic acid (HA) injection has been used for
      treatment of different kinds of shoulder disorders, including subacromial impingement
      syndrome, frozen shoulder, and rotator cuff tears, with variable results. However, treatment
      of chronic SAB with hyaluronic acid has never been reported before. Besides, some authors
      used combination of normal saline and lidocain as the placebo, which might not be a true
      placebo because lidocain can be an active medicine. Therefore, the purpose of this study is
      to compare the effectiveness of SASD corticosteroid, HA, and normal saline injection in
      treatment of patients with chronic SAB.
    
  