
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall hematologic response rate to ruxolitinib in patients with
      hypereosinophilic syndrome and primary eosinophilic disorders.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine safety profile of ruxolitinib in patients with hypereosinophilic syndrome and
      primary eosinophilic disorders.

      II. To determine the proportion of patients on corticosteroids who are able to become
      corticosteroid-independent and/or reduce the dose by >= 50%.

      III. To evaluate the duration of response (DoR). IV. To evaluate the time-to-response (TTR).
      V. To evaluate progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the ability of ruxolitinib to elicit morphologic and cytogenetic/molecular
      remissions in patients with baseline clonal abnormalities.

      II. To assess whether hematologic responses correlate with certain types of mutations on
      myeloid mutation panel testing and/or by flow immunophenotyping of T-cells in patients with
      lymphocyte-variant hypereosinophilia.

      III. To determine whether improvement in organ damage is observed in patients with baseline
      organ dysfunction.

      IV. To determine whether improvement in symptoms is observed based on a modified
      Myeloproliferative Neoplasm Symptom Assessment Form (MPN-SAF).

      V. To evaluate biologic correlates of response including ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing
      (RNAseq) and JAK-STAT activation status (JAK2 and/or STAT3 phosphorylation) of eosinophils
      from whole blood and/or marrow.

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive ruxolitinib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28. Treatment repeats
      for up to 6 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 4-6 weeks and every 6 months
      for up to 3 years.
    
  