
    
      Patients with conditions such as septic shock, anaphylaxis, and hypovolemic shock may require
      rapid fluid administration to restore blood pressure and tissue perfusion. Newly Updated
      Surviving Sepsis Campaign (SSC) guidelines call for patients with septic shock to receive a
      30ml/kg intravenous (IV) fluid challenge within 1 hour of emergency department (ED) arrival,
      with improved outcomes shown with early fluid infusion. Patients with shock and severe
      hypotension may require even more rapid fluid treatment, up to 4ml/kg/min. While excess fluid
      infusion may be associated with harm, early fluid infusion for the reversal of shock can
      reduce the need for subsequent interventions, ultimately leading to improved patient
      outcomes. This may be especially true in patients with hypotension, who are at greater risk
      of death if not treated quickly, as a single episode of hypotension in patients with sepsis
      is correlated with a significantly increased risk of death.

      In patients who require IV fluid bolus therapy, technical barriers such as slow infusion
      rates, technically complex infusion devices, and inadequate nursing resources may lead to
      delay in fluid administration and inadequate resuscitation. As recommended by the SSC
      guidelines, patients receiving fluid bolus therapy for septic shock require frequent
      reassessment of clinical response. With current fluid delivery techniques, the ability to
      reassess quickly and relate fluid administration directly to markers of hemodynamic
      improvement is limited.

      The LifeFlow rapid infusion device is a handheld manually-operated device that has been shown
      in early trials to increase the rate of bolus fluid infusion up to 3 times the rate of
      delivery attributed to conventional rapid infusion devices. The device addresses other
      technical barriers to fluid resuscitation, including reducing complexity and provider
      fatigue. LifeFlow utilizes standard IV or intraosseous (IO) vascular access devices to
      quickly and efficiently deliver appropriate volumes of crystalloid fluid to patients during
      emergent fluid resuscitation.

      The purpose of this study is to determine if intravenous fluids can be administered more
      rapidly and efficiently with the use of the LifeFlow rapid infusion device compared to the
      current standard techniques in adult patients who present to the Emergency Department with
      septic shock.

      Primary Hypothesis

        -  Intravenous fluids can be administered more rapidly and efficiently with the use of the
           LifeFlow rapid infusion device compared to the current techniques in patients who
           present to the ED with hypotension and suspected septic shock Secondary Hypotheses

        -  Hypotensive patients receiving intravenous fluids utilizing the LifeFlow infusion device
           will have more rapid normalization of vital sign parameters (i.e., resolution of
           hypotension = MAP 65 mmHg or greater), and more rapid improvement in markers of tissue
           ischemia (i.e., lactate clearance) than patients receiving fluid using other techniques.

        -  Based on reduced ICU and hospital length of stay (LOS), the overall cost of treatment
           will be lower in ED patients receiving early IV fluid resuscitation with LifeFlow
           comparted to similar patients treated with standard techniques.
    
  