
    
      Heart failure (HF) accounts for over 1 million hospital admissions annually in the United
      States and is a leading cause of disability and healthcare costs. Cardiorenal syndrome and
      worsening renal function are independent risk factors for morbidity and mortality in HF.
      Effective fluid removal, manifested by a decrease in body weight, is one of the most
      important goals of treatment in cardiorenal syndrome. Current medical therapeutic options,
      including sodium and fluid restriction, diuretics, blockade of the
      renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, inotropes, and nesiritide, are suboptimal in patients
      with advanced cardiorenal syndrome. When medical therapies fail, ultrafiltration (UF) may be
      used for mechanical fluid removal using dialysis or UF machines. UF can effectively remove
      fluid in HF patients, but its precise role in the therapy of cardiorenal syndrome is still
      unclear. A multicenter randomized controlled trial (CARRESS-HF) suggested that UF was not
      superior to a stepped pharmacologic diuretic regimen, with a similar amount of weight loss
      with the two approaches and a higher rate of adverse events in the UF group. Therefore, a
      protocolized diuretic strategy is needed that is superior to current clinical care in the
      management of cardiorenal syndrome.

      Current HF guidelines do not provide any standard protocol for diuretic dosing. The variation
      in usual clinical care may explain the long hospital stays and worsening renal function
      common in these patients. One retrospective observational study compared a diuretic dosing
      protocol to usual diuretic therapy for patients admitted with acute decompensated HF.
      Protocol diuretic use was associated with greater weight loss and significantly lower risk of
      30-day readmission. However, due to its retrospective design, the baseline characteristics of
      the two groups differed in many pertinent covariates, and its generalizability is limited.

      The proposed study aims to determine if a protocolized diuretic treatment strategy, as
      opposed to usual clinical care, results in improved clinical decongestion, clinical outcomes,
      and health-related quality of life (HRQOL), while preserving renal function in hospitalized
      patients with cardiorenal syndrome. It is a prospective randomized single-blind trial with
      equal allocation (1:1) and random block randomization of 150 participants hospitalized at
      University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC) for cardiorenal syndrome recruited over 3
      years (approximately 50 participants/year). Participants with cardiorenal syndrome will be
      randomized to a Protocolized Diuretic Strategy (based on the stepped pharmacologic algorithm
      used in the CARRESS-HF trial) vs. Usual Care. Participants will be followed daily in the
      hospital during the treatment period, as well as at 1-month and 3-month follow-up visits in
      the outpatient HF clinic.

      Primary Research Question:

      1. In hospitalized patients with cardiorenal syndrome, does a protocolized diuretic treatment
      strategy, as opposed to usual clinical care, result in improved clinical decongestion based
      on change in body weight at day 4 or hospital discharge (whichever comes first)? Primary
      Hypothesis. In hospitalized patients with cardiorenal syndrome, protocolized diuretic therapy
      will result in greater reduction in body weight and improved clinical decongestion compared
      to usual care.

      Secondary Research Questions:

        1. Do clinical outcomes, including length of hospitalization, number of rehospitalizations
           for HF, and mortality, improve after protocolized diuretic therapy compared to usual
           care over 3 months? Hypothesis 1. Protocolized diuretic therapy will be associated with
           reduced length of hospital stay, decreased rehospitalization rates, and decreased
           mortality, compared to usual care.

        2. Do other measures of volume status improve after protocolized diuretic therapy compared
           to usual care during hospitalization and over 3 months? Hypothesis 2. Protocolized
           diuretic therapy will be associated with greater decongestion based on increased venous
           compliance of the internal jugular vein (via Doppler ultrasound), negative fluid
           balance, and clinical decongestion, compared to usual care.

        3. Do HRQOL outcomes improve after protocolized diuretic therapy compared to usual care
           over 3 months? Hypothesis 3. HRQOL indices in physical well-being, mental well-being,
           and sleep quality domains will improve after protocolized diuretic therapy compared to
           usual care.

        4. Do renal outcomes (safety endpoints), including renal function changes and need for UF
           or renal replacement therapy, differ between protocolized diuretic therapy and usual
           care during hospitalization and over 3 months? Hypothesis 4. Protocolized diuretic
           therapy will be superior to usual care in terms of worsening renal function and need for
           UF or renal replacement therapy.

      Subgroup Research Questions:

      1. Do outcomes differ between the Protocolized Diuretic Strategy vs. Usual care stratified by
      type of heart failure (e.g., systolic dysfunction (EF <40%) vs. diastolic dysfunction (EF
      ≥40%); ischemic vs. other; none-mild vs. moderate-severe mitral regurgitation (MR) or
      tricuspid regurgitation (TR))? Hypothesis 1. No difference will be seen between treatment and
      control groups based on type of heart failure.

      This trial is of utmost interest to cardiologists and nephrologists, who struggle to find the
      optimal diuretic and medical management strategy to effectively remove excess fluid yet
      preserve renal function. It is highly relevant to many clinicians and the community at large,
      as HF and cardiorenal syndrome are a leading cause of hospitalizations and healthcare costs.
      If a protocolized diuretic strategy can be found that optimally removes fluid in an efficient
      and safe manner, it could potentially be disseminated to community physicians and/or
      incorporated into public policy or HF treatment guidelines in order to improve quality of
      care and reduce healthcare costs in this population with high morbidity and mortality.
    
  