
    
      Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC) are chronic gastrointestinal diseases
      characterized by relapsing and remitting inflammation of the intestines . Anemia may often
      complicate the course of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) . A recent systematic review showed
      that anemia is common and may affect roughly 17% of patients with IBD .

      The cause of anemia in IBD is multifactorial. The most common cause for anemia in IBD
      patients is iron deficiency anemia (IDA) secondary to increased blood loss from inflamed
      gastrointestinal mucosa and impaired absorption of iron. The anemia can be macrocytic due to
      impaired absorption of other nutrients including folate and cobalamin. Other causes are
      anemia due to medication (such as sulfasalazine) and anemia of chronic disease (ACD) .

      ACD is characterized by normochromic, normocytic or mildly microcytic erythrocytes, low or
      normal serum iron and total iron-binding capacity, normal or increased iron stores reflected
      by elevated ferritin levels, low transferrin levels, and an inappropriately low reticulocyte
      response relative to the degree of anemia. ACD is unresponsive to treatment with iron,
      vitamin B12 or folic acid.

      In the chronically ill patients, it has been described that the mechanism underlying anemia
      involves hepcidin.

      Hepcidin, a β-defensin-like antimicrobial peptide, is part of the innate immune system and
      thus constitutes the first-line defense against infections. In vivo and in vitro studies have
      demonstrated that hepcidin is active against Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria as well
      as yeasts . In addition to its antimicrobial activity, it acts as an iron regulatory hormone.
      Increased hepcidin synthesis inhibits iron flow into plasma from macrophages that have taken
      up and degraded senescent erythrocytes as well as their hemoglobin, and also from small
      intestinal epithelial cells involved in the absorption of dietary iron . This iron release
      from cytoplasmic stores is prevented by binding of hepcidin to the iron exporter protein
      ferroportin. Ferroportin is internalized and degraded upon hepcidin activity.

      Hepcidin is produced and secreted mainly by hepatocytes, and to a lesser extent by
      macrophages and adipocytes . Its synthesis is regulated by iron, erythropoietic activity and
      inflammation . Hepcidin expression is down-regulated in anemia with concomitant iron
      deficiency. Thus, ferroportin is not internalized from the cell membrane and iron can be
      transported from stores to the plasma to provide heme synthesis and erythropoiesis with more
      iron. On the other hand during anemia of chronic diseases (without significant iron
      deficiency), hepcidin expression is even increased, which may explain why iron is "trapped"
      intracellularly under these conditions.

      In IBD (similar to other chronic inflammatory disease or infections), it can be assumed that
      inflammation increases hepcidin expression and synthesis as hepcidin also is an "acute phase
      protein" . This induction of hepcidin protein synthesis is at least partially mediated by
      interleukin-6 via its receptor and subsequent intracellular signal transduction via signal
      transducer and activator of transcription-3 (STAT3).

      In the study of Pantelis et el it was found that the median hepcidin level were significantly
      higher in patients with IBD compared with healthy controls In a recent study by Basseri and
      coworkers, a positive correlation between serum hepcidin and IL-6 levels in IBD patients was
      confirmed. The authors further detected a negative correlation between serum hepcidin
      concentration and Hgb levels.

      A potential mechanism underlying anemia during an chronic disease is suggested by recent data
      demonstrating a hepcidin lowering effect of vitamin D.

      In the setting of chronic kidney disease patients, it was shown that vitamin D is inversely
      associated with hepcidin concentrations, and positively associated with hemoglobin and iron
      concentrations. Importantly, vitamin D has been reported to decrease inflammatory cytokines
      implicated in the pathophysiology of anemia during inflammation, and suppress expression of
      hepcidin mRNA. Additionally, oral administration of vitamin D in healthy adult volunteers
      lowered serum levels of hepcidin by 50% compared to baseline levels within 24 hours and
      persisted for 72 hours.

      These initial results seem promising; but thus far the association between IBD, vitamin D
      status and anemia has never been established in the pediatric population, nor has the
      connection between these hormones and the efficacy of iron supplementation therapy.
      Controlled studies are warranted to determine this link and, thereafter, investigate the
      possible therapeutic potential of vitamin D supplementation

      Aim:

      To examine the association between hepcidin, IL6, vitamin D and anemia in children and
      adolescence with IBD and to study the possible effect of vitamin D supplementation on
      hepcidin level in IBD patients.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that in patients with parameters of anemia of chronic disease hepcidine level
      will be high and vitamin D level will be low. Supplementation of vitamin D will lower
      hepcidin levels and improve the anemia.

      Study population and study design:

      This is a prospective study. It will take place in the Pediatric Gastroenterology Unit at
      Dana- Dwek Children's hospital.

      The study population will consists of 40 newly diagnosed IBD Patients, male and female, age
      6-18. We will recruit all patients that are suspicious to have IBD based on their clinical
      and laboratory evaluation in their first diagnostic colonoscopy.

      Each participant in the study will provide written informed consent at the beginning of the
      study.

      We will document the participant's age, sex, anthropometric measurements (weight, height).

      Each participant will complete a questionnaire that records personal lifestyle and
      demographic information, physical activity and sun exposure. Medical data (medical
      background, medication, sign and symptoms, severity of disease) will be collected from the
      patient's medical file.

      We will take from each participant blood sample (approximately 10cc), to test levels of
      25(OH)D, calcium, phosphate, CRP and complete blood count including hemoglobin, hematocrit
      (Hct), RBC, MCV, RDW, serum iron, total-iron-binding capacity, hepcidin, transferrin,
      soulable transferrin receptor, ferritin and IL6. We will document calprotectin level if
      available.

      Before discharge home all patients will be taught to take 5000 unit of vitamin D (25(OH)D)
      daily, for the next 2 week . All patients will be invited for follow-up in 2 weeks to get the
      histopathology result. In this encounter we will take again blood sample for 25(OH)D,
      calcium, phosphate, CRP and complete blood count including hemoglobin, hematocrit (Hct), RBC,
      MCV, RDW, serum iron, total-iron-binding capacity, hepcidin, transferrin, ferritin soulable
      transferrin receptor and IL6.

      All the data will be coded and the questionnaires will be kept in a locked place.

      The concentration of 25(OH)D will be measured by radioimmunoassay. Levels of Hepcidin will be
      measured by a commercial kit.

      Blood sample collection and questionnaire completion will be done in 2 days. (Visits will be
      appointed as the usual appointments after endoscopy in our clinic).

      Study data analysis will be completed within a year.
    
  