
    
      Implanted phrenic nerve stimulation is a validated technique to produce lung ventilation when
      the neural drive to breathe is abolished (e.g. congenital central alveolar ventilation during
      sleep, or during wakefulness in severe forms of the disease) or defective (e.g. periodic
      breathing due to chronic heart failure), or when it cannot reach the phrenic spinal
      motoneurons (e.g. high cervical spinal cord lesions). Several implantation techniques have
      been described. They include the surgical implantation of contact electrodes in intimate
      exposure with the trunk of the nerve, the laparoscopic implantation of hook electrodes within
      the diaphragm in the vicinity of the phrenic nerve endings (ref), and transvenous approaches
      that can be permanent (pacemaker like device) or temporary (central venous catheter-borne
      electrodes). The surgical implantation of electrodes in contact with the phrenic nerve
      ("periphrenic electrodes") is the better established of these techniques, having been
      described in the 1970s and continuously used since. Periphrenic electrodes have been
      implanted at the bottom of the cervical path of the nerve. This cervical approach is quick
      and easy to implement, but the results can be compromised by system damages resulting from
      neck movements and by the fact that the phrenic nerve is often anatomically incomplete at
      this level (namely above the junction with the accessory phrenic nerve). For these reasons,
      periphrenic electrodes are typically implanted within the thorax, at the level of the vena
      cava on the right and of the pulmonary hilum on the left. These locations are readily
      accessible by use of video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery or thoracotomy. Careful dissection
      of the phrenic nerve is necessary to separate it from the underlying anatomical plane and
      create the necessary access to position the electrodes. The possibility to position
      periphrenic electrodes over a segment of the phrenic nerve where it would be fully
      constituted and to do so without the need for nerve dissection would render intrathoracic
      phrenic nerve stimulation easier and safer to implement. It would also open the possibility
      of temporary implantation. From the anatomical description of the terminal branching of the
      phrenic nerve toward different portions of the diaphragm , we hypothesized that such "free"
      segment would exist between the point where the phrenic nerve pathway leaves the
      anterolateral angle of the pericardial base in direction of the diaphragm and the point where
      the phrenic nerve branches before entering the diaphragm muscle mass. This study was
      therefore designed to determine whether or not a free phrenic segment exists between the
      cardiophrenic angle and the diaphragm, to describe the anatomical characteristics of this
      segment, and to compare the nature, number and size of its constituting fibers with the
      corresponding characteristics as identified at the usual site of implantation of
      intrathoracic periphrenic electrodes. To this aim, we first performed a human cadaver study.
      This study allowed us to describe a fatty tissue surrounding the phrenic nerve which density
      vary from one patient to another, and from one side to the other. During routine surgical
      interventions by minimally invasive approach, we want to complete our observation by
      searching for a correlation between patients body mass index (BMI) and the density of fatty
      tissue surrounding the phrenic nerve.

      The patients, depending on their BMI will be divided in three categories: - Category 1: 18,5
      kg/m2 < BMI < 24,9 kg/m2 / - Category 2: 25 kg/m2 < BMI < 29,9 kg/m2 / - Category 3: 30,0
      kg/m2 < BMI < 34,9 kg/m2 Fifteen patients will be included in each category. A fifteen
      seconds recording of each phrenic nerve during minimally invasive surgery will be reviewed by
      2 independent observers in order to classify the phrenic nerve in three categories: - type 1:
      pericadiophrenic bundle is free of any relevant surrounding fatty tissue / - Type 2:
      pericardiophre-nic bundle is surrounded by one fringe of fatty tissue / - Type 3:
      pericardiophrenic bundle is surrounded by multiple fringes of fatty tissue
    
  