
    
      Background:

        -  Acute graft versus host disease (GVHD) remains a difficult to manage complication of
           allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation causing significant morbidity and
           mortality.

        -  Biomarkers have recently been described in acute GVHD that have the potential to better
           predict onset, severity, steroid failure, and non-relapse mortality.

        -  First line treatment of acute GVHD with high dose corticosteroids will fail in
           approximately 30% of patients and is associated with significant steroid related
           complications.

        -  No second line treatment of acute GVHD after a failure of steroids has been established
           as a standard approach.

        -  Choice of second line therapy for acute GVHD is currently based primarily on physician
           familiarity, existing toxicities, and patient's ability to tolerate new potential
           toxicities.

        -  Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) is an attractive therapy to combine with other
           therapies for steroid refractory disease due to a unique mechanism of action involving
           immunomodulation as well as an extremely low rate of reported side effects and
           complications.

        -  Biomarkers may also prove useful in predicting the success or failure of specific
           treatments for steroid refractory disease, including those combined with ECP.

        -  This study will allow for collection of biomarker data in patients undergoing allogeneic
           transplantation on National Cancer Institute (NCI) protocols, including those who
           develop acute GVHD and investigate their role in predicting outcomes in initial
           corticosteroid therapy as well as in currently used treatments in the management of
           patients with steroid refractory acute GVHD with or without the addition of ECP.

      Objective:

      -To study biomarkers in patients undergoing allogeneic transplantation, with acute GVHD
      including their ability to predict steroid refractoriness and predict outcome of investigator
      chosen second line therapies with and without Extracorporeal Photopheresis (ECP).

      Eligibility:

      - Adult patients on an NCI allogeneic transplantation protocol.

      Design:

        -  Non-randomized, single institution study.

        -  Research blood for biomarkers will be collected on all patients enrolled.

        -  ECP will be offered as an addition to investigator chosen treatments in patients who
           develop steroid refractory acute GVHD.

        -  The study will enroll a total of up to 450 patients.
    
  