
    
      In gingival cicatricial pemphigoid (PC) patients, clinical experience has shown that
      periodontal treatment is beneficial in addition to medical treatment, because the latter does
      not always allow optimal gingival healing. When the tissue remains erosive despite the
      systemic treatment, and/or local, anti-inflammatory and/or immunosuppressive, patients
      frequently report persistent oral discomfort that restricts their diet as well as
      difficulties in brushing their teeth. Accumulation of dental plaque, organized in bacterial
      biofilms, therefore becomes inavoidable. However, due to their increasing development,
      studies have revealed that this dysbiotic periodontal microbiota promotes the growth of
      virulent, anaerobic, proteolytic bacteria, with high invasive and deleterious properties for
      periodontal tissues. Furthermore, this process would be amplified in the presence of gingival
      erosive zones. By eliminating the infectious periodontal gateway, periodontal therapy should
      allow : i/to restore oral comfort ii/ to prevent any systemic oral infectious complications
      that may affect the general condition of patients or counteract the effects of drug therapies
      iii/ to limit the aggravation of concomitant periodontal diseases, and therefore the risk of
      tooth loss. However in practice, the basic periodontal treatment, combining subgingival
      scaling and debridement does not systematically meet these objectives. One explanation may be
      found in the quality of dental bacterial biofilms not yet determined for autoimmune bullous
      diseases. The main objective of our descriptive observational pilot study, was therefore to
      study the composition of the periopathogenic flora in patients with gingival CP in order to
      facilitate the implementation of a more appropriate and efficient periodontal therapy. The
      secondary objectives were to establish a potential correlation between the composition of
      this flora and the quality of oral life, the severity of the erosive gingival damage, whether
      or not to initiate medical treatment, and whether or not there is an underlying
      periodontitis.
    
  