
    
      Substance use disorders (SUDs) are a leading cause of global disease burden with significant
      epidemiological and economic consequences. Sleep disturbances (i.e., difficulty initiating or
      maintaining sleep) are nearly ubiquitous in individuals with SUDs and may arise from direct
      effects of the substance or from withdrawal of the substance. Sleep disturbances are reported
      in up to 70% of individuals entering both detoxification and early recovery programs and may
      persist for months to years during abstinence. Objective and subjective measures of sleep
      disturbances are among the best predictors of relapse. Treatment of insomnia (i.e.,
      difficulty initiating or maintaining sleep, with significant daytime impairment) during early
      recovery may improve relapse rates. Insomnia is a modifiable risk factor and responds to
      psychological interventions. Given the abuse potential of many medications utilized for sleep
      disturbances and the likelihood of drug-drug interactions over the course of detoxification,
      a non-pharmacological approach to insomnia remains promising. To date, few studies have
      evaluated non-pharmacological approaches to insomnia during early substance abuse recovery.
      One study has evidenced improved self-reported sleep quality in men who were assigned to 2
      weeks of daily progressive muscle relaxation training. Robust evidence indicates that
      cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia (CBT-I) is effective, and in fact is first line
      treatment for primary insomnia. A preponderance of randomized controlled trials of CBT-I in
      co-morbid populations suggests it is efficacious to address insomnia in context of ongoing
      medical and psychiatric illnesses. Despite the possibility that treating insomnia may improve
      relapse and attrition rates, and evidence that CBT-I is efficacious in improving sleep, there
      is a dearth of empirical data regarding the prophylactic benefit of initiating CBT-I as part
      of acute abstinence treatment. This study aims to test the feasibility of implementing a
      non-pharmacological insomnia intervention for individuals at the Cornerstone clinic at the
      Helping Up Mission, a residential SUD residential recovery program for men in Baltimore, MD.
      Participants will be recruited from the Cornerstone clinic, an accredited behavioral health
      clinic directed by Johns Hopkins faculty and staff, which provides evidence-based SUD
      treatment to residents of the Helping Up Mission. CBT-I will be incorporated into the
      outpatient reinforcement-based SUD treatment. The investigators hypothesize that
      implementation of CBT-I during early SUD recovery is feasible and will lead to improved sleep
      parameters and improved clinical outcomes compared with those receiving treatment as usual
      (TAU). The investigators propose a proof of concept study which would first demonstrate
      feasibility of administering CBT-I for individuals residing in a men's homeless shelter, and
      will further evaluate the short- and long-term efficacy of CBT for insomnia in individuals
      with SUDs. This investigation will provide important and novel information regarding
      potential psychological interventions that may be incorporated into evidence-based SUD
      treatment.
    
  