
    
      Adolescence is a critical period of physical and psychological development and for achieving
      human potential. Rapid physical, psychosocial and cognitive growth and development is coupled
      with increased energy and nutrient requirements (Das et al., 2017; Spear 2002). Poor
      nutrition during adolescence can have adverse consequences impacting health in adulthood. The
      significance of nutrition during adolescence is especially important for girls, as poor
      nutrition can affect their well-being as well as the survival, health and well-being of their
      children (Das et al. 2017).

      A&T Ethiopia will develop and test the feasibility of implementing a package of locally
      tailored adolescent nutrition interventions through school-based (in-class curriculum,
      extracurricular activities, parent-teacher associations and activities, nutrition education
      discussions by health workers, and school campaigns) and community platforms. The impacts of
      these nutrition-focused interventions will be compared with standard school and community
      activities in control areas.

      The evaluation will use a two-arm cluster-randomized, non-masked trial design, consisting of
      two surveys and following a sub-sample panel of in-school adolescent girls aged 10-14 years
      enrolled in grades 4-8. The study will be implemented in two regions of Ethiopia, Southern
      Nations Nationalities and People's Region (SNNPR) and Somali. The unit of randomization is
      the primary school which includes grades 1-8. 31 schools in SNNPR and 23 schools in Somali
      will be randomly assigned to intervention/control.

      The objectives of the proposed evaluation are to answer the following questions:

        1. Is it feasible to integrate locally relevant adolescent nutrition interventions through
           school-based platforms?

        2. What are the barriers and opportunities for strengthening school-based nutrition
           interventions for adolescents?

        3. What are the impacts of interventions on the consumption of quality of diets (dietary
           diversity and adequate intake of micronutrients, protein, and energy; and less
           consumption of unhealthy snacks) among adolescent girls?
    
  