
    
      In view of the high prevalence and currently unsatisfactory treatment status, there is a
      significant medical demand for more effective treatment options. These require greater
      knowledge about the condition in the form of full disease progressions while exposed to a
      wide range of different treatment concepts and influencing factors. It has been possible to
      significantly increase scientific understanding of the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis and
      Crohn's disease over the last few decades. Clinical and experimental results indicate a
      causal link with gastrointestinal barrier dysfunction and defective regulation of the immune
      system. However, no evidence has been found to prove that patients with the disease develop
      an immune deficiency by themselves, resulting in an increased susceptibility to bacterial or
      viral infections. Furthermore, there are unanswered questions concerning aetiology, risk
      factors and influencing factors for the early prediction of treatment responses.

      The aim of this registry is to expand on previous findings in the field of diagnostic and
      therapeutic pathways for patients with Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and indeterminate
      colitis undergoing routine administration of a targeted therapy (biologics or another
      targeted therapy such as Janus kinase therapy) and various different treatment approaches. A
      data pool is to be generated for this purpose, in order to

        -  analyse disease progression

        -  systematize findings about treatment processes

        -  identify potential influencing factors

        -  review any new diagnostic procedures

        -  identify potential test subjects for further study

        -  evaluate the safety of various treatment concepts

      A specific objective has not been defined for this registry as a registry does not per se
      need to build upon the foundation of a theoretically-deduced research hypothesis. Rather, it
      acts as a gateway for generating a systematic data repository.

      The registry offers researchers the opportunity to formulate their own research hypotheses
      based on the collected data and to then use the generated data pool to attempt to test their
      hypothesis. Additional data/variables could also be collected as necessary in order to answer
      certain questions.
    
  