
    
      Alterations in cognitive action control in patients with PD are well described from a
      behavioral point of view. However, there is currently very little information to directly
      link these difficulties to functional alterations of brain areas, or of efficient
      communication within large scale brain networks. Thus, the objective of this project is to
      specify the neuronal substrates linked to the difficulties in cognitive action control
      observed in patients with PD. The rational is based on the recent findings on the role of
      theta (4-8 Hz) neuronal oscillations in cognitive action control. Indeed, converging evidence
      linked this process to an increase in theta oscillatory power around midfrontal electrodes
      (FCz, Cz) and to an increase in theta functional connectivity with task-relevant brain areas.

      The working hypotheses are based on the hypothesis proposed by Cohen (2014). It proposes that
      the medial frontal cortex (MFC; around the pre-SMA) would be involved in the integration of
      conflicting information, observable by studying theta oscillations' power. On the other hand,
      the phase synchronization of theta oscillations between the MFC and the other task-relevant
      cortical areas would reflect the degree of recruitment of the entire network participating in
      the implementation of an efficient cognitive control. Thus, according to this model, a
      conflict situation would lead to two main measurable electrophysiological reactions in the
      cortex: i) an increase in the power of theta oscillations around the MFC, ii) an increase in
      theta phase synchronization between the MFC and the other cortical areas (such as the lateral
      prefrontal and parietal cortices) involved in implementing cognitive action control. These
      two electrophysiological effects will be the main judgment criteria of this study.

      The hypothesis is that the behavioral difficulties in cognitive action control observed in PD
      patients stem from a lack of integration of the conflicting information and / or a weaker
      communication of this information to the areas implementing the cognitive control of the
      action. The alteration of one or both of these aspects may explain the weaker cognitive
      action control observed in patients. Moreover, by inspecting the disrupted brain networks, it
      will be able to make hypotheses explaining the alteration of cognitive control in PD. For
      example, a weaker functional connectivity between the MFC and the posterior parietal cortex
      could indicate a lower redirection of attentional resources following the presentation of a
      conflictual stimulus. Another possibility would be a weaker functional connectivity between
      the MFC and the inferior prefrontal cortex, which would rather indicate a lack of recruitment
      of the inhibitory system.

      The main hypothesis will be tested by comparing the performance of a group of PD patients to
      that of a group of healthy participants whose brain activity will be collected during the
      realization of a Simon task via a high resolution electroencephalography system. The
      behavioral performances will be compared as well as the source-reconstructed
      electrophysiological data. Specifically, the power of the theta oscillations within the
      medial frontal cortex, as well as the phase synchronization between the other cortical areas
      involved will be compared between the two groups. Brain-behavior relationships will also be
      investigated in order to try to link PD behavioral impairments to changes in theta
      oscillatory power/connectivity.
    
  