
    
      Based on a power analysis a total population of 100 children (four school classes) will be
      invited to participate in a 10-day protocol. The children will be randomly allocated, within
      their cluster (classes) and stratified for gender and soccer level, to one of 3 intervention
      groups. The groups consist of: A small-sides soccer game group (SSG), a walking soccer group
      (WSG) and a rest group watching soccer on TV (RES). At day 1 the children will complete a
      screening of their physical characteristics (height, weight, fat percentages, lean muscle
      mass and fitness status). On day 2 the children will complete a screening and a
      familiarization to the cognitive tasks used (cognitive performance and long-term memory) and
      the brain activity measuring devices (transportable EEG systems). On day 3 the children will
      complete the interventions, which first consist a long-term memory task, where the children
      will be asked to remember forty different pictures. Immediately after exposure to the forty
      pictures, the children will participate in 2 x 10 minutes of their respective interventions
      with 5 minutes break in between. During the break, the children will complete a short
      questionnaire to address their flow. Furthermore, during the intervention they will be
      equipped with heart rate monitors to quantify the physical demands of the intervention.
      Immediately after completing the 2 x 10 minutes interventions the children will be equipped
      with a transportable EEG system, and undergo a cognitive test (the Flanker task) to address
      their cognitive performance. The EEG recordings are used to measure the P3 amplitude and
      latency, biomarkers for cognitive performance. While equipping the children with the EEG
      system, the children will complete questionnaires about their participation. At day 10 the
      children will try to remember as many pictures of the forty pictures as possible to address
      the effect of the interventions on their long-term memory.
    
  