
    
      With the advent of effective antiretroviral treatment for HIV has come a marked increase in
      the number of persons living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), with the highest prevalence since the
      epidemic began of more than 1.2 million. While PLWHA survive longer, they also experience
      increased burdens of chronic conditions related to lifestyle factors, treatment side effects,
      and age. PLWHA are a population at great risk for high symptom burden, impaired coping and
      social functioning, decreased quality of life, and inadequate end-of-life care. The
      remarkable shift in attitudes towards HIV, from an inevitably fatal disease to a chronic
      condition, has been accompanied by a lessening emphasis on symptom management and end-of-life
      planning. However, while mortality from AIDS-defining conditions has decreased, PLWHA
      continue to have unaddressed needs for coordinated care, symptom management and proactive
      advance care planning. Palliative care, focused on comprehensive management of physical,
      psychological, social, and spiritual needs of persons with incurable, progressive illnesses,
      is a health service uniquely designed to meet these needs. This research project will test a
      model of early palliative care for PLWHA at high risk of mortality and morbidity. First,
      focus group methods will be used to explore views of PLWHA regarding their needs for symptom
      management and social support, and attitudes towards advance care planning and end-of-life
      concerns. We will then conduct a randomized trial of a novel HIV Navigation Program, which
      will be a modification of an existing navigation program that uses trained and experienced
      volunteers as a core component, offered by a large, comprehensive hospice and palliative care
      organization. The specific aims of this study are 1) to identify needs and preferences for
      palliative care and advance care planning of PLWHA, in order to tailor an existing Patient
      Navigation Program to the specific needs of PLWHA with chronic conditions; and 2) to test the
      effect of an HIV Patient Navigation Program intervention on outcomes of quality of life,
      symptom burden, coping ability, and advance care planning; and 3) to determine if
      effectiveness of the HIV Navigation Program intervention differs by age, gender, ethnicity,
      education, income level, and level of palliative care service need. Because of the increasing
      prevalence of HIV coexisting with chronic conditions, there is an urgent need to assess
      palliative care needs and preferences of PLWHA and design effective interventions. This
      interdisciplinary study will test, at the community level, a novel health service designed to
      meet the unique needs of chronically ill PLWHA, and improve and support advance care
      planning. Results from this study will increase understanding of who are PLWHA at highest
      risk for need of palliative services and provide a model for providing early palliative care
      support for PLWHA.
    
  