
    
      Similar to adults, children with severe spinal cord injury (SCI) suffer the devastating
      consequences of limb and trunk muscle paralysis rendering them unable to sit upright, stand,
      or walk. Unique to pediatric-onset SCI, nearly 100% of children injured under the age of 10
      develop neuromuscular scoliosis with approximately 65% requiring surgical intervention. Given
      the importance of muscle activity and load-bearing for musculoskeletal development,
      SCI-induced trunk muscle paralysis during rapid growth contributes significantly to the onset
      and progression of scoliosis. Current physical rehabilitation interventions after
      pediatric-onset SCI are based on the premise of permanence of SCI-induced paralysis and the
      inability to restore intrinsic trunk control. As a result, thoraco-lumbosacral braces remain
      the standard of care for upright sitting support without clear efficacy for reducing the
      incidence of neuromuscular scoliosis.

      Advances in rehabilitation after SCI, for adult and pediatric populations, capitalize on the
      intrinsic capacity of spinal neuronal networks for generation of motor output below the
      lesion in response to sensory input during activity-based locomotor training (AB-LT). Our
      recent work demonstrated remarkable improvements in trunk control as measured by the
      Segmental Assessment of Trunk Control (SATCo) in all 21 participants with SCI, age range: 17
      months-12 years at enrollment and mean time since injury 1.5 years (range 1 month-6 years),
      receiving AB-LT across 60 sessions. Sensory-afferent driven activation of the intrinsic
      synergies between the lower limb and trunk extensor muscles above, across and below the
      lesion likely underlies the physiological adaptations responsible for these gains. While all
      children improved, not all attained full trunk control. Incorporation of neuromodulatory
      techniques, such as epidural spinal cord stimulation, further challenges the limits for SCI
      recovery previously thought possible. There are recent reports of individuals with chronic
      complete SCI regaining the capacity to stand and walk with stimulation. Transcutaneous spinal
      stimulation (TcStim) provides a non-invasive neuromodulatory tool that may, similar to
      epidural stimulation, increase the central state of excitability below the lesion, thereby
      enabling greater capacity for integration of sensory input and augment motor output to
      potentiate trunk motor recovery. Children with SCI may not only benefit from novel
      neurotherapeutic interventions, but also may demonstrate even greater improvements due to
      inherent plasticity present during development. Previous studies demonstrated the efficacy of
      TcStim to acutely improve sitting posture and trunk muscle activation in adults with SCI. In
      children with cerebral palsy, TcStim combined with AB-LT significantly improved locomotion
      compared to AB-LT alone. Our overall objective is to demonstrate 'proof-of-principle', as a
      necessary first step, that TcStim is a feasible and safe approach to a therapeutic
      intervention targeting trunk control in children with SCI. If found to be feasible and safe,
      then future studies will employ TcStim in combination with restorative rehabilitation for
      children with SCI to examine the effect on trunk control.
    
  