
    
      For elderly with Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM) or at nutritional risk, evidences support
      that Oral Nutritional Supplements (ONS) and dietary counselling can increase dietary intake
      and improve quality of life. However, data regarding the beneficial effects of ONS, or
      compliance with ONS in frail elderly population, are very limited. In their RCT, testing the
      effect of protein supplementation, Tieland and colleagues (7) showed an improvement of SPPB
      in frail older adults randomized to receive 15 g of supplemental protein daily for 24 weeks
      compared with the placebo group (p=0.02). Another recent RCT on the effect of a daily
      supplementation with protein and micronutrients for 12 weeks in 87 frail older adults (usual
      gait speed <0.6 m/s; MNA < 24) showed that Physical Functioning increased by 5.9% (1 point)
      in the intervention group, although no change was observed in the control group. SPPB
      remained stable in the intervention group, although it decreased by 12.5% (1 point) in
      controls (8).

      In this study, patients are supposed to take Fortimel® Protein, an ONS recommended in case of
      malnutrition once daily during the study period.

      Patients fulfilling eligibility criteria will be asked whether they are interested to
      participate in the study and receive Fortimel® protein. After informed consent, three visits
      will be planned for each patient enrolled in the study (baseline visit, visits of follow-up
      at 4 weeks and 12 weeks). Phone calls will be regularly organized during one month or three
      month according to the duration of supplementation to collect the compliance with ONS and
      coach patients.

      First prescription of the study product will be done for one month. Prescription will be
      repeated for 2 additional months only after the patient's nutritional status and its global
      health status, as well as tolerability and compliance to the ONS, were re-assessed during the
      first follow-up visit at one month.

      Data regarding the beneficial effects of ONS, or compliance with ONS in frail elderly
      population, are very limited. To complete knowledge about oral nutritional supplementation in
      the undernourished frail elderly people, study purpose is to assess Fortimel® Protein
      compliance to know if this supplementation is well accepted and what are factors which limit
      compliance. More, it could help to demonstrate that oral nutritional supplements have
      benefits on nutritional status and physical performances in frail elderly people.
    
  