
    
      One of the challenges when a child is hospitalized is working with the family, there is an
      enormous evidence relating family factors with onset of psychopathology and pour outcomes in
      children. Usually treatment includes parental support or family therapy, but most parents
      attend to few sessions.

      Mentalization is defined as the capacity to understand and interpret one's own behavior and
      those of others as an expression of mental states, such as feelings, thoughts, fantasies,
      beliefs and desires. Reflective function (RF) is the operational definition of mentalization.
      Parental mentalizing is considered to have important implications for the development of
      self-regulation in Children.

      Video assisted therapy has demonstrated to be a powerful tool in promoting change in
      parent-child relationships with few sessions.

      The present study

      To assess a short program aimed at improving Parental Reflective Function (PRF) during the
      hospitalization of children and early adolescents admitted to a psychiatric unit, a
      randomized pilot psychotherapeutic intervention using video feedback has been designed as a
      clinical trial. There is ample evidence of the usefulness of video feedback to increase
      sensitivity and PRF in children up to 5 years, but in older children the evidence is limited.
      There are no known published randomized clinical trials using video feedback in parents of
      children admitted for psychiatric reasons.

      A VF therapy like this will allow implementing a short and economic intervention, which has
      been used in older children and in parents with mental health problems, as is expected in
      parents of inpatient psychiatric children. This research also will contribute to explore how
      PRF relates to children psychopathology.

      General objectives

        1. To assess the feasibility and acceptability of a psychotherapeutic intervention using
           video feedback in order to improve the PRF in primary caregivers of children and
           adolescents hospitalized in public inpatient unit.

        2. To provide data to estimate the parameters required to design a definitive Randomized
           Control Trial with a psychotherapeutic intervention using VF in order to improve the PRF
           in primary caregivers of children and adolescents hospitalized in public inpatient unit.

      Method This project was approved by the Ethics Committee of the Valparaíso-San Antonio Health
      Service The research has the support of the head of the Child Psychiatry Unit and the
      Director of the Psychiatric Hospital.

      Participants The research will take place in a public child/adolescent psychiatry ward in
      Valparaíso in "Hospital Psiquiátrico del Salvador"

      In the qualitative study, participants will be a minimum of six primary caregivers of
      children hospitalized in a psychiatric ward receiving intervention between the ages of 6 and
      14, as well as three key players (a therapist, a nurse and chief psychiatrist of the Special
      Care Unit).

      The quantitative study will be conducted amongst all tutors of children hospitalized in a
      child psychiatry ward between August 2017 and December 2018. The sample will be all parents
      and/or caregivers that meet the inclusion criteria and wish to participate. The expected
      sample size is 30 subjects in total; 10 for the control group and 20 for the experimental
      group. If by December 2018 the total sample has not been met, more subjects will be recruited
      in order to achieve the sample size. A clinical essay having 30 subjects has been proposed
      because an intervention of these characteristics has not been performed in Chile; so the
      impact of the effect must first be estimated in order to assess the feasibility for a future
      multi-centric clinical trail. This is the reason behind piloting the present study.

      Procedure

      Qualitative study. Two semi-structured interview scripts will be performed.

        -  One script aims to gain full grasp of the subjective experience gained by intervention
           participants regarding the perceived workshop satisfaction and follow-up.

        -  The second script will be aimed at key institutional information holders, aiming to
           collect information pertinent to the feasibility of performing such an intervention.
           Questions will focus on analyzing the necessary resources needed and impact the workshop
           may have in the functioning of the child psychiatric ward.

      The interviews will be performed by physicians undergoing a psychiatrist specialization
      and/or a psychologist who is not participating in the intervention.

      Quantitative Study

      At the onset of hospitalization, all caregivers meeting inclusion criteria must provide an
      informed consent form in order to participate in the study. Children must provide an informed
      approval after caregivers have provided their consent.

      All caregivers that participate in the study will receive an array of instruments upon
      entering, subsequently randomized between the control groups and those intervened. If any
      mental health problem is detected in caregivers it will be made a referral for her or him to
      get special support according to the problem detected

      Both groups of caregivers along with their child receive the same regular care and treatments
      they would normally receive from a inpatient unit. Since both groups will be subject to a
      larger intervention, the aim of a future randomized control trial will be to objectify how
      much VF boosts the improvement of PRF during a child's psychiatric hospitalization.

      Intervention Interventions will be performed by the principal investigator and by a child
      clinical psychologist, both trained and supervised in Video Intervention Therapy (VIT). VIT
      is a technique for performing Video Feedback where behavior-oriented interventions and
      representational therapy elements are used. This provides a six-step video analysis
      framework. The video may be filmed at different settings, the only requirement being a visual
      interaction of the child with his parents.

      A four module intervention was designed for this study, each module includes a play session
      and a VF session. The play session has a workshop format, it has a duration of 45 to 60
      minutes, where the caregiver(s) plays freely with the child. During the play session, a five
      to ten minute video sessions of the dyads will be made. The therapeutic team will then pick
      approximately 1 minute long excerpts to display in the VF sessions. The VF sessions will
      occur during the same week and these could be group sessions.

      Analysis plan

      Qualitative Study The information obtained from the interviews will be analyzed with Grounded
      Theory model, obtained open codify data.

      For the analysis the ATLAS.TI Software will be used, enabling managing and processing text
      data groups.

      Quantitative Study

        1. A descriptive statistic will be performed to compare the control group and the
           intervened group regarding clinical and sociodemographic variables.

        2. It will be also presenting descriptive statistic on eligibility rate, recruitment rate,
           and compliance.

        3. To determine Effect Size and Intra Class Correlation results will be analyzed using a
           multiple linear regression, multi level model with randomized and fixed interception.

      Quantitative data will be analyzed using STATA 14.
    
  