
    
      BACKGROUND:

      An estimated 30 to 40 percent of elderly persons are treated with blood pressure medications.
      The efficacy of blood pressure drug therapy in older patients with diastolic or combined
      diastolic/systolic hypertension is well proven, but such therapy can adversely affect quality
      of life and biochemical profile. In 1992 when the study started, there was a compelling
      rationale to identify what proportion of medicated, well-controlled elderly hypertensives
      could be maintained long-term or greater than 30 months in the normotensive state following
      withdrawal of blood pressure medications. There was also a need to determine whether
      nonpharmacologic therapy could significantly increase the proportion with a successful
      outcome.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      Randomized. A total of 585 overweight subjects were assigned in a 2 x 2 factorial design to
      weight loss, sodium reduction, combined weight loss and sodium reduction, or usual life-style
      control. The remaining 390 subjects of normal weight were assigned in a 2-armed design to a
      sodium reduction or an attention control group. The control groups were engaged in a series
      of non-blood pressure related health encounters designed to control for non-specific effects
      of groups contacts. Withdrawal of antihypertensive medication was attempted following three
      months of intervention. The primary endpoint was a blood pressure of 150/90 mm Hg or greater,
      resumption of antihypertensive drug therapy, or the occurrence of a blood pressure-related
      clinical complication during two to three years of follow-up. Recruitment ended in June,
      1994. Follow-up ended in December, 1995. NHLBI support for the trial ended in March, 1997.
      The NIA supported the Coordinating Center and two clinical centers through February 1998.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "Completed Date"
      entered from the old format in the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS).
    
  