
    
      More than 2.2. billion people worldwide have anaemia and half of this burden is caused by
      iron deficiency [Lopez 2016]. The commonest causes of iron deficiency are inadequate intake,
      poor absorption of iron [Stoffel 2017] and blood loss, for example due to menstruation [World
      Health Organization Guideline: Daily iron supplementation in adult women and adolescent
      girls; Geneva 2016, Low 2016]. Supplementation with oral iron is well established to prevent
      and treat iron deficiency anaemia and to promote recovery of iron and haemoglobin levels post
      blood loss or blood donation [Low 2016, McNamee 2013]. However, iron food fortification and
      oral iron supplements are frequently limited by poor absorption and poor tolerability [Munoz
      2009]. Ferrous sulfate is considered the gold standard and the only oral iron form on the WHO
      Essential Medicines List, yet has fractional absorption of only 16%-21% from daily or
      alternative daily doses [Stoffel et al 2017]. It is also poorly tolerated, causing adverse GI
      effects in a majority of patients [Pereira 2014]. This results in poor adherence in up to 50%
      of users, significant nutritional deficit and treatment failure [Tolkien 2015]

      We have previously evaluated a formulation of microspheres of iron sulfate in a denatured
      whey protein (WP) matrix at a daily elemental iron dose of 25mg daily, marketed as Active
      Iron, in comparison with equi-dose immediate release and modified release ferrous sulfate
      (Wang et al. Acta Haematologica Acta Haematol 2017;138:223-232). In these evaluations, the
      iron-WP formulation has shown better absorption and there were no reports of adverse effects.
      Furthermore, in-vitro data show that the iron-WP matrix formulation can protect HT20 gut
      endothelial cells and CaCO2 cells from oxidative stress and cell damage associated with
      ferrous sulfate. In a post-marketing survey of 101 people taking Active Iron (age 43 ± 10
      years, 83% female) with a history of intolerance to oral iron, 87% reported no adverse
      effects after 2 weeks.

      Therefore, the present study aims to compare the 3-month adherence and efficacy associated
      with a 25mg single daily dose, a lower (14mg) single daily dose and twice daily dosing with
      25mg (50mg daily), in subjects with treatment failure (iron deficiency and with a history of
      intolerance to oral iron). The primary objective of the study is to assess the proportion of
      subjects adherent and persistent (>80% based on pill counts) from baseline to weeks 6 and
      baseline to week 12. Secondary objectives aim to further assess compliance (average
      compliance), tolerability (incidence of gastrointestinal symptoms GSRS instrument), efficacy
      (change in haemoglobin, ferritin, transferrin saturation, iron binding protein) and health
      related quality of life (SF36 instrument).

      At least 90 subjects will be screened in order to identify up to 60 eligible subjects, and 54
      evaluable subjects. Participants will be male and female, between 18 and 55 years of age,
      with mild to moderate iron deficiency anaemia (haemoglobin ≥9.5 g/dL and <12.0 g/dL for
      females and ≥10.0 g/dL and <13.0 g/dL for males and ferritin < 30 µg/L) or ferritin < 30 µg/L
      and no anaemia. There will be stratified randomisation to include up to 30 patients with iron
      deficiency and mild to moderate anaemia as well as up to 30 patients with iron deficiency
      without anaemia. Other pre-specified sub-groups for evaluation of the primary and secondary
      endpoints include women with reported symptoms of heavy menstrual bleeding and participants
      with intolerance of liquid iron products or lower doses (< 50mg elemental iron). Separate
      analysis of primary and secondary endpoints will be carried out in participants in the
      multivitamin and mineral sub study. Finally, due to the suspension of some clinics during
      Covid lockdown, we carried out a prespecified analysis of patients completing the study
      before the onset of the Covid 19 Pandemic.

      Subjects will be randomised to one of three treatment arms:

        1. ACTIVE IRON™ (ferrous sulfate) 14 mg elemental iron once daily (plus matching placebo)

        2. ACTIVE IRON™ (ferrous sulfate) 25 mg elemental iron once daily (plus matching placebo)

        3. ACTIVE IRON™ (ferrous sulfate) 25 mg elemental iron twice daily (plus matching placebo)

      The study will involve 4 visits over a 12 to 14-week period. At the screening visit (visit
      1), informed consent shall be obtained. Demographic data, vitals, anthropometric measurements
      and prior and concomitant medications will be recorded. Subjects will be asked questions
      relating to their iron deficiency anaemia and medical history associated with this. Female
      subjects will be asked questions regarding their menstrual periods and intolerance to other
      iron products. A fasting blood sample will be collected and a full blood count, including
      Ferritin and Serum iron/Transferrin will be measured. Blood and serum samples will be frozen
      and retained for post-hoc analysis of other biomarkers relevant to iron metabolism (e.g.
      hepcidin, soluble transferrin receptor).

      Once eligibility is confirmed the subject will be invited to attend a baseline visit (visit
      2, Time 0). At this visit, a blood sample will be collected and a full blood count, including
      Ferritin and Serum iron/Transferrin will be measured. For women of childbearing age, a urine
      sample will be collected, and pregnancy test performed. Subjects will be queried about any
      changes in their health status and any non-treatment emergent events and medications will be
      recorded. Subjects will complete the following questionnaires: Gastrointestinal Symptom
      Rating Scale (GSRS Instrument), the Short Form-36 (SF-36 Instrument) and for women who are
      menstruating, they will report the date, duration and blood flow of their last menstrual
      period.

      Subjects will be randomized into one of three treatment groups, but will be blinded as to
      which group they are in. Subjects will be supplied with a 6-week supply of study product and
      instructions on dosing. Subjects will be instructed to following their habitual diet and
      exercise routine and to not consume any disallowed medications or supplements that could
      interfere with the assessment of the study product for the duration of the study. Subjects
      will be provided with an appointment to return to the study site at week 6.

      At week 3 and 9 ('phone visits'), all subjects will be asked (to complete the GSRS, and women
      who are menstruating, will complete Menstrual Period Questionnaire, to record the date,
      duration and blood flow of their last menstrual period.

      Subjects will return to the clinic site at week 6 (visit 3) and 12 (visit 4). At each visit,
      subjects will be queried about any changes in their health status and any adverse events and
      medications will be recorded. A blood sample will be collected and a full blood count,
      including Ferritin and Serum iron/Transferrin will be measured. Subjects will complete the
      following questionnaires: GSRS, SF-36 and for women who are menstruating, the Menstrual
      Period Questionnaire. Subjects will return any unused study product and additional product
      will be dispensed. The adherence based on pill count will be determined for the period.
      Subjects will be instructed to continue following their habitual diet and exercise routine
      and to not consume any disallowed medications or supplements that could interfere with the
      assessment of the study product for the duration of the study.

      At the 4th visit (week 12), subjects will be invited to partake in an optional, open-label,
      follow-up for 3 months after the completion of the blinded intervention phase. Participants
      who decide to partake in the optional, open-label follow-up study will continue to receive
      the same dose of Active Iron™ as they received during the blinded intervention phase, for a
      further 12 weeks, in addition to a multivitamin and mineral complex that is designed to
      maximise iron metabolism and haemoglobin/red blood cell formation. This complex contains
      vitamin A, D, B2, B6, B12, folic acid and copper. Subjects will return for an interim
      follow-up visit at week 18 (visit 5), and a final visit at week 24 (visit 6). At these visits
      subjects will undergo standard assessments and complete the following questionnaires: GSRS,
      SF-36 and for women who are menstruating, the Menstrual Period Questionnaire. Subjects will
      also answer questions on the tolerability of the study product.
    
  