
    
      Randomized, double-blind prospective trial to test the efficacy and acceptability of
      therapeutic, antiseptic mouth rinses to inactivate SARS-CoV-2 virus in saliva of SARS-CoV-2+
      patients 18-65 years of age. The study will enroll 30 outpatient SARS-CoV-2+ subjects per
      mouth rinse, (to achieve a total of 25 subjects with full data sets per mouth rinse,) with 5
      mouth rinses, requiring us to enroll 125 SARS-CoV-2+ patients. Patients will be randomized to
      their mouthrinse. These patients will have already had a confirmed SARS-CoV-2+ test prior to
      enrollment. There will be no stratification to our randomization. All mouthrinses are
      commercially available Colgate products and will be used according to on-label instructions.

      Subjects will be randomized to a mouthrinse and will be asked to give a saliva sample
      immediately before and after a 30-60 second mouthwash.

      Saliva samples will be collected from subjects at 15-minute intervals thereafter up to one
      hour (15, 30, 45 and 60 min). The saliva samples will be stored and used for RT-PCR detection
      of SARS-CoV-2 virus and viral infectivity assays, along with quantitative cytokine and
      chemokine concentration (pg/mL, Luminex).

      Subjects will also complete a short survey on the taste and experience of using the
      mouthwash.

      Peripheral blood will be collected at the end of salivary collection. Subjects, except
      controls, will be provided materials and oral hygiene instruction related to daily use of
      oral hygiene products provided by the study. In the seven-day period between study visits,
      subjects will be directed to brush with Colgate toothpaste (at least twice per day) and rinse
      with the Colgate mouthrinse (according to on-label procedures). Controls are not given
      Colgate products and will be asked to carry out their typical oral hygiene regimen with the
      products they typically use. All subjects will be asked to keep a daily diary of oral hygiene
      performance, product usage, COVID-19 symptoms and exposures.

      Subjects will be scheduled to return to the research clinic at one week after the baseline
      assessment, during which additional salivary (1 time point, 2 mL of saliva over 5 min, no
      rinse will occur) and blood samples will be collected. At the conclusion of sample
      collection, the subject will undergo a periodontal exam. Study participation concludes
      following the periodontal exam at the end of the second on site study visit. Patients with
      any periodontitis or gingivitis diagnosis will be informed of their diagnosis and will be
      referred to an oral healthcare provider for further treatment. This study involves two
      90-minute visits.
    
  