
    
      Objectives

      WP 1 Objective: to describe whether there is a difference in the number of visits to general
      practitioner, emergency department and hospitalizations in children with and without COVID.
      In addition, which co-morbid diagnoses are given 3,6,9 and 12 months after diagnosis with
      COVID and which drugs are prescribed. Thirdly, we want to identify the number of contacts to
      the general practitioner, emergency department, hospitalizations and prescribed drugs in
      children with COVID compared with adults with and without COVID.

      WP 2 Objective: to investigate long covid symptoms after 3,6,9 and 12 months in children
      tested positive for COVID compared to children with a negative test.

      Methods

      Design: National register study and questionnaire survey.

      Outcomes

      WP1: To determine the difference in number of contacts to the general practitioner, emergency
      departments and hospitalizations in both children and adults with and without covid-19, an
      identification from Covid-19 data linked with LPR3 and SSR will occur. Identification of
      co-morbidities will be identified from LPR3 and prescribed drugs are available from LMDB.

      WP2: Long-term covid-19 symptoms in children will be identified from questionnaires.

      Statistical analyses

      WP1: Multiple regressions models presented as odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals
      (CI) will be used to examine the differences in contacts regarding the general practitioner,
      emergency departments, hospitalizations, co-morbidities and prescribed drugs in children and
      adults with and without COVID.

      WP2: To investigate parent and child reported long COVID symptoms numbers and percentages
      will be presented follow by multiple logistic models offered as OR and 95% CI.

      All analyses will be stratified by age groups and gender.

      Population

      Exposure: To be identified as an exposure for the current study, children from 0-18 years
      with at least one positive COVID test will be identified from Covid-19 data from January 2020
      until the last updated version. To be able to identify the parents who will receive the
      questionnaires the investigators will also need CPR-data on the children's parents.

      Non-exposure: Children from 0-18 years with COVID negative test for the entire period of
      January 2020 until the last updated version will be identified from Covid-19 data. Adults
      with and without COVID will as well be identified from Covid-19 data in the same period. To
      be able to identify the parents who will receive the questionnaires the investigators will
      need CPR-data on the parents.

      Variables

      Covid-19 data will enable information on children and adults with and without symptoms of
      COVID. The parents who will receive questionnaires will also be identified from this register
      likewise will data on death, sex and age.

      The Temporary Danish National Patient Register (LPR3) will provide data on the number of
      emergency visits, hospitalizations and co-morbidities.

      The Danish Health Insurance Register (SSR) offers numbers of contacts with the general
      practitioner.

      The Danish Medicines Registry (LMDB) enables the investigators to link prescribed drugs.

      All registers will be updated monthly by The Danish Health Authorities and the investigators
      will need data extraction in the period 2020 until the last updated version from all the
      above mentioned registers.

      Publications of results

      All results will be published in international scientist journals as well as the hospital
      webpage and press releases.

      Perspectives

      This will be the largest investigation of long covid in children to date. Denmark has
      excellent registers and logistics for questionnaires providing a unique opportunity to report
      on children's health care seeking behavior and symptoms after being infected with covid-19.
      Children are an overlooked group during the pandemic and these data will provide essential
      information for health care staff, politicians and parents.
    
  