
    
      Physical activity (PA) has been in focus over the last two decades as a life style factor of
      importance. A review summarizing nearly 170 studies states that the scientific evidence for
      the association between lack of physical activity and cancer is convincing regarding breast
      and colon cancer and probable for prostate cancer and possible for lung and endometrial
      cancer (8). Regarding postoperative rehabilitation the benefits from preoperative physical
      exercise together with a postoperative early rehabilitation schedule has been reported for
      spinal surgery (9). In colorectal surgery the benefits of enhanced recovery programs have
      been clearly demonstrated (10). The impact of preoperative prehabilitation has been evaluated
      and seems beneficial (11, 12), however most studies have not used clinically important
      outcome measures such as complications or postoperative morbidity. The evidence for
      prehabilitation as a measure to reduce postoperative morbidity is scarce (12). To evaluate
      the recovery after a surgical procedure in a broader sense is difficult. Several scales have
      been tried to assess recovery (13-16).

      The simple instrument for self-reported PA introduced by Saltin and Grimby has been shown to
      discriminate between sedentary and active counterparts regarding maximum oxygen uptake (17)
      and has been validated against biological measures (18). Indeed, studies have indicated that
      such single self-reported approximation of the level of PA, may predict risk for morbidity
      and cardiovascular as well as total mortality (19-21). The self-assessed PA-level concurs
      well with the actual physical fitness of the individual (22-24). This is also important,
      since cardiorespiratory fitness may also predict cardiovascular risk and mortality (25).

      There are also studies indicating that other life-style factors such as alcohol consumption
      has a negative impact on outcome after surgery as well as outcome after health-care
      associated infections (26, 27). To screen for excessive alcohol consumption the Alcohol Use
      Disorders Identification Test-Consumption (AUDIT) test has been used. Several recent studies
      have indicated that a shorter survey with the top three questions in the AUDIT questionnaire
      (AUDIT-C) is sufficient to provide information on alcohol use (28, 29).

      Smoking is also a life-style factor that affects surgical outcome (30). It has been shown to
      increase the risk for complications and studies indicate that smoking cessation prior to the
      surgical procedure to reduce the risk for complications (31). Self-reported assessment of
      smoking seems to be accurate and reflect the actual nicotine use of the individual (32).

      Length of hospital stay is of importance both to patients and the society. A surgical
      procedure that shortens hospital stay may be cost-effective even in cases with higher
      operation room costs (33). It is also of importance to consider time to work/sick leave; a
      cost for patients and society that can affect the cost analysis of a surgical procedure (34).

      The aim of this study is to investigate whether a higher physical activity prior to a
      surgical procedure reduces hospital stay, sick leave and the complication rate.

      A secondary aim is to investigate the effect of preoperative physical activity on the rate of
      resumption of QoL and normal physical function.

      In order to explore the importance of PA for the outcome after a surgical procedure due to
      gallbladder disease, breast cancer and colorectal cancer we will ask all patients operated
      for any of the three above mentioned conditions to answer a short questionnaire (Appendix I)
      including the Saltin and Grimby (7) questions to study of the effects of the level of PA
      immediately before surgical operations. The patients will be asked to estimate their physical
      activity four weeks prior to the surgical procedure.

        1. Mostly sedentary

        2. Light PA (such as gardening or walking or bicycling to work) at least two hours a week

        3. Moderate PA such as aerobics, dancing, swimming, playing football or heavy gardening) at
           least two hours a week

        4. Vigorous PA (high intensity) at least five hours daily several times a week.

      They will also be asked to report weight, length, smoking habits, alcohol consumption,
      socioeconomic situation, diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidaemia and BMI as well as certain
      questions with relation to Quality of Life and their postoperative recovery (Appendix I). The
      questions are to some extent validated through previous research (28, 29, 32, 47, 48) but
      some questions are newly constructed. The new questions have been constructed by an expert
      panel consisting of colorectal and general surgeons, cardiologist and specialized nurses. The
      domains chosen have been related to previous research regarding recovery (42). The
      questionnaire has been face-to face validated by patients with gall bladder surgery planned
      or a previous cholecystectomy performed, patients with breast cancer both prior and after
      surgery and colorectal cancer patients prior and after surgery using the same validation
      methods previously described for prostate cancer (48).

      All patients will be contacted by telephone and a subsequently receive a mailed questionnaire
      (similar to the pre-operative questionnaire) (Appendix II) regarding their self-assessed QoL
      post-operatively and postoperative recovery, the timing of this will be related to the
      estimated time for recovery as follows:

        -  3 weeks after gallbladder surgery

        -  3 and 6 weeks after surgery for breast cancer

        -  3 and 6 weeks after surgery for colorectal cancer
    
  