
    
      OBJECTIVES:

        -  Determine the efficacy of an early intervention palliative care program comprising a
           phone-based nurse educator and shared medical appointments in improving end-of-life care
           of patients with advanced lung, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, or breast cancer.

        -  Compare symptom management, quality of life, and the match between preference of care
           and the care received in patients treated with an early intervention palliative care
           program vs a standard care program.

        -  Compare health care utilization by patients treated with these interventions.

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to cancer
      diagnosis (lung vs breast vs gastrointestinal vs genitourinary) and participating center.
      Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I (early-intervention palliative care program): Patients complete the Medical Care
           Questionnaire and receive a computer-generated prescription letter that outlines the
           problems they have identified; the patient's physician also receives a copy of the
           letter. Patients receive a series of phone calls weekly for 4 weeks and then at least
           monthly from a nurse educator. The phone calls address 3 major areas: coordination of
           palliative care options in the cancer center and the patient's community, including
           referrals for psychological or spiritual counseling, social work consultation, financial
           guidance, home health, palliative care or hospice services, and bereavement counseling
           for the family; problem-solving therapy, focusing on the identification of problems,
           definition of achievable goals, a plan for reaching those goals, and evaluation of
           success; and tailored psycho-educational modules from "Charting Your Course", covering
           end-of-life topics such as symptom management, advanced care planning, communication
           with the health care team and family members, spirituality, and nutrition. Patients also
           receive information regarding the purpose and time/location of symptom management,
           shared medical appointments (SMAs), which they can attend in person or call in to
           participate via speaker phone. SMAs are 1.5-hour monthly sessions conducted by a
           physician and a nurse practitioner that can accommodate 10-12 patients and their
           caregivers. The sessions include a welcome/social period, a question and answer/peer
           discussion, an interactive educational session, and an opportunity for one-on-one nurse
           practitioner appointments with a focus on a brief review of the patients' medical
           treatment plans.

        -  Arm II (standard palliative care program): Patients receive standard palliative care
           from their physician/nurse practitioner team and have access to the palliative care
           nurse at the discretion of the treating physician.

      Patients complete Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy-Palliative Care at
      baseline and every 3 months thereafter. Patients and caregivers complete surveys measuring
      their perception of the quality of the patient's cancer care at baseline and at 1 month.

      A caregiver or family member completes the After-Death Bereaved Family Member Interview to
      evaluate the adequacy of patient care at 3 months post-patient death.

      PROJECTED ACCRUAL: A total of 450 patients will be accrued for this study.
    
  