
    
      Intimate partner violence (IPV) is a complex problem because it is associated with factors at
      a variety of levels which include the individual, conjugal, societal, cultural, and
      institutional, which can all also act as barriers to accessing mental health services.
      Survivors of IPV are vulnerable to an array of mental health illnesses which include
      post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, emotional dependency and low
      self-esteem. A variety of psychotherapies are available to improve mental illnesses, however
      there is uncertainty on which is the superior approach. In Colombia there are no national
      guidelines outlining which therapy should be used, rather, psychologists use their preferred
      approach or approaches which may include humanistic or psychoanalytical methods. Furthermore,
      patients with mental health problems face a large waiting list for initial and follow-up
      psychotherapy appointments, often fail to attend and do not complete their treatment. This
      study will be conducted in two cities, Cali and Tuluá, in the state Valle del Cauca that have
      high levels of IPV, internally displaced conflict victims and large socioeconomic
      inequalities.

      The study´s hypothesis is that a psychologist led cognitive-behavioral intervention with Lay
      Psychosocial Community Worker (LPCW) support is superior to treatment as usual to reduce
      mental illness symptoms. The study's objective is to improve mental illness symptoms of
      female survivors of IPV through the program IPCCOS, a Cognitive-Behavioral Intervention with
      Community Worker Support for Survivors of Intimate Partner Violence (IPCCOS is the
      abbreviation for its name in Spanish: Intervención Psicoterapéutico Cognitivo-Conductual con
      Apoyo Comunitario para Sobrevivientes de Violencia de Pareja). IPCCOS was developed by the
      CISALVA Institute at the Universidad del Valle (Cali), the Universidad Central del Valle del
      Cauca UCEVA (Tuluá), with assistance from Heartland Alliance International (HAI) to provide
      and test an alternative intervention for female survivors of IPV. Each patient will be
      offered 11 weekly psychotherapy sessions which will be divided between a psychologist and a
      LPCW. The LPCWs in the study will come from community women groups who are already working in
      women´s rights and have exposure to violence against women and the relevant medico-legal
      systems. They will receive up to a week of intensive training from study psychologists and a
      psychologist from HAI who is trained in cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT) and has experience
      training and supervising LPCWs in other mental health studies in Colombia. Approximately six
      weeks after initiating the intervention, LPCWs will receive a further day of training. LPCWs
      will assign tasks to patients which have been set by the psychologist and will assist them to
      overcome any barriers to attend their appointments. They will be closely supervised by the
      psychologist once per week to discuss their patients.

      A randomized control trial study design will be used to compare and evaluate the two groups.
      Patients will be recruited from health services if they are found to have experimented IPV in
      the last year and will be randomly assigned by block randomization to either treatment as
      usual or the IPCCOS (intervention group). Patients will be invited to participate in the
      study from three sources:

        -  General physician outpatient appointments.

        -  Hospital data bases. Hospital records will be searched to detect patients that have
           experienced IPV and that have not commenced psychotherapy. This will be performed
           retrospectively to search for patients that were given this diagnosis of IPV between
           January 2017 and September 2017. They will be contacted via phone, given a brief
           description of the study and if they are interested in participating, they will be
           invited to meet a health professional who will give a more detailed description of the
           study and take informed consent.

        -  Patients that are detected to have experienced IPV in the Emergency Department will be
           told about the study. They will only be asked to decide on their participation one week
           after they have been discharged.

      In the treatment as usual group, patients normally receive psychotherapy every four weeks,
      depending on demand. There is no pre-established number of sessions as this depends on the
      clinical condition and the patient´s adherence.

      In the intervention group, patients will be offered eleven weekly cognitive-behavioral
      sessions that will be delivered by psychologists and LPCWs. In addition, they will receive
      phone calls from LPCWs to remind them of their appointments.

      The sessions will be divided between psychologists and LPCWs in the following scheme:

        1. Psychologist

        2. Psychologist

        3. Psychologist

        4. LPCW

        5. LPCW

        6. Psychologist

        7. LPCW

        8. LPCW

        9. Psychologist

       10. LPCW

       11. Psychologist

      LPCWs will meet with psychologists on a weekly basis to discuss their patients and any safety
      concerns.

      Patients who exhibit severe mental illness symptoms during the intervention such as suicidal
      ideation, schizophrenia or bipolar disorder will be referred to the project psychiatrist for
      specialist care.

      An array of instruments will be applied during the study to measure mental illness symptoms,
      functionality, IPV experience and other forms of violence. These measures will be taken
      immediately before starting psychotherapy and two weeks and six months after completing the
      intervention in the intervention group. Patients in the control group will have instruments
      applied before commencing psychotherapy and fourteen weeks and twenty-two weeks after
      starting.

      Sample size:

      A sample size was calculated according to the following formula (comparison of means from the
      intervention and control groups):

      n = 2 (Zα + Zβ)² * S² (x1 - x2) ²

      The sample size was calculated using values from a previous cognitive-behavioral intervention
      for armed-conflict victims of Buenaventura and Quibdó, Colombia
      (https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01856673). An Alfa error of 5%, power of 80%, and
      standard deviation of 30 was used. The sample size of each arm necessary to obtain a
      significant difference in means of symptoms between the control and intervention group is:

      n = 2 (1.96 + 0.842)² * 30² / (20) ²

      n = 35

      According to this calculation a minimum of 35 volunteers must be recruited into each arm per
      city (Cali and Tuluá), which means that overall 70 volunteers will be recruited into the
      intervention group and 70 volunteers into the control group giving a total of 140 volunteers
      in the study.

      Information will be collected using digital tablets and transferred to a database designed
      for the study. Confidentiality will be ensured by not including identifying variables.

      An exploratory analysis to identify extreme values or missing data will be performed and
      medical records will be revised to verify some of the information. A sample of the
      instruments applied in the study will be audited.

      Multiple imputation techniques will be used for all missing data including those resulting
      from lost to follow up. Additionally, a sensitivity analysis based on probability weighting
      will be used as a covariate in the final analysis for all missing data.

      The anticipated results are a reduction in anxiety, depression, PTSD, low self-esteem and
      emotional dependency symptoms, which will be greater in patients in the intervention group
      compared those in the control group.
    
  