
    
      Endoscopy is a routine and reliable method for the diagnosis of digestive tract
      diseases.Common endoscopy are gastroscopy, colonoscopy, capsule endoscopy and enteroscopy,
      ultrasonic gastroscopy, after ercp and other related technology, can be used in early gastric
      cancer and peptic ulcer, esophageal varices, the stomach before lesion, intestinal polyps and
      adenomas and colorectal lesions, inflammatory bowel disease, pancreas disease, biliary tract
      disease diagnosis and follow-up.At present, digestive endoscopy almost covers the diagnosis
      of the vast majority of diseases of the digestive tract, and diseases of the digestive system
      that cannot be directly seen by endoscopy can also be realized through endoscopic-based
      technologies such as endoscopy and ERCP (here the investigators collectively refer to
      endoscopy), so as to achieve the coverage of the whole digestive system.It can be seen that
      digestive endoscopy is of great significance for the diagnosis of digestive diseases and the
      development of digestive field.

      With the popularization of these related technologies, the number of endoscopy increased
      rapidly, which further increased the workload of endoscopists. The operation of endoscopy by
      high-load endoscopists would reduce the quality of endoscopy, which is prone to problems such
      as incomplete examination coverage and incomplete detection of lesions.In digestive
      endoscopy, there are some problems in China, such as lack of endoscopic physicians and uneven
      distribution, and the quality of endoscopy is not up to standard. These problems need to be
      solved urgently in order to relieve the pain of patients, save medical resources, save the
      time and money of patients, and ensure the quality of patients' medical treatment.

      In 2015, the proposal of deep learning brought great changes to the field of artificial
      intelligence, which made the development of artificial intelligence leap to a new
      level.Computer vision is a science that studies how to make machines "see". Through deep
      learning, camera and computer can replace human eyes to carry out machine vision such as
      target recognition, tracking and measurement.Interdisciplinary cooperation in the field of
      medical imaging and computer vision is also one of the research hotspots in recent years. At
      present, it is mainly applied to the automatic identification and detection of lesions and
      quality control, and has achieved good results. It can assist doctors to find lesions, make
      disease diagnosis and standardize doctors' operations, so as to improve the quality of
      doctors' operations.With mature technical support, it has a good prospect and application
      value to develop endoscopic operating system for lesion detection and quality control based
      on artificial intelligence methods such as deep learning.

      In this study, the investigators proposed a prospective study about the effectiveness of
      artificial intelligence system for Retrograde cholangiopancreatography. The subjects would be
      include in an analyses groups. The AI-assisted system helps endoscopic physicians estimate
      the difficulty of Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography for choledocholithiasis and
      make recommendations based on guidelines and difficulty scores. The investigators used the
      stone removal times, success rate of stone extraction and Operating time to reflect the
      difficulty of the operation, and evaluated whether the results of the AI system were correct.
    
  