
    
      Study Protocol, Data collection

      Ninety recruited sample is the patient come to the foot clinic, Siriraj Hospital with the age
      over eighteen years old, presence of hallux valgus deformity in moderate level (without the
      condition of hallux rigidus), and never use hallux valgus strap or toes separator before.

      The sample is given a physical assessment by physician and is asked to fill in a
      self-administered questionnaire which composes of general information, the foot problem
      information and the impact of deformity to patients function information. General information
      section requires the detail regarding age, genders, and the average walking hours. Foot
      problem information section composes of side, duration of hallux valgus and family history.
      Impacts of the hallux valgus deformity section includes walking problem, shoes-fitting
      problem, working problem, and daily activities problem, were recorded by using a numeric
      rating scale from 0 to 10; 0 refers as no problem and 10 refers as the worst problem. The
      sample then will be taken the radiograph of the feet in order to evaluate the degree of
      hallux valgus angle and intermetatarsal angle.

      After the completion of assessment, the sample is randomly divided into 2 groups; control and
      experimental group by using computer program.

        -  Control group receives the recommendation of use the proper shoes without determination
           of current drug use

        -  Experimental group receives the custom-made mold making silicone toe separator made by
           certified orthotist and the recommendation of use the proper shoes without determination
           of current drug use

      The follow up activity is on every 3rd, 6th, 9th and 12th of the study period in both groups
      by using questionnaire; pain score (NRS), satisfaction of using the custom-made mold making
      silicone toe separator (NRS) and report of complication. In the 6th and 12th month, the
      progress evaluation on hallux valgus and intermetatarsal angle is done by radiograph. The
      angle then is recorded by mean of the three values.

      Descriptive statistics; mean, standard deviation or interquartile range, will be used to
      identify the demographic data of the participant and compliance of device usage. Analytical
      statistics; Unpaired t-test or Mann Whitney U test will be used for determining the average
      device usage time, pain score, and satisfaction of the participants after using mold making
      silicone toe separator.
    
  