
    
      Membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis (MPGN) is a relatively-rare, immune-mediated
      glomerular disease. There is no accepted therapy and all current therapies are inadequate.
      Current therapeutic options include immunosuppression with corticosteroids alone or in
      combination with alkylating agents, antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and/or dipyridamole
      and/or warfarin, and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and/or angiotensin receptor
      blockers. As with other glomerular diseases the amount of protein in the urine correlates
      well with the long-term prognosis. Thus, this parameter has been used in previous studies,
      and will be used in this study, as the primary indicator of therapeutic efficacy. We propose
      a pilot study to test the hypothesis that selective B lymphocyte depletion will result in
      disappearance of pathogenic antibodies and induce remission of proteinuria in patients with
      idiopathic membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis. Our population will be 10 adults with
      MPGN involving either the native kidneys or a renal transplant. We will enroll patients with
      a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) greater than or equal to 25 ml/min, as estimated by
      creatinine clearance, and with a 24 hour urinary ratio of protein to creatinine greater than
      or equal to 1, while receiving an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI) or
      angiotensin II receptor blocker (ARB). Patients will receive Rituximab 1g on Day 1 and 15.
      Patients will be followed for 1 year following completion of treatment. The primary outcome
      will be the change in urinary protein excretion at 6 months. Secondary outcomes will include
      changes in the GFR, changes in urinary protein excretion at 3, 9, and 12 months, the rate of
      change in urinary protein excretion, serum albumin concentration, serum cholesterol, the
      number of complete and partial remissions, time to remission, and the number of relapses.
    
  