
    
      OBJECTIVES: In the VIP (Veterans Intensive Personalized) Treatment in Heart Failure Study we
      will assess 2 novel interventions to enhance adherence and improve quality of life (QOL) in
      veterans with heart failure (HF). This theory-based pilot 3-arm randomized controlled trial
      (RCT) will base one active arm on the Transtheoretical Model (TTM), while the other active
      arm will add environmental (built and human) tailoring to TTM. The overarching hypothesis
      driving this proposal is that a behavioral intervention (BI), which uses the TTM, or a
      behavioral and environment-tailored intervention (BEI) will lower HF recurrence and improve
      QOL by better medication and diet adherence compared to attention control.

      RESEARCH DESIGN: This is a practice-based RCT to test the effect of BI and BEI on medication
      and diet adherence. The study is embedded in typical VA healthcare with all 3 arms
      incorporating the enhancements in HF care that have been implemented including the Patient
      Aligned Care Teams (PACT), system redesign methods to improve HF care, ongoing HF quality
      improvement and Telehealth. We will randomize 99 participants equally to BI, BEI and AP. All
      analyses will be intent to treat.

      METHODOLOGY: The study sites will be the VAMC's at Manhattan and Brooklyn. Participants will
      be veterans with classes I-III HF with prescribed HF medication for 6 months. Men and women (
      21 years) with history and clinical findings of chronic, stable HF of NYHA functional class I
      (previously symptomatic/now asymptomatic), II, or III are eligible. They must have an
      available phone and 2 clinic visits in the previous 1.5 years. Patients with poor short-term
      survival (< 1 year), recent major surgery (< 3 months), temporarily in the area, or those
      unable to provide consent will be excluded. After being screened for eligibility,
      participants will come in for 2 study visits over the course of 6 months which will last
      about 1.5-2 hours. At each visit, a research assistant (RA) will administer a questionnaire
      assessing health behaviors including diet, exercise and medication and quality of life. The
      RAs will also measure height, weight, take 6 BP readings, and send patients to the lab for
      blood and urine samples. After the first clinic visit, participants will be randomized to one
      of three telephone groups. All participants will receive 1 phone call per month for 6 months
      which will last approximately 30-40 minutes. 1) The BI group will receive TTM stage-matched
      counseling. The interventionist will assess how ready patients are for change in terms of
      diet, medication, and exercise adherence and deliver a tailored intervention discussing
      adherence barriers. 2) In the BEI, in addition to using the TTM, the intervention will tailor
      environmental factors, such as availability of healthy food stores, recreational facilities,
      and support from caregivers in helping participants follow treatment recommendations. We will
      speak with participant's caregivers to educate them on heart failure as well. The caregivers
      will receive a call every 2 months (3 in total) lasting approximately 20-30 minutes. 3) The
      control group will receive monthly telephone calls during which they will receive general
      health education. Our primary analytic goal is to estimate the medication adherence rate and
      QOL to power a larger study. We will also perform 1-sample Exact Binomial Tests comparing the
      active arms to the expected inactive control rate of 47%. Since this is a pilot study, we
      will use a 5% type 1 error rate (2-sided) for each test. All analyses will be intent to
      treat.
    
  