
    
      Cumulative experimental and pathological evidence support the postulate that inflammation may
      serve as the unifying concept in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and its complications.
      Aneurysmal disease is associated with inflammatory cell infiltrate and enzymatic degradation
      of the vessel wall. Although the risk of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) rupture relates to
      the maximum cross-sectional diameter, rapid expansion of the aortic diameters preceding
      fissuration and rupture has been observed in AAA independently of their initial size.
      However, current diagnostic modalities stratify risk of AAA rupture based solely on the size
      of the aneurysm without factoring potentially useful information derivable from the degree of
      aneurysmal wall inflammatory response.

      We propose to utilize fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging
      co-registered with structural computerized tomography (CT) images for the in vivo
      localization and quantification of vascular inflammation in patients with AAA in order to
      determine whether increased inflammation within the walls of the aneurysm correlates with
      rapid enlargement of AAA (change in aneurysmal diameter within 6 months), symptoms,
      thrombosis, or intervention for ruptured, leaking, rapidly expanding, or painful AAAs.

      In patients with underlying abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), the progression of disease i.e.
      expansion is associated with increased inflammation within the aneurysm wall as characterized
      by FDG-PET/CT, and the degree of inflammation is a risk predictor for adverse events.

      Prior studies have demonstrated that FDG uptake is greater in inflamed tissues, such as
      infectious foci and tumors. In chronic inflammatory lesions and malignancies, FDG uptake is
      increased in macrophage-dense regions. The relatively high uptake of FDG by macrophages is
      attributed to the relatively high metabolic rates of macrophages, and the inability of
      macrophages to store glycogen, making them more reliant upon external glucose as a source of
      fuel. Activation of macrophages can further increase their glucose consumption. Both in
      animal models and humans, inflamed blood vessels have been shown to have an increased uptake
      of FDG. Several investigators have shown that FDG-PET can reliably detect inflammation in
      atherosclerosis. Thus detection of enhanced FDG uptake in the aneurysmal walls of patients
      with AAA may have potential significance.
    
  