
    
      Oral disease and conditions can undermine self-image and self-esteem , dis-courage normal
      social interaction, and cause other health problems and lead to chronic stress and depression
      , They may also interfere with vital-functions such as breathing , food selection eating,
      swallowing and speaking, and with activities of daily living such as work, school, and family
      interactions .

      Oral Health Related Quality of Life captures the aim of new prospective and defined as a
      multidimensional construct that reflects people's comfort when eating, sleeping and engaging
      in social inter-action, their self-esteem and their satisfaction with respect to their oral
      health .

      Down syndrome (DS) is the most common neuro-developmental disorder of known genetic origin,
      arising from an extra copy of chromosome 21.

      Children and adolescents with down syndrome present particular characteristics that may have
      a negative impact on their oral health and function. Protruding large tongue and facial
      muscle hypotonicity impairing speaking and chewing abilities. Bruxism, respiratory problems
      and mouth breathing are common among them.

      Periodontal disease is the most significant oral health problem in people with Down syndrome
      due immunological deficiency, poor masticatory function and poor oral hygiene .

      Another common oral manifestation associated with the syndrome is malocclusion. In this
      regard, mandibular protrusion, anterior open bite, and posterior crossbite have been reported
      as prevalent outcomes among DS individuals .

      It has been shown that the impact of oral disease on Oral Health Related Quality Of Life of
      children with disabilities can be used in health service planning and priority setting.

      Studies have recommended that people with a negative oral condition should receive treatment
      first , Hence this vulnerable group of children needs to be prioritized in the planning of
      health services and oral health care programs
    
  