
    
      The human cornea is a densely innervated tissue that provides a high level of sensitivity to
      foreign objects or noxious substances. The innervation of the cornea also plays an important
      role in the tropic maintenance and repair of the corneal surface. Any alterations to the
      normal innervation of the cornea not only lessen the ability to detect foreign objects that
      could damage the ocular surface, but also reduce its wound healing ability. Previous studies
      have shown rigid contact lens wear reduces corneal sensitivity and nerve fiber density in
      keratoconic subjects. Scleral contact lenses are large diameter rigid gas permeable lenses
      that rests on the sclera while vaulting over the cornea with a fluid reservoir. The use of
      scleral contact lenses is becoming one of the current standard nonsurgical management of
      corneal dystrophies such as keratoconus, mainly due to the improved comfort and vision
      quality compared to conventional rigid lenses. Despite these patient benefits, little is
      known about the impact of scleral contact lens wear on corneal sensitivity and nerve
      morphology in keratoconus.

      The purpose of this study is to investigate changes in corneal innervation during scleral
      contact lens wear in a keratoconic population. Specifically, changes in corneal sensitivity
      and nerve fiber density from baseline in the central and mid-peripheral corneal locations
      will be measured over a 6-month lens wear period. An additional aim of the study is to
      investigate the impact of scleral lens wear on corneal inflammation within the same study
      group. This will be achieved by comparing dendritic cell density change from baseline over
      the study period.

      The investigators propose to take a sample of keratoconic participants and fit them in
      scleral lenses and:

        1. Measure corneal sensitivity at two corneal locations before and after 1-month, 3-months
           and 6-months of scleral lens wear.

        2. Capture images of the sub-basal nerve plexus in vivo using laser-scanning confocal
           microscopy at similar corneal locations and study visits.

        3. Calculate nerve morphology parameters and dendritic cell density from these captured
           images.

      Up to 15 participants will be enrolled.
    
  