
    
      Over the past 40 years, Public Health measures have led to an impressive decline in infant
      mortality related to sickle cell disease (SCA) and, thus, modified its evolution. Sickle cell
      disease went from a life-threatening disease in childhood in the 1970s to a chronic disease
      of adults today. In Brazil, the median age of cases that evolved to death was 26.5 years in
      Bahia, 31.5 years in Rio de Janeiro and 30 years in São Paulo. In a study carried out in
      Minas Gerais, the average age at the time of death was 33.5 years considering only adults;
      this was higher in the female gender (46.5 years) and the majority occurred as a result of
      acute events.

      Osteoarticular and muscle involvement is common in adults with sickle cell disease and has
      high morbidity. Since bone microcirculation is a place where sickling of red blood cells is
      common, there is a tendency for thrombosis, infarction and necrosis. The osteoarticular
      lesion is characterized mainly by osteonecrosis, osteomyelitis and arthritis, with frequent
      involvement of the hip and shoulder bones and the vertebral bodies.

      Bone changes in SCA can be grouped into two main forms: those associated with ischemic events
      and those associated with bone marrow hyperplasia due to chronic anemia. The pathogenesis of
      microvascular occlusion, the key event of vaso-occlusive crises, is complex and involves the
      activation of leukocytes, platelets and endothelial cells, in addition to hemoglobin S
      containing red blood cells. These events can occur in almost any organ, but are particularly
      common in the bone marrow, possibly because of its hypercellularity, leading to a decrease in
      blood flow and regional hypoxia. There is also evidence of a possible association between
      changes in calcium metabolism and the occurrence of osteoporosis in people with sickle cell
      disease.

      Regarding muscle disease, some studies have shown a decrease in both muscle strength and
      endurance in individuals with sickle cell disease. General amyotrophy results from repeated
      episodes of vasoocclusion and ischemia of the muscles, sometimes silent or subclinical, which
      occur in sickle cell anemia and are known to induce dysfunction and, eventually, skeletal
      muscle necrosis. Sickle cells and oxidative stress can cause microvascular obstruction and
      damage peripheral muscles in patients with SCA. Consequently, there are marked changes in
      skeletal muscle structure, with rarefaction of microvessels and decreased capillary
      tortuosity.

      The main cause of emergency care for people with SCA is painful osteoarticular crises, which
      are observed in about 70% of cases, while the most frequent complications that require
      hospitalization in these individuals are the vaso-occlusive crisis and osteomyelitis. Other
      bone complications in acute SCA are stress fractures, orbital compression, vertebral collapse
      and spinal necrosis.

      Osteonecrosis is a frequent complication in SCA, manifesting through painful and debilitating
      findings, and 50% of patients with the disease have evidence of complications after the age
      of 30. Spinal bone injury has been attributed to areas of bone infarction that can reach the
      central portions of the vertebral plateau and, as a consequence, lead to overgrowth of the
      adjacent portions and central depression of the plateau. Vaso-occlusive seizures mainly
      affect long bones, but they can also occur in the vertebrae and ribs and cause complications
      of respiratory function. Osteonecrosis of the femoral head has an incidence of 4.5 cases per
      100 patients/year, often being bilateral. These vaso-occlusive crises are caused by
      obstructions in the microcirculation and are favored by some factors, such as prolonged
      immobilization, physical exercise, sudden changes in temperature, fever and dehydration.

      Muscle weakness may be the result of the pathophysiology of SCA, in which patients have
      frequent vaso-occlusive crises due to the polymerization process of the hemoglobin S, which
      promotes greater adhesion of these cells to the vascular endothelium and can induce ischemia,
      inflammation and oxidative stress . It is known that oxidative stress can damage the
      peripheral muscles, causing damage to the performance of these muscles. The systemic damage
      caused by SCA can also lead to a more sedentary lifestyle, which, in turn, can result in an
      overall loss of muscle strength with a consequent reduction in functional capacity.

      SCA is a chronic disease in which a cure is not yet possible and supportive treatment is
      prolonged, with palliative care being basically provided. Quality of life then appears as an
      essential challenge to be reached by patients, family members and health professionals.
      According to the World Health Organization, quality of life refers to the individual's
      perception of their position in life, in the context of the culture and value system in which
      they live, and in relation to their goals, expectations, standards and concerns. In addition,
      there is the concept of "health-related quality of life", which assesses the impact of health
      on the individual's ability to live fully. Thus, the health/disease process of people with
      SCA is governed by hereditary, biological and environmental factors and also suffers
      interference from the social environment, gender, race/ethnicity and class inequalities,
      which consequently compromise the factors considered acquired.

      In patients with SCA, physical, emotional and social changes cause losses in quality of life.
      These changes result from the various complications that can arise over the natural course of
      the disease, in addition to the decrease in the life expectancy of the individual. SCA causes
      limitations in the lives of patients, with pain and several hospitalizations, most likely,
      responsible for the physical and emotional destabilization of patients.
    
  