
    
      This study has three specific aims:

      Specific Aim 1: Identify key socio-structural factors that frame HIV testing behaviors among
      clients of Ugandan TH, using an exploratory sequential, mixed-methods study design. First,
      qualitative interviews with 25-35 purposely-sampled TH clients will characterize the
      care-seeking trajectory, HIV testing behaviors and related stigma, healthcare costs, and HIV
      risks and exposures. Based on these results, a survey will be designed and administered to
      300 Ugandan adults who utilize TH in Mbarara District. This cross-sectional study will
      identify 1) rates of HIV testing among TH clients and 2) variables that independently predict
      HIV testing within the prior 12 months. These data will inform a model of HIV testing
      behavior among TH clients based on the Andersen Model of Healthcare Utilization, and generate
      hypotheses to be tested in Specific Aim 2.

      Specific Aim 2: Characterize acceptability of receiving point-of-care (POC) HIV testing at TH
      locations, using an exploratory sequential, mixed-methods approach. Qualitative interviews
      with 15-25 purposely sampled TH and 15-25 purposely-sampled TH clients will explore attitudes
      and experiences with biomedicine, feasibility and acceptability of delivering POC HIV testing
      at TH locations, and investigate relevant themes emerging from Aim 1. Based on qualitative
      results, a survey will be developed and administered to 175 TH in Mbarara District. This
      cross-sectional study will characterize TH practices relevant to HIV testing, and identify
      characteristics of healers who favorably view the proposed intervention (Specific Aim 3).
      These data will be integrated with results from SA1 to develop an intervention that will
      overcome socio-structural barriers to HIV testing.

      Specific Aim 3: Develop and pilot an HIV testing intervention among TH clients using a
      cluster randomized study design. Integration of results from SA1 and SA2 will inform a pilot
      HIV testing intervention at 9 TH practice locations, to be compared with a control group
      receiving usual TH care at 8 practices. This pilot will offer HIV testing at TH practice
      sites to 250 TH clients at the intervention arm sites, and offer protocoled usual care to 250
      clients at control arm sites. Primary outcome for this study will be rates of HIV testing
      among TH clients. Secondary outcomes will include i) number of new HIV diagnoses among TH
      clients, and ii) number of patients with +HIV POC test who successfully link to HIV care in 3
      months.
    
  