
    
      Participants and recruitment The present study will be a pilot, cross-sectional trial in
      individuals with CFRD (n = 15), as well as age- and gender-matched CF controls without
      diabetes (n = 15) and age- and gender-matched healthy control participants (n = 15).
      Participants will be recruited from adult and paediatric CF outpatient clinics within the
      Southampton CF network. The healthy control participants will be recruited from the
      University of Portsmouth and local area. Individuals with CF will be tested at a laboratory
      established within the CF unit at the Southampton General Hospital and/or the Department of
      Sport and Exercise Sciences (University of Portsmouth), depending on participant convenience.
      All healthy control participants will attend the Department of Sport and Exercise Sciences at
      the University of Portsmouth.

      Visit 1 During this visit, a valid informed consent and GCP trained member of the research
      team will fully explain the information sheet and study protocol, as well as answer any
      questions to ensure that all relevant parties are clear about the study requirements.
      Following this, fully informed written consent will be obtained. Additionally, informed
      written assent will be obtained from those < 16 years of age.

      Following the consent procedures the participants resting pulmonary function (forced vital
      capacity, forced expiratory volume in 1 second, mid force expiratory flow and peak expiratory
      flow) and anthropometric measures (weight, height and body fat percentage) will obtained. The
      subsequent aim of this visit is then to habituate all participants with exercising on a cycle
      ergometer in preparation for their CPET in visit 2, in particular maintaining a certain
      cadence at a given power output. Appropriate adjustments will be made to the ergometer seat
      and handlebar position, and noted for visit 2. Furthermore, the protocols of obtaining ones
      ratings of perceived exertion and dyspnoea will be fully explained. Lastly, the participant
      will be instructed to avoid consuming mouthwash for the entirety of the study period due to
      evidence suggesting it may influence the uptake of dietary nitrate.

      Visit 2 Participants will arrive to the laboratory at 1900 ± 2 hours. They will be instructed
      to arrive 2 hours postprandial, having avoided caffeine for > 12 hours, as well as nitrate
      rich foods, alcohol and exhaustive exercise for > 24 hours.

      Upon arrival, CGM's will be fixed to the interior surface of the upper arm and worn for the
      subsequent 14 days. In addition to this, hip worn accelerometers, as well as hourly specific
      physical activity and food diaries will be distributed and completed for 14 days alongside
      the CGM. The participants resting pulmonary function will be assessed using the spirometry
      procedures described below, and a resting blood sample will be collected via venepuncture for
      the analysis of plasma [NO-(₂)] and ET-1. Additionally, the cycle ergometer CPET with a
      supramaximal (Smax) verification phase will be employed to determine ones aerobic exercise
      function, and a second venous blood sample will be collected immediately following exercise
      termination for the analysis of plasma [NO-(₂)] and ET-1. The total volume of blood collected
      over this 2 hour visit will be approximately 20 mL.

      Visit 3 Participants will be required to arrive to the laboratory ≥ 3 days post visit 1, at
      0800 ± 2 hours, following an overnight fast (> 10 hours). Furthermore, participants will be
      instructed to avoid nitrate rich foods, caffeine, alcohol and exhaustive exercise for 24
      hours prior to arrival.

      Upon arrival participants will undergo the acetylcholine (ACh) and insulin iontophoresis
      protocols described below, including 5 resting blood pressure measurements. Immediately
      following this, the participant's pulmonary function will be assessed via spirometry.
      Participants will be asked to rest, and entertainment will be provided, for the following 60
      minutes. The iontophoresis procedures will then be repeated to assess the short-term
      test-retest variability of the iontophoresis procedures. Following this, a cannula will be
      inserted into a vein by a trained phlebotomist, prior to the 3 hour OGTT and a baseline blood
      sample will be taken (measuring all the below biomarkers). Venous blood samples will be drawn
      at 30, 60, 90, 120 and 180 minutes post glucose ingestion for the analysis of glucose,
      insulin, active glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), TNF-α, soluble vascular cell adhesion
      molecule-1 (sVCAM-1), IL-6, [NO-(₂)] and ET-1. NT, total glutathione (tGSH) and total
      cysteine (tCys) will be analysed at 120 minutes post-glucose ingestion. The total volume of
      blood collected over this 5 hour visit will be approximately 176 mL. Additionally, the
      iontophoresis procedures will be repeated at 30, 90 and 150 minutes post-glucose ingestion
      (i.e. hourly measurements of microvascular endothelial function).

      Follow-up CGM's, accelerometers and physical activity/food diaries will be completed for 14
      days following visit 1. A member of the research team will collect these from the preferred
      location of the participant.
    
  