
    
      The survival rates for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OCA) remain low (approximately 5%),
      despite recent advances in advanced cardiac life support (ACLS) and expansion of emergency
      medical services (EMS) across Ontario and Canada. Although the survival rates for in-hospital
      cardiac arrest are higher, less than 20% ultimately survive to discharge. One of the most
      important determinants of survival from cardiac arrest appears to be initiation of early and
      effective chest compressions. Yet the quality of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and
      basic life support (BLS) delivered by first responders is often poor. CPR appears to be
      delivered inconsistently, incompletely and with undue delays in both the in-hospital and
      out-of-hospital setting. In an effort to improve cardiac arrest outcomes, focus has recently
      shifted to methods for training in CPR. Optimal BLS (involving chest compressions, artificial
      ventilation, and the use of an automated external defibrillator where available) is difficult
      to perform well, to teach, and to retain at a high skill level. Most BLS training programs
      use hands-on instruction, printed materials, and global assessment for evaluation, which to
      date have not been shown to impact on the quality of the CPR/BLS provided. Guidelines for BLS
      have changed substantially since 2005, and the efficacy of the teaching programs aimed at
      laypersons or primary providers of emergency care is unknown. A potential result of these
      limitations in the teaching, training, evaluation, and retention of BLS skills is that CPR
      continues to be poorly performed both by trained lay rescuers and professional caregivers.

      New technologies incorporated into commercially available defibrillators may help in the
      training and evaluation of BLS skills. These devices allow measurement of chest compression
      depth and rate and ventilation frequency with continuous real-time feedback provided to the
      caregiver by means of an on-screen icon, which is a simple visual measure of integrated CPR
      efficacy, as well as verbal prompts to encourage best performance. Electronic information is
      stored in the defibrillator for subsequent off-line analysis which can be used to provide
      additional visual feedback. Perhaps most importantly, these tools provide a quantitative
      measure of the quality of the resuscitation effort by integrating the various aspects of CPR
      performance.

      To date no clinical study has assessed if such tools would facilitate both the training and
      testing of CPR skills using the new 2005 cardiac arrest guidelines. To answer this question,
      the investigators propose to conduct a clinical trial involving medical and nursing students
      (considered "lay rescuers"), randomized to three different teaching strategies. The advantage
      of this population is that they are relatively easy to access and in addition, provide a
      homogeneous population with similarities in background, education, motivation and personal
      expectations. They also represent a large proportion of individuals who, in time, will be
      exposed to and will respond to in-hospital cardiac arrests. By using medical and nursing
      students who are still in the formative stages of their concepts of allied health members,
      the investigators hope to provide an opportunity for them to work with, about and from each
      other.

      The control group will receive standard teaching of BLS according to the ILCOR 2005
      Guidelines, including appropriate chest compression rate, depth, and chest recoil with
      minimization of "hands-off" time, appropriate ventilation, and use of a standard
      defibrillator (Zoll M series). The first intervention group will receive training
      supplemented by the use of a novel defibrillator (Zoll R Series) which allows for real-time
      continuous feedback with both visual and audio prompts to optimize CPR performance, as well
      as additional off-line review of details of chest compressions (including rate and depth),
      "hands-off" time (time spent not doing chest compressions), and therapy sequencing. The
      second intervention group will receive training with the novel defibrillator (Zoll R Series)
      but will be tested with the standard defibrillator (Zoll M series).

      Two hundred and forty consenting students will be randomly assigned to the standard training
      ("control") group, or to training and testing using the advanced feedback features
      ("intervention group 1"), or to training using the advanced feedback features but tested
      using the standard defibrillator ("intervention group 2"), in groups of 2. After a two hour
      training period all participants will be tested for approximately 5 minutes. Students in the
      control and intervention groups will be randomized to three groups: R-Series, R series and M
      series or M-Series defibrillators and tested using a scenario similar to the training
      session.

      The primary outcome is total CPR fraction (percentage of time doing chest compressions during
      the scenario). Secondary outcomes are CPR fraction per minute, average rate of compressions
      per minute, total recorded hands-off time, average depth of compressions, and the average
      integrated "icon fullness" as an approximation of cardiac output. Overall performance in
      terms of integrated psychomotor skills, reasons for hands-off time, appropriate versus
      inappropriate use of the AED in terms of rhythm analysis, shock delivery and study
      participant self-assessment of performance will also be measured. After a 3 month period,
      students will be re-tested using the same testing scenario to assess for skill retention. No
      further BLS training will be given prior to retesting.

      This will be the first study to evaluate objectively and in a controlled manner the
      usefulness of these new technologies in the teaching, learning and evaluation of CPR/BLS.
    
  