
    
      1. case selection: A total of 600 patients (American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA)
           grade I-II, aged 20-40 years,BMI 18.5-27) who underwent elective cesarean section were
           selected.

        2. anesthesia methods: All patients were not given preoperative medication. After entering
           the operating room, peripheral venous connection was opened. Mindray multifunctional
           vital sign monitor continuously monitored electrocardiogram (ECG), heart rate (HR),
           pulse oxygen saturation (SpO2), systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure
           (DBP) and Mean arterial pressure (MAP). After 5 minutes of waiting for patients with no
           obvious discomfort, 0.75% of ropivacaine was given 10ml before catheterization, and
           0.75% of ropivacaine 3-5ml per hour maintained anesthesia

        3. Grouping methods: A random number table was used to divide the patients into two groups
           with 300 patients in each group: The Esketamine group (group A) and the control group
           (group B) Esketamine group (Group A): at the beginning of the operation, 0.25mg/kg(2ml)
           Esketamine was administered intravenously as an adjuvant sedation and analgesia;Control
           group (Group B): 2ml normal saline was given intravenously at the beginning of the
           operation;

        4. Observation items and methods 4.1 Forty patients were randomly selected from the
           Estroketamine group (group A) to detect the serum concentrations of Esketamine in
           umbilical vein blood and umbilical artery blood of neonates during fetal delivery.

      4.2 maternal hemodynamic indexes such as heart rate (HR), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and
      respiratory mechanics indexes such as pulse oxygen saturation (SpO2) and shout at the end of
      the co2 partial pressure (PaCO2) are measured before anesthesia surgery at the beginning of
      the fetal childbirth at the end of the operation and operation after 1 hour when recording
      and compare the two groups of 4.3 maternal visual analog pain score (VAS) and sedation scores
      (Ramsay) and the time from uterine incision to fetal childbirth are measured before
      anesthesia surgery at the beginning of the fetal childbirthAt the end of the operation and
      operation after 1 hour record and compare the two groups of 4.4 respiratory system
      complications within 72 h in pregnant women (hypotension sinus bradycardia nausea and
      vomiting respiratory depression) are record.

      4.5 Apgar score 1, 5, 10 minutes after birth, umbilical arterial blood gas and
      neurobehavioral scores (NBNA) 2 and 24 hours after the birth are record.
    
  