
    
      Hypertension is common in the US. From efficacy and observational studies, we know that
      achieving blood pressure control can reduce morbidity and mortality. However, less than
      one-third of persons with hypertension achieve control as defined by national guidelines.
      Furthermore, racial disparities in hypertension have been clearly documented with African
      American patients being less likely than Caucasians to achieve adequate control. The
      objective of this study is to study the implementation of a multi-method quality improvement
      intervention in a pragmatic clinical trial. Six clinic sites within the Johns Hopkins
      Community Physicians (JHCP) healthcare system have been selected for participation in this
      study. The sites are located within the metropolitan ara of Baltimore, Maryland, yet differ
      greatly. We will define the context and local characteristics of each study site and
      determine which characteristics are associated with blood pressure control and racial
      disparity at the clinic (micro-system) and health system (macro-system)level. We will deploy
      a three-part quality improvement intervention to 1) improve the clinic-based measurement of
      blood pressure, 2) introduce a care management system to promote patients' self-management
      behaviors and rapidly titrate medications by algorithms developed in accord with guidelines
      and 3) introduce an interactive, needs-based, longitudinal-provider education system that
      promotes patient-centered care and provides practical examples of patient-provider
      communication strategies. Using statistical process control charting, we will determine the
      stability of blood pressure control in the system prior to intervention and after the
      introduction of each intervention. We will vary the order of the interventions among the six
      clinical sites to determine if each intervention is independently effective in each local
      context and if the effect is repeatable in other contextual situations within the same
      macro-system. In addition, we will study the organizational characteristics and features of
      the local context that are associated with implementation, uptake of the interventions and
      success of each intervention in achieving blood pressure control and reducing racial
      disparities in blood pressure control at the clinic level .
    
  