
    
      The loss of a loved one is perhaps one of the most shocking events in the life of a person.
      Grief is an emotional experience universal human, unique and painful, that can be delimited
      in time, which allows the person to adapt to loss and the new reality. In situations, prior
      to COVID-19, there was a risk of suffering prolonged grief when going through the death of a
      family member hospitalized and unable to say goodbye. The global COVID-19 pandemic is
      expected to have a major impact related to the experience of death, dying, and grief, which
      will make the grieving process difficult. The confusion, anger, and post-traumatic stress are
      some of the negative effects related to quarantine. It is not only difficult to deal with the
      loss of the person but at the same time with the interruption of rituals and practices
      associated with a death such as funerals and burials, which are postponed and performed
      without the presence of family. Given such data, it is necessary to intervene with proposals
      that help improve mental health and the management of grief.

      To provide treatment in such conditions where face-to-face sessions are not possible, and the
      number of patients surpasses the number of available therapists it will be implemented an
      online intervention based on Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, Mindfulness, Behavioral Activation
      Therapy, and Positive Psychology. The Online Intervention system "Grief COVID" will be
      delivered in 12 modules interconnected. The objective of this study is to assess the efficacy
      and moderators of change of this intervention for the reduction of symptoms of anxiety,
      depression, hopelessness, and post-traumatic stress, and the increase of the quality of sleep
      and perception of the quality of life.

      The contents of this intervention will be implemented through a responsive web application.
      In order to create the most fitted intervention for the real needs of the participants will
      be created following the principles of User Experience (UX), with this ensuring that the
      design characteristics of the tool will meet the desired requirements to be perceived as easy
      to use, attractive and useful. The UX approach refers to the experience that a user has with
      a product, with special emphasis on human-product interaction.

      This study will have an experimental and control group. The experimental group will receive
      the intervention to prevent complicated grief, and the control group will be on the waiting
      list. Participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups. Participants in the
      control group once their data have been collected and the time elapsed after receiving the
      intervention in the participants in the experimental group will receive access to the
      intervention and will also be evaluated in order to increase the sample level and to be able
      to have more results about the effectiveness of the intervention. In both conditions, the
      participants will be measured at pre and post moments. The subjective measures will include
      the following Psychometrics:

        1. Depression scale of the Center for Epidemiological Studies.

        2. The abbreviated depression, anxiety, and stress scale (DASS-21).

        3. Plutchik Suicide Risk Scale.

        4. Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index.

        5. Post-traumatic diagnostic scale.

        6. Satisfaction with Life Scale.

        7. Beck's Hopelessness Scale.

        8. Generalized Anxiety Scale (GAD-7).

        9. Opinion on the treatment.

       10. System usability scale.
    
  