
    
      According to recent 2002 estimates, the yearly cost of diabetes was approximately $132
      billion. The burden of diabetes is considerable, particularly for ethnically diverse
      populations. Disease management programs that focus on self-management education have been
      effective in improving metabolic control. Accordingly, the American Diabetes Association
      clinical care guidelines stress the importance of metabolic control to prevent complications
      and improve quality of life for persons with this disease. Unfortunately, these advances have
      not resulted in widespread acceptance into clinical practice. Therefore, we propose
      translational research to evaluate telemedicine technology using interactive video
      conferencing (Diabetes TeleCare) as a novel means to increase the availability of health
      professionals in rural communities for the effective delivery of a diabetes self-management
      education program and as a means to provide retinal screenings in the primary care setting.
      Our aims are to 1) develop and implement a 12-month intervention, Diabetes TeleCare to
      improve adherence to diabetes clinical care guidelines and improve diabetes control in two
      community health centers located in ethnically diverse, rural and medically underserved
      communities, 2) conduct a one-year randomized clinical trial (RCT) of 200 patients to
      formally evaluate the effectiveness of Diabetes TeleCare compared to Usual Care in a sample
      with >60% African-Americans, and 3) determine the cost-effectiveness and satisfaction of
      Diabetes TeleCare compared to Usual Care. Participants are recruited from two community
      health centers in rural South Carolina and randomized according to a patient randomization
      schedule. Diabetes TeleCare (a structured curriculum) is delivered by a team consisting of a
      registered nurse/certified diabetes educator (RN-CDE) and an experienced registered
      dietitian, with support by other health professionals who are linked by interactive video
      conferencing to participants (single and group) in rural health centers at distant locations.
      The primary outcomes are measures of metabolic control (A1c, lipids), blood pressure, and use
      of the telemedicine-facilitated retinal screening capacity. Secondary outcomes include
      satisfaction, quality of life, health beliefs, and knowledge. The economic analysis will
      include an assessment of resource utilization, cost, and health utilities. In addition,
      incremental reductions in costs per A1c and the estimated lifetime cost-utility of Diabetes
      TeleCare compared to usual care will be determined. Telemedicine may be an effective
      alternative to traditional health care delivery systems resulting in improved diabetes
      education and control.

      The intervention goal was to achieve an A1c <7%, with secondary goals of 10% weight loss and
      increasing exercise to at least 30 minutes a day, 5 days a week. Participants attend 13
      sessions, 2 in the first month (1 group, 1 individual), monthly thereafter (9 group, 2
      individual). Three group sessions were conducted in-person, all others were conducted via
      telemedicine. The self-management education team consisted of an RN/CDE and an RD. Sessions
      were conducted remotely, with a trained facilitator (LPN) at the clinic site. Participants
      were given a notebook and new material was added at each session. Completion of
      self-monitoring logs, including blood sugar, diet and physical activity, was assigned daily
      followed by less frequently based on progress towards intervention goals.
    
  