
    
      The proposed, increased intensity dtDCS is a new, economical, noninvasive stimulation
      approach that has the potential for large-scale clinical application. Dual tDCS, in
      conjunction with physical and occupational therapy, is not only more effective in enhancing
      motor performance and cortical plasticity compared to sham, but approximately 50% more
      effective than cathodal or anodal stimulation in healthy subjects and after stroke. However,
      it will only be clinically useful and important if the beneficial effects persist over time
      in a wider stroke patient population. Improvement in inter-hemispheric balance, through an
      activation shift toward the affected hemisphere and clinical improvement in response to tDCS
      has been reported previously in small studies. Hemorrhagic stroke patients have not been
      evaluated.

      The investigators will study rehabilitation associated cortical plasticity at a cellular
      level to gain insight into the neural substrates underlying the clinical improvement. There
      are no prior studies investigating the potential of VEGF polymorphisms to contribute to
      rehabilitative treatment-induced functional recovery in humans. The investigators expect that
      patients with VEGF genotype 2578A/A will recover less then subjects without this
      polymorphism. Since in animal models VEGF and BDNF have a complimentary role, VEGF
      polymorphism may explain some of the variability in strength of association between BDNF
      polymorphism Val66Met and recovery. This novel pilot study measures both the genetic and
      physiologic expression of multiple growth factors - before and after a promising new therapy
      regimen - to better understand the contribution of growth factors to long-term plasticity and
      functional recovery. If VEGF serum levels elevate with clinical improvement, then this may
      identify a new indicator of treatment efficacy that can be collected noninvasively and with
      little cost. The results will provide guidance for new inclusion/exclusion criteria for
      clinical studies based on genetic markers, as well as uncover the potential for new
      therapeutic strategies to enhance treatment efficacy by augmenting VEGF during rehabilitation
      with FDA-approved strategies currently in clinical trials for other conditions (NIH Clinical
      Trials Registry: NCT01384162, NCT00620217, and NCT00744315).
    
  