
    
      A prospective, non-blinded, randomized, pilot study will be undertaken in patients with
      glioblastoma (GB). Patients will be randomized to the modified ketogenic diet (MKD) or the
      medium chain triglyceride ketogenic diet (MCT) for a 12 week period (primary completion). If
      patients wish to remain on diet, they will be offered dietetic support for a total of 12
      months (secondary completion).

      The trial will be open to all Walton Centre Foundation Trust patients with a newly diagnosed
      GB, who have undergone surgical resection or biopsy within the last four months and who are
      going on to receive/ are currently receiving/ have completed oncological treatments
      (radiotherapy or chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy). Patients will be referred via
      neuro-oncology multi-disciplinary meetings and neurosurgical clinics, post histology. The
      diet will be offered alongside standard care, commencing within four months of surgery.

      Both diets are high in fat and low in carbohydrate, but contain different types and amounts
      of fats. The MKD is 80% fat (predominately long chain fatty acids) and 5% carbohydrate,
      whilst the MCT diet is 75% fat (30% of which is medium chain fatty acids) and 10%
      carbohydrate.

      A permuted block randomization method will be adopted, using 'sealedenvelope' randomization
      system. This will be set up and administered by the statistician, who is not involved with
      the recruiting of patients.

      Patients will receive regular input from the trial dietitian. This includes clinical
      consultations at baseline, dietary initiation, week 6, week 12 and every 3 months thereafter
      and telephone consultations at weeks 1, 3 and 9. Patients will receive dietary and ketone
      monitoring education.

      Assessments and monitoring undertaken at each consultation include anthropometry,
      biochemistry, compliance, tolerance, acceptability, quality of life and ketosis.

      Informed consent will be obtained prior to enrollment and the patient may withdraw at any
      time.

      An information study is also embedded into KEATING, to aid understanding of the patients'
      recruitment experience and viewpoints, by interviewing a sub-sample of patients and their
      relatives/ carers. This will enable the design of bespoke strategies to optimise recruitment
      to future trials related to ketogenic diets and gliomas
    
  