
    
      New oral contraceptives (OCs) containing drospirenone (DRSP) or dienogest
      (DNG)/ethinylestradiol (EE) plus levomefolate calcium (metafolin) have been recently
      introduced and will be introduced in a number of countries in the near future. Although the
      safety of OCs has improved over the last 50 years with reductions in the estrogen and
      progestogen dose, special attention regarding oral contraceptive safety amongst women with
      risk factors for venous and arterial thromboembolism as well as cancer is necessary. Folic
      acid supplementation has been implicated in both the prevention and the promotion of several
      cancers, including colorectal cancer (CRC). Chronic folate deficiency seems to be associated
      with colorectal carcinogenesis, while high folic acid levels may have a tumor-promoting
      effect. On balance an oral contraceptive containing folate may be advantageous for several
      reasons. It may increase baseline folate levels with potential for protecting against some
      malignancies and concurrently decrease the risk of neural tube defects in women who become
      pregnant due to OC-failure, incorrect OC-use or after stopping the OC for a planned
      pregnancy. Although unexpected, it is unclear whether combined oral contraceptives plus
      metafolin in general and specifically DRSP/EE plus metafolin and DNG/EE plus metafolin will
      alter the risk profile of established oral contraceptives.

      This study investigates the safety of these new oral contraceptives with regard to
      cardiovascular outcomes and colorectal cancer.

      INAS-FOCUS is a prospective, controlled, non-interventional cohort study with three study
      arms: users of DRSP/EE/metafolin, users of DNG/EE/metafolin and users of OCs containing other
      estrogen/progestogen combinations. The users will be grouped to starters (first-ever users),
      switchers (women switching OC without a pill intake break) and restarters (women with a pill
      intake break). Users of an OC are accrued by a network of prescribing physicians. Baseline
      and follow-up information is collected via a self-administered questionnaire. Data analysis
      will be based on life-table methods comparing the cohorts.

      Amendment, approved by the Safety Monitoring and Advisory Council on 13th May 2018:

      During study recruitment, only one combined oral contraceptive was launched containing
      metafolin (DRSP/EE+) and the planned third cohort arm (users of DNG/EE+) was rendered
      obsolete.

      In addition, early recruitment rates and exposure figures in INAS-FOCUS suggested that the
      study would be inadequately powered to accurately assess the risk of colorectal cancer at 15
      years. Interim reports were presented to the Safety Monitoring and Advisory Council (SMAC)
      and in consultation with the funder, a decision made to discontinue INAS-FOCUS following
      analysis of cardiovascular events (Part 1 of study). The current protocol reflects the
      developments discussed above. The original three cohorts have been reduced to two (DRSP/EE+
      and other OCs containing estrogen/progestogen) and Part II (long-term assessment of risk of
      colorectal cancer) has been removed from the protocol. Colorectal cancer outcomes will be
      analyzed as a secondary outcome for signal detection purposes only.

      For historical accuracy and context, the introduction and background sections of the protocol
      have been left unchanged.
    
  