
    
      Participants and settings:

      - Patients with lung, breast, head & neck, colorectal or gynaecological cancer receiving
      taxanes or platinum-derivative chemotherapy experiencing CIPN after the end of cycle one will
      be the population of the study. The study will take place in a large cancer centre in the
      territory (Prince of Wales Hospital).

      Recruitment:

      - Potential subjects will be identified (through clinic lists and databases of patients who
      are undergoing treatment) and approached initially by the relevant clinical team and
      screening then undertaken by research staff. The trial will be run ethically, details of
      which process can be seen under additional material.

      Randomisation:

      - Patients will be allocated to a group through computer-generated randomisation to be done
      at the Prince of Wales clinical trials unit. Randomisation will consist of minimisation with
      a random element (stochastic minimisation), balancing for the treatment types (taxanes or
      platinum analogues received) at a ratio of 1:1 to the two groups.

      Intervention:

      - The acupuncture intervention is described below based on the STRICTA recommendations for
      reporting acupuncture trials. In the acupuncture group, patients will receive, in addition to
      standard care, a standardised 30-minute acupuncture session needling specific body points
      although there will be flexibility in case some points cannot be punctured (ie. in case of
      lymphoedema), and alternative points (as in routine practice) may be selected by the
      therapists using their discretion to maintain an equal dose of treatment to all patients. The
      points will be standardised according to the clinical manifestations of the subjects.

      Standard care:

      - The comparison arm will be a standard care control arm.

      Study duration:

      - Treatment duration will be 8 weeks. The duration of each patient's involvement in the study
      will be 20 weeks (5 months) with assessments at baseline, end of 8-week treatment, 14 weeks
      and 20 weeks. Based on available numbers in the study hospital, recruitment will be at 10
      subjects/month, requiring 11 months for trial recruitment. Four months are assigned for trial
      set up, preparation and staff training, 5 months for follow-up of last patient recruited, and
      4 months for data cleaning, analysis and report writing (=24 months study).

      Outcome measures:

        1. Functional status and Quality of Life [baseline, week 8, week 14, week 20 to assess
           changes from baseline over time]

           Primary outcome is assessment of Pain at 8-weeks (end of acupuncture treatment): Pain:
           'worst pain during past week' will be measured using the Brief Pain Inventory which
           measures pain intensity and its interference with function.

        2. Secondary outcomes:

             -  The NCI-Common Toxicity Criteria (CTC) for Adverse Events will be completed at
                baseline and week 8 to assess change from baseline. This is a physician based
                grading system that includes criteria and definitions for quantifying and grading
                CIPN (both neurosensory and neuromotor components). This grading scale comprises a
                sensory and motor assessment and utilises a 5-point scale ranging from grade 1 to
                grade 5. Previous studies demonstrated that the CTC scale is a quick to use, easy
                to administer and most useful in carrying out a screening procedure for choosing
                which patients need a neurological examination.

             -  The Total Neuropathy Score clinical version (TNSc) will be completed at baseline
                and week 8 to assess change from baseline.. The TNS combines information obtained
                from grading of symptoms, signs, nerve conduction studies, and quantitative sensory
                tests, and provides a single measure to quantify neuropathy.

             -  Functional assessment of cancer therapy (FACT/GOG-Ntx) will be completed at
                baseline, week 8, week 14, week 20 to assess changes from baseline over time. This
                is a 38-item self reported questionnaire, divided into two sub-scales: the first
                one is a 27-item general assessment of quality of life sub-scale (FACT-G) while the
                second one is a 11-item neurotoxicity sub-scale. This tool demonstrated good
                internal reliability and construct validity.

             -  Consumption of analgesics will also be measured with a patient diary, as well as
                the presence of other related symptoms (ie. fatigue, sleep, etc) using the 10-item
                Symptom Distress Scale at baseline, week 8, week 14, week 20 to assess changes from
                baseline over time] .

        3. Sensory examination [baseline and at the end of Acupuncture course -8 weeks- to assess
           change from baseline] Sensory examination will take place by the doctor/nurse using 10-g
           monofilament to lightly touch the patient's hands and feet bilaterally with the patients
           eyes closed. The monofilament test is a standardised plastic filament that will be
           pressed against parts of the hands and feet. When the filament bends, its tip is
           exerting a pressure of 10-gr. Abnormal responses including hyperesthesia, anesthesia or
           hypoesthesia will be recorded.

             -  Neurophysiological testing will include a detailed motor nerve conduction study of
                the following nerves on the affected limbs. For upper limbs, the test will include:
                median nerve (bilateral) and ulnar nerve (bilateral). For lower limbs, the test
                will include peroneal nerve (bilateral), tibial nerve (bilateral). There will be
                provision of the most sensitive parameters to register any axonopathy or
                demyelination. Distal latencies, amplitudes and conduction velocities will be
                measured. F-waves will be also performed. For the sensory nerve conduction part,
                the following nerves will be studied. For upper limbs, the test will include:
                median nerve (bilateral) and ulnar nerve (bilateral). For lower limbs, it will
                include sural nerve (bilateral). We anticipate that the most common abnormalities
                will reside in the sensory nerve conduction study with axonal derangement as the
                most common manifestation. Knowing the test may cause a little bit discomfort to
                participants, so participation in the testing is voluntary. We expect that equal
                number of participants in the intervention group and control group will participate
                in the testing (n=25 per group).

             -  Sociodemographic and treatment characteristics will be obtained from the patients'
                records or patients themselves at baseline. Patients will be asked about treatment
                expectations, how much they believe this method will help them alleviate their pain
                and how much faith they have in acupuncture (10-point scales). As CIPN is managed
                with dose reductions in clinical practice, chemotherapy dosage documentation
                (cumulative dosage received, dose reductions, dosage each cycle, completed number
                of cycles, chemotherapy type) will also be collected. The dosage information is
                necessary to use this data as a covariate in the data analysis, if the dosing is
                not constant across patients. Adverse effects will be monitored and collected from
                patients or researchers at each clinic visit for the duration of the acupuncture
                treatment.

        4. Measurement of costs

      We will explore the cost impact data and capture the frequency, type and extent of the costs
      of and service utilisation by patients. This will be done at week 14 only covering the period
      from start of treatment until week 14. This is the first time a cost evaluation is taking
      place in a cancer symptom-related acupuncture trial. More specifically, costs will be
      identified, measured and valued using a micro-costing approach (by which each component of
      resource use is identified, estimated and a unit cost derived from market prices and national
      estimates). The cost analysis will be performed from the perspective of the health service
      provider and from a societal perspective. Included in the health care provider costs will be
      those accrued by the hospitals and general practitioners. Costs to the patients and their
      families, including social care, will be considered as the additional costs for society.
      Indirect costs in terms of workdays lost will also included. Data will be collected
      prospectively and retrospectively using a questionnaire designed by the University of
      Leeds.multiple sources including patient records and patient self reported questionnaires.
      The questionnaires will determine health service utilisation as a result of CIPN (e.g.
      outpatient or general practitioner visits), patient out of pocket expenses such as over the
      counter medicines or transport together with use of services in the social sector such as
      home help and support from family and friends. Valuation of resource items including hospital
      resources (e.g. bed days and staff time) and community resources (e.g. general practitioner
      visits, home help) use will be carried out using national estimates; market prices will be
      assigned to medication; non-market items, specifically patient time and informal help
      provided by family and friends, will be valued using market wage rates; out of pocket
      expenses (e.g. bus fares) will also be obtained. We have used this approach successfully in a
      multisite acupressure trial with 500 patients

      Data analysis:

      - Analyses will include descriptive statistics to summarise the data, analysis of variance to
      assess between-groups differences for primary and each of the secondary outcomes, and
      regression analysis (such as ANCOVA) using the baseline pain score as covariate. 95% CIs will
      also be calculated. In more detail, while a t-test is adequate for analysis, analysis of
      covariance will be used with the baseline pain score as a covariate and centre and trial arm
      as grouping factors. Equivalent analyses will be performed for the week 20 data (although it
      is acknowledged that such analyses would not be independent of the 14-week scores, as it is
      likely the week-14 and week-20 values will be correlated). Drop-out cases and non-respondents
      will be asked to complete the primary outcome scale (1-item) and the 5 items of the CTC scale
      on CIPN in order to capture outcomes in as many patients as possible in the intention to
      treat analysis, and if this is not feasible, we will use data imputation (LVCF: last value
      carried forward). An intention-to-treat analysis will be carried out.
    
  