
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      The purpose of this study is to identify structural brain regions, using a block design blood
      oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI), which are
      differentially activated based on the sense of self-agency felt by making simple finger
      movements. We will compare the activations of healthy volunteers with patients diagnosed with
      a functional movement disorder (FMD) who we hypothesize will have an impaired sense of
      volition.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      We intend to use 25 right-hand dominant, adult healthy volunteers for comparison with 50
      patients diagnosed with a FMD. We also wish to study an additinal 5 patients witha complete
      or near-complete sensory neuropathy.

      DESIGN:

      The sense of self-agency (SA) will be modulated using a visual task-based stimulus asking
      subjects to manipulate the position of an artificial hand projected onto a display in the
      magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner. Subjects will use their own right hand to make slow
      sequential finger movements which will be represented visually with the aid of a Cyberglove.
      During a behavioral training phase, subjects will practice using the apparatus. The level of
      control will be randomly changed to one of five states: 100% control, 75%, 50%, 25%, or
      random/no control. After subjects are comfortable with the apparatus and endorse SA over the
      displayed hand, they will undergo fMRI scanning. FMD patients who do not wish to participate
      in the fMRI portion of the study may still participate in the behavioral testing portion.

      The imaging phase of the experiment will have five sets of 6 minute scanning sessions where
      the subject is instructed to slowly open and close sequential fingers of their right hand.
      The level of control will be changed pseudo-randomly throughout the scan sessions. A control
      contrast consisting of the subject observing a moving hand will also be integrated into the
      blocks. An additional control contrast involving the subject moving their hand without visual
      feedback will also be included. These contrasts will serve in the analysis phase to help
      eliminate hemodynamic activity related to visual-motor feedback. At the completion of fMRI
      scanning, a baseline high-resolution MRI T1 scan will be obtained for anatomic localization
      and co-registration. At the completion of the imaging portion, subjects will also be asked to
      report the percentage of control they subjectively feel over the displayed hand using a final
      data set for behavioral testing.

      OUTCOME MEASURES:

      The primary outcome of this study is the difference in activation of brain structures in
      response to a loss of SA between FMD patients, sensory neuropathy patients, and healthy
      controls. In particular, we are interested in the presence of any differential activation in
      the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, insula, inferior parietal lobes, pre-supplementary motor
      association cortex (pre-SMA), and/or the anterior cingulate which may occur as SA is
      increased or decreased. A secondary analysis will utilize the individual subject perceptions
      of percent control during the behavioral training phase as the regressors for activation
      rather than the objective control settings.
    
  