
    
      Recent studies suggest surgical site infiltration of local anesthetic into the preperitoneal,
      subfascial and/or subcutaneous planes as an alternative approach. The literature suggests
      this offers superior pain relief and significantly reduced morphine consumption. This
      procedure has been shown to provide excellent analgesia in open inguinal hernia repair and
      colorectal procedures up to 72 hours after a single injection. However, there is limited
      published data comparing TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine and surgical site infiltration
      of liposomal bupivacaine in open hysterectomy patients.

      The investigators propose to prospectively study the efficacy of surgical site infiltration
      of liposomal bupivacaine versus TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine in patients with
      suspected or known gynecologic malignancies undergoing midline laparotomy. The investigators
      hypothesize that surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine is more effective than
      TAP block with liposomal bupivacaine in this patient population. The investigators primary
      outcome will be postoperative total 48 hour opioid consumption.

      Secondary outcomes will include visual analog scale (VAS) pain scores at rest and upon
      exertion (Valsalva maneuver) at 2 hours, 6 hours, 12 hours, 24 hours and 48 hours
      postoperatively, severity of nausea, episodes of vomiting and total antiemetics consumption
      postoperatively. Pain scores and severity of nausea scores will be collected in person or
      over the phone.

      The investigators expect the results of this study to demonstrate that surgical site
      infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine in patients with suspected or known gynecologic
      malignancies undergoing midline laparotomy may help shorten the recovery period and reduce
      the need for postoperative opioid medications. Furthermore, generally patients undergoing
      procedures such as tumor debulking and lymph node dissection would have an extended
      hospitalization. If surgical site infiltration of liposomal bupivacaine administration is
      found to decrease the length of hospitalization (versus TAP Block with liposomal
      bupivacaine), it will significantly decrease the health care costs.
    
  