
    
      Postoperative delirium is one of the most common complications of major surgery, affecting
      between 10% and 70% of all elderly surgical patients. Delirium manifests as poor attention
      and inability to think logically, and is associated with longer intensive care unit and
      hospital stay, long lasting cognitive deterioration, and increased mortality rate. Studies
      have shown that a low sub-anesthetic dose of ketamine, an anesthetic drug, has the potential
      to decrease several postoperative complications, including delirium, pain, opioid
      consumption, and nausea and vomiting. Low dose ketamine would be particularly appealing as a
      drug to prevent delirium and other postoperative complications, as it is inexpensive and
      extremely safe. However, these proposed benefits of ketamine in the perioperative setting
      have not yet been tested in a large clinical trial. The investigators are therefore proposing
      a pragmatic, exploratory clinical trial to support or refute the contention that low dose
      ketamine decreases the incidence of postoperative delirium, with the possibility of
      conducting a larger randomized clinical trial pending the results of this study. At the time
      of enrollment, patients will undergo the same delirium and pain evaluation that will be used
      postoperatively. Additionally patients will be screened for functional dependence using the
      Barthel Index of Activities of Daily Living, for depression using the Geriatric Depression
      Scale - Short Form, and for obstructive sleep apnea using the STOP-Bang criteria. They will
      also be asked about any falls they have experienced in the six months prior to surgery.
      Comorbid conditions, including the components of the Charlson Comorbidity Index, will be
      obtained by reviewing the patients' medical records. Any available preoperative lab results,
      including electrolytes and blood counts, will also be recorded.

      Patients will be randomized to receive low dose ketamine or placebo following induction of
      anesthesia and prior to surgical incision. Blinded observers will assess delirium on the
      afternoon/evening of postoperative day 0 (if feasible) and twice daily (morning and
      afternoon/evening with at least six hours between assessments) on postoperative days 1-3
      using the Confusion Assessment Method or the Confusion Assessment Method for Intensive Care
      Unit. Acute pain will be assessed via the observer-based Behavioral Pain Scale or Behavioral
      Pain Scale (Non-Intubated) with subsequent administration of the patient-reported Visual
      Analog Scale from postoperative days 0-3. Postoperative opioid consumption will be assessed
      from the patients' medical charts for postoperative days 0-3. Postoperative nausea and
      vomiting will be assessed via a patient-reported section of the Behavioral Pain Scale or
      Behavioral Pain Scale (Non-Intubated) for postoperative days 0-3. ICU and/or hospital length
      of stay will be assessed from the patients' medical charts. Adverse outcomes (e.g.
      hallucinations and nightmares) will be assessed via the Confusion Assessment Method or the
      Confusion Assessment Method for Intensive Care Unit for postoperative days 0-3.
    
  