
    
      Patient Inclusion Criteria

      All patients who undergo measurement of the Fractional Flow Reserve using intracoronary
      pressure measurements for clinical reasons are eligible for inclusion.

      There are no exclusion criteria.

      Methods

      Following a clinically indicated FFR measurement, patient data and data concerning
      angiographic stenosis severity as well as anatomic location of the interrogated lesion,
      method of adenosine administration, and FFR result are documented in a paper form. The form
      contains no patient data except age and gender as well as the cath lab identifying number and
      the serial number of the used FFR wire(s). The paper form is transmitted by fax to the
      central study site at Erlangen University where data will be stored and all evaluations will
      be performed.

      Recruitment period

      Recruitment starts March 1, 2017 and will be terminated after 2000 patients have been
      included.

      Number of patients

      2000 patients will be included.

      Outcome parameters

      The main outcome parameter is the frequency of coronary revascularization following FFR.

      Secondary outcome parameters include the distribution of quantitative FFR results in clinical
      practice, the rate of complications as a result of FFR measurements, and the average number
      of FFR wires needed per patient, as well as the influence of i.c. versus i.v. administration
      of adenosine on the distribution of obtained FFR results.

      All outcome parameters will be determined immediately after the end of invasive coronary
      angiography (and coronary intervention, if performed) in each patient (day 0). No follow-up
      will be performed.

      Institutional Review Board (IRB)

      The study protocol has been approved by the IRB of the Faculty of Medicine, University of
      Erlangen-Nürnberg (File Number 4_15B). Patient consent has been waived since data will be
      completely anonymized and no study-specific interventions are performed.

      Primary Investigator

      The study primary investigator is

      Stephan Achenbach

      Department of Cardiology

      University of Erlangen

      Ulmenweg 18

      91054 Erlangen

      Germany

      The study co-primary investigator is

      Helge Möllmann

      Department of Cardiology

      Johannes Hospital Dortmund

      Johannesstraße 9-13

      44137 Dortmund

      Germany

      Sponsor

      The study is sponsored by the University Hospital Erlangen, Department of Cardiology. It is
      financed through a restricted grant by Abbott Vascular
    
  