
    
      In order to ensure that the results of the study are not distorted by humans, this study is a
      single-blind randomized trial study. The subjects were randomly assigned to the experimental
      group or the control group with a permuted block randomization. For the sample number
      calculation, refer to Hedeker, Gibbons & Waternaux (1999) Comparing the time-dependent
      comparison of the longitudinal design sample size estimates between the two groups, and
      considering the 20% sample loss rate, the total number of samples is estimated to be 64 (32
      in the control group and 32 in the experimental group).

      The two groups of patients also received the same conventional treatment, anesthesia and
      surgery on the night before and on the day of the operation, and the warm water sitz bath was
      performed at different times after the operation. The warm water sitz bath temperature of the
      two groups was also 41-43°C daily 3 times (9:00, 13:00, 17:00), 5 minutes each time, and
      regularly take the same painkillers, stool softeners, and antibiotics. The researchers
      evaluated the wound pain index on the Numerical Rating Scale (NRS) 6 hours after the
      operation, 7 hours after the operation, and before and after each warm water sitz bath; After
      urine, the residual urine volume of the subject was evaluated with a Bladder Scan until the
      first day after the operation. A total of 8 evaluations were performed: 6 hours after the
      operation, 7 hours after the operation, and the first day after the operation 8:30, 9:30,
      12:30, 13:30, 16:30, 17:30.

      During the test, the number of subjects with adverse reactions (vertigo, weakness, sustained
      wound bleeding greater than 100ml) was greater than 3% of the total number of cases (2
      persons). The trial was terminated immediately.

      Acceptance conditions:

        1. Age over 20 years old, easy to move, can get out of bed and take a bath.

        2. Symptomatic grade III or IV hemorrhoids diagnosed by the surgeon.

        3. Accept epidural anesthesia.

        4. Perform hemorrhoidectomy.

        5. Those who have clear awareness and are willing to participate in and fill out the
           research consent form.

      Exclusion conditions:

        1. Diseases around the anus (fistula, abscess).

        2. Urinary tract problems (prostate hypertrophy in the past medical history; urinary tract
           infections on admission routine urine tests, urinary retention as assessed by Bladder
           Scan).

        3. Take painkillers before surgery.

      Statistical methods

        1. Descriptive statistical analysis: Adopt the mean, standard deviation, frequency
           distribution and percentage to present the basic attributes of the subjects.

        2. Inferential statistics: Chi-square test was used to analyze the categorical variables,
           and independent sample t-test was used to analyze the continuous variables.

        3. Use the independent sample t test to compare the differences in the average degree of
           urinary retention and pain between the groups. If the data are not normally distributed,
           switch to the Mann-Whitney U test without parental analysis to compare the experimental
           group and the control group before and after bathing Whether there is a difference, p
           value <0.05 is considered statistically significant.

        4. Use GEE (Generalized Estimating Equation) to check whether there is any difference in
           the degree of urinary retention and pain in each group.

      The use of k-Nearest Neighbours to fill in the missing values is mainly to see that the
      relevant data measured by the subject in the same group is similar to those of other
      subjects, and then average the data measured by these similar subjects at the same time Value
      to fill.
    
  