
    
      Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), like other more central macrovascular diseases, is common
      in diabetes. PAD can lead to critical limb ischemia, either alone or when combined with an
      injury like a foot ulcer. The diabetic foot ulceration requires adequate circulation to heal;
      if the circulation is impaired such that the tissue oxygen demand exceeds supply, critical
      limb ischemia ensues, placing the limb at risk.

      Most often, patients with critical limb ischemia, undergo multiple debridements in the
      operating room as well as vascular procedures, prior to reaching a viable level of
      amputation. This increases the patients' co-morbidities from repetitive exposure to
      anesthesia. Each debridement may be removing viable tissue and decreasing the length of the
      eventual amputation. Additionally, intraoperatively, the viability of the skin edges is a
      subjective assessment based on the surgeon's experience. That judgement can be inaccurate in
      10-20% of cases and lad to reoperation. With the use of the SPY imaging system, a better
      assessment of not only macrovascularity, but also microvascularity of the tissues is able to
      be evaluated objectively. This helps identify the tissues that are underperfused.

      The investigators are unaware of any literature evaluating the use of SPY imaging in the
      lower extremities intraoperatively during amputations or debridements. There are many studies
      published for the use of this technology during ophthalmic procedures , cerebral aneurismal
      repair, cardiac surgery and breast reconstruction. In cardiac surgery, the use of ICG based
      imaging has proven to be helpful in assessing the quality of bypass grafts and eliminating
      the need for radiography or catheter insertion (Reuthebuch et al., 2004). In ophthalmic
      procedures, ICG angiography has been fundamental in identifying many microvascular
      pathologies (Slakter, Yannuzzi, Guyer, Sorenson, & Orlock, 1995). Furthermore, neurosurgeons
      have found that the use of ICG angiography is far more superior than DS angiography in
      identifying small vessels . As it has already been proven to be a good adjunct
      intraoperatively to visualize microvasculature, the investigators would like to apply this to
      the lower extremities. Identifying underperfused tissues intraoperatively can help the
      surgeon objectively decide an appropriate level of amputation/debridement to effectively
      minimize the number of revisional surgeries. Also, there are no studies that comprehensively
      evaluate and compare the effectiveness of other modalities that also attempt to assess
      vascularity with the SPY imaging system. The information gained could be pivotal and help to
      gain more insight in patients with difficult to heal wounds, especially in the presence of
      PVD.
    
  