
    
      Obesity is now an epidemic in the developed and developing world. Medical management is
      ineffective at population level. Metabolic surgery has been shown to be effective in
      achieving weight loss and controlling associated conditions. However, surgery is invasive and
      has associated complications. Furthermore, not every patient is interested in or eligible for
      surgery.

      Bariatric gastric embolization recently emerged as a promising minimally invasive alternative
      to open bariatric surgery. Data from several initial pilot clinical trials suggests that
      gastric embolization is safe and can induce weight loss.

      Previous studies have concentrated on left gastric artery embolization as the primary target
      vessel because it supplies the largest portion of the fundus. However, it may be desirable to
      target a different artery, specifically the left gastroepiploic which also supplies the
      fundus. The left gastric artery is spared in bariatric surgery because it supplies the
      residual pouch after the surgery. Embolization of the left gastric artery may result in worse
      healing in the event of follow-up surgery potentially excluding people should they
      subsequently want it or become eligible.

      This study aims to assess safety and efficacy of bariatric embolization of the
      gastro-epiploic arcade using 300-500 micrometres calibrated polyvinyl-alcohol microparticles,
      for patients with morbid obesity.

      The target population consists of adult, morbidly obese patients with contraindication for
      bariatric surgery. Patients included in the study will be followed up for 12 months post
      bariatric embolization. The primary end point is procedural safety, defined as number and
      severity of adverse events occurring during the study period. Secondary end points include
      weight loss, evolution of weight and thigh circumferences, evolution of serum ghrelin levels
      and evolution of quality of life indexes.
    
  