
    
      Design: We will perform a pilot cluster randomised controlled trial where 12 GP practices
      will be randomly assigned (6 GP practices per arm) to the intervention group versus usual
      care. Randomisation will be stratified according to location (Northern Ireland /Republic of
      Ireland - Cavan, Donegal, Leitrim, Louth, Monaghan and Sligo). GP practices will be randomly
      allocated to the intervention or usual care arm after patient screening and recruitment. A
      total of 120 patients (60 per study arm, approximately 10 patients, randomly selected, per GP
      practice) will be enrolled into the study.

      Design: Pilot cluster randomized controlled trial

      Unit of randomization: GP practice.

      Unit of analysis: Patient and GP practice.

      Setting: Practices located in Northern Ireland will be recruited via Research Nurse(s) from
      the Northern Ireland Clinical Research Network (NICRN - Primary Care). In the Republic of
      Ireland a Research Nurse(s) from Trinity College Dublin will recruit GP practices located in
      the border counties of Cavan, Donegal, Leitrim, Louth, Monaghan and Sligo.

      Study aim: The overall aim of the study is to undertake a pilot cluster randomised controlled
      trial (cRCT) of a theory-based intervention targeting prescribing of appropriate polypharmacy
      in primary care (PolyPrime) to assess the feasibility of a definitive cRCT of the PolyPrime
      intervention.

      The main study objectives are:

        -  To test approaches to sampling, recruitment and retention of GP practices

        -  To test approaches to screening, recruitment and retention of patients

        -  To test the feasibility of using medication appropriateness (assessed using the
           STOPP/START criteria) as the primary outcome in a future cRCT

        -  To identify the intervention's likely mechanism of action

        -  To assess if the intervention was delivered and received as intended (intervention
           fidelity)

        -  To identify the resources used in the set-up and delivery of the intervention and their
           associated costs

        -  To assess the feasibility of a future cost-effectiveness analysis

        -  To further validate the Medication-Related Burden quality of life (MRQ-QoL) tool

        -  To obtain estimates of effect size between groups, cluster size and intraclass
           correlation coefficients (ICCs) to inform the sample size calculation for a full RCT

      Recruitment strategy for patients: Each recruited general practice will be asked to recruit
      10 older patients meeting the inclusion criteria (i.e. over 70 years old, receiving four or
      more regular medicines, not cognitively impaired, not have a terminal illness, resident in
      the community, be in receipt of a valid general medical services (GMS) card in the Republic
      of Ireland, or for Northern Ireland patients, registered for NHS primary care services and
      registered with and/or regularly attending the practice for a minimum of 12 months). Each
      recruited GP practice will also display a patient recruitment poster in their practice
      waiting areas. Posters will direct patients to ask at reception if they are interested in
      taking part in the study.

      The GP Practice Manager (or equivalent) will screen patient records facilitated and supported
      by the research nurses. Each practice will identify and filter potentially eligible
      participants via patient records. This will be done in batches depending upon the size of the
      practice list. Patients will be screened on the basis of the inclusion/exclusion criteria as
      specified in the protocol. A screening log will be provided to practices to record screening
      and recruitment activity, including the reason(s) for not being enrolled on the study. The
      screening log will be kept securely at the practice and no identifying data will leave the
      practice.

      Intervention delivery: The intervention (video) will be delivered to recruited GPs allocated
      to the intervention arm using the 'Riverside' software programme. This software programme
      allows electronic, multimedia material to be delivered to healthcare professionals and
      students. GPs will be provided with a single generic username and password that will allow
      them to access the video on a secure online server. Prior to the commencement of the study,
      all participating GPs will be provided with instructions from the researcher on how to access
      the video. The researcher will be fully contactable during the study to answer any questions
      or queries that participating GPs may have about accessing the video.

      Once consented, patients recruited by the GP practices allocated to the intervention arm will
      be asked to attend two appointments (telephone or online consultations where a face-to-face
      consultation is not possible) at a time convenient to them to have their medicines reviewed
      by a GP in addition to their usual care. Patients recruited by the GP practices allocated to
      the control arm will continue to receive usual care.

      Data will be collected from recruited GPs, recruited patients and practice records. Recruited
      patients will be asked to complete a number of questionnaires relating to their general
      well-being and use of the health service (e.g. hospital admissions) at baseline, six months
      and nine months post-initial medication review in the intervention arm and the equivalent
      time points in the control arm. The follow up time points for the control arm will be based
      on the average length of time from the completion of baseline data collection to six and nine
      months post initial medication review in the intervention arm. Patient data (including
      medical history, clinical conditions, biochemical data (i.e. test results) and prescribed
      medications) will also be collected from GP records at baseline, six months and nine months
      by a Research Nurse from the Northern Ireland Clinical Research Network (NICRN Primary Care)
      or Trinity College Dublin (TCD).

      At the end of the intervention, interviews will be conducted with up to 10 GPs and six
      members of practice staff (i.e. those involved in implementing the intervention within each
      practice) respectively in the six intervention arm practices. GPs will be asked about their
      views on the support provided by the research team; the intervention package (and supporting
      materials); study procedures (e.g. screening, recruitment, etc.), while practice staff will
      be asked about their views on the study procedures (e.g. screening, recruitment, etc.) and
      acceptability of the intervention. Patients from the six intervention group practices will be
      asked to complete a feedback questionnaire after the delivery of the intervention (i.e. after
      completion of their final follow-up questionnaires). Patients will be asked about their views
      on the study procedures (e.g. completing questionnaires, recruitment etc.) and acceptability
      of the intervention.

      Who is funding the study: HSC R&D Division Cross-border Healthcare Intervention Trials in
      Ireland Network (CHITIN), UK and Ireland
    
  