
    
      Objective: Does music therapy improve mood, pain and patient satisfaction on adult inpatient
      neurological units? Is music therapy an acceptable and feasible intervention in an adult
      inpatient neurological unit based on patient, family, and care provider satisfaction
      measures?

      Population: Foothills Medical Centre (FMC) acute neurological and neurorehabilitation units
      (i.e., 111, 112, 101, 58 Neurorehab), ages >18

      Background: Music therapy is the therapeutic application of music to rehabilitate cognitive,
      motor, and sensory dysfunction due to disease. Its treatment techniques are based upon
      scientific knowledge of music perception, production and its effects on nonmusical brain and
      behavior functions like gait, balance, speech, mood and motivation. Music is also known to
      have a wide range of physiological effects on the human body including changes in heart rate,
      respiration, blood pressure, skin temperature, and muscle tension. Music provokes emotions
      mediated via neuro-hormones such as serotonin and dopamine, and is experienced as joyous or
      rewarding through activity changes in the amygdala, ventral striatum and other parts of the
      limbic system.

      Music therapy has been applied across a broad range of clinical conditions from inpatients to
      outpatients, cardiac, diabetes and cancer care to surgical and ICU settings, and in pediatric
      through adult and geriatric populations. The majority of clinical studies focus on
      neurological patients with sensorimotor, speech and gait impairments, however, music has been
      shown to improve mental state and functioning in a wide variety of psychiatric disorders
      including depression, anxiety, and dementia, as well as reducing anxiety in patients with
      asthma, osteoarthritis, those undergoing dental procedures or perioperative anesthesia. There
      is some research to support its mood benefits in stroke and brain injury patients.

      Music therapy has been found to be an effective complementary treatment for cancer-related
      pain, lithotripsy, labor, and fibromyalgia. Recent reviews have demonstrated reductions in
      postoperative pain and anxiety, decreased consumption of sedatives and analgesics and
      increased patient satisfaction. The reductions in anxiety were equal or greater than
      midazolam/benzodiazepines. This may be particularly beneficial in neurological patients who
      may be more susceptible to adverse effects from psychoactive, sedating and analgesic
      medications. Music can provide a filter for unpleasant, unfamiliar sounds common to the
      hospital environment and improve sleep quality. These positive effects may greatly assist the
      common issues of fatigue in cognitively impaired, confused or agitated neurological
      inpatients. Furthermore, Chlan has recently demonstrated cost-effectiveness of music therapy
      interventions in reducing anxiety in the ICU.

      Music therapy may also have beneficial effects for staff and families. Some studies have
      demonstrated cost-effectiveness with less staff time required for procedures, administering
      sedatives and pain medications, and fewer days on mechanical ventilation in the ICU.
      Perez-Cruz studied patients, relatives, and healthcare workers' preference for background
      music in patient areas with an average 71% in all three groups. Lower perceived stress level,
      cortisol, heart rate and mean arterial pressures were also observed in voluntary first-line
      nurses and students while listening to music.

      This study will expand the research base in the inpatient neurological population and explore
      staff perceptions and satisfaction with music therapy. The aim of this mixed methods study is
      to explore immediate pre and post music therapy intervention effects on mood, pain, and
      satisfaction in the inpatient neurological population and to explore perceived caregiver and
      staff satisfaction with music therapy on inpatient neurological units.

      Intervention: 20-40 min treatment sessions 1:1 within acute neurological patient rooms, or
      private room by qualified music therapist once weekly and/or group music therapy sessions
      maximum 6-8 patients < or = 1 hour. This includes a variety of music therapy techniques used
      to target mood, pain, socialization, expressive speech, attention/cognitive or sensorimotor
      functional goals.

      Methods: Mixed methods study design.

        1. Qualitative measures:

             1. Semi-structured patient +/- family satisfaction questionnaire and interview post
                music therapy session

             2. Semi-structured inpatient unit staff questionnaire and interview (exploring themes
                of: self-perceived stress, workload, barriers, relationships, mood, pain)

             3. Focus groups of patients, families, staff addressing above areas

        2. Quantitative measures:

             1. Visual analog scale, mood pre- and post- music therapy session

             2. Visual analog scale, pain pre- and post- music therapy session

      Recruitment: Patients (and their families when available) referred to Music therapy on Acute
      Neuro, Neurorehab units would be invited to participate in research study with informed
      consent obtained prior to interviews, focus groups and data collection. Unit Staff would also
      be invited to participate in interviews and focus groups with informed consent prior to data
      collection.
    
  