
    
      Background Ultrasonography has become increasingly used in many medical specialties over the
      last decades as smaller and less expensive ultrasound equipment has become available.
      Although ultrasound imaging traditionally is considered safe, its use is highly operator
      dependent (EFSUMB 2010). The lack of sufficient operator skills can lead to diagnostic errors
      that eventually compromise patient safety due to unnecessary tests or interventions (Moore &
      Copel 2011). A recent report from the British National Health Service (NHS) analyzed
      maternity claims reported to the NHS over the past decade and identified antenatal fetal
      ultrasound investigations as one of the four major risk areas in obstetric care (NHS 2012).
      Traditional ultrasound training is challenged with long learning curves and lack of
      standardization of competency-based training (Salvesen et al. 2010). Given the long learning
      curve characterizing traditional clinical training (Jang et al. 2010), proficiency in terms
      of independence and acceptable diagnostic accuracy may not occur during the first many months
      of training. Thus, some residents may not be sufficiently trained to manage independent
      ultrasound examinations expected from them safely. Accelerating learning curves is therefore
      essential from a patient safety perspective and for patient discomfort during intimate
      examinations such as transvaginal ultrasound scans. However, it may also be important from an
      organizational viewpoint as insufficiently trained residents may not be as effective in
      managing patients as those, who are trained until proficiency.

      Simulation-based training has become increasingly used in several medical domains because it
      provides a safe environment to practice. Virtual Reality (VR) simulation has previously been
      shown to improve technical performance and shorten operation time in laparoscopic surgery
      (Larsen et al. 2009) and this type of training may therefore be useful as an adjunct to
      supervised clinical ultrasound practice. In previous studies of the effect of VR simulation,
      control groups have been assigned 'traditional training', which often means 'no training'.
      Consequently, it is not known if VR simulation - including ultrasound simulation - is
      superior to optimal clinical training using real patients. Furthermore, no studies have
      explored the effects of ultrasound simulation on patient related outcomes such as diagnostic
      accuracy, patient discomfort and their perception of safety during the ultrasound
      examinations. The effects on an organizational level such as the use of time per ultrasound
      examination, the need for re-examination by a senior clinician or the need for ambulatory
      control due to diagnostic uncertainty are also unknown.

      Hence, we aim to explore the following research questions:

      1) What are the effects of simulation-based training compared to traditional training in a
      group of OB/GYN residents without prior ultrasound experience, on the following outcomes:

        1. Patients' discomfort levels and perception of safety immediately after a transvaginal
           ultrasound examination in a gynecological care unit.

        2. Need for re-examination of the patients by a clinical supervisor after the initial
           examination.

        3. Number of ambulatory controls needed due to diagnostic uncertainty.

      Methods

      Study setup In a randomized observer-blinded study, the effects of simulation-based
      ultrasound training compared to traditional training are examined from April 1st 2013 to
      January 31st 2014. Flowchart of study design is shown in Figure 3. Ethical approval is
      obtained from the Regional Ethical Committee of the Capital Region. The study is conducted in
      accordance with the Helsinki Declaration and in accordance with the CONSORT statement
      (www.consort-statement.org).

      Participants All OB/GYN departments in eastern Denmark (Zealand) are contacted by e-mail and
      invited to participate in the study (N=7). Inclusion criteria require that participants 1)
      are medical graduates and 2) provide written informed consent. Exclusion criteria are 1) any
      formal ultrasound training or 2) previous independent use of ultrasound. The estimated number
      of eligible residents from each of the seven departments is eight during the 12 months of the
      study, giving a total of 56 potential participants, provided a participation rate of 100%.
      All participants are surveyed regarding age, years of post-graduate clinical practice,
      gender, handedness, and experience with video-gaming.

      Randomization The Clinical Trials Unit, Rigshospitalet, independently performs simple
      randomization of participants by computer to either intervention group (simulation training)
      or control group (clinical training only). The allocation of participants is concealed to the
      primary investigator until all data is loaded to a database for statistical processing.

      Intervention Simulation programme. Participants in the intervention group receive simulation
      training using two types of ultrasound simulators (see Figure 4 for flowchart of the
      simulation programme). A short theoretical introduction to pelvic ultrasound is presented
      before simulation training begins. Theoretical reading material concerning early pregnancy
      complications is provided all participants prior to simulation training. A final theoretical
      test is provided to assess knowledge about equipment, ultrasound safety, anatomical landmarks
      and basic pathology.

      Content of simulation training. A low-fidelity simulator (BluePhantom), which allows
      participants to introduce the probe and familiarize themselves with the ultrasound equipment,
      is used for the initial training. Participants train for 30 minutes on this simulator before
      moving on to a high-fidelity Virtual-Reality (VR) simulator (Scantrainer, Medaphor). The VR
      simulator provides images obtained from real patients and haptic feedback from the ultrasound
      probe. The basic gynecologic and advanced gynecologic modules are selected for training
      purposes. The selection of modules is based on a previous pilot study, in which 10 OB/GYN
      residents rated the usefulness of each of the modules on the VR simulator. Only modules that
      are rated as four or five out of five in usefulness are included in the training programme.
      When all modules are passed on the VR simulator, the participants receive 30 minutes of
      training on the low-fidelity simulator (BluePhantom) to allow participants to review the
      functions, they just trained, using real ultrasound equipment.

      Instructor-feedback during simulations. The participants receive 30 minutes of introduction
      to the VR simulator and are allowed another two times 10 minutes of instructor-feedback at a
      time of their choice (Østergaard et al. 2012).

      Control Participants randomized to the control group receive traditional clinical
      introduction locally in the departments. This may include observation and supervised practice
      and the different types of clinical training provided by each department are gathered through
      the department's head of education and registered.

      Follow-up and outcome All participants will be followed for six months. Patients eligible for
      participation are those who are having a pelvic ultrasound examination performed, are able to
      understand and read Danish, and willing to provide informed consent. Consenting patients are
      surveyed after the pelvic ultrasound examination regarding discomfort levels and perception
      of safety during the ultrasound examination. Both questions are answered using 10-point
      Likert scales. The need for re-examination by a supervising clinician, and need for
      ambulatory control including reason (e.g. diagnostic uncertainty, routine control according
      to department or national guidelines etc.) is registered by the nurse on call.

      Sample size calculation A meaningful reduction in the need for a second re-examination by a
      senior clinician could be a 33% assuming a standard deviation of eight scans. Thus, a total
      sample size of 46 participants is needed using a two-sided alpha of 0.05 and a power of 0.90.
    
  