
    
      Introduction; Most patients with severe head injury cannot protect their airway, have
      excessive secretions and inadequate spontaneous breathing which contributes to cerebral
      hypoxia. Thus, in their initial management the airway is secured with either an endotracheal
      tube (ETT) or a tracheostomy. In Mulago Hospital some of these patients are intubated and
      then subjected to the wait and see strategy of delayed or no tracheostomy, very few undergo
      early tracheostomy, and some patients are left without an artificial airway. Tracheostomy has
      been reported to have advantages over translaryngeal intubation but the optimal timing of
      tracheostomy in patients with severe head injury is controversial. Studies done elsewhere
      have showed that patients with severe head injury who undergo early tracheostomy have better
      outcomes.

      Problem statement; Mulago hospital receives the largest number of patients with severe head
      injured with a mortality rate of 69%. Securing these patients airway using ETT is associated
      with complications which have been shown to increase ICU and hospital stay, morbidity and
      mortality. Furthermore, most intubated patients often require ICU admission for care of ETT
      and mechanical ventilation and yet these patients require little or no assistance from
      mechanical ventilation if the airway has been secured with a tracheostomy. With limited
      number of ventilators and beds in ICU and increased demand for ICU admission in Mulago
      hospital, this poses a challenge.

      Objective; To compare 30 day mortality of severe head injured patients undergoing early
      tracheostomy versus standard of care in Mulago Hospital and the associated factors

      Methodology; Randomized controlled clinical trial, open label, to be carried out in Mulago
      Hospital Trauma Centre, casualty, ICU, and neuro-surgical ward high dependence unit (3AHDU).

      All patients above 10years with severe traumatic brain injury who meet the study criteria
      will be recruited and randomly assigned to either arm.

      The patients on the early tracheostomy arm will undergo tracheostomy, done by an
      Otolaryngologist (ENT surgeon) or resident within 24 hours of admission, then admitted either
      in trauma center, ICU if there is space available, or Neurosurgery ward HDU. Patients will
      then receive routine care for the severe head injured patients as per Mulago hospital
      standards.

      On the other arm the patients will receive the standard of care as per the attending
      clinician, and these are also admitted either in trauma Centre, ICU or Neurosurgery ward HDU
      where they also receive routine care for severe head injured patients as per Mulago hospital
      standards.

      Follow up the primary outcome is 30day mortality The patients on both arms will be followed
      up for a maximum of 30 days To assess for; Acute complications of the tracheostomy (bleeding,
      subcutaneous emphysema, pneumothorax) Number of days on the mechanical ventilator and
      development of ventilator associated pneumonia (VAP) for the mechanically ventilated patients
      using; increase in respiratory rate, FiO2, temperature and White blood cell count from the
      baseline, consistency of the tracheal aspirate and culture of the tracheal aspirate.

      Number of days patient requires sedation for the sedated patients. Length of ICU and hospital
      stay and glasgow coma scale (GCS) at discharge.
    
  