
    
      Material and Methods Patient selection Consecutive patients who require elective lung
      resection for cancer at the University Hospital of Geneva will be screened for the presence
      of risk factors for postoperative ALI or hydrostatic lung edema: age > 60 yrs, history of
      chronic alcohol consumption (>60g/day), prior radiation or chemotherapy, cardiac
      insufficiency (left ventricular ejection fraction < 40%, or a history of past acute heart
      failure), coronary artery disease (history of myocardial infarct, Q wave on the ECG, positive
      stress test or coronary angiogram), recent pneumonia (within 6 weeks of hospital admission),
      reduced diffusion capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO < 60% of predicted values) and predicted
      postoperative lung perfusion of < 55% of total lung perfusion. Patients with at least 3 risk
      factors for postoperative lung edema will be considered eligible for the study. Patients
      undergoing pneumonectomy or presenting with intracardiac shunts, valvular diseases or aortic
      abdominal aneurysm will all be excluded as these conditions preclude valid measurements of
      extravascular lung water volumes. In addition, chronic treatment with inhaled
      bronchodilators, a history of any adverse reaction to bronchodilators and liver or kidney
      insufficiencies will be considered exclusion criteria.

      This randomized double blind, cross-over study has been approved by the local university
      hospital ethics committee and written informed consent has been obtained from all selected
      patients.

      The same team of pneumonologists, thoracic surgeons and anesthesiologists/intensive care
      physicians will be involved in the perioperative medical management. In addition to history
      and clinical examination, a standardized preoperative assessment includes chest radiography,
      ECG, pulmonary function testing as well as computed tomography scans and positron emission
      tomographies of the chest, abdomen and brain. Quantitative lung perfusion/ventilation
      scanning, brain imaging, maximal aerobic capacity and myocardial stress testing will be
      performed when appropriate in intermediate-to-high risk surgical candidates.

      Operative and anesthetic management Routinely, antimicrobial prophylaxis with cefazoline will
      be administered for 24 hours and an epidural catheter was inserted at the 4th-5th or at the
      5th-6th vertebral interspace. Thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) will be initiated
      preoperatively with the administration of bupivacaïne 0.25% and continued postoperatively
      with a lower dosage (bupivacaine 0.1%) that was combined with opiates (fentanyl 2 mcg/ml).

      Each patient will be equipped with a 4-French femoral artery catheter and an internal jugular
      venous line that will be connected to a pulse contour cardiac output monitor (PV2024L;
      Pulsion Medical Systems AG, Munich, Germany).

      After anesthesia induction, a left sided double-lumen endotracheal tube will be inserted and
      pressure support ventilation will be adjusted to optimize gas exchanges and minimize lung
      hyperinflation with low tidal volume (5-6 ml/kg), high inspiratory oxygen fraction (50-80%)
      and positive end expiratory pressure levels (PEEP, 4-12 cm H2O). Periodically, lung
      recruitment maneuvers will also be performed to re-open alveolar collapsed areas. Anesthesia
      will be maintained by infusing propofol targeted to achieve bispectral
      electroencephalographic values between 40 and 60. Lung resection with systematic lymph node
      dissection will be performed through an anterolateral muscle-sparing thoracotomy.

      During surgery, intravenous crystalloids (Ringer-lactate solution) will be infused at a rate
      of 2-3 ml/kg/h and blood losses will be compensated with colloids
      (poly(0-2-hydroxy-ethyl)amidon, HAES 6%) and with red blood cell concentrates if the
      hemoglobin levels decreased below 80-90 g/L. At the end of surgery, all patients will be
      extubated in the operating theater after reversing the residual neuromuscular blockade with
      anticholinesterase agents. An active physiotherapy program including incentive spirometry,
      deep diaphragmatic breathing exercises and mobilization will be started in the
      high-dependency care unit (HDU). A maximal fluid balance of 500 ml per day will be targeted
      during the first 48 hours after surgery, by limiting fluid intakes including i.v.
      crystalloids (glucose-saline 0.45% 1 ml/kg/h), i.v. colloids (1/1 compensation of fluid
      losses through thoracic drains and oral beverages (500 ml on the day of surgery and
      1'000-1'200 ml over the next two days).

      Study design Within the first 36 hours after surgery, patients will received in random order
      nebulized salbutamol and nebulized ipratropium bromide at 4 consecutive sessions conducted at
      least 6 hours apart (figure 1). The treatment order will be generated from random number
      tables by an independent observer and concealed in sealed envelopes. The investigators,
      attending physicians and nurses will be blinded to the treatment group.

      Over 10 minutes, either salbutamol (5 mg diluted in 5 ml normal saline) or ipratropium
      bromide (0.5 mg diluted in 5 ml normal saline) will be administered via a Cirrus nebulizer
      and a compressor (Wokingham, UK).

      Measurements In addition to arterial blood sampling, complete sets of hemodynamic
      measurements will be performed as shown in figure 1: (a) preoperatively, before and 30 min
      after initiation of TEA, (b) 2 and 8 hours after surgery (postoperative day 0, [POD0]),
      before and 30 min after administration of salbutamol or ipratropium (6 hours apart in random
      order), (c) on the morning of the first postoperative day (POD1) on two consecutive sessions
      (6 hours apart in random order), before and 30 min after administration of salbutamol or
      ipratropium bromide.

      Cardiac output (CO) and volumetric pulmonary variables will be obtained by the simple
      transpulmonary indicator dilution technique. Three consecutive measurements with less than
      10% variations will be averaged. A fifteen milliliters bolus of 0.9% saline at 4°C will be
      injected through the central venous catheter into the right atrium and the change in
      temperature will be measured with the femoral artery thermistor tipped catheter. Using the
      mean transit time methods, intrathoracic blood volume, extravascular lung water and global
      end-diastolic volume will be calculated and indexed for the patient body weight (ITBVI, EVLWI
      and GEDVI, respectively). Heart rate (HR), stroke volume (SV) and maximal change in arterial
      pressure will be determined by beat-to-beat analysis of the arterial pressure wave. The
      systemic vascular resistance index (SVRI) will be calculated using standard formula. The
      ratio of EVLWI to ITBVI will be calculated as an index reflecting the permeability of the
      alveolar-capillary barrier.

      Arterial oxygen pressure (PaO2 in mmHg) will be measured using a blood gas analyzer (ABL-510
      analyzer, Radiometer, Copenhagen, Denmark) and will be related to the inspiratory O2 fraction
      to express the oxygenation index (PaO2/FIO2). In addition, chest radiograph scores (number of
      quadrants with >50% involvement with an alveolar filling process) will be recorded on POD0
      (arrival in HDU) and POD1 (end of the study).

      Outcomes The primary outcome measure will be a reduction in EVLWI within the first 24 hours
      after lung surgery. Secondary outcomes will be the PaO2/FIO2 ratio, hemodynamic data and
      radiological lung injury score.

      Statistical analysis A sample size of 20 subjects provides the power (80%) to detect a 20%
      difference in EVLWI for a two-sided significance level of  = 0.05; in a preliminary study,
      we found a mean value of 9.1 ml/kg for EVLWI with a standard deviation (SD) of 2.2 ml/kg.

      Results will be reported as M(SD), median (interquartile) or numbers (percentages). A p value
      of < 0.05 was considered significant in all analyses. All data will be analyzed with the SPSS
      statistical software (version 9.0, SPP, Chicago, IL). ANOVA for repeated measurements will be
      used to compare baseline values (preoperative, POD0 and POD1) followed by Bonferroni post-hoc
      tests. Paired and unpaired Student t tests will be used to assess and to compare the effects
      of bronchodilators. Furthermore, the correlation between changes in EVLWI, CI, ITBVI and
      PaO2/FIO2 will be analyzed by linear regression.
    
  