
    
      Surgery is the only definitive therapy for severe mitral regurgitation (MR) and the
      guidelines recommend surgery for management of MR to symptomatic patients or asymptomatic
      patients with left ventricular (LV) dysfunction. However, the timing of surgical intervention
      in asymptomatic patients with severe MR remains unclear due to the lack of randomized
      clinical trials comparing early surgery versus watchful waiting. The benefit of early surgery
      has been suggested in prospective, observational studies, whereas a watchful waiting strategy
      seemed to be safe and effective in the other prospective study. The consensus guidelines for
      the performance of early surgery in asymptomatic patients with severe MR are different,
      reflecting controversy. The 2006 American College of Cardiology/American Heart Association
      (ACC/AHA) guidelines recommend early surgery for asymptomatic patients if the success rate of
      mitral valve repair is expected to exceed 90%, but the 2007 European Society of Cardiology
      (ESC) guidelines recommend watchful waiting for such patients.

      Clinical outcome in asymptomatic patients with MR is poorly defined and it is important to
      identify high-risk patients in whom early surgery may be warranted. Older patients and those
      with a larger effective regurgitant orifice (ERO) showed increased mortality under medical
      management, but it is controversial whether early surgery would improve clinical outcome of
      such patients, because the performance of surgery in high-risk patients might be associated
      with increased operative risk. Although randomized trials are required to establish
      indications for early surgery, ethical and financial constraints do not allow us to conduct a
      randomized trial and the investigators choose to perform a propensity analysis in a large
      prospective cohort of patients. The investigators try to compare long-term outcomes of early
      surgery with those of a conventional-treatment strategy that is based on current guidelines
      in a large prospective cohort of asymptomatic patients with severe degenerative MR using a
      propensity analysis, and examine the hypothesis that the reduction in cardiac mortality or
      cardiac event by early surgery is particularly evident among patients aged > 50 years or
      those with ERO ≥ 0.4 square centimeter.

      All patients suspected of MR undergo transthoracic echocardiography. Entry evaluation
      includes demographic data, clinical presentation, physical findings and echocardiographic
      data. Eligibility is determined after a patient undergoes a thorough evaluation of clinical
      and echocardiographic data. After the eligible patient has signed informed consent, entry
      into the registry will take place. The treatment groups will not be randomly assigned and the
      choice of early surgery or conventional treatment for each patient is at the discretion of
      the attending physician, who explains the potential benefits of early surgery and procedural
      risks in detail and considers the preferences of individual patients most importantly.
      Patients in the early surgery group should undergo mitral valve surgery within 6 months of
      enrollment. Patients in the conventional treatment group will be treated according to the
      2006 ACC/AHA guidelines and they will be educated to report immediately to a study
      coordinator or an investigator if they experience any symptoms, and referred for surgery if
      exertional dyspnea, LV ejection fraction <0.60, LV end-systolic dimension >40 mm, Doppler
      estimated pulmonary artery pressure > 50 mmHg, or atrial fibrillation develops. All patients
      will be followed at 3 months, 6 months, and 1 year; and at 6-month intervals thereafter until
      close-out of the study, and educated to call a study coordinator or an investigator if they
      experience any adverse events.

      The Executive Committee will approve the final trial design and protocol. This committee will
      also be responsible for reviewing the final results, determining the methods of presentation
      and publication, and selection of secondary projects and publications. Members of the
      committee will include the PI and persons who will organize this study. The Data Safety
      Monitoring Board (DSMB) will review the safety data from this study and make recommendations
      based on safety analyses of serious adverse events and protocol deviation. The Clinical
      Events Committee will meet regularly to review and adjudicate all clinical events that occur
      throughout the study period. The statistical analysis will be performed according to the
      prespecified analysis plan as described in the study protocol.
    
  