
    
      The studies primary aim is to use the FACE-Q (a validated patient reported outcome (PRO)
      scale) for patients undergoing parotidectomy to subjectively measure the functional and
      aesthetic impact of the surgery1. It is hypothesized that patients undergoing parotidectomy
      have long-standing under-reported functional and cosmetic issues. Currently most parotid
      defects are not reconstructed. A secondary aim is to objectively analyse the volume of the
      parotid gland pre- and post-operatively to guide reconstructive surgery in patient with
      parotid tumours.

      Head and neck tumours are common. Most salivary gland tumours arise from the parotid gland
      and 80% are benign. Tumour resection can be limited/partial, superficial, total or radical
      depending upon the pathology2. This can lead to a cosmetic deformity in the pre-auricular
      /cheek region, infra-auricular region causing a superior cervical depression (especially if
      combined with a neck dissection) and retromandibular regions2,3. More than 50% of patients
      report being affected by facial contour abnormalities after parotidectomy and their deformity
      can be both visible on direct and lateral facial views4. The cosmetic defect following
      parotidectomy has been rated from moderate to severe disgurement5. Facial disfigurement
      experienced by head and neck cancer patients has a strong impact on their quality of life6,7
      (both in function and cosmesis). This is accentuated by the central role of the face in
      social communication and expression. Despite these facts there is little evidence on PRO
      measures post parotidectomies.

      PRO's are essential in current medical practice to view success of an intervention from a
      patient's perspective. Two types of questionnaires are available- generic (e.g. SF-36) and
      disease specific (e.g. FACE- Q). Generic assess the disease effect on the whole person
      irrespective of the medical condition. Disease specific assess interventions in a particular
      disease. They are more sensitive to detect changes due to focused questions. The FACE-Q
      questionnaire is a recently designed gold standard PRO that is disease specific. The FACE-Q
      measures 4 domains- satisfaction with facial appearance, adverse effects (both of these
      highlight the effects on a specific facial area e.g. lips, eye etc), health-relate quality of
      life and process of care (both of these are relevant to al facial patients). It achieves this
      as it has over 40 scales each with a series of questions around one central concept. Patient
      responses are graded on a 4 point scale and then converted to a score on a scale from 0-100.
      A higher score means improved quality of life. There is no overall score, only scores for
      each independent scale. As scales are independent only the scales most relevant to a specific
      research objective or patient population need be administered. Patients can complete the
      questionnaire pre and post operatively to view the impact of the intervention. An advantage
      is that it only takes a few minutes to complete. The dis-advantage of the FACE-Q could be
      perceived that it was initially developed for aesthetic facial procedures however the
      questions are directly applicable for reconstructive facial procedures. Also research is
      still undergoing regarding the clinical meaning/clinical significance of the FACE-Q but it
      still allows PRO quantitative data pre and post procedure to aid evaluation

      There is little reconstruction post parotidectomy. However, the goals of reconstruction are
      both functional (e.g. management of weakness of the lower lip or oral continence,
      reconstruction of the facial nerve and prevention of Gustatory sweating) and aesthetic2. A
      few possible methods have been described for reconstruction. Primary reconstruction of small
      defects are usually with local fascial flaps2 e.g. SMAS flaps5 and large defects with muscle
      flaps2 e.g. Sternocleidomastoid8. Secondary reconstruction involves fat grafting5 or
      correction of lip asymmetry. The main method of reconstruction involves the defect being
      analysed and subjectively "compared" to the contralateral side2. Recent papers have attempted
      to improve accuracy. Some have reported abnormal volumes i.e. tumour size. However, they have
      not reported normal volumes (i.e. size of defect)5.MRI has been used to measure volume of
      defects left behind, however this is not totally accurate as it only measured the largest
      transverse dimension and requires further expensive imaging5. Therefore to improve outcomes
      improved accuracy on the dimensions of the defect is required before reconstruction.

      Furthermore, although some reconstruction outcomes have been measured by subjective methods8,
      there is none by a validated questionnaire e.g. the FACE-Q. End points such as morbidity and
      mortality and recurrence rates are only one measure of treatment success. In addition, there
      are few objective outcomes reported e.g. using a visual analogue scale9 has been mentioned
      but this is less accurate than using pre and post op 3D photography.

      This study will look at prospective analysis of 50 consecutive patients undergoing
      parotidectomy by consultant head and neck surgeons (ENT and maxillofacial surgeons) at 1
      academic tertiary centre (Guy's Hospital). A range of adults from 18-80 years old with
      capacity and of any gender or ethnicity will be assessed. Patients having both benign and
      malignant parotid resection with either partial or superficial or total parotidectomy or neck
      dissection will be included. Data to be collected includes pre-operative FACE-Q analysis and
      non-invasive 3D camera measurements, demographic data, tumour pathology, tumour size, defect
      size, postoperative radiation and duration of follow-up. Follow up will be from 3 months up
      to 1 year post surgery using the FACE-Q and a non-invasive 3D camera.

      There is no obvious risk to the patient as a validated questionnaire will be used and a
      non-invasive investigation tool. The patient will not be subject to any extra treatment or
      time in hospital for this particular group of patients.

      No previous trials have been performed that are relevant to this study.
    
  