
    
      The hypothesis is that the histopathological study of two biopsies obtained from the gastric
      antrum for the determination of Helicobacter pylori infection has a similar diagnostic yield
      compared to the gold standard (Sydney protocol). This is a prospective uncontrolled
      cross-sectional clinical trial.

      Patients older than 18 years with a medical indication for performing upper gastrointestinal
      endoscopy for biopsy and detection of Helicobacter pylori infection in the period from
      january to May 2020.

      A sample size of 67 patients was calculated using the diagnostic test comparison formula, in
      order to compare the sensitivity and specificity in patients with indications for a biopsy
      taken with the Sydney protocol from those taken only from the gastric antrum.

      Expecting a sensitivity of 89% in the Sydney protocol With a Zα of 1.96 and a maximum
      amplitude of 7.5% (CI = 15), at least 67 study subjects are required with the two diagnostic
      tests.

      Cold biopsies will be taken using an oval head clamp with a stiletto, 2.3 mm in diameter and
      180 cm in length of the gastric mucosa with the current standardized method (Sydney
      protocol).

      The samples will be sent to the pathology service in two bottles with formalin; in one, the
      two biopsies obtained from the antrum will be labeled as "bottle 1" and in the second bottle
      obtained from the body and the incisura will be labeled as "bottle 2"; this will be blinded
      for the pathologist who analyzes the slides.

      Samples will be processed in a conventional manner, stained for interpretation with
      hematoxylin-eosin and Giemsa.

      Upon obtaining the pathology report, the data will be analyzed in the SPSS statistical
      program by 2X2 contingency tables for the determination of the positive predictive value, the
      negative predictive value, and the sensitivity and specificity of the biopsies taken from the
      antrum compared to healthy population and those who possess the infection using the gold
      standard.

      In addition, the diagnostic yield of the biopsies taken from the antrum of patients who use
      PPI or have atrophic gastritis will be analyzed separately.
    
  