
    
      Racial and ethnic minority youth have poorer asthma status than Caucasian youth, even after
      controlling for socioeconomic variables. Proper use of asthma controller medications is
      critical in reducing asthma mortality and morbidity. The clinical consequences of poor asthma
      management include increased illness complications, excessive functional morbidity, and fatal
      asthma attacks. There are significant limitations in research on interventions to improve
      asthma management in racial minority populations, particularly minority adolescents and young
      adults, though illness management tends to deteriorate after adolescence during emerging
      adulthood, the unique developmental period beyond adolescence but before adulthood. All
      elements of the proposed study protocol were piloted in an NHLBI-funded pilot study
      (1R34HL107664-01A1 MacDonell). Results suggested feasibility and acceptability of the study
      protocol as well as proof of concept. The intervention is now being tested in a larger
      randomized clinical trial. The proposed study will include 192 African American emerging
      adults with moderate to severe persistent asthma and low controller medication adherence
      recruited from clinic and emergency department settings. Half of the sample will be
      randomized to receive a multi-component technology-based intervention (MCTI) targeting
      adherence to daily controller medication. The MCTI consists of two components: 1) 2 sessions
      of computer-delivered motivational interviewing targeting medication adherence, and 2)
      individualized text messaging focused on medication adherence between the sessions. Text
      messages will be individualized based on Ecological Momentary Assessment (EMA). The remaining
      half of participants will complete a series of computer-delivered asthma education modules
      matched for length, location, and method of delivery of the intervention session. Control
      participants will also receive text messages between intervention sessions. Message content
      will be the same for all control participants and contain general facts about asthma (not
      tailored). Youth will be recruited from the Detroit Medical Center, the only university
      affiliated medical center in Detroit, Michigan. It is hypothesized that youth randomized to
      MCTI will show improvements in adherence to medication (primary outcome) and asthma control
      (secondary outcome) compared to the comparison condition at all post-intervention follow ups
      (3, 6, 9, and 12 months).
    
  