
    
      Key reasons for the "quality chasm" between current and ideal chronic illness care are that
      our health care system is insensitive to patient preference, provider-driven, and
      disease-focused. By contrast, a common goal among proposed patient-centered care models is to
      foster continuous healing relationships between patients and the health care system. Such
      relationships allow patients to receive care over time via a variety of communication media,
      rather than just via periodic office visits. Home health care can foster such relationships
      and improve outcomes for patients with a variety of conditions. Home interventions may be
      particularly useful in caring for the growing number of people with chronic illnesses
      accompanied by functional limitations that reduce their access to community-based
      interventions such as group self-care classes. However, trials comparing the effectiveness of
      the wide array of home care models are limited, and the mechanisms that underlie their
      effectiveness remain unclear.

      This randomized controlled trial (RCT) of 3 groups, comparing the effectiveness and
      cost-effectiveness of 2 different home-based care models and usual care in improving chronic
      illness outcomes, will address these research gaps. The primary outcome will be
      health-related quality of life (HRQoL). We will also explore the mechanisms of effectiveness
      of home care through its influence on self-efficacy - beliefs patients have about their
      ability to successfully execute the actions required to achieve valued health outcomes - and
      adherence. The chronic illnesses targeted will be diabetes mellitus (DM), congestive heart
      failure (CHF), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, arthritis, and
      depression. The home care delivery media in the models will be in-person visits, and standard
      telephone calls. The study hypotheses are: a) Each of the 3 different home interventions will
      result in improvements in patient self-efficacy, adherence to care, and HRQoL compared with
      usual care but will not differ statistically; b) From the payer's perspective, all the
      interventions will be cost saving compared with usual care, and a standard telephone
      intervention will be the most cost saving; and c) Self-efficacy will improve temporally
      before adherence to care and HRQoL.

      The research proven framework for improving patient self-efficacy that we will employ in our
      interventions, the Chronic Disease Self-Management Program (CDSMP), was developed at Stanford
      University. It was designed to be delivered by trained laypersons to groups of patients in
      community settings. The CDSMP developers will serve as consultants on our study, assisting us
      with modifying the program for delivery by trained lay visitors to individual patients in
      their homes.
    
  