
    
      Background - thoracic or abdominal aortic calcification is a documented independent risk
      factor for cardiovascular atherosclerotic disease and increased death.

      Atherosclerosis is a diffuse multicentric disease in the arterial tree, affecting target
      organs (heart, aorta, lower extremities, carotid arteries etc.). Mostly located in arterial
      bifurcations (Iliac and carotid artery bifurcations) or in constant repetitive arterial
      trauma (Adductors tendon, Hunter's canal). The invasive treatment (endovascular, surgery) is
      preserved for patients with critical arterial stenosis or occlusion in symptomatic patients.
      Exceptions are the carotid arteries: the majority of patients with a severe internal carotid
      artery stenosis are asymptomatic patients, which are treated for the prevention embolic
      events (TIA's or CVA's).

      Current articles are observational, and describe retrospectively the morbidity and mortality
      from atherosclerosis with aortic calcification.

      the investigators assumption is that if aortic calcification is a marker for diffuse
      atherosclerosis, it has good correlation to criptogenous carotid artery disease, and can lead
      to early carotid artery disease evaluation and treatment.

      Purpose - to find a reliable correlation between aortic calcification, and carotid artery
      stenosis (from atherosclerosis)

      Method - two groups will be evaluated:

      Group A - patients (age >40 years), that had a CT scan (chest/abdomen) for any indication,
      will be evaluated for aortic calcifications. The patients will be additionally examined for
      carotid artery stenosis by Doppler ultrasound. (100 patients) Group B - Patients that were
      diagnosed by Doppler ultrasound, and were found to have a severe carotid artery stenosis.
      These patients are scheduled for a computed tomography-angiography (regardless for the
      research) of the cervical arteries, will be additionally complete abdominal/chest tomography
      scan, without additional contrast. (50 patients).

      Results - will be statistically evaluated - Group A - number of patients with aortic
      calcification, number of patients with carotid artery stenosis; Group B - Number of patients
      that have associated aortic calcification.
    
  