
    
      Control Group: Prospective observational cohort study of UE strength in pain clinic patients
      undergoing trigger point injections and occipital nerve injections to serve as controls to
      measure variability of strength testing before and 30 min after such an intervention.

      Experimental Groups: Prospective, randomized, controlled, double blinded trial in patients
      undergoing CESI for symptoms of cervical radiculitis.

      Group #1: Interlaminar cervical ESI at the C7-T1 level with triamcinolone 80 mg + 2 mL 1%
      lidocaine (total volume 4 cc).

      Group #2: Interlaminar cervical ESI at the C7-T1 level with triamcinolone 80 mg + 2 mL
      preservative saline (total volume 4 cc).

      Adults who are eligible to have a CESI with triamcinolone for treatment of cervical
      radiculitis at the Northwestern Anesthesiology Pain Medicine Center will be approached by
      authorized research personnel prior to a patient's CESI is performed and will obtain informed
      consent from patients who agree to participate.

      In every subject (Control Cohort, Group 1 and Group 2) a pre-procedure NRS pain score, and
      presence of subjective or objective symptoms of UE weakness will be recorded. Bilateral
      handgrip, wrist extension, elbow flexion, and elbow extension strength (myotomes C5-T1) will
      be measured by a trained research assistant prior to the injection procedure using a handheld
      JAMAR® PLUS+ digital dynamometer (Sammons Preston, Bollingbrook, IL) for hand grip strength
      and a push/pull handheld hydraulic dynamometer (Balego and Associates Inc., St. Paul, MN) for
      arm strength assessment. Three baseline strength measurements will be recorded for each
      strength test. Measurements will be taken prior to and 30 minutes following the injection
      procedure. Patients in Group #1 and Group #2 will also be queried with the Upper Extremity
      Functional Index (UEFI) before the injection procedure and again 1 day after the procedure
      (administered via telephone).

      For Group 1 and Group 2, patients will be randomized to treatment group based on a random
      computer-generated schedule. Participants will be blinded to the group to which they are
      randomized. All standard procedures for CESIs will be followed as is standard practice
      including time out, skin prep, hemodynamic monitoring, image guidance etc.

      Per randomization, triamcinolone acetonide 80 mg (Kenalog) (E. R. Squibb & Sons Limited,
      Uxbridge UK) will be combined with 2mL Lidocaine 1% or 2 mL preservative free saline and will
      be injected during the CESI procedure. In all cases, the total injectate volume will be 4 mL
      in all cases. All injections will be image guided with fluoroscopy, as is the current
      standard practice. Fluoroscopy time will be recorded.

      The participant will be discharged from the clinic with written discharge instructions
      (current standard practice).

      Participants will be telephoned by clinic personnel 1 day after the CESI to assess for
      subjective weakness in the hands or arms as well as any other adverse reactions. As above,
      the Upper Extremity Functional Index will be administered at this time.
    
  