
    
      The hemoglobinopathies (e.g. sickle cell disease (SCD) and thalassemia) are devastating
      inherited anemias that shorten and reduce quality of life. The only current curative therapy
      for SCD is bone marrow transplantation. However, many patients lack access to suitable donors
      for transplant. Alternative treatments based on gene therapy, gene editing and novel drugs
      are currently being developed and show great promise for hemoglobinopathies. Gene therapy and
      gene editing are especially appealing because they eliminate both the need for donors and the
      potentially devastating side effects of Graft-versus-Host Disease because they take advantage
      of the patients own cells. In gene therapy approaches, hematopoietic stem and progenitor
      cells (HSPCs) are collected from a patient and then treated to 'correct' or 'replace' the
      disease-causing mutation. However, much work remains to develop optimal gene therapy and gene
      editing protocols, as well as better understand the inherent biology of HSPCs in patients
      with hemoglobinopathies.

      Researchers at St. Jude want to learn how to best manipulate HSPCs from hemoglobinopathy
      patients with gene therapy and gene editing technologies to achieve optimal gene correction
      and/or replacement, as well as optimal engraftment of 'corrected' HSPCs after
      transplantation. St. Jude researchers also seek to test candidate drugs on SCD HSPCs that
      might ameliorate the symptoms of SCD. Finally, St. Jude researchers seek to thoroughly
      characterize the basic biology and function of HSPCs isolated from hemoglobinopathy patients.

      Bone marrow-containing bone samples that are typically discarded during orthopedic surgery
      will be saved from hemoglobinopathy patients, as well as non- hemoglobinopathy patients,
      undergoing these surgeries. These samples will be shipped to the St. Jude Hematology
      Department for experimental research aimed at addressing the primary and secondary objectives
      of this protocol.
    
  