
    
      Over 1 million adults are admitted to the intensive care unit and placed on mechanical
      ventilation on an annual basis. Intravenous sedatives and analgesics are commonly
      administered to these patients to reduce pain and anxiety. While the recent reduction in
      benzodiazepine usage has helped reduced ICU-related acute brain dysfunction (delirium), up to
      80% of ventilated patients still develop acute brain failure. This is characterized by
      disturbance of consciousness with reduced ability to focus, sustain or shift attention,
      occurring over a short period of time and fluctuating over the course of a day.

      Acute brain dysfunction has both short-term and long-term health impacts. It is associated
      with increased hospital length of stay, increased in-hospital mortality and post-discharge
      mortality as well increased health-care costs. Patients who experience delirium are at
      greater risk for post-discharge institutionalization and newly acquired cognitive impairment
      similar to dementia.

      Despite the prevalence and morbidity associated with delirium, there is a scarcity of
      effective pharmacological and non-pharmacological interventions to prevent and treat this
      condition. While music therapy has shown to reduce anxiety and stress in cancer and dementia
      patients, these studies were performed outside the intensive care unit. It is hypothesized
      that music lowers inflammatory mediators such as cytokines and cortisol. Delirium
      pathophysiology similar to anxiety has a strong inflammatory component with excess of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukins 1, 6, and 8. Given the beneficial effects of
      music in reducing inflammatory mediators, it stands to reason that such intervention will
      have a beneficial impact on reducing delirium.

      The investigators propose a randomized, three-group (personalized music intervention versus
      generic music intervention versus attention control) trial to test the feasibility and
      efficacy of music therapy in reducing delirium incidence, duration, and severity among
      critically ill patients in the ICU.

      Our study focuses on the effect of music therapy on the incidence and severity of delirium in
      the intensive care unit at a large urban academic health center.

      The investigators hypothesize that music therapy will lead to reduced levels of anxiety,
      delirium and need for sedating medications, leading to shorter hospital stays.
    
  