
    
      Antiretroviral therapy (ART) is highly effective at reducing the infectiousness of
      HIV-positive people, and is considered the cornerstone of all new HIV prevention approaches.
      A critical question is how to harness the potency of ART to reduce transmission from female
      sex workers (FSWs), a key population that has been central to HIV transmission in Africa for
      more than 25 years. In high prevalence countries like Kenya, FSWs represent about 1% of the
      population, yet contribute to one in seven (14%) new HIV infections. Targeting treatment as
      prevention (TasP) to FSWs could efficiently reduce HIV transmission on a population level.
      Effective TasP will require higher levels of ART adherence than those achieved in typical
      treatment programs. The rapid spread of mobile technology in Africa provides unique
      opportunities for mobile health (mHealth) interventions, which have been shown to be
      acceptable to providers and patients, and can improve ART adherence and suppression of plasma
      HIV viral load.

      The ability of mobile (SMS) interventions to support ART adherence in key populations like
      FSWs and unique clinical scenarios such as TasP has yet to be evaluated. The investigators
      will answer these fundamental questions by addressing the following aims: 1) To use a
      qualitative rapid assessment and development approach to craft a theory-based,
      individualized, interactive SMS intervention, grounded in the Theory of Information,
      Motivation, and Behavior (IMB), to support ART adherence in HIV-positive FSWs, 2) To compare
      individualized, interactive SMS to standard care in achieving undetectable HIV VL 6 months
      post ART initiation in a randomized controlled trial (RCT) with 210 FSWs and 3) To administer
      an adaptation of the LifeWindows Information - Motivation - Behavioral Skills ART Adherence
      Questionnaire (LW-IMB-AAQ) to understand the mechanism of our SMS intervention's effect by
      comparing perceptions of support and motivation to adhere to ART in FSWs who received the
      intervention versus standard care.

      Our overarching goal is to develop and evaluate the efficacy and causal mechanisms of an
      interactive SMS intervention to optimize individual health and secondary HIV prevention
      benefits of ART in HIV-positive FSWs. The aims of this project proceed sequentially from
      developmental (Aim 1) through implementation of the intervention (Aim 2) to evaluation of the
      fit with the behavioral model (Aim 3).
    
  