
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      I. Assess the efficacy of either single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib
      (cediranib maleate) and olaparib, as measured by progression free survival (PFS), as compared
      to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive
      ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and olaparib,
      as measured by response rate and overall survival as compared to standard platinum-based
      chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer.

      II. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and
      olaparib, as measured by PFS, in women with or without deleterious germline breast cancer
      (BRCA) mutations (gBRCAmt) in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary
      peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer.

      III. Assess the effect on disease-related symptoms (DRS) as measured by the 9-item DRS-P
      subscale of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network-Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy
      (NCCN-FACT) Ovarian Symptom Index-18 (NFOSI-18), of single agent olaparib or cediranib and
      olaparib, compared to standard platinum-based chemotherapy, in the setting of recurrent
      platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

      IV. Assess the efficacy of single agent olaparib or the combination of cediranib and
      olaparib, as measured by PFS, in women with or without homologous repair deficiencies as
      measured by BROCA in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal,
      or fallopian tube cancer.

      V. To assess changes in the number of circulating endothelial cells (CECs) following three
      days of treatment with olaparib, combination olaparib/cediranib, or standard platinum-based
      chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or
      fallopian tube cancer.

      VI. To assess whether change in the number of circulating endothelial cells (CECs) following
      three days of treatment with olaparib, combination olaparib/cediranib, or standard
      platinum-based chemotherapy in women with recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary
      peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer is prognostic for PFS.

      VII. To develop a profile from a panel of angiogenic biomarkers in women with recurrent
      platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancer which is associated
      with PFS, and then validate the predictive value of this biomarker profile.

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the time from randomization to the first non-study, anti-cancer therapy, surgery
      or death (TFST) for single-agent olaparib or combination cediranib and olaparib relative to
      standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent platinum-sensitive ovarian,
      primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

      II. To assess the time from randomization to the second non-study, anti-cancer therapy,
      surgery or death (TSST) for single-agent olaparib or combination cediranib and olaparib
      relative to standard platinum-based chemotherapy in the setting of recurrent
      platinum-sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or fallopian tube cancer.

      III. Assess the effect on secondary measures of quality of life, as assessed by the treatment
      side effects (TSE) and function/well-being (F/WB) subscales of the NFOSI-18, sensory
      neuropathy as measured by the FACT/Gynecologic Oncology Group-Neurotoxicity version 4
      (GOG-Ntx-4), and health utility as measured by the Euro Quality of Life-5 Dimension (EQ-5D),
      of single agent olaparib or cediranib and olaparib, compared to standard platinum-based
      chemotherapy, in the setting of recurrent platinum sensitive ovarian, primary peritoneal or
      fallopian tube cancer.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients may be treated with one of the three regimens per investigator discretion.

      REGIMEN I: Patients receive paclitaxel intravenously (IV) over 3 hours and carboplatin IV
      over 30-60 minutes and on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for at least 4 cycles in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 for at least 4 cycles
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      REGIMEN III: Patients receive pegylated liposomal doxorubicin hydrochloride IV and
      carboplatin IV over 30-60 minutes and on day 1. Treatment repeats every 28 days for at least
      4 cycles in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive olaparib orally (PO) twice daily (BID). Cycles repeat every 28 days
      in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM III: Patients receive olaparib PO BID and cediranib maleate PO once daily (QD). Cycles
      repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 years and
      then every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  