
    
      Lung transplantation is the ultimate treatment for patients with advanced lung disease.
      However, long-term outcomes remain disappointing and the median survival after
      transplantation is approximately 5.5 years. Beyond the first year after transplantation,
      chronic lung allograft dysfunction is the leading cause of death. The exact mechanisms that
      lead to chronic lung allograft dysfunction are unclear, but the development of donor-specific
      HLA antibodies is an independent risk factor. In fact, studies have consistently identified
      the development of donor-specific HLA antibodies as a significant and independent risk factor
      for chronic lung allograft dysfunction and mortality after transplantation.

      Belatacept is a CTLA4-Ig fusion protein that binds CD80 and CD86 thereby blocking CD28
      co-stimulatory signals. Belatacept has been extensively studied in kidney transplantation. In
      a long-term study, patients treated with Belatacept had better survival than those treated
      with Cyclosporine. Importantly, Belatacept-treated patients were significantly less likely to
      develop donor-specific HLA antibodies than Cyclosporine-treated patients. Nonetheless,
      Belatacept has not been formally evaluated after lung transplantation. The investigators
      hypothesize that Belatacept-based immunosuppression would result in a lower incidence of
      donor-specific HLA antibodies and that this would result in better chronic lung allograft
      dysfunction-free survival after transplantation. Before conducting a large scale randomized
      controlled trial to test this hypothesis, the investigators plan to conduct the current pilot
      randomized controlled trial to examine the feasibility of conducting the large scale
      randomized controlled trial.

      The investigators plan to enroll and randomize 40 lung transplant recipients at 2 sites. All
      recipients will be treated with anti-thymocyte globulin for induction immunosuppression.
      Those randomized to standard of care immunosuppression will be treated with Tacrolimus,
      Mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone. Those randomized to Belatacept-based immunosuppression
      will be treated with Belatacept, Tacrolimus, and prednisone for the first 89 days; on day 90,
      Mycophenolate mofetil will be substituted for Tacrolimus and patients will be continued on
      Belatacept, Mycophenolate mofetil, and prednisone for the remainder of year 1 after
      transplantation.

      Patients in both groups will be monitored closely for episodes of acute cellular rejection,
      lymphocytic bronchiolitis, and antibody-mediated rejection with surveillance bronchoscopy and
      transbronchial lung biopsies on days 28, 84, 112, 168, 252, and 365 (± 7 days) as part of the
      sites' routine clinical protocols. In addition, patients will be monitored for the
      development of donor-specific HLA antibodies with routine blood tests on on days 10 (± 3
      days), 28, 56, 84, 112, 168, 252, and 365 (± 7 days).

      The primary endpoint of the study is a composite of the development of donor-specific HLA
      antibodies, re-transplantation, and death. Secondary endpoints include acute cellular
      rejection, lymphocytic bronchiolitis, antibody-mediated rejection, chronic lung allograft
      dysfunction, survival, cytomegalovirus infection, bacterial infection, community-acquired
      respiratory viral infection, chronic kidney disease stage 3, malignancy, hypertension,
      diabetes, and hypercholesterolemia.
    
  