
    
      This is a cross-sectional study, where HR was recorded beat-to-beat (RR intervals) using the
      portable Polar RS800CX HR monitor (Polar Electro, Finland). HR was recorded before the onset
      and at the end of the five minutes of the computer maze paradigm task.

      The subjects were seated in a standard chair (walkers, TD group and DMD) or in their own
      wheelchair (non-walkers, DMD group), the Polar watch was positioned on the wrist. The
      analysis of HRV was possible through the recording of RR interval in two periods: the period
      of twenty minutes at seated rest, and then during the computer task for five minutes.

      The computer task used a maze paradigm with one correct pathway that could be negotiated and
      ultimately solved. All participants were positioned comfortably and an evaluator responsible
      for instruction and annotation of data.

      Each individual was instructed to walk the correct path with the digital character pawn
      (pointed on the screen by the evaluator) to the exit of the maze identified by an "x"
      (pointed on the screen by the evaluator). It was provided for the subjects, who used the
      arrow buttons on the keyboard, identified by up, down, right and left, using the dominant
      hand, with the arrows moving through a 20 x 20 cm maze. Participants were requested to
      complete the maze as fast as possible.

      HRV analysis followed the guidelines published by the Task Force of the European Society of
      Cardiology and North American Society of Pacing and Electrophysiology. The RR intervals were
      recorded, and then were downloaded to the Polar Precision Performance program (v.3.0). This
      software enabled the visualization of HR and the extraction of a cardiac period (RR intervals
      series; the variation of beat-to-beat interval in milliseconds) file in ".txt" format. For
      analysis of HRV data at rest, we analyzed 1000 consecutive RR intervals, and for HRV analysis
      for the computational task, the number of consecutive RR intervals obtained was exactly 256
      RR intervals. Digital filtering complemented by manual filtering was performed to eliminate
      artifacts and only series with greater than 95% of sinus beats were included in the study.
      HRV analysis was undertaken through linear, non-linear and chaotic global techniques (CGT).
    
  