
    
      Study design: The investigators will use a multi-stage open-label cluster-randomized trial of
      24 randomly chosen villages (n=12 intervention and n=12 control) in Kampala (n=15), Wakiso
      (n=3), Mukono (n=4) and Masaka (n=2) districts. Intervention and control villages are at
      least 20km apart to avoid contamination

      Study procedure:

      (i) Randomization and sampling: The investigators shall employ an open label
      cluster-randomized trial design, with each village as a cluster, to conduct the study in 24
      villages (12 intervention and 12 control villages) in Kampala (n= 15), Wakiso (n= 3), Masaka
      (n= 2) and Mukono (n= 4) districts. To ensure balance between the two study arms, villages
      underwent stratified randomization on the basis of rural vs urban population. The second
      level of stratification will be achieved by a separate randomization procedure performed
      within each stratum to ensure gender balance within each cluster

      The investigators shall employ the multistage open label sampling approach to select 840
      participants from 24 randomly selected villages located in the 362 parishes (5250 villages)
      that span the study districts. Study villages will be selected using the probability
      proportional to size approach (based on number of parishes/villages per district). Thus, the
      investigators shall select 15 villages from Kampala district (3297 villages), 4 villages from
      Mukono district (813 villages), 2 villages from Masaka district (436 villages) and 3 villages
      from Wakiso district (704 villages). The villages are at least 20km apart to avoid
      contamination (individuals interacting during the intervention).

      (ii) Participant identification: The investigators shall engage the VHT and village Local
      Chairpersons to distribute leaflets describing the study to every 12th household in their
      catchment area till they accrue 38 participants in their village who express interest in
      participating in the study. This figure is based on an average of 4710 households per
      village. Thus 4710/38 is approximately every 12th household. Individuals who express interest
      in the study will be given 2 consent forms which they will read and sign should they decide
      to participate; they will retain one copy. VHTs will read out the consent form to individuals
      who can neither read nor write and obtain informed consent (participants will use their thumb
      print soaked in an inkpad to consent). Consent forms will be translated into Luganda. The VHT
      will then get the participant's telephone contact and provide it to the project administrator
      who will pass them to research assistants. Individuals who don't have phones will be asked to
      provide a phone number of a friend or relative through which the interviews can be conducted-
      interviews could also be conducted using the VHTs' phone if the participants comfortable
      receiving calls on the VHT's telephone. The VHT will inform the project administrator of
      participants without personal phones and indicate how that participant can be contacted. The
      investigators will conduct a times and motions assessment to document the duration of the
      interventions as well as the amount of money spent on transport refunds for the VHTs and the
      airtime costs

      (iii) Baseline data collection: Trained research assistants will call participants and
      schedule a phone interview and collect demographic (age, gender, education level and place of
      residence) information and administer the Mental health Knowledge Schedule (MAKS) to assess
      for MHL, Kesler-10 (K-10) to measure PD, the Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale (GAD-7) to
      assess for GAD, Patient Health Questionnaire-9 (PHQ-9) to assess for MDD Post-Traumatic
      Stress Disorder- Primary Care Screen (PTSD-PC) for PTSD and the Alcohol Smoking and Substance
      Involvement screening Test (ASSIST) to assess for SUD.

      (iv) The intervention: Within a week of the baseline surveys, VHTs in the 12 intervention
      villages described above- (a) basic information about the symptoms of PD (b) their adverse
      effects, (c) the signs and symptoms of CMD, (d) the benefits associated with having them
      treated and (e) the contact details of the research team should they need more information.
      See a template of the IEC materials attached. Previous studies have administered the
      post-test questionnaires a week after the baseline assessment .

      In the 12 control villages, VHTs will distribute the MOH IEC materials that contain
      information about (a) the signs and symptoms of the COVID-19 and the preventive measures, (b)
      the fact that individuals may suffer from PD during the pandemic (c) the sources from where
      they can get psychosocial help and (d) the contact details of the research team should they
      need more information. The IEC materials will be distributed to individuals who participated
      in the baseline surveys

      Mitigating the possibility of contamination between the study arms: Being an educational
      intervention, there is a chance that participants in the control villages will access IEC
      materials distributed to those in the intervention arm, leading to contamination of the study
      findings. To avoid contamination, the investigators will do the following: (i) randomize
      villages so that they are at least 20km apart (with the limited human movements during the
      COVID-19 pandemic, we anticipate that there will be little by way of people sharing the IEC
      materials), (ii) conduct the assessments within a week of distributing the materials to limit
      the chances that the information will be widely circulated, (iii) ask participants in the
      control arms if they accessed the IEC materials meant for the control group.

      (v) Follow-up data collection: Within a week after the VHTs have distributed IEC materials,
      research assistants will call participants from both arms and (i) confirm whether they
      received IEC materials (and read it), then (ii) schedule a phone interview to administer the
      instruments administered at baseline (MAKS, K-10, GAD-7, PHQ-9, PTSD-PC and ASSIST).

      Study measures: Research assistants will administer standardized questionnaires to collect:
      i) Demographic variables including age, gender, physical address, contact information,
      marital and employment status, education level ii) primary study variable (MHL using MAKS)
      and (iii) secondary variables including PD using the K-10, GAD using the GAD-7, MDD using the
      PHQ-9, PTSD using the PTSD-PC and SUD using the ASSIST.

      Participant Follow-up: Participants will be assessed for the outcomes of interest at baseline
      and within a week (7 days). Participants who have been referred to the psychosocial teams
      will be called after 14 days to find out whether they followed up on the referral and if not,
      state the reasons for not doing so.

      Adverse event reporting during the interviews: The investigators anticipate that there will
      be minimal adverse events that are directly related to the study, mainly psychological
      distress resulting from answering the questions during the survey or loss of private data.
      However, in the event that the investigators realize any severe form of distress, or loss of
      privacy/confidentiality, then the investigators will report it promptly reported to the
      SOMREC/UNCST.

      Community tracing: In the event that a participant cannot be accessed for the second
      interview after the baseline one, then, the investigators will ask the VHT to visit the
      physical location and find out the reason for non-response. The VHT will be provided with a
      Log to record this kind of information which could be loss of a phone, change in phone number
      of withdrawal from the study among other reasons. If the participant can't be contacted on
      phone and physically, (may have moved house), then the investigators will consider this a
      loss to follow up.

      Sample size and statistical considerations Hypothesis: The investigators hypothesize that (a)
      the MHL levels are low in the communities in comparison to those observed in high income
      countries, (b) a psycho-education intervention delivered by VHTs will lead to a 50% increase
      in MHL levels in the intervention arm compared to the control arm (that this difference will
      be clinically significant), (c) more participants in the intervention arm will contact the
      study team compared to the control arm - and that this difference will be clinically
      significant

        1. Sample size for objective 1. To document the baseline community MHL level, the
           investigators will use the Leslie-Kish formular for calculating the sample size for
           cross sectional studies. The formula states that: n = Z2 p (1-p)/E2. n- sample size,
           E-The standard error (5%), p- Proportion of patients; 50%.The prevalence was estimated
           at 50% as the conservative estimates for outcomes or effects sizes with limited
           literature to refer to (in this case, prevalence of poor MHL in the Ugandan community).
           Z- The standard normal deviation of 1.96 corresponding to 95% confidence interval
           Substituting; n=1.962 X 0.5 X (1-0.5)/0.052 n= 384. b) For the population survey, the
           investigators will use the sample size calculation, but use a community correction
           effect of 2. Thus the sample size for the community sample will be 384X2 = 764. The
           investigators will add a 10% sample size to cater for incomplete data mainly due to
           failure to complete an interview. Thus, the total sample size will be 840 participants
           (420 in the control and 420 in the intervention arms).

        2. Sample size for objective 2: To determine the effectiveness of the psycho-education
           intervention, the investigators have calculated the size of effects that the sample will
           be able to detect a clinically significant difference in MHL level between the
           intervention and control arms. The nature of the educational intervention makes
           randomization by clusters (villages) more appropriate in comparison to randomization by
           individuals or household.

      To estimate the number of villages required per arm for a clinically significant effect size
      of 50%: The investigators assume power of 80% at the 95% confidence level, mean MHL score of
      14.14 and standard deviation (SD) of 2.19, cluster-size of 35 participants and coefficient of
      variation of 0.25, which yields ~8 villages per trial-arm. The investigators shall include a
      minimum of 12 villages per arm (50% increment) to cater for the following limitations; i) the
      large proportion of participants who do not own mobile phones (~30%) (Incomplete data due to
      participants not being able to complete interviews). Therefore, 24 villages (both arms) will
      be required; thus, including up to 840 participants (420 per trial-arm).

      Data collection and management: Data will be collected on paper and then entered into a
      centralized, web-based data management scheme using the open source software REDCap™.

      Statistical Analysis

      Objective 1: The investigators will report frequencies and percentages of the study outcomes
      and their 95% confidence intervals.

      Objective 2: An intention-to-treat analysis will be conducted to compare the groups at
      baseline and within 4 weeks to assess the effects of the intervention on MHL. The dependent
      variable (MHL) will be calculated as a continuous variable. Independent variables including
      presence of PD, MDD, GAD, PTSD or SUD will be presented as continuous and categorical
      variables. Baseline characteristics of the intervention and control arms will be compared at
      the 5% level to assess if successful randomization was achieved. Data on potential
      confounders and effect modifiers, including variables that fail to achieve successful
      randomization (e.g. socio-demographic parameters) shall be used to control for confounding
      and effect modification. Between-subject analysis at week 4 will be used to assess the direct
      effect of the intervention by determining if there is a significant difference between the
      mean MHL scores in the intervention and control arms. Within-subject analysis will be
      performed among patients in the intervention arm by applying the Generalized Estimating
      Equations method on repeated measures data.

      Data safety management board: The data safety management board (DSMB) will be comprised of
      Prof Eugene Kinyanda (Psychiatrist and Senior Epidemiologist), Dr Moses Ocan (pharmacologist
      and IRB member), and Dr. Paul Bangirana (Clinical psychologist with vast experience in
      conducting RCT) from Makerere University. The PI will have periodic meetings with the DSMB
      and provide them with reports about the study activities using an agreed template. There will
      be at least two meetings during the study period one at the beginning and another midway
      through the study. Members of the DSMB will make a visit at the Butabika Hospital where data
      will be collected (phone calls) and stored. During this visit, the study procedures (SOPs and
      manuals), study responsibilities (delegation log), site facilities (call rooms/data room),
      study materials (stationary and administrative materials) and the recruitment and retention
      plan will be discussed.
    
  