
    
      Background Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious global public health emergency and there is a great
      need for the improvement of current diagnostic tools and the evaluation of newer and novel
      technologies for the rapid diagnosis of TB. The most common testing method for TB is sputum
      smear microscopy, which has remained largely unchanged in its sophistication and sensitivity.
      Smear microscopy detects around 50% of all active TB cases and is not capable of identifying
      drug resistance. Furthermore, even though culture is more accurate results are only available
      in several weeks. Treating patients empirically for TB exposes patients to the toxic
      side-effects of drugs, and if there is no response to treatment, raises the question of
      MDR-TB. These considerations apply to clinical decision-making in the ICU where TB is not
      infrequently encountered. A diagnosis of TB in this setting has important implications for
      drug-drug interactions, route of administration, and drug toxicity.

      The Gene Xpert® system's MTB/RIF Assay, an on-demand molecular test for simultaneous
      detection of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) and rifampicin (RIF) resistance, has recently
      been released. This is the only system that combines on-board sample preparation with
      real-time PCR [1]. Helb and colleagues developed and performed the first analysis of the
      Cepheid Gene Xpert System's MTB/RIF assay. They evaluated the diagnostic utility of the
      system using sputum samples and showed that the system was highly sensitive and simple-to-use
      [2]. A recent paper (NEJM, 2010, in press) that enrolled almost 2000 patients found Xpert to
      have a sensitivity of almost 90% in smear-negative TB. However, how the test will perform
      when using tracheal aspirates is unknown. It is also unclear whether the test will have any
      impact in the ICU where the decision to treat is often made clinically and empiric treatment
      is initiated. To address these questions we aim to obtain tracheal aspirates from about 120
      mechanically ventilated patients with suspected TB from the Groote Schuur Hospital Intensive
      Care Unit. Tests will be conducted at the Lung Infection and Immunity Unit laboratory (Groote
      Schuur Hospital, Cape Town) to evaluate the diagnostic utility of the Xpert® MTB/RIF Assay in
      this group of patients. The expected study period will be 12 months.
    
  