
    
      BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE Vestibular schwannomas (VS) are peripheral nerve sheath tumours
      arising from the vestibulocochlear nerve, which emerges from the brainstem at the base of the
      brain and enters the structures of the inner ear via a small bony canal within the skull
      (internal auditory meatus). VS account for 8% (Johnson J et al.) of intracranial tumours and,
      although benign, these tumours can grow resulting in several potentially debilitating
      symptoms, including hearing loss, vertigo, tinnitus, facial paralysis and meningitis.
      Furthermore, large tumours may cause compression on the brainstem, which can, in some cases,
      have life-threatening consequences (Johnson J et al.). Therefore, patients diagnosed with
      larger tumours (>1.5cm extrameatal component) are frequently offered surgical resection (as
      opposed to conservative management or stereotactic radiosurgery). As surgical techniques have
      improved, the goal of surgery has broadened to include not only tumour removal, but also
      preservation of the function of the nerves involved by VS. In particular, surgical resection
      aims to preserve the function of the facial nerve, responsible for innervating the muscles of
      facial expression, and which runs alongside the vestibulocochlear nerve and is frequently
      displaced and flattened by VS. Given its juxtaposition, the facial nerve is at high risk of
      injury during surgery. Injury to the facial nerve (and consequent debilitating facial
      weakness or paralysis) is a serious potential risk of vestibular schwannoma (VS) surgery.
      However, at present, the only means of avoiding nerve injury involves a combination of
      meticulous surgical technique and the use of a facial nerve monitor (a device that can detect
      activity within the facial muscles when stimulated by a surgeon-held probe); however, despite
      this, facial nerve injury may still occur. Indeed, until the surgeon begins operating, the
      course of the facial nerve is unknown. In a large series (>1000 surgical cases) by Sampath et
      al., the position of the facial nerve position was found most commonly on the anterior middle
      portion of the tumour; however, in a smaller proportion of cases, the nerve lay in 1 of 7
      additional locations (Sampath et al.). Therefore, it follows that preoperative detection and
      identification of the course of the facial nerve would be extremely useful to guide surgery
      and reduce the potential risk of neuronal injury.

      There now exists a potential means of non-invasively identifying the course of the facial
      nerve using advanced applications of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This involves
      utilising a technique known as diffusion tensor tractography (DTT), which has the capacity to
      detect the direction (vector) of diffusivity in a particular volume of tissue (voxel)
      (Mukherjee et al.). This data can be subsequently used to reveal structures, such as nerve
      fibre tracts, that are arranged along particular vectors, enabling them to be differentiated
      from surrounding tissue (Cauley et al.). This cannot be achieved using standard MRI
      sequences, in which the flattened nerve often becomes indistinguishable from the adjacent VS.
      Fortunately, as MRI represents the current means of diagnosing and characterising VS, adding
      an additional DTT sequence to a patient's scan does not represent a significant burden (only
      approximately 10 additional minutes of scanning time to acquire the DTT data).

      Several groups (Choi et al., Taoka et al., Gerganov et al., Zhang et al. and Song et al.)
      have used DTT to delineate the course of the facial nerve in patients with VS and the
      majority have reported high success rates (>90% agreement with operative findings). However,
      many of these studies employed 'deterministic' DTT, which has drawbacks that limit its
      reliability in the setting of small fibre tracts with complex geometry. In particular, it is
      unable to accurately track fibres that cross, split or merge because the technique assumes
      that adjacent voxels have similar vectors. In order to overcome these limitations, we propose
      using the newer 'probabilistic' DTT technique that calculates a vector for each voxel
      analysed. It therefore has the capacity to account for complex geometries, such as those
      encountered in the facial nerve, particularly where its course is heavily distorted by tumour
      tissue. Zolal et al. used this technique in 21 patients with VS, resulting in an agreement
      rate of 81% for the position of the facial nerve and 33% for the cochlear nerve (Zolal et
      al.). However, there is an ongoing need for further studies in this area.

      This project seeks to clarify the accuracy, reproducibility and practicality of probabilistic
      DTT in locating the facial nerve pre-operatively. If the technique proves accurate, it will
      potentially help with pre-operative planning and avoidance of facial nerve injury during VS
      surgery. Additionally the project seeks to clarify associated practical issues; in
      particular, the inter-observer/intra-observer variability (i.e. whether the reading
      radiologists agree with each other and themselves when analysing DTT images), whether the
      facial nerve position can be partially inferred on conventional sequences (comparing this
      with DTT) and whether adjacent nerves (such as the vestibulocochlear nerve) can be
      identified, which may further help with surgical preoperative planning.

      HYPOTHESIS:

      It is hypothesised that preoperative advanced probabilistic diffusion tensor tractography
      (DTT) will accurately demonstrate the position of the facial nerve relative to extrameatal
      portion of a vestibular schwannoma. It is proposed that the accuracy will be superior to
      previous studies in which deterministic DTT has been used to demonstrate the position of the
      facial nerve. This pre-operative mapping has the potential to decrease the rates of facial
      nerve injury during vestibular schwannoma surgery and allow for increased resection of the
      tumour.

      STUDY DESIGN:

      Prospective cohort observational study.

      For study eligibility and outcome measures, please see the relevant sections.

      IMAGE ANALYSIS

      MRI In addition to standard imaging assessment, further image analysis will be performed
      offline using MRTrix 3.0 (www.mrtrix.org) in tensor probabililty mode. The presence of one or
      more cranial nerve tracts will be determined by their consistent depiction following their
      systematic interrogation with varying anisotropy thresholds. There will be a qualitative
      assessment of cranial nerve position will be achieved by dividing the circumference of the
      extrameatal vestibular schwannoma into segments.The assessment will be performed by two
      observers.

      Reference standard:

      The position of the facial nerve with respect to the extrameatal portion of the vestibular
      schwannoma will be assessed at surgery will be achieved by dividing the circumference of the
      extrameatal vestibular schwannoma into multiple segments in the same manner as above. This
      assessment will be made independently of the results of the pre-operative probabilistic DTT
      (the neurosurgeon recording the data will be blinded to the DTT findings).

      STATISTICAL CONSIDERATIONS

      Sample size calculation:

      Power calculation based upon a sample size of 32, assuming a true kappa coefficient of 0.9;
      the 95% confidence interval will have a width of 0.26 (0.77 - 1.03). The number (32) also
      reflects the number of cases that we expect to recruit over a 2-3 year period.
    
  