
    
      In a retrospective cohort study of methadone users performed through data obtained from a
      primary care prescription registry in Tayside, Scotland, McCowan et al examined the
      interaction of patient related factors and prescribing factors at the individual level and
      assess their independent impact on the risk of both all-cause mortality and drug dependent
      cause specific mortality (McCowan, Kidd et al. 2009). Overall, 181 (8%) people died among
      2378 subjects with a median follow-up of 4.38 years. Overuse of methadone, history of
      psychiatric admission, and increasing comorbidity were all associated with an increase in
      all-cause mortality. Longer duration of use (adjusted hazard ratio 0.95, 0.94 to 0.96),
      history of having urine tested (0.33, 0.22 to 0.49), and increasing time since last filled
      prescription were protective in relation to all-cause mortality. These factors are likely to
      be markers of people who are stabilised on maintenance treatment and engaged in monitoring
      procedures or who have successfully completed a methadone treatment reduction programme. This
      community based study gives a clear indication of the prescribing, monitoring, and management
      of patients in OMT and the subsequent impact on all cause and drug dependent mortality. This
      study provides evidence that recommendations on best practice (including specifically
      performing UDS) improve patients' outcomes.

      Using data from the French "Methaville" trial, Roux et al (Roux, Michel et al. 2012; Roux,
      Lions et al. 2013) investigated the effect of pre-treatment and in-treatment factors on
      long-term non-adherence to this OMT. Four pre-treatment predictors of non-adherence were
      identified: being female, not having stable housing, alcohol consumption and cocaine use.
      These findings highlight the need to appropriately assess psychoactive drug use when starting
      OMT, and urine drug testing should be consider as a way to reach this aim.

      On the basis of the literature, one would suppose that carrying out UDS would provide an
      improvement in the management of patients with abuse or addiction and would be helpful,
      particularly in community office-based settings, as office-based management of opioid
      dependence grows up (Walley, Alperen et al. 2008). Despite the lack of significant evidence
      of efficacy, UDS are recommended to assess the use of psychoactive substances when abuse or
      addiction is suspected.
    
  