
    
      Pregnant women, recruited from antenatal clinics, with pre-pregnancy BMI ≥ 25 kg/m2, age >18
      years and single pregnancy are enrolled within 12th week at the Obstetric Unit of Policlinico
      Hospital of Modena.

      Exclusion criteria are as follows: twin pregnancies, chronic diseases (i.e., diabetes
      mellitus, chronic hypertension, untreated thyroid diseases), gestational diabetes mellitus
      (GDM) in previous pregnancies, smoking during pregnancy, dietary supplements or herbal
      products known to affect body weight, other medical conditions that might affect body weight,
      and plans to deliver outside of the Birth Center.

      At the first visit, an accurate obstetric history, family history, and personal history is
      collected for the assessment of exclusion criteria. The blood pressure, height and weight are
      measured, and the BMI is calculated.

      Eligible women are randomly assigned to no intervention (Control group) or the Therapeutic
      Lifestyle Changes Program (TLC group). Randomization is performed using sealed
      envelopes(using a computer-generated random allocation). Study randomization is numbered and
      sealed in white envelops. Randomization occurs in consecutive order at time of the first
      visit. Due to study design, both gynecologist and dietitian know the allocation of the
      patient.

      Every subject receives care in another institution (Antenatal Clinics of Modena Health
      program). Hence, women in both groups receive the same antenatal evaluation including two
      ultrasound examinations and at least 4 obstetric evaluations until term. However, referral
      gynecologists possibly know the allocated arm of their women.

      Randomized subjects receive a 75-g 2-h Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT) at 16-18 and/or
      24-28 weeks. The diagnosis of GDM is made for any glucose value exceeding the normal cut-off,
      as reported by the HAPO study. If OGTT is pathological, women are referred to other health
      care specialists.

      Women randomized to both group are scheduled to have a specific follow-up for adherence to
      the program at 16, 20, 28, 36 weeks and 3 months after delivery also evaluating the fat mass,
      fat-free mass and total body water through the use of the bioimpedance analyzer. At baseline
      and 36 weeks each subject have to complete a Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) to identify
      any change in eating habits. The FFQ includes questions about specific food items, such as
      the frequency of sauce consumption, the fat content of several food items, and seasonal
      consumption of fruit and vegetables. While the Control group receives only a simple
      nutritional booklet about a lifestyle (in accordance with Italian Guidelines for a healthy
      diet during pregnancy), the TLC Program includes a specific caloric restriction associated to
      a mild physical activity program.

      The TLC diet comprises 1500 kcal/day and consists of 3 main meals and 3 snacks (breakfast,
      snack, lunch, snack, dinner, and evening snack) that corresponds to the baseline metabolism
      of a pregnant woman. The dietitian adds an amount of 200 kcal/day for obese or 300 kcal/day
      for overweight pregnant women submitted to physical activity program.The TLC diet has a
      target macronutrient composition of 55% carbohydrate, 20% protein, and 25% fat with
      moderately low saturated fat levels. The exercise intervention is focused on increasing
      walking and developing a more active lifestyle (i.e., walking rather than driving for short
      distances). The recommended exercise prescription for pregnant women is generally consistent
      with recommendations for the general adult population. However, it is important to monitor
      and adjust exercise prescriptions according to the woman's symptoms, discomforts, and
      abilities during pregnancy and be aware of contraindications for exercising during pregnancy.
      All participants are advised to participate in 30 min of moderate intensity activity at least
      3 days a week. Subjects wear a pedometer (Omron Walking Style III HJ-203-EK) on a belt at the
      back of their waist during walking session for the assessment of the adherence to the
      physical activity program.
    
  