
    
      Laparoscopic complete mesocolic excision (CME) in treating colon cancer has been reported to
      be feasible and safe and holds many advantages when compared with traditional open surgery,
      such as reducing preoperative blood loss, alleviating postoperative pain and reducing
      complications and length of hospital stay. Whether laparoscopic CME could achieve an
      equivalent oncological outcome, especially for locally advanced malignancy, is still being
      discussed.

      The purpose of this study is to determine the short and long outcomes of open and
      laparoscopic CME for locally advanced colon cancer patients. The primary endpoint is the
      5-year disease-free survival rate. Secondary endpoints include completeness of mesocolon,
      morbidity and mortality, local recurrence, overall survival, quality of life et al.

      In this study, eligible patient will be randomly allocated to receive either open or
      laparoscopic CME surgery. Randomization will be performed centrally and be stratified for
      age, gender, T-stage, tumor location. Patients will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio, in favor of
      the laparoscopic CME.

      The extent of resection according to CME principle is identical for both arms. CME involves
      the removal of the afflicted colon and its accessory lymphvascular supply at their origins by
      resecting the colon and mesocolon in an intact envelope of visceral peritoneum and mesenteric
      fascia. Type of anastomosis, location of auxiliary incision and drainage of surgical field
      are up to the discretion of the surgeon. In laparoscopic surgery, a "medial-to-lateral"
      approach and a no-touch isolation are required .

      Intraoperative pictures were taken at various stages, as were photographs of the
      postoperative specimen, which will be assessed by a third-party expert to qualify the
      surgery.

      The baseline demographics and conditions as well as the perioperative and postoperative
      outcomes will be recorded through a prior designed format.

      Our study is expected to last seven years, of which two years for recruiting patients, five
      years for follow-up. Patients are followed up every 3 months for 2 year, every 6 months for 3
      years postoperatively.
    
  