
    
      This is a multi-centre observational prospective study that was planned for assessment the
      effectiveness of neurotropic vitamins therapy with Milgamma®/ Milgamma® compositum in
      combination with modern NSAIDs (preferential/selective COX-2 inhibitors) in patients with
      acute non-specific back pain. Approximately 500 adult out-patients with acute non-specific
      low back pain who have been prescribed therapy consisting of (1) modern NSAIDs
      (preferential/selective COX-2 inhibitors) or (2) modern NSAIDs (preferential/selective COX-2
      inhibitors) + Milgamma® / Milgamma® compositum will be enrolled in the study. Each patient
      will be observed over a period of approximately 94 days. 9 visits/phone contacts are planned
      to be conducted during this period. Information about patient's condition, pain intensity,
      pain flare-ups, satisfaction with the treatment, patient's disability, therapy used for acute
      back pain treatment, data on safety will be collected during these contacts. Pain intensity
      will be measured with Numeric Rating Scale (NRS), patients' disability will be evaluated with
      Roland Morris disability questionnaire, patients' satisfaction with the treatment will be
      assessed with 5-point verbal rating scale. Safety assessment will be based on frequency and
      severity of adverse drug reactions recorded during the study.

      Prior to the start of the study, neurologists (potential investigators) will be asked to fill
      out feasibility questionnaires to identify their individual routine practice regarding
      prescription or non-prescription of Milgamma® / Milgamma® compositum. Based on results of
      feasibility physicians will be divided to non-prescribers and prescribers of Milgamma® /
      Milgamma® compositum to the patients with acute non-specific low back pain. In each medical
      institution, such non-prescribers and prescribers will be proposed to participate in the
      study. Non-prescribers will be responsible for enrolling group (1) (NSAIDs alone),
      prescribers will be responsible for enrolling group (2) (NSAIDs + Milgamma® / Milgamma®
      compositum).
    
  