
    
      Aim: To investigate whether a Family Caregiver Support Model intervention (FAM-CARE) is
      feasible and safe, and the impact on the caregiving role and psychosocial wellbeing in family
      caregivers of newly diagnosed patients with hematological malignancies, and former caregivers
      (family caregiver ambassadors).

      Design and Methods: This study is a one arm feasibility 12-week intervention trial including
      family caregivers (FC) (n=30) and family caregiver ambassadors (FCA)(n=20).

      Recruitment: FC will be recruited at the Department of Hematology, Rigshospitalet (RH).
      Eligible family caregivers will receive oral and written information on the project from main
      investigator Iben Husted Nielsen (IHN) within four weeks from the patients' diagnosis. Due to
      ethical considerations and data protection guidelines patients of eligible caregivers will be
      approached by IHN with permission to contact their caregivers before approaching them. Family
      caregivers will be given information on the study and the opportunity to raise questions and
      concerns and time to consider before enrollment.

      FCA will be recruited voluntarily from the Department of Hematology, RH and patient
      associations (LyLe, Myeloma). The FCA is screened by IHN to assess their appropriateness for
      the intervention with interview questions regarding their motivation, availability, and
      vulnerability. They will be asked to sign a confidentiality commitment. The FCA will be
      informed that they must provide transportation but will receive a monetary incentive for
      their participation. Further FCA will be asked to provide information regarding age, gender,
      interests, work, education and social conditions and family role in order to match with the
      FC. FC and FCA will be matched according to their preferences i.e. patient diagnosis, age,
      gender and other factors that might create a mutual understanding and ease communication.
      Given the preferences cannot be granted, the FC and FCA will be involved in the decision.

      FAM CARE Intervention: The intervention consists of individual support provided by the FCA to
      the FC, with minimum four face-to-face meetings between the FC and FCA, and with ad hoc
      telephone and/or email contact based on the FC's individual needs, and one follow-up
      telephone contact at 3 months. The place of meeting and purpose of each face-to-face meeting
      is agreed upon by the FC and FCA. The FCA will follow one FC at a time, however at the end of
      the 12- week period the FCA can choose to follow a new FC. Upon the first meeting and
      expectation agreement will be discussed between the FC and FCA. During the intervention the
      FCA will document the frequency of meetings, duration, place, content and quality of the
      interactions between FC and FCA.

      Recruited FCA's will receive a six-hour group education and training program prior to
      interacting with FC. The training program include important and relevant actions and
      information on the role as ambassador, communication skills with emphasis on active
      listening, and discussion about volunteering and how to maintain appropriate boundaries to
      ensure that FCA are aware of their role as listeners who share their experiences only when
      solicited by the FC. The training will be organized by IHN and a project nurse and carried
      out by IHN, the project nurse and a project psychologist. To secure the safety of FCA during
      the intervention they will be offered to attend support meetings organized by IHN and the
      project psychologist to process and share their experiences with being an ambassador. Support
      meetings will be held every second month and FCA can request individual supervision from the
      project psychologist during the intervention. Any severe adverse events will be documented
      and acted upon.

      Outcome measures and data collection: Data are collected by patient reported outcome measures
      (PROM) as self-reported questionnaires completed by FC electronically prior to intervention,
      post intervention (12-weeks) and at 3-month follow-up. PROM is completed by FCA prior to
      intervention and at post intervention (12 weeks). Socio-demographic data are collected by
      questionnaire. At the end of the 3-months follow-up focus group interviews with FC and FCA
      will be conducted on their experiences.
    
  