
    
      SCD-WELL includes both an active comparison condition and a 16-week follow up assessment
      after the end of the intervention. SCD-WELL is a non-CTIMP European multicentre,
      observer-blinded, randomized, controlled, superiority trial with two parallel groups, which
      compares anxiety and additional behavioural and biological outcomes amongst people with SCD
      who receive mindfulness-based training and those who receive a health education comparison
      intervention. Outcomes will be measured at baseline, post-intervention and 16 weeks after the
      end of the intervention.

      160 older-adult patients diagnosed with SCD will be recruited to the study from memory
      clinics at four sites in Europe: London, UK; Cologne, Germany; Barcelona, Spain; Lyon, France
      where they will have sought help due to concern about their memory. Participants will be
      recruited in two waves over a maximum two-year period and will be provided with a participant
      information sheet, and asked to consider their participation. Should they wish to
      participate, and after a signed and dated Informed Consent Form has been obtained, a unique
      participant identification (ID) will be assigned to the participant.

      Behavioural assessments will take place at baseline, after the intervention, and 16 weeks
      after the end of the intervention. Because we believe that mindfulness-based training has the
      potential to affect a number of areas of life we will also look at changes in other areas of
      psycho-affective symptoms, social functioning, awareness, well being and quality of life,
      sleep quality, and cognition, after the intervention and 16 weeks after the end of the
      intervention. Validated neuropsychological tests and behavioural questionnaires were selected
      for their sensitivity to the domains listed above. These measures will be completed alone by
      the participant or in the presence of a psychometrist. Questionnaires will also be completed
      by partners at the three time points to coincide with assessments of participants.

      Blood samples will be taken at the memory clinic by certified phlebotomists at baseline,
      after the intervention and during follow-up to measure genetic markers of risk for AD as well
      as proteomic markers of stress and AD that may be affected by this intervention. Information
      will also be collected about the medical care of the participant.

      Trained facilitators will deliver both interventions. Both interventions follow a manual, are
      group-based, include at-home activities, and are 8 weeks in duration. Both interventions
      provide individuals with sustainable skills that remain beyond the intervention period.
    
  