
    
      Before the research starts (screening): After signing this consent form, the participant will
      be asked some questions to find out if the participant can be in the research study:

      - A medical history, which includes questions about the participant's physical and mental
      health, current medications, and any allergies.

      If these tests show that the participant are eligible to participate in the research study,
      the participant will receive the study intervention. If the participant does not meet the
      eligibility criteria, the participant will not be able to participate in this research study.

        -  After the screening procedures confirm that the participant is eligible to participate
           in the research study:

        -  Collections Visit One: After the screening visit confirms that the participant is
           eligible to participate, the participant will be scheduled for Collections Visit One. At
           Collections Visit One, the participant will complete:

        -  A demographic questionnaire: This will include questions about the participant's age,
           gender and ethnicity.

        -  A series of questionnaires: These will ask the participant's about their overall
           wellness and take about 30-45 minutes to complete.

        -  A small blood sample collection: Trained nursing staff will take about 1.5 tablespoons
           of blood from a single prick to the participant's arm. This procedure will take about
           10-15 minutes. This is to provide samples for research tests that may help the
           investigator's learn more about how the study treatment affects how the participant's
           genes are expressed.

        -  OPTIONAL - Bone marrow, plasma and serum collection: This collection is optional and is
           described in more detail in Section O. Trained nursing staff will take about 1
           tablespoon of bone marrow through a standard bone marrow aspirate procedure. This
           procedure takes about 20-30 minutes to complete, however most of the time is used to get
           everything ready (such as preparing the skin) as well as 5-10 minutes reserved for
           relaxing after the procedure is completed. This is to provide samples for research tests
           that may help the investigator learn more about how the study treatment affects the
           participant's disease. (This collection is optional and is described in more detail in
           section O.)

        -  Since the effect of the study intervention with other medications may not be known, it
           is important that the participant tell the research doctor about all prescription and
           non-prescription drugs, herbal preparations and nutritional supplements that the
           participant is taking or is planning to take.

        -  Randomization: In order to measure the effects of the intervention, the participant will
           be "randomized" into one of the study groups after Collections

        -  Visit One: Immediate Group or Waitlist Control. The Immediate Group will receive the
           study intervention within two weeks after the Screening and Collections Visit One
           procedures. Randomization means that the participant is put into a group by chance. It
           is like flipping a coin. The participant will have an equal chance of being placed in
           either group. Both groups will receive the same intervention during the course of the
           study, but at different time points.

        -  If the participant is assigned to the Waitlist Control group, Collections Visit One will
           be followed by 3 months of waiting for the intervention. The participant would then
           attend Collections Visit Two, followed by the intervention (3 months) and then by
           Collections Visit Three.

        -  If the participant is assigned to the Immediate Group, Collections Visit One will be
           followed by the intervention (3 months). the participant would then attend Collections
           Visit Two, followed by 3 months of continuing to practice what the participant learned
           during the intervention, and then by Collections Visit Three.

        -  After Collections Visit One, the participant will be given a group assignment and a
           calendar of future study visits indicating the potential date, time and locations of the
           participant's study visits.

        -  Study Intervention: The intervention will consist of one intake with a psychologist
           (approximately 60 minutes), 8 3RP sessions once a week over the course of 8 weeks
           (approximately 1 hour and 30 minutes each), and one exit visit (approximately 30
           minutes) over the course of 3-months. All intervention visits will take place at the
           Benson-Henry Institute for Mind Body Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital.

        -  During the intervention (and follow up period for those in the Immediate Group), the
           participant will be asked to practice what the participant has learned in the
           intervention by listening to a 20-minute audio CD daily. Additionally, the participant
           will be asked to keep track of their daily practice by filling out an online or paper
           log. During the 3RP session, the clinician will address any barriers or problems the
           participant may be having with the daily practice and help to problem solve them with
           the participant.

        -  Collections Visit Two: This visit will be the same as Collections Visit One.

        -  Collections Visit Three: During this visit, the participant will complete:

        -  A series of questionnaires: These will ask about the participant's overall wellness, and
           will take about 30-45 minutes to complete.

        -  A small blood sample collection: Trained nursing staff will take about 1.5 tablespoons
           of blood from a single prick to your arm. This procedure takes about 10-15 minutes. This
           is to provide samples for research tests that may help the investigators learn more
           about how the study treatment affects how the participant's genes are expressed.

        -  The investigators will also collect information regarding any changes in the
           participants medical history since their last visit.

      Research Study Plan:

      Immediate Group

        -  Screening Visit: Week 1

        -  Collections Visit One: Week 1 or 2

        -  3RP Session One: Week 3

        -  3RP Session Two: Week 4

        -  3RP Session Three: Week 5

        -  3RP Session Four: Week 6

        -  3RP Session Five: Week 7

        -  3RP Session Six: Week 8

        -  3RP Session Seven: Week 9

        -  3RP Session Eight: Week 10

        -  Collections Visit Two: Week 11/12

        -  Follow Up Period (home practice): Weeks 13-21 Collections Visit Three: Week 22-24

      Waitlist Control

        -  Screening Visit: Week 1

        -  Collections Visit One: Week 1 or 2

        -  Waiting Period: Weeks 2-10

        -  Collections Visit Two: Week 11 or 12

        -  3RP Session One: Week 13

        -  3RP Session Two: Week 14

        -  3RP Session Four: Week 15

        -  3RP Session Five: Week 16

        -  3RP Session Six: Week 17

        -  3RP Session Seven: Week 18

        -  3RP Session Eight: Week 19

        -  Collections Visit Three: Week 22, 23, or 24

        -  Planned Follow-up (Immediate Group Only): The investigator would like to keep track of
           the participant's home practice and medical condition for 12 weeks after completion of
           the 3RP intervention. The investigator would like to do this by contacting the
           participant by e-mail or phone once a month to see how the participant is doing. By
           Keeping in touch with the participant and checking on their practice and condition every
           month helps the investigator look at the long-term effects of the research study. At the
           end of the 12 weeks, the participant will come in for their last study visit - the
           follow up visit, which is described above.
    
  