
    
      1. Specific Aim: Technology-enhanced parent training. The investigators will assess whether
           E-Learning using the latest web-based instructional technologies provides an efficient
           and effective mechanism for training military parents of children with autism,
           regardless of their geographic location, to implement effective behavior management and
           teaching strategies with high procedural integrity (90% accuracy).

           - Hypothesis: Technology-enhanced parent training. Military parents who have a child
           with autism can be trained anywhere in the world to implement appropriate behavior
           management and teaching strategies based on the principles of applied behavior analysis
           (ABA) with 90% accuracy. Parents who receive this technology-enhanced training remotely
           will outperform those randomly assigned to a waitlist-control group on competency-based
           tests.

        2. Specific Aim: Technology-enhanced ABA tutor training. The investigators will show that
           E-Learning using the latest web-based instructional technologies provides an efficient
           and effective mechanism for training adults to become ABA tutors who implement EIBI
           procedures with high procedural integrity (90% accuracy) in areas of the world where
           such services would otherwise be unavailable.

           - Hypothesis: Technology-enhanced ABA tutor training. Adults anywhere in the world with
           at least a high school diploma and no formal training in ABA can be trained in the basic
           principles of ABA and to implement EIBI therapy with 90% accuracy. Individuals who
           receive this technology-enhanced training remotely will outperform those randomly
           assigned to a waitlist-control group on both knowledge and competency-based tests.

        3. Specific Aim: Technology-enhanced EIBI services. The investigators will demonstrate that
           technology-enhanced telehealth provides remote access to efficient and effective EIBI
           services to military families affected by autism.

           - Hypothesis: Technology-enhanced EIBI services. Young children with autism in military
           families who receive EIBI services that are supervised by University of Nebraska Medical
           Center (UNMC) experts remotely via technology-enhanced telehealth will show marked
           improvements in cognitive, language, social, play, and adaptive skills and decreases in
           problem behaviors relative to children randomly assigned to a wait-list control group.

        4. Specific Aim: Reducing stress in military families affected by autism. The investigators
           will show that the provision of efficient and effective EIBI services using
           technology-enhanced telehealth will reduce family stress among military families
           affected by autism.

             -  Hypothesis: Reducing stress in military families affected by autism. Military
                parents of children with autism who receive technology-enhanced EIBI services will
                show reductions in self-reported stress levels on both the Child Domain and Parent
                Domain subscales of the Parenting Stress Index relative to parents on the
                waitlist-control group.
    
  