
    
      This study is a single arm phase 2 study for adult patients who have acute GVHD Grade II-IV
      according to Glucksberg and Ann Arbor score 2 or 3 after first allogeneic stem cell
      transplantation. The staging according to Glucksberg is based on clinical parameters while
      Ann Arbor scoring is based on the MAGIC biomarkers. Patients will receive standard acute GVHD
      treatment consisting of 2mg/kg methylprednisolone plus extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP)
      with Uvadex. Day 0 of the study will be the first day of ECP, which will be performed 3x
      weekly for the first 2 weeks, 2x weekly for the next two weeks and thereafter once weekly
      until day 56. A taper schema for methylprednisolone is proposed but not obligatory. Patients
      will be followed until one year after start of ECP.

      The study plans to enroll 72 patients in order to be able to detect a 15% difference in rate
      of complete responses on day 28, assuming a type I error rate of 0.05. Patients treated on
      this study will have three possible comparators:

        -  Cohort of patients with high risk aGvHD who received standard treatment and whose data
           were prospectively reported to MAGIC during the last 2 years preceding the trial

        -  Cohort of patients with high risk aGvHD who received standard treatment and whose data
           are reported to MAGIC during the trial period

        -  Cohort of patients with high risk aGvHD treated within the ongoing prospective MAGIC USA
           phase 2 Trial

      Treatment:

      Prior to an ECP treatment each patient will be assessed by a physician to verify that the
      patient is acceptable for ECP treatment. This assessment will include vital signs (diastolic
      and systolic blood pressures, pulse, temperature) which will be taken prior to and at the end
      of each ECP treatment. Blood cell counts will be analyzed prior to each treatment. If a
      patient's WBC count is below 1 X 109/L or platelet count is below 20 X 109/L ECP should be
      postponed until rise in WBC or platelet counts. Platelet transfusions and use of cytokines is
      permitted. Whenever possible, peripheral venous access is preferable to central venous
      catheters. In patients with platelet counts below 40 X 109/L acid citrate dextrose (ACD)
      instead of heparin should be used for ECP. When severe acute infections occur during study
      ECP should be discontinued until the infection has been controlled under appropriate therapy

      Topical therapy for acute GvHD of the skin and non-absorbable steroids for GI GvHD are
      allowed. Ancillary/supportive care measures for acute GvHD such as the use of anti-motility
      agents for diarrhea, including octreotide, is allowed at the discretion of the treating
      physician. Use of ursodiol to prevent/reduce gall bladder sludging, or prevent hepatic
      transplant complications is also allowed according to institutional guidelines.

      In addition to prescribed study drug plus corticosteroids, all patients should receive the
      following:

        -  Transfusion support per institutional practice

        -  Anti-infective prophylaxis against herpes virus is required but otherwise institutional
           practice can be followed for the medication to be used and the dosing

        -  Anti-infective prophylaxis against Pneumocystis jiroveci, bacterial and fungal
           infections according to standard institutional guidelines.

        -  Anti-infective prophylaxis against fungi (aspergillosis) is required but otherwise
           institutional practice can be followed

        -  Pre-emptive monitoring and treatment for CMV and EBV infections are required but
           otherwise institutional practice can be followed.

      Efficacy and stopping rules:

      Efficacy of the treatment plan will be assessed by the proportion of patients with complete
      response at day 28. The treatment plan will be considered efficacious if it produces a day 28
      CR rate of ≥ 52%, representing an improvement over the day 28 CR rate of approximately 15%
      achieved with the standard of care. Stopping boundaries for efficacy are presented in Table
      5, in terms of the number of observed positive responses out of the total number observed.
      Our expectation is represented by a prior distribution for a positive response that has a
      mean of 0.37, or 37%. Characterizing our expectation as a distribution of values, rather than
      a fixed value, naturally accounts for uncertainty in the response. The prior is based on
      observed data treating similar patients with the standard of care. More specifically, let θS
      be the day 28 CR rate of patients treated with the standard of care. Likewise, let θE be the
      day 28 CR of patients treated with ECP and high dose systemic corticosteroid. Assume that θS
      ~ beta (37, 63) and θE ~ beta (0.74, 1.26) so that each prior has a mean of 0.37. Let the
      improvement of the experimental treatment over the standard, δ, be 0.1. The study will be
      stopped when P (θS + δ >θE |observed data)>0.90.

      The boundaries provide guidelines for determining when treatment with ECP and high dose
      systemic corticosteroid is inferior to what would be expected if patients were treated with
      the standard of care. We will initiate these guidelines with the 10th outcome, and enroll a
      maximum of 72 patients.

      Further stopping rules:

      For the individual patient:

      Any of the following criteria will lead to study discontinuation:

        -  Inter-current illness that prevents further administration of treatment

        -  Unacceptable adverse event(s)

        -  Patient voluntarily withdraws from treatment OR

        -  General or specific changes in the patient's condition render the patient unacceptable
           for further treatment in the judgment of the investigator or Sponsor

      The reason for ending protocol therapy and the date the patient was removed from treatment
      will be documented in the study record. All patients who discontinue treatment should comply
      with protocol specific follow-up procedures as outlined in Section 13.13. The only exception
      to this requirement is when a patient withdraws consent for all study procedures.

      Patients may withdraw from the study treatment at their request at any time. If they
      withdraw, they will be asked to perform a study termination visit and be documented in eCRF
      as "early termination". The reasons should be documented in the eCRF.

      For the entire study cohort:

      The whole study can be discontinued by the Coordinating Investigator in case of excessive
      toxicity.

      For safety reasons, a study termination visit should be performed and the included patients
      should be further followed-up until disease progression or death from any cause (relapse or
      other reason).

      Once we have enrolled 10 patients, and for additional patients thereafter, we will assess the
      cumulative number of patients with overall response and NRM and stop the trial if the
      observed number responses or NRM equals or exceeds the thresholds specified in section 19.
    
  