
    
      Physical activity is broadly beneficial for physical, psychological, and cognitive aspects of
      health, yet only one in five U.S. adults meets the CDC physical activity guidelines. Making
      physical activity accessible and feasible throughout life is an important public health
      policy objective that is within reach with the right kind of behavioral and environmental
      supports. The project aims to provide such supports for an active lifestyle thereby
      contributing to healthy aging. The goal of this project is to increase physical activity
      (i.e., walking) in sedentary older adults by providing the environmental and behavioral
      resources to incorporate additional steps into their daily lives. The investigators used a
      behavioral approach that fosters a sense of control and facilitates planning by focusing on
      the what, when, where, and with whom aspects of their physical activity. The investigators
      proposed a user-friendly, practical way to increase steps. By providing people with specific,
      tailored information about the number of steps one can get by walking a certain distance or
      during a certain amount of time, participants can better plan when, where, and with whom they
      will be able to achieve the desired number of steps, break goals into manageable portions (at
      different times throughout the day or week), and thereby increase the likelihood of goal
      achievement.

      During the app development phase, the investigators demonstrated the app to 10 older adults
      to get their input. The goal was to get their feedback about the app features and to make
      sure it is user friendly. The investigators asked questions about the ease of using the app
      and their understanding of the app features. The interviewer recorded their answers to share
      with the research team and app developer. Modifications to the app were made based on the
      feedback.

      During the next phase of the study, the investigators tested whether the full app program was
      successful in increasing steps and whether it was more effective than the basic app that only
      includes step counting and goals, similar to a fitness tracker or pedometer. Sixty
      participants were randomly assigned to two conditions: the app with step counting and goals
      alone (control), or the full version of the app with the step counting and goals, schedule,
      maps, and social components (experimental). It was predicted that the intervention group
      would improve more on outcome measures than the control group.
    
  