
    
      In the study 'Neuroplasticity Induced by General Anaesthesia', the investigators intend to
      explore the effects of general anaesthesia on the brain by state-of-the-art magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI).

      MRI data - especially changes in functional MRI recordings - may theoretically depend on a
      variety of physiological variables such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, and
      cerebral metabolic oxidative rate of oxygen, and may thus also be affected by pharmacological
      agents. However, to interpret data it is important to know the inherent variability of the
      scans.

      This first substudy therefore aims to determine the reproducibility of the MRI recordings
      without administration of pharmacological agents. Another aim of the study is to ensure
      feasibility of the design before embarking on the more resource-demanding substudies in
      anaesthetised subjects.

      In this substudy, the investigators will perform the same MRI measurements as in the main
      study; rather than undergoing two hours of general anaesthesia, the volunteers will be
      subjected to two hours of undisturbed rest.

      Each participant goes through a pre-study interview and physical examination to ensure that
      the participant is healthy and suitable for participation.

      For each participant, the study consists of three study days:

      Day 0: Baseline MRI and blood tests. Intervention. Two hours of post-intervention care
      followed by post-intervention MRI and blood tests.

      Day +1 (the day after Day 0): MRI and blood tests. Day +7 (one week after Day 0): MRI and
      blood tests.

      All MRI scans will be performed with a 3 Tesla Philips Achieva d-stream with a 32-channel
      receive head coil.

      Blood tests: Haemoglobin, sodium, potassium, white blood count, C-reactive protein (CRP), S
      calcium-binding protein 100b (S100b), neuron-specific enolase (NSE), interleukin-1 (IL-1),
      IL-6, IL-8, IL-10, IL-18, tumor necrosis factor Alpha (TNF-Alpha) and transforming growth
      factor beta (TGF-beta).
    
  