
    
      Thousands of patients undergo major esophagectomy surgery in the United States each year,
      during which all or a portion of the esophagus is removed. A major complication of these
      surgeries is the occurrence of an irregular heartbeat known as atrial fibrillation (AF),
      which develops in up to 40% of patients undergoing these procedures. AF is characterized by
      rapid, irregular, chaotic beating of the two smaller chambers of the heart (the atria),
      leading to rapid, irregular beating of the two larger chambers (the ventricles). The average
      time to occurrence of post-surgical AF is 2-3 days following surgery. AF occurring following
      esophagectomy can result in extremely rapid heart rates, as fast as 150-200 beats per minute,
      and may be associated with serious consequences, including severely low blood pressure and
      potentially debilitating stroke. Further, the risk of death following esophagectomy is
      significantly higher in patients who develop AF compared with those who do not. Therefore,
      the occurrence of this irregular heartbeat following esophagectomy is associated with severe,
      potentially life-threatening consequences. Prevention of this irregular heartbeat in these
      patients may therefore be very important.

      Amiodarone is a medication that is known to be effective for prevention and treatment of AF
      that occurs in patients who have not undergone surgery. In addition, amiodarone has been
      shown to be effective for prevention of AF following open-chest heart surgery. However, the
      use of medications for prevention of AF following esophagectomy has not been well studied,
      and amiodarone has not been studied in a controlled trial for the prevention of AF in this
      population. In addition, amiodarone is associated with side effects, and it is important to
      determine the safety of this medication when used in this patient population.
    
  