
    
      Telomerase is the enzyme synthesizing the specific DNA sequences found at the telomeres in
      the body's chromosomes. It is thus responsible for maintaining the length of telomeres.
      Telomerase has been detected in human cancer cells and is found to be 10-20 times more active
      than in normal body cells. This provides a selective growth advantage to many types of
      tumors. If telomerase activity was to be turned off, then telomeres in cancer cells would
      shorten, just like they do in normal body cells. This would prevent the cancer cells from
      dividing uncontrollably in their early stages of development. In the event that a tumor has
      already thoroughly developed, it may be removed and anti-telomerase therapy could be
      administered to prevent relapse.

      This study is being offered to patients with advanced cancer which has either no standard
      therapy or which has progressed after treatment with one or more standard treatments.

      The primary objective of this study :

      To determine the maximum tolerated dose of KML001 in combination with cisplatin in patients
      with advanced malignancy. This objective has been met. The study will be reopened with
      expansion cohorts in advanced small cell lung cancer and non-small cell lung cancer to better
      assess the activity of the combination, pending (Institutional Review Board (IRB) approval.

      Secondary Objectives of the study:

      To determine the pharmacokinetics of KML001 and cisplatin in this combination. To assess the
      response rate, disease-free survival and survival associated with this regimen.

      To correlate indications of patient benefit (response or stable disease) with pretreatment
      specimens

      The highest safest doses are determined by increasing the doses of cisplatin and KML001 in
      successive groups of patients until at least some of them have serious side effects. All
      patients on this study will receive the same dose of cisplatin, which is known to have
      antitumor effects. The doses of KML001 will be increased in successive groups of patients. It
      is possible that those entering the study early may receive suboptimal doses of KML001. At
      the end of the study we hope to determine the appropriate dose of the KML001 in combination
      with cisplatin, learn about its side effects and understand how the body metabolizes the
      drug.

      Laboratory data from the University of Maryland Greenebaum Cancer Center (UMGCC) has
      demonstrated that the combination of KML001 and cisplatin is synergistic in lung cancer cell
      lines. Cisplatin is the best established agent for the treatment of lung cancer and most
      treatment regimens have been established with cisplatin (or its congener, carboplatin). This
      synergism is particularly interesting given that there is an anti-telomere effect for
      cisplatin.
    
  