
    
      There is growing awareness that there are major gaps in access to children's palliative care
      (CPC) worldwide. Adults have a greater likelihood of receiving palliative care than children.
      Growing access to treatment services, and extended periods of wellness have led to some
      changes in the nature of the palliative care services required. Children are more resilient
      and more likely to require CPC for longer periods than adults.

      It is against this background that UNICEF and the International Children's Palliative Care
      Network (ICPCN), in collaboration with national palliative care associations, began a joint
      analysis to develop methods to assess critical needs and gaps in CPC. The initial assessment,
      conducted in Kenya, South Africa and Zimbabwe, aimed to analyse existing secondary data on
      palliative care to estimate the palliative care need amongst children and explore key gaps in
      the response with service providers. A report on this research, the methods used, and the
      results for South Africa was published in 2014.

      There is a lack of information regarding the actual need for palliative care for children,
      and assessment is a complicated process, due to uncertainty about the patient population and
      the nature of palliative care for children. Although there have been some studies focusing on
      the status of CPC in sub-Saharan Africa and the United Kingdom, there are differences in the
      scope and approach to the present study. A systematic review of the provision of CPC around
      the world, noted that over 65% of countries have no recognised CPC service provision, and
      concluded that service provision for CPC is not meeting the need in the majority of the
      world.

      Generally, studies estimating need for palliative care for children are based on mortality
      statistics for chronic, incurable illnesses. Estimates focused on end-of-life care, as in the
      Global Atlas of Palliative Care at the End of Life do not account for the children that need
      palliative care well before the last year of life and underestimate the need.

      The World Health Organization defines palliative care for children as a special, albeit
      closely related field to adult palliative care. An effort to define the many diseases and
      conditions requiring CPC a directory was published in 2013 with 376 potential diagnostic
      labels though the majority of deaths were from a small number.
    
  