
    
      Degenerative disorders of the lumbar spine can lead to a multitude of clinical problems
      including back pain and/or leg pain secondary to nerve compression and/or deformity. When
      conservative (non-surgical) treatment fails after at least a 6 month period and/or
      non-operative treatment is not indicated, patients and physicians may turn to a surgical
      solution. Surgical options consist basically of decompressing nerves, correcting and/or
      stabilizing deformities if required and fusing the segment, depending on the clinical
      situation. The "gold standard" for aiding healing in spinal fusion surgeries is the
      harvesting of autograft from the patient's iliac crest and placing it in and around the
      segments of the spine that are intended to be fused. Autograft is considered the "gold
      standard" because it contains the essential elements required for successful bone grafting:
      osteogenesis, osteoconduction, and osteoinduction.

      However, the morbidity of harvesting autograft has been well documented and includes chronic
      donor-site pain, infection, neurologic injury, blood loss, deformity, bowel injury, hernia,
      and prolonged surgical and hospitalization time. There are now a number of products on the
      market to minimize or replace the use of autograft. However, few of these products contain
      all three essential bone-forming elements (osteogenesis, osteoconduction, and osteoinduction)
      in a single, stand alone product.

      Trinity Evolution is a novel, allogeneic cancellous bone matrix containing viable
      osteoprogenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells and a demineralized cortical bone (DCB)
      component to provide the required osteoconduction, osteogenesis, and osteoinduction necessary
      for successful bone grafting. Preclinical studies with Trinity Evolution have demonstrated
      in-vitro and in-vivo safety and effectiveness. Trinity Evolution is considered an allograft
      and as such is a "minimally manipulated" tissue and is labeled for bone repair for spinal,
      orthopedic and podiatric indications where autograft is used. The dosage will be dependent
      upon the specific requirements of the case.
    
  