
    
      Adult patients with high blood pressure who are currently taking one, two or three blood
      pressure treatments will be asked to take part in the study. It is expected that about 1,600
      patients in seventeen countries will enter the screening part of the study and approximately
      480 of these patients will be allocated to double-blind randomised study treatment. The study
      will last for approximately fifteen weeks. Patients will visit the study doctor five times
      for assessment. After informed consent, patients will start a screening period for four to
      ten days. During the screening period, patients must take their usual blood pressure
      treatment but will stop this by the date of the next visit. If the patient is suitable for
      this study, they will then start run-in treatment period with telmisartan 80 mg plus
      hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg (T80/H12.5) taken as a single tablet once per day for
      approximately six weeks.

      At the end of the run-in treatment period, if the diastolic blood pressure (DBP) is below 90
      mmHg, the patient will not proceed as their blood pressure is already controlled by
      T80/H12.5. If the DBP is 90 mmHg or greater they will start the randomised study treatment
      period and be randomly allocated to double-blind treatment with either telmisartan 80 mg plus
      hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg(T80/H25) or T80/H12.5 taken as a single tablet once per day for
      eight weeks. They will also receive a placebo tablet (a dummy tablet which contains no active
      ingredient) every day.

      They will visit the clinic four weeks and eight weeks later for assessment of their blood
      pressure and general health. Their participation in the study is complete eight weeks after
      the start of the randomised treatment period.

      Study Hypothesis:

      The trial hypothesis is that the reduction in seated trough DBP (i.e., seated trough DBP at
      the end of the randomised treatment period compared with the seated trough DBP at the start
      of the randomised treatment period) will be greater in the T80/H25 group compared with the
      T80/H12.5 group.

      Comparison(s):

      The efficacy and safety of the two trial treatments (T80/H25 versus T80/H12.5) will be
      compared. Trough blood pressure is the blood pressure 24 hours after the last dose of trial
      medication.
    
  