
    
      Veterans historically exhibit high rates of comorbid mTBI/PTSD. Given the comorbidity and
      neuropsychiatric symptom overlap of these disorders, it can be difficult to determine whether
      problems and disruptions in functioning are due to mTBI, PTSD, or both. Hence, it is
      challenging for providers to know how to prioritize these patients' clinical issues and how
      to effectively treat them. Currently, there are no evidence-based treatments for comorbid
      mTBI/PTSD. Further, it is unclear to what extent existing treatments for each disorder can be
      adherently and effectively implemented for the other. As such, most current treatment
      recommendations suggest a holistic or integrated approach to treatment for comorbid mTBI/PTSD
      targeting symptoms and functionality rather than underlying etiology. Investigators are
      proposing a treatment for comorbid mTBI and PTSD that directly targets daily functioning and
      quality of life.

      The study design makes use of the convergent availability of resources at the two
      participating Veterans Administration Health Care Systems in Portland, Oregon, and Seattle,
      Washington to conduct a Randomized Controlled Trial (RCT) of CABA. The study will recruit a
      total of 192 Veterans less than or equal to 55 years of age, 96 participants at each site,
      enrolled at participating VA Medical Centers (VAMCs) who are diagnosed with both mTBI and
      PTSD. Eligible participants will be randomly assigned to either the CABA or Treatment as
      Usual (TAU) group. Participants in the CABA group will receive the CABA intervention during
      the first 14 weeks of their participation in the study, whereas TAU participants will
      continue to receive TAU (usual care in a PTSD specialty treatment clinic, but no CABA) during
      their participation in the study. Both groups will undergo evaluations at baseline, 7 weeks
      (mid-treatment), 14 weeks (post-treatment), and 39 weeks (6 month follow-up). During their
      study participation, all participants will continue to receive their usual medical care.
    
  