
    
      Accurately diagnosing clinically significant prostate cancer at a time when the benefits of
      treatment outweigh the harm continues to elude clinicians because of the complex nature of
      prostate cancer. When patients are found to have a high prostate specific antigen (PSA) blood
      test, an abnormal digital rectal exam, or they have prostate cancer but are delaying
      treatment (active surveillance), they are referred for transrectal ultrasound (TRUS) guided
      biopsy. The sensitivity of TRUS with 12-core biopsies is only 53-68% so cancers can be
      missed, particularly in the anterior region of the prostate. In some cases, TRUS can be used
      to rule out other causes of abnormal test findings, however the specificity of TRUS is also
      fairly poor making it difficult for a man to know for certain if he is cancer free.
      Unfortunately, biopsies also cause serious side effects including incontinence, bowel
      dysfunction, infection and pain. Increasing the number of cores taken during biopsy does not
      typically translate to better detection rates.

      Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has much greater resolution than TRUS and can therefore,
      detect changes in the prostate more accurately. If conducted prior to a targeted biopsy, MRI
      can also reduce the number of cores taken compared to a standard biopsy (e.g. 2-4 cores vs.
      12 cores), which could reduce biopsy side effects while simultaneously increasing detection
      of clinically significant cancer compared to routine 12-core biopsies and saving health care
      system dollars. Technology that combines MRI at the same time as biopsy (MRI-TRUS fusion
      biopsy) is increasingly being used, with some promising results. However, these techniques
      require expensive equipment and specially-trained personnel, and are more time-consuming and
      restrictive in when the procedure can occur. Utilizing MRI prior to a TRUS-guided biopsy
      could provide the same benefits in terms of cancer detection, but at a more reasonable cost
      and shorter wait-times as MRI alone can be done in a variety of settings and times.

      If the results of this study demonstrate that MRI-targeted biopsy improves detection of
      clinically significant cancer over TRUS-guided biopsy alone, it would suggest that this
      protocol may be a more practical solution. Moreover, if the results show that MRI-targeted
      biopsy could reduce the number of cores taken without missing clinically significant cancers,
      the local biopsy protocol could be adjusted in the future to minimize unnecessary harm in
      these populations of men. In summary, this study will have practical merits in minimizing
      costs and patient morbidity associated with unnecessary prostate biopsies and treatments
      across Canada.

      The primary objective of this study is to determine if using MRI can improve cancer detection
      by identifying potential cancer targets prior to TRUS-guided biopsy in populations that have
      previous inconclusive results from TRUS-guided biopsies.

      The secondary objectives are to:

        -  Determine the sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of MRI in
           predicting clinically significant prostate cancer

        -  Identify areas of the prostate that would benefit most from MRI

        -  Estimate Type 1 and Type II errors of using MRI-targeted biopsy samples compared to both
           MRI-targeted and standard 12-core.

        -  Estimate cost savings by using MRI-targeted biopsy samples only compared to both
           MRI-targeted and standard 12-core.

        -  Compare cost-effectiveness of using MRI prior to TRUS-guided biopsy compared to
           MRI-fusion biopsy used in other centers

      This is a prospective, single institution randomized clinical controlled trial.. Participants
      will be randomized in a 1:1 ratio to one of the following groups:

        1. Control Group: TRUS-guided systematic 12-core biopsy (standard care)

        2. Experimental Group: prostate MRI later followed by systematic 12-core TRUS-guided biopsy
           + targeted biopsy of additional MRI-detected cores
    
  