
    
      1. INTRODUCTION Cystoscopy is a common procedure in urology clinics and has two types:
           flexible and rigid. Especially recently, there has been an increase in the use of
           flexibles. Both of these types can be preferred as a diagnostic procedure in hematuria,
           atypical dysuria, bladder and upper urinary tract cancers, and suspected urethral
           stenosis. Rigid cystoscopy can be more painful than flexible cystoscopy.

        2. BACKGROUND Cystoscopy is a procedure performed in urology clinics to evaluate the lower
           urinary tract for a large number of symptoms and pathologies, but it is painful and
           causes anxiety in individuals. It is recommended to perform local anesthesia to the
           patients during the procedure, to select appropriate cystoscopy equipment, and to make
           the necessary environmental arrangements in order to reduce the patients' pain and
           anxiety and increase their comfort levels.

      Environmental arrangements to manage interventional pain in cystoscopy include music therapy
      that has recently been used widely.Music is used as one of the complementary therapies in the
      treatment of many diseases due to its physical, psychological, and functional effects on
      individuals. The use of music as therapy in hospitals began to become widespread with the
      beginning of the world wars, but the introduction of pharmacological methods for the
      treatment of pain and anxiety has reduced the popularity of music in this context. With the
      identification of side effects of drugs in the subsequent years, starting again to use music
      as complementary therapy has come to the fore.

      Music therapy in nursing first started in the 1800s with Florence Nightingale. Nightingale
      described music as an effective method in the recovery process in order to provide and
      increase patient comfort and reduce their anxiety levels. Music therapy has also been
      accepted as part of nursing practices within the scope of Nursing Interventions
      Classification.

      In the literature, international studies have been conducted to reduce the pain and anxiety
      levels of individuals and increase their comfort levels. Considering two systematic reviews
      related to the subject;some studies noted that music played during flexible cystoscopy did
      not reduce pain and anxiety, while some studies stated that music could be effective in
      reducing pain and anxiety during cystoscopy. Controversial results were found in these two
      studies, which have high evidence levels. Experimental studies with control groups showed
      that music reduced pain and anxiety and increased comfort levels in patients undergoing
      flexible cystoscopy. Given the limitations of the studies on the subject and sample
      power/deficiencies, it may be observed that controversial conclusions have been reached about
      the effectiveness of music in relieving pain and anxiety. On the other hand, only one study
      has been found in Turkey regarding this issue. In a study, the effects of various distraction
      methods applied during the cystoscopy procedure (group 1: music, group 2: stress ball, group
      3: video, and group 4: control) on pain, anxiety, and satisfaction were examined. The study
      found that the patients in the video group had lower pain and anxiety levels than those in
      the other groups. Considering the national and international studies available in the
      literature, regarding the topic of music therapy that may be effective in reducing pain and
      anxiety during the cystoscopy procedure, it is necessary to conduct further studies that
      provide high levels of evidence and produce scientific knowledge with greater sample sizes
      and by using randomized-controlled trials that are fundamental in assessing the effectiveness
      of evidence-based practices. This study aimed to determine the effect of music therapy on
      procedural pain intensity and anxiety and comfort levels in patients during cystoscopy.

      2.1. Study hypotheses Hypothesis 1. Music therapy reduces procedural pain in patients during
      cystoscopy.

      Hypothesis 2. Music therapy reduces anxiety in patients during cystoscopy. Hypothesis 3.
      Music therapy increases comfort level in patients during cystoscopy.
    
  