
    
      In Tan Tock Seng (TTSH), Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is one of the top 4 reasons for
      admissions with 948 percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures done in year 2016.
      International guidelines recommend that all patients complete CR after PCI, as it plays a
      critical role in reducing five-year cardiovascular mortality and the risk of
      cardiovascular-related hospital admission. However, the rate of completion of CR has been
      found to be low as only 19% of post PCI patients completed CR in 2016. According to a patient
      survey conducted, the main reason for non-completion is the inconvenience experienced by
      patients from needing to return to hospital weekly. In addition, poor compliance to
      prescribed home exercises limits the effectiveness of exercise training. Hence, there is a
      pertinent need to activate patients to engage in self-directed CR in a safe and effective
      manner to target these issues. Current solutions to increase participation and compliance
      involve strategies have been limited. Participation and compliance to prescribed exercises
      recorded via brochures and activity diaries have been limited by difficulties experienced by
      patients when providing this information, posing a risk of recall bias or the risk of
      misplacing their activity logs. Mobile applications targeted at increasing fitness addresses
      the problem of the risk of misplacing activity logs but is still subjected to recall bias as
      self-input of multiple data is required. Exercise guidelines within these applications are
      also generic and does not adhere to international exercise training guidelines targeted at
      patients after coronary revascularisation. In order to address these gaps, there is a need
      for a technology enabled solution that can provide evidence-based CR programme with constant
      HR monitoring which offers direct feedback to the patients and at the same time affordable
      and easy to use. "Heart-Track" is a novel mobile app based CR model of care that utilises a
      technology-enabled device designed specifically for patients post PCI to complete CR at their
      convenience, while ensuring that evidence-based clinical outcomes are achieved. The key
      components of "Heart-Track" are: 1. Exercise principles based on international guidelines 2.
      Gamification; 3. Continuous heart rate monitoring; 4. Adaptation to local context. As
      Heart-track is the first of its kind, being designed for use in the local context, findings
      from research is important in determining its efficacy when compared to traditional cardiac
      rehabilitation.
    
  