
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To determine the pathological complete response in patients with HER2-positive and
           hormone receptor-positive operable stage I-III breast cancer.

      Secondary

        -  To determine tumor cell apoptosis in situ as measured by TUNEL analysis of tumor
           sections from fresh frozen or paraffin-embedded core biopsies. (Parts 1 and 2)

        -  To determine whether EGFR, P-EGFR, P-HER2, Ser118 P-ERα, P-Akt, and P-MAPK (by IHC using
           fresh frozen or paraffin-embedded core biopsies) predict the inhibition of proliferation
           in situ (Ki67) and/or induction of cell death (TUNEL). (Parts 1 and 2)

        -  To determine the safety profile of neoadjuvant letrozole and lapatinib. (Part 2)

        -  To evaluate tumor response to treatment as measured by ultrasound. (Part 2)

        -  To evaluate the rate of breast conservation surgery. (Part 2)

        -  To determine the inhibition in cell proliferation in situ in response to letrozole and
           lapatinib as measured by the change in percentage of Ki67-positive tumor cells
           (determined by IHC using tumor sections from fresh frozen or paraffin-embedded surgical
           material). (Part 2)

      OUTLINE: This is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, two-part study.

        -  Part 1: Patients are randomized to treatment arm.

             -  Patients receive lapatinib and letrozole once daily for 2 weeks.

             -  Patients receive letrozole and placebo once daily for 2 weeks. Patients then
                proceed to part 2.

        -  Part 2: All patients receive lapatinib and letrozole once daily for 14 weeks. Patients
           then undergo surgical resection of disease.

      Patients undergo tissue sample collection at baseline, at 2 weeks, and then at the time of
      surgery for biomarker and laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed by IHC and TUNEL.
    
  