
    
      The vertigo is the illusive sensation of motion around the ambiance, results in disorders in
      the physical and social health of the patient due to difficulty in movement and coordination
      (CAMPOS et al, 2003) and it is classified as one of the four types of dizziness: syncope,
      disequilibrium, non-specific dizziness or lightheadedness and vertigo. The vertigo may have
      peripheral and central causes . In peripheral vertigo, its source situated in the labyrinth
      or in vestibular nerve, until your entrance in vestibular nuclei. In the central vertigo, its
      origin located in the vestibular nuclei, in brainstem or cerebellum.

      Vestibular, visual and proprioceptive systems provides the balance. The vestibular system
      finds in the inner ear and consists of bony and membranous labyrinths. The entire set is
      placed in the petrous part of the temporal bones where it is located the cochlea (structure
      involved in hearing), three semicircular canals and the vestibule. The bony labyrinth
      contains the perilymph, which has electrolytic function analogous to extracellular wall,
      additionally, fulfills the tympanic and vestibular cavities. The membranous labyrinth
      consists of endolymph and ciliated structures sensitive to its movement (otoliths), located
      in the ampulla (terminal portion of the semicircular canals) which are susceptible to
      positional changes in the head . The vestibule has sensory organs (utricle and saccule) which
      assists the ciliated cells monitoring the position of the head. Such structures contain
      calcium carbonate crystals, responsive to acceleration and gravity effect.

      Pereira highlights that vestibulo-ocular reflex uses the information from the sensory organs
      of the inner ear - saccule and utricle - to generate compensatory movements to position of
      the head on extraocular muscles. The anterior inferior cerebellar artery, a branch originate
      in the basilar artery, supplies the whole vestibular system.

      With regards to balance, it is significantly important understand the anatomic relation of
      the vestibule with the vestibular reflexes which consists the visual and proprioceptive
      systems. All the information derived from the semicircular canals and from the otoliths
      (saccule and utricle) reaches the cerebellum and the vestibular nuclei as of afferent fibers
      of vestibular nerve. The processing and integration of central nervous system with the
      afferent signals from vestibular, visual and proprioceptive systems allows to produce the
      vestibulo-ocular (maintains the compensatory movement of the eyes regarding the movement from
      the head), vestibulospinal (produces dynamic and static strategies related to posture),
      cervico-ocular (steadies the neck through information received from vestibule) reflexes.

      The benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is a type of peripheral vertigo characterized
      by the accumulation of otoliths debris, which are particles resulted from the condensation of
      endolymph in the inner ducts of semicircular canals (duct lithiasis or canalithiasis). This
      process induces an abnormal acceleration of endolymph, providing a response to central
      nervous system that the head is spinning leading to the symptoms and characteristics of BPPV:
      sudden changes in the position of the head, such as rolling over the bed or tilting the head
      may causes quick episodes of vertigo, which lasts between 30 seconds to 2 minutes following,
      or not, of nystagmus, not associated with auditory problems.

      In order to detect the BPPV, a simple test is utilized. The Dix-Hallpike test consists in lay
      the individual in a quick change in the position of the head. The maneuver is performed,
      essentially, towards the side in which the patient alleges dizziness in the course of the
      change in the position of the head. If the individual report vertigo related or no to
      nystagmus, the test is considered as positive.

      The osteopathy is a science, which has specific methods of diagnosis and treatment, and has
      begun to be developed by the physician Andrew Taylor Still at the end of 19th century, which
      aim is to rebalance the activities of the organism. Accord to the osteopathy science, all the
      physiological structures in the organism integrating and requires functional and structural
      harmonization in order to improve the health of the whole body. The main objective of the
      treatment is to obtain the intertissue mobility, which is considered by osteopathy as a
      somatic dysfunction, when it is restricted.

      The osteopathy concerning to skull had their first records by William G. Sutherland, and it
      is treated as an extension of the principles of the applied osteopathy in the cranial bones.
      In his study of the so-called Craniosacral Therapy, Sutherland presuppose that exists a
      primary respiratory movement, which depends on rhythmic pressure changes induced by
      alteration of the venous pressure inside the medullary cavity, which causes the pressure of
      the cerebrospinal fluid varies, of the tensions in the reciprocal membranes, which are the
      falx cerebri (sagittal) and the cerebellar tentorium (transverse). These membranes are
      connected to sacrum through the dura mater.

      Samutt confirms that cranial dysfunction of the temporal bones in internal/external rotation
      may modify the orientation of the semicircular canals, provoking vertigo. Liem propose that
      the mobilization of the eyeball may be a sensory stimulus of the vestibulo-ocular pathways.
      For him, maneuvers to the eyeball assists to balance the tonus of extraocular muscles and
      creates fascial influences on the optic nerve and the oculomotor, and, thus, stimulates the
      vestibular nuclei. It also suggests that the tension of the cerebellar tentorium and the
      mobilization of the temporal bones have effects on the structures that composes the
      vestibule.

      Thereby, the present work investigated the effect of the cranial osteopathic techniques on
      the Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo.
    
  