
    
      The present study is a prospective, non-pharmacological, single blind, randomized clinical
      study to evaluate the skeletal, dental and soft tissue changes with distalization of entire
      maxillary dentition using bilateral maxillary 1st premolar extraction in comparison with
      zygomatic miniplates in class II division 1 patients. The present study will be conducted in
      the Department of Orthodontics and Dentofacial Orthopaedics, in conjunction with the
      Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, P.G.I.D.S., Pt. B.D.Sharma University of Health
      Sciences, Rohtak. The study will be carried out after the institutional approval obtained
      from the ethical committee.

      SOURCE OF DATA The study sample consists of 34 subjects selected from the patients attending
      the regular OPD at the Department of Orthodontics and DentofacialOrthopaedics for orthodontic
      treatment.

      INCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Non growing patients

        -  Complete bilateral Class II molar relationship at pre-treatment

        -  All permanent teeth upto the second molars should be present

        -  No or minor crowding in the maxillary arch

        -  Horizontal to average growth pattern.

      EXCLUSION CRITERIA

        -  Subjects with a history of fixed orthodontic treatment.

        -  Crossbite

        -  Vertical growth pattern

        -  Any systemic disease affecting bone and general growth

        -  Poor oral hygiene

        -  Cleft patients

        -  Patients who fail to follow up or undergo complete treatment TARGET SAMPLE SIZE

        -  A sample size of 15 per group for the present study was calculated to detect a clinical
           difference of 3.9 mm with effect size 0.86 at 95% power and 5% significance level. To
           compensate for 10% dropouts the final sample size was calculated to be 17 per group.

      INFORMED CONSENT OF THE PATIENT AND AGREEMENT TO BE RANDOMIZED A valid, written informed
      consent of the patient or parent/ guardian and an agreement to be randomized will be obtained
      from the patient before registering the patient in this clinical study. Patient will be
      informed about all the theoretical risks and benefits of the intervention under test
      (Annexure I). The patient will be given 72 hours to discuss the study with his/her family and
      take the decision regarding participation in the study.

      RANDOMIZATION & ALLOCATION CONCEALMENT Randomization will be done by a person not involved in
      the trial using computer generated randomization list. The study subjects will be blinded
      regarding intervention group.

      INTERVENTION AND DESIGN OF STUDY The main intervention in this prospective clinical study is
      the extraction of bilateral maxillary first premolars before initial leveling and alignment
      with retraction of anterior teeth using mini implants in first group (G1) and is the
      placement of zygomatic miniplates after initial leveling and alignment of maxillary dental
      arch in second group(G2) . The study consists of 2 groups with equal allocation of subjects
      in each group:- Group 1 (G1):- In this group, bilateral maxillary 1st premolars will be
      extracted followed by Levelling & alignment with 0.022" MBT preadjusted edgewise appliance.
      Maxillary arch will be stabilized with the help of 0.019" × 0.025" stainless steel wire.
      Placement of Mini implants bilaterally between maxillary 2nd premolar & 1st molar under LA.
      Hooks will be soldered on archwire used for stabilizing dentition. Ni-Ti closed coil spring
      will be used to apply force . Regular follow up of the patient will be done and records
      including cephalograms and study models will be taken post 6 months of application of NiTi
      closed coil spring Group 2 (G2):- In this group treatment will be initiated with 0.022" MBT
      preadjusted edgewise appliance. Maxillary arch will be stabilized with the help of 0.019" ×
      0.025" stainless steel wire. After that, bilateral Maxillary third molar will be extracted,
      if present followed by placement of zygomatic miniplates bilaterally under LA.Hooks will be
      soldered on archwire used for stabilizing dentition. Ni-Ti closed coil spring will be used to
      apply force . Regular follow up of the patient will be done and records including
      cephalograms and study models will be taken post 6 months of application of NiTi closed coil
      spring DATA COLLECTION The investigator will record the patient's name, address and contact
      number and other relevant case history records (Annexure II) will be taken. Cephalometric
      radiographs will be recorded before treatment and after 6 months of application of NiTi
      closed coil spring for assessment of hard and soft tissue changes. The pretreatment and post
      6 months of application of NiTi closed coil spring the cephalometric radiographs will be
      analyzed. The relevant values will be entered in a predesigned format. (Annexure III, IV).
      Soft tissue profile changes between pretreatment and post treatment will be assessed on
      lateral cephalogram and the raters- orthodontist, laypersons,patients,parents and general
      dentists will assess changes in facial appearance on a visual analog scale with profile
      photographs and comparison will be done between the two groups. Patient perception will be
      assessed using questionare rating by patient regarding various parameters at 1week, 2 weeks,
      1 month and 6 months after the placement of zygomatic miniplate or extraction Quality of life
      will also be assessed using questionnaire rating by patient at pre-treatment, mid-treatment
      and post treatment. Occlusal status changes between pre and post treatment will be assessed
      using PAR index(peer assessment rating between 2 groups).

      STATISTICAL ANALYSIS The data will be entered into Microsoft Excel and analyzed using SPSS
      21(Statistical Package For Social Sciences) package for relevant statistical comparison.
      Results will be presented in the form of tables and graphs.

      Descriptive statistics and inferential statistics will be used. Data will be checked for
      normality. In all the analysis, the level of significance will be set a 5 percent.
    
  