
    
      Aim of the study:

      The aim of the study is to evaluate the effect of a complex regional Advance Care Planning
      (ACP) intervention on care consistency with residents' care preferences in the face of
      potentially life-threatening disease.

      Study design:

      Multi-center cluster-randomised controlled trial (cRCT) to evaluate the clinical effects of
      regional implementation of a complex German ACP program (confer www.div-bvp.de) focussing on
      nursing homes and related health care providers. 44 nursing homes (clusters) with a mean of
      80 residents (observation units) each will be randomised into intervention (ACP
      implementation) and control (usual care) groups.

      Randomization:

      A cluster-randomization for control and intervention group is carried out after enrolment of
      the care facilities using a computer-based code with variable block length generated by the
      Institute for Medical Biometry and Epidemiology, Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg.

      Outcome measures, Data Collection and Time Frame:

      In this study, a combination of outcomes, derived from two separate and methodologically
      distinct data collections that have complementary strengths and limitations, allows to
      reconstruct a valid perspective on care consistency. The primary outcome, hospitalisation
      rate, has been chosen because of its relevance for sample size calculation; it is not to be
      misunderstood to represent the primary intention of the study intervention which is rather a
      reduction of unwanted hospitalisations (and other procedures). For secondary outcomes see
      separate section in this registration.

      For data collection 1, participating nursing homes provide an anonymous data set of all their
      residents (full census), including hospitalisation rate (= primary outcome) and days, last
      place of care, presence of advance care plans, and presence of preferences or orders that
      forbid hospitalisation. These data will be collected in month 1 (t0) for the 12 months
      preceding the trial; after month 9 (t1) for the preceding 9 months run-in phase of the
      intervention, and after month 21 (t2).

      Data collection 2, in contrast, is from nursing home residents who gave written informed
      consent to an in-depth analysis of their nursing and medical files, and comprises three
      elements:

      Firstly, at t0 and t2, a short survey will be performed with the residents (WHOQOL-OLD) or,
      if incapable, with the responsible nurses (QUALIDEM). Residents' files will be analysed for
      pre-defined life-sustaining procedures (such as transports to hospital, hospital days, tube
      feeding insertion and days, intensive care days, mechanical ventilation days, CPR attempts),
      and evidence of ACP process parameters like advance care plans, and durable powers of
      attorney.

      Secondly, residents' files will be assessed every 3-6 months for potential life-threatening
      events pointing to any of a list of predefined treatment decisions that correspond with the
      secondary outcomes (hospital admission, antibiotic treatment etc). Every identified treatment
      decision will be matched with the corresponding care preferences, derived by analysis of
      residents' files, and short interviews with residents, relatives, and nursing home staff, so
      in each case a best possible judgment can be made on care consistency.

      For deceased participants, thirdly, interviews will be conducted with a bereaved relative and
      a nurse who was in charge of this resident, again evaluating the correspondence of the recent
      care delivered, and the deceased resident's care preferences (After Death Bereavement
      Interview [domains Shared Decision Making and Advance Care Planning], Hospital Anxiety and
      Depression Scale / German version [HADS-D] and Impact of Event Scale / revised version
      [IES-R]).

      Sample Size Calculation:

      The sample size calculation was carried out with the Power Analysis and Sample Size (PASS)
      software 16.0.4. The type-one error α is set to 5% two-sided. In total, 40 care facilities
      with an average of 115 residents each and an intra-cluster correlation of 0.03 are required
      to achieve a power of 80 % and detect a statistically significant absolute reduction in the
      annual admission rate of 48% by (absolute) 8.6% to 39.4%. The primary analysis of the
      hospitalization rate in the 21-month observation period includes all residents who lived in
      the care facility during this time; with an average occupancy rate of 80 home places and a
      conservatively assumed death and new occupancy rate of 25% per year, this means 80 + [21/12]
      x 20 = 115 residents per home and 40 x 115 = 4,600 residents in total in 21 months. With an
      assumed early dropout rate of the facilities (between baseline survey and randomization) of
      about 10%, 44 facilities with a total of 5060 residents have to be recruited.

      Analysis

      All applicable statistical tests are two-sided and performed with a 5% significance level.
      Analyses of secondary endpoints are performed without adjustment for multiplicity. All
      confidence intervals presented are 95% two-sided.

      Descriptive Analysis

      A descriptive analysis is carried out at t0 (baseline before intervention) and t1 (after 9
      months) regarding the care facilities and residents. Categorical data are summarized by
      absolute and relative frequencies. Continuous data are summarized by mean and standard
      deviation (SD) as well as median, quartiles and/or interquartile range (IQR). The number of
      available observations and the number of missing observations are reported separately for
      treatment groups. Tests with statistical significance are not performed for baseline
      characteristics. All participating care facilities are described regarding the sum of all
      residents, proportion of male and female residents, mean age of residents, bed days per
      resident, sum of all residents with at least one hospital stay, sum of all hospital
      admissions, sum of all hospital days and sum of all deceased residents. All residents are
      described regarding age, sex and sociodemographic data.

      Primary Analysis

      The primary outcome is evaluated according to the intention-to-treat principle (ITT)
      analyzing the change in hospitalization rate per 100 residents from baseline to 21 months in
      intervention and control group. The ITT population consists of all care facilities randomized
      and included in the study. The primary analysis is performed at care facility level and
      includes a rate comparison.

      A poisson regression model is calculated taking into account the group (intervention vs
      control) and realized follow-up time as well as baseline hospitalization rate per 100
      residents as independent variables. The resulting statistical test for group comparison of
      intervention and control group is performed two-sided at the 5% significance level. For
      sensitivity analyses, per protocol analyses are performed as well as an evaluation with the
      negative binomial distribution to detect a possible but not expected over dispersion. Per
      protocol analyses will take into account whether a minimum share of residents have been
      offered ACP conversations in the respective nursing home.

      Secondary Analysis

      The evaluation of secondary outcomes is performed in an explorative manner and evaluated in
      the ITT population. All analyses relating to the residents of care facilities are performed
      within a framework of multi-level models. For variables including a rate comparison poisson
      regression models are calculated with events up to t2 as the dependent variable and group
      (intervention vs. control), study center, region and realized follow-up time as fixed
      effects, the particular baseline measurement as a covariate, and care facilities as random
      effect. Similarly, changes in other endpoints are analyzed in accordance to their statistical
      distribution by using appropriate regression models.

      Intervention

      The complex ACP intervention comprises an offer to all residents to lead ACP conversations
      with comprehensively trained ACP facilitators in close cooperation with family physicians
      (micro level), staff education and organisational development in nursing homes, related
      hospitals and emergency services (meso / institutional level), and a regional change
      management process involving all relevant actors and stake holders (macro level).

      Process Evaluation:

      In accordance with guidelines for complex interventions published by the Medical Research
      Council (2019), a concomitant process evaluation aims to analyse the acceptance by and impact
      of the intervention on residents, their relatives, nursing staff, nursing home management,
      and family physicians. This will identify potential barriers, burdens, and facilitating
      factors.

      Health Economic Analysis

      The objective of the health economic evaluation in BEVOR is to assess the economic
      implications of the intervention by comparing the cost and outcome of the intervention group
      (treatment according to the ACP approach) to the cost and outcome of the control group (usual
      care). All costs associated with the intervention as well as costs resulting from the
      consumption of health-related goods and services are considered from the perspective of the
      German social insurance.

      In order to assess the economic implications of the intervention, a cost-consequence analysis
      (CCA) is conducted. In addition, a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) is performed for
      selected endpoints by calculating the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), for
      example for an additional hospital admission averted or an additional case of goal concordant
      care.

      Standardised instruments will be used to record the health care consumption of study
      participants such as outpatient visits, hospital stays, medical aid, contact with therapists
      and care in nursing homes or retirement homes at baseline, t1 and t2. Due to the short study
      period, no discounting of the effects and costs is planned.

      95% confidence intervals for costs and outcomes will be calculated non-parametrically using
      bootstrap procedures. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses will be performed and
      cost-effectiveness acceptance curves executed to account for uncertainty.
    
  