
    
      The study is observational, homogeneous (performed in a single institution),
      non-interventional, and has two parts: one retrospective and one prospective (for which we
      ask the registration in the register of clinical trials).

      The patients with breast cancer treated with adjuvant hypofractionated radiotherapy at the
      Department of Radiotherapy of "San Raffaele Scientific Institute" (IRCCSSRaffaele) between
      January 2009 and June 2016 will be identified and their clinical and dosimetric data
      retrieved and analyzed.

      The objectives of the retrospective arm of the study are the analysis with a follow up of 5
      years of acute and late toxicity, and clinical outcomes, such as local and regional control,
      overall survival, disease free survival, cancer-specific survival. A secondary objective is
      the identification of prognostic factors for toxicity and for the disease progression.

      The objective of the prospective arm of the study, for a number of 500 consecutive patients
      who agree to participate to the study, is to assess the quality of life of the patients
      treated with hypofractionated short course (3 weeks) radiotherapy. The quality of life
      questionnaires (QLQ) of European organization for research and treatment of cancer (EORTC),
      general, QLQ-C30 and, specific for the breast (BR), QLQ-BR23, will be distributed before the
      radiation treatment, enrollment of the patient, at the end of therapy and during the follow
      up visits, for a duration of 5 years after the first follow up, scheduled at 6 months and
      then yearly.

      Being an observational non-interventional study, the follow up program of the patients with
      breast cancer, treated according the standard departmental protocol, will not be modified.
      The patients will be identified from the patients data base, from the medical records
      retrieved from the archive of radiotherapy, or alternatively the electronic archive, the
      pictures monitorising the local evolution from the photo archive. The data will be extracted
      from medical records. In addition, the dosimetric data of the treatments will be recovered
      from the physical dosimetric Archives and the extrapolated data related to clinical and
      toxicity outcomes.

      For the patients of the prospective observational arm, the dosimetric data and quality of
      life questionnaires, asa well as the results of follow up visits will be prospectively
      collected and registered in a data base, and subsequently analyzed.

      The toxicity registered during the visits carried out during the treatment will be determined
      using the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) scale, and during the follow up visits
      using the Scoring system of late effects of radiations on normal tissues (SOMA-LENT scale).
      The clinical point analyzed will be: quality of life, overall survival, disease free-, cancer
      specific-survival, local and regional control, distant metastases free survival, acute and
      late toxicity, physical dosimetry and aesthetic results. The detected parameters will be
      correlated between them, for the identification of prognostic factors. Statistical analyzes
      will be performed with SPSS software version 17.0 (SPSS Inc. Released 2008. SPSS Statistic
      for Windows, Version 17.0. Chicago, USA: SPSS Inc.) and MedCalc v.12.1.4.0 (MedCalc Software,
      Ostend, Belgium) and any updated version. Statistical tests that will be used: uni and
      multivariate logistic regression to define predictors of incidence and prevalence of toxicity
      and local/ distant relapses; Cox model ( proportionally-hazard regression) uni- and
      multi-variate for actuarial analysis of predictors for toxicity and local/ distant relapses;
      Wilcoxon matched -pair test for the quality of life index variations; Spearman test for the
      correlation between continuous variables, ANOVA test for the effect of treatment variables on
      changes in QoL scors over time.
    
  