
    
      This pilot study will use a mixed-methods design called an exploratory sequential
      translational research design. In this type of study design, the initial qualitative phase
      informs the design of an intervention (in this case a TB infection ECHO) and an instrument
      (in this case structured surveys) to study the intervention. The third phase implements the
      designed intervention and/or instrument to collect data and quantitatively assess the
      outcomes of interest (in this case feasibility and impact). The final aspect of the third
      phase explores an EMR data query to assess the reach of the intervention (providers' testing
      and treatment in the real world). In Aim 1, 30 primary care team members from our Brown
      Family Medicine, Care New England, and federally qualified health center networks will be
      purposively sampled to undergo key informant interviews regarding LTBI testing and treatment
      knowledge, attitudinal, and skill gaps. Questions will be asked to ascertain gaps throughout
      the entire latent TB infection care cascade. The results from Aim 1 will be used to design
      the survey instrument and the curriculum for an innovative, telementoring program (TB
      infection ECHO). In Aim 2, at least 20 additional primary care team members will be recruited
      to participate in a virtual six-month TB infection ECHO course. Participants will complete
      quantitative surveys before and after the course as well as post-session surveys following
      each session. Survey questions will assess feasibility measures related to process,
      resources, and management and impact measures related to learning and performance. Paired
      data from pre- and post-course surveys will be analyzed accordingly depending on the
      distribution of results. In Aim 3, data will be extracted from two ECHO participants' clinic
      sites before, during, and after ECHO implementation. Data will include information about LTBI
      testing and treatment to understand the reach and impact of the intervention of providers'
      testing and treatment behavior. This study will lead to an ECHO research framework that can
      be used for future ECHO courses that address other diseases in Rhode Island.
    
  