
    
      Jobelyn is an extract of sorghum bicolor that is popular in Nigeria as a herbal food
      supplement. This extract has been shown to have a high oxygen radical absorbance capacity
      (ORAC 37,622micro mole TE/g) compared to other botanical preparations 1. A second proven
      property is its anti inflammatory effect with a selective COX 2 inhibition 2. It has also
      been shown to correct anaemia induced in experimental rabbit by trypanosome brucei brucei 3.

      Jobelyn is being consumed as a herbal nutritional supplement in many disorders including
      sickle cell disease in Nigeria without complaint in over 15 years. The toxicology profile is
      impressive with a wide therapeutic range.

      Nigeria is one of the countries with the largest burden of sickle cell disease. It is a
      chronic genetic disorder that accounts for absenteeism at school and at work place. There is
      also a significant shortening of the life span of the affected patients. Sickle cell anaemia
      presents with recurrent bone pains and progressive organ damage that affects negatively the
      quality of life of the patients. Available measures that have been in use include use of
      hydroxyurea, chronic and acute red cell transfusion and haematopoietic stem cell
      transplantation. These have limitations in terms of adverse effects, cost and availability.

      The pathogenesis involves intracellular precipitation of the mutant haemoglobin, rigidity of
      the cell, adhesion of cells to the endothelium. These cause recurrent tissue hypoxia and
      reperfusion which cause release of reactive oxygen series and agents of inflammation. The
      extract of sorghum is therefore expected to improve the quality of life of these patients.

      Previous work done, have not investigated the long time effect of the extract on the quality
      of life of sickle cell patients. This study is therefore designed to compare the quality of
      life of patients on 500mg daily, 250mg daily and 2mg daily of jobelyn using adjusted standard
      tools. The secondary outcomes to study are changes in indicators of inflammation and systemic
      antioxidants in these patients. The study period is 12 months so that the period shall
      involve all the weather conditions in the region.
    
  