
    
      Background: Liver fibrosis is an important public health problem, with a substantial
      morbidity and mortality due to cirrhosis (the end stage) and hepatocellular carcinoma. All
      causes of chronic liver disease may lead to fibrosis. The amount of fibrosis determines the
      prognosis and influences the response to treatment of chronic liver disease.

      Several elastographic methods have been proposed for noninvasive detection and staging of
      liver fibrosis. Transient elastography (Fibroscan) is widely used by clinicians. Acoustic
      radiation force impulse (ARFI) is an elastography technique recently integrated in clinical
      ultrasound systems that may provide similar diagnostic performance to transient elastography.
      Magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) is a new method that can be integrated to a liver MRI
      study, which would allow liver stiffness, steatosis, iron overload and inflammation
      quantification in chronic liver disease.

      Objectives: 1) To compare the sensitivity of MRE and ARFI for detecting histology-determined
      significant fibrosis (F ≥ 2). Secondary objectives: 2) To compare the diagnostic accuracy of
      MRE, ARFI and Fibroscan for predicting histology-determined fibrosis stages. 3) To determine
      the influence of inflammation, steatosis, and iron deposition on the diagnostic accuracy of
      MRE, ARFI and Fibroscan for predicting fibrosis. 4) To determine thresholds optimizing
      sensitivity of ARFI and Fibroscan to screen patients and optimizing specificity of MRE to
      confirm liver fibrosis stage.

      Design: This will be a cross-sectional imaging trial comparing feasibility, diagnostic and
      fibrosis staging accuracy of stiffness measurements by elastographic methods in 108 patients
      with chronic liver disease, using histopathology as the reference standard. Paired index
      tests (MRE, ARFI and Fibroscan) will be performed as research procedures in close temporal
      proximity to the reference test (liver biopsy).

      Inclusion criteria: consecutive adult patients with known or suspected chronic liver disease
      secondary to hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease
      (NAFLD) undergoing a liver biopsy for clinical indications.

      Exclusion criteria: any contraindication to MRI, refusal to participate or provide informed
      consent, pregnant women, any other cause of chronic liver disease than hepatitis B, hepatitis
      C or NAFLD.
    
  