
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability of the combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab
      in patients with relapsed/refractory non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL).

      II. To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) or recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of the
      combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL.

      III. To evaluate the efficacy of the combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients
      with relapsed/refractory NHL.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall response rate (ORR), duration of response, progression-free
      survival and overall survival of the combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients
      with relapsed/refractory NHL.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To explore the relationship between prognostic parameters including ki-67 staining, PD-1
      staining and cell of origin (activated B-cell or ABC versus germinal center B-cell or GCB)
      with ORR to the combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients with
      relapsed/refractory NHL.

      II. To determine relationship between gene mutations and resistance to therapy with the
      combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL (BTK, PLC
      gamma 2, PD-1).

      III. To evaluate and monitor effects on B-, T-, and natural killer (NK)-cell function with
      the combination of ibrutinib and pembrolizumab in patients with relapsed/refractory NHL.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of ibrutinib followed by a phase Ib study.

      Patients receive ibrutinib orally (PO) daily on days 1-21 and pembrolizumab intravenously
      (IV) over 30 minutes on day 1. Treatment repeats every 21 days for up to 17 courses in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up for 30 days, and then every 3
      months for 2 years and every 6 months for 3 years.
    
  