
    
      The human frontal cortex subserves a number of psychological processes including those
      necessary for adequate implicit learning of visuomotor sequences and analogical reasoning.

        1. Implicit learning is a form of procedural learning indicated by behavioral improvement
           without awareness of a repeated stimulus structure that leads to improved performance.
           This type of learning has been associated with activation of the primary motor cortex
           (M1) in neuroimaging studies. While neuroimaging studies contributed to identify this
           region, they do not provide information about its relative role in the process of
           implicit learning. Is activity in this region necessary for implicit learning to occur?
           Is it possible that "energizing" this region using subthreshold transcranial magnetic
           stimulation can accelerate the implicit phase of learning? The purpose of this protocol
           is to transiently stimulate focally M1 and dorsolateral prefrontal cortex during
           acquisition of implicit learning and evaluate the effects on reaction times and accuracy
           of performance. We plan to study a group of normal volunteers, and three groups of
           patients who demonstrate impaired visuomotor procedural learning tasks: those with
           Parkinson's disease, cerebellar disease, and focal frontal lesions. The result expected
           from this study is an advanced understanding of the role that the motor cortex and
           dorsolateral prefrontal cortex plays in implicit learning in health and disease.
           Additionally, we expect to be able to shorten the implicit phase of learning by rTMS
           particularly in the patient groups that exhibit abnormal procedural learning.

        2. Analogical reasoning requires that subjects adequately process different forms of
           information and then perform a mapping process that allows them to recognize the
           similarity between two or more forms of information. Evidence has been provided that
           indicates this process of analogical mapping is subserved by the frontal cortex. We plan
           to study a group of normal volunteers, and three groups of patients who demonstrate
           impaired performance on tests of analogical reasoning and problem-solving: those with
           Parkinson's disease, frontal lobe dementia, and focal frontal lesions. We predict that
           subthreshold rTMS will facilitate analogical reasoning by promoting the activation of
           established or novel neural activation patterns that represents the actual mapping and
           decision processes required for analogical reasoning. Additionally, we expect to
           facilitate response times and accuracy in analogical mapping in those patients that
           exhibit abnormal analogical reasoning performance.
    
  