
    
      This study is to better understand the performance and features of the BiPAP autoSV Advanced
      System One. Philips Respironics will evaluate the PolySomnoGraphy (PSG) and Encore data from
      each night. The aim of the study is to characterize the acute outcomes of treatment provided
      by the device and evaluate any modifications made to the Philips Respironics device's
      algorithm

      The participants for this study will be experienced in having used servo ventilation therapy
      at their home because it is only such patients who are already using servo ventilation as
      part of routine clinical care that are eligible for participation.

      Participants will receive four (4) randomized PSG's during which they will receive treatment
      from the following devices in a randomized manner:

        -  FDA released Philips BiPAP AutoSV Advanced System One

        -  A Modified Philips BiPAP ASV

        -  FDA released ResMed S7 VPAP Adapt

        -  FDA released ResMed S9 VPAP Adapt

      The participants sought for this effort will be previously prescribed a servo-ventilation
      device as part of routine clinical care.

      Baseline with PSG

        -  Informed Consent

        -  Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria Review

        -  Demographics

        -  Anthropometric Measurements

        -  PAP Prescription information (if available; from Device or from Medical records). This
           is the pressure settings of the device that was prescribed by the patient's clinical
           sleep medicine provider.

        -  Medical History and physical examination

        -  Sleep History- Including that past 30 day detailed report

        -  Diagnostic PSG history (copies of sleep studies that were performed as part of routine
           clinical care in the past that qualified the patient for the servo-ventilation device)

        -  Current Medications

        -  Vital Signs (at beginning of PSG night)

        -  Research Trial PSG- Randomized to a device Procedures for Each PSG after Baseline

        -  Current Medications

        -  Vital Signs (at beginning of PSG night)

        -  Research Trial PSG- Randomized to one of the four devices (4 research PSGs will be
           performed for each subject).

           30 day Take Home with Modified Philips BiPAP ASV device

      After the last PSG participants will be sent home on Modified Philips Auto Servo Ventilation
      (ASV) study device. A wireless modem with oxygen saturation level (SPO2) connection will be
      connected to the Modified Philips ASV study device. The wireless modem with SPO2 connection
      is for device data collection/transmission purposes only that monitors the usage and
      performance of the device in the home-setting.

        -  The device setting should be set to the following:

             -  P max: 30

             -  EPAP min: 4

             -  Expiratory Positive Airway Pressure maximum (EPAPmax):15

             -  Pressure Support Minimum (PS min): 0

             -  Pressure Support Maximum (PS max): 15

             -  BiFlex (Bi-Level Flex): 2

             -  Rate: Auto

      After 30 day Take Home Participants Will

        -  Return to the Sleep Lab

        -  Complete the end of study questionnaire

        -  Return all of the study equipment

      Additional Take Home with the Modified Philips BiPAP ASV device:

        -  Participants may be asked to use the Modified Philips ASV study device for an additional
           30 days if more data is needed for analysis. Participants will complete the same end of
           day questionnaire noted above.

      After trial completion:

        -  When the Participant is done with the trial they will go back to using their own
           prescribed device.
    
  