
    
      Rationale: Since the introduction of intraocular lenses (IOL) in the treatment of cataract,
      the postoperative accommodative loss of the human eye has been a trending topic. Numerous
      studies show a high rate of spectacle-independency after bilateral implantation of multifocal
      IOLs (MIOL). However, glare, halos, and reduced visual acuity under different light
      conditions are common complaints after MIOL implantation. Due to its unique design, the
      TECNIS® Symfony Extended Range of Vision ZXR00 IOL (Abbott Medical Optics, Santa Ana, USA,
      hereinafter referred to as Symfony IOL) is theoretically providing a continuous range of
      high-quality vision for far, intermediate, and near distances with the same low incidence of
      halos and glare associated with monofocal IOLs under different light conditions.

      The goal of this study is to compare the AT LISA tri 839MP IOL (Carl Zeiss Meditec AG, Jena,
      Germany, hereinafter referred to as AT LISA IOL) versus the Symfony IOL in terms of
      postoperative achieved visual acuity at different distances, patient satisfaction (e.g.
      spectacle-independency, QoL), and postoperative complication profile (e.g. halo's and glare)
      under different light conditions. So far, there are no published studies comparing both IOLs.
      Therefore, we will perform this randomized control trial.

      Objective: The primary objective of this study is to compare the postoperative visual
      outcomes in a series of patients bilaterally implanted with the AT LISA IOL versus those
      bilaterally implanted with the Symfony IOL.

      Study design: Single-centre randomised clinical trial. Study population: 30 patients (60
      eyes) with bilateral cataract who require cataract surgery.

      Intervention (if applicable): Cataract surgery with bilateral implantation of either a
      Symfony IOL or an AT LISA IOL.

      Main study parameters/endpoints: The primary endpoint is the binocular uncorrected visual
      acuity at 66 cm distance under both photopic and mesopic conditions 13 weeks postoperatively.
      Secondary endpoints are: binocular (un)corrected visual acuity at far (4 meters) and near (40
      cm) under both photopic and mesopic conditions, reading performance, patient satisfaction,
      and complication profile.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness: Both lens models used in this study are CE-marked and commercially available.
      The pre- and postoperatively examinations to be performed in this study are part of the
      regular medical treatment of patients with cataract who need cataract surgery. There is one
      more postoperative visit compared to standard cataract surgery. Potential risks, such as
      postoperative residual refractive error, halo's and glare, associated with multifocal IOL
      implantation are expected to be comparable or even lower after implantation of Symfony IOL.
      Spectacle-independency and high quality visual acuity postoperatively are the expected major
      benefits of implantation of the Symfony IOL.
    
  