
    
      This is a research study on Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy for visual symptoms
      (MBCT-vision), to treat patients with debilitating symptoms of visual snow (VS) and its
      associated visual symptoms, severe light sensitivity (i.e. photophobia) and migrainous visual
      aura.

      VS is a condition of persistent flickering dots, like that of an out-of-focus analog
      television screen, affecting the whole visual field. There can be associated visual symptoms
      such as after-images, and trailing of images. No clinical trials for treatment have been done
      for VS. Instead, treatment data comes from patient case reports.

      Photophobia describes discomfort or pain to light stimulation. Causes include eye surface
      issues, migraine, or of an unknown trigger, and can be persistent despite optimum management
      of underlying causes.

      Patients with migrainous visual aura may have troublesome visual disturbances despite optimum
      migraine treatment.

      Previous studies have shown that dysfunction in brain pathways contribute to the above
      conditions.

      Mindfulness-Based Cognitive Therapy is a treatment that combines evidence-based approaches of
      Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT). MBCT is an
      established 8-week programme designed to develop skills of mindfulness and CBT strategies in
      individuals, through weekly small-group sessions and structured daily practice between
      sessions.

      Studies on MBCT and mindfulness-based interventions have shown improvements in psychological
      resilience; physical health including immune function; and neural changes associated with
      psychological wellbeing.

      The investigators propose that MBCT, modified to incorporate aspects relevant to persistent
      and distressing visual symptoms (MBCT-vision), can improve these debilitating symptoms by
      modifying dysfunctional neural pathways and equip patients with skills that promote
      psychological resilience and improve coping with residual symptoms.

      For this study, the investigators will assess the use of MBCT-vision in patients with visual
      snow or associated visual symptoms, migrainous visual aura or photophobia. This will be the
      first study of a mindfulness-based intervention in this population.
    
  