
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Mild-to-moderate chronic renal insufficiency (CRI) has been reaching epidemic proportions in
      the United States. Studies relating mild-to-moderate chronic renal insufficiency and
      cardiovascular risk were limited and inconsistent. Although much had been learned about the
      natural history and adverse outcomes associated with end-stage renal disease (ESRD), there
      was little specific information regarding risk factors for the development or progression of
      renal disease.

      The study was initiated in response to a Request for Applications entitled "NHLBI Innovative
      Research Grant Program" released in July, 2001. The purpose of the initiative was to support
      new approaches to heart, lung, and blood diseases and sleep disorders that used existing data
      sets or existing biological specimen collections whether obtained through National Heart,
      Lung, and Blood Institute support or not.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      The population-based study used data on an ethnically diverse large cohort of male and female
      health plan enrollees with extended follow-up. The study evaluated: a) whether baseline and
      decline in renal function over time were independent predictors of coronary heart disease
      (CHD), stroke, heart failure and peripheral vascular disease; b) effect modifiers of these
      relationships,including baseline hypertension and diabetes status. The study determined
      whether baseline and increase over time in blood pressure level (as well as prevalent and
      incident hypertension) were predictive of the subsequent risk of ESRD after adjusting for
      diabetes and for baseline serum creatinine, proteinuria and hematuria. The study also
      examined other potential predictors of ESRD including demographic factors (race/ethnicity,
      level of education) total cholesterol level, family history of renal disease, body mass
      index, sagittal abdominal diameter, cigarette (as well as cigar and pipe) smoking, coffee
      intake, alcohol consumption, family history of renal disease and self-reported occupational
      exposures. The study used existing longitudinal data resources at the Northern California
      Kaiser Permanente Division of Research and available patient-level cross-linkage with the US
      Renal Data System end-stage renal disease registry to obtain comprehensive renal and
      cardiovascular outcomes.

      The study completion date listed in this record was obtained from the "End Date" entered in
      the Protocol Registration and Results System (PRS) record.
    
  