
    
      The Study Drug:

      Sunitinib malate is designed to block pathways that control important events such as the
      growth of blood vessels that are essential for the growth of cancer.

      Within 14 days of enrollment on this study, you will have the following tests and procedures
      performed:

        -  Your complete medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam.

      Within 7 days of enrollment on this study, you will have the following tests and procedures
      performed:

      -Blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine will be collected for routine testing and to test for
      certain biomarkers (to check the status of the disease).

      Study Drug Administration:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take sunitinib malate
      capsules once a day (by mouth) for 4 weeks in a row followed by 2 weeks with no study drug.
      These 6 weeks are considered 1 cycle of study treatment.

      Study Visits:

      On Day 1 of each cycle (about every 6 weeks), you will have the following tests done before
      you take the study drug:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked about how you are feeling and about any side effects you have
           experienced since your last visit.

        -  You will have blood (about 3 teaspoons) and urine collected for routine tests and to
           test for certain biomarkers.

      For the first 4 weeks of treatment, you should have your blood pressure monitored. This may
      be done at your home with a digital pressure device, or you may visit your local doctor for
      this testing.

      About Day 21 of Cycles 1 and 2, blood (about 2- 3 teaspoons) will be drawn for routine tests.
      This may be done at your local doctor's office and results faxed to the study doctor.

      On Day 1 of Cycle 2, Day 1 of Cycle 3, and then Day 1 of every 2 cycles after that (Cycle 5,
      Cycle 7, and so on), you will have imaging scans to check status of the disease. This could
      include CT or MRI scans, an ECG, and a chest x-ray. If your doctor thinks it is necessary,
      you may have additional imaging scans at any time.

      On Day 1 of every other cycle (Cycle 3, Cycle 5, and so on), you will have an echocardiogram
      or MUGA scan.

      Length of Study:

      You may remain on study for as long as you are benefitting. You will be taken off study if
      intolerable side effects occur or if the disease gets worse. However, if the disease gets
      worse very quickly during Cycles 1 or 2, you will be taken off study at that time.

      Off-Study Visit:

      When you are taken off of treatment on this study, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam.

        -  You will be asked how you are feeling and about any changes in your medical history
           since beginning this study.

        -  You will also be asked about any side effects you have experienced since your last
           visit.

      This is an investigational study. Sunitinib malate is approved by the FDA for the treatment
      of adults with kidney cancer. Its use in patients with germ cell tumors is investigational.
      Up to 42 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  