
    
      Specific short-term objectives for this study include:

      O1: Identify a parsimonious set of domains that capture HRQOL in deployment-related TBI.

      O2: Construct and refine clinically-relevant HRQOL of life item banks for deployment-related
      TBI, in order to supplement the TBI-QOL and generic Neuro-QOL banks and extend the
      TBI/Neuro-QOL projects to address the unique issues facing wounded warriors with TBI.

      O3:Utilize Item Response Theory methodology to refine and calibrate targeted and generic item
      banks for use with deployment-related TBI.

      O4:Develop a short form, refining item sets and developing algorithms for future development
      of a computerized adaptive test.

      Research Design: The proposed three-year prospective study will employ a mixed methods
      research design in three stages. Combining qualitative and quantitative methods maximizes the
      ability of the study team to design and validate a clinically sensitive HRQOL measure for
      wounded warriors with deployment-related TBI. Furthermore, this approach is consistent with
      the FDA's draft guidance on patient reported outcome (PRO) measures development.

      Phase 1: Qualitative data obtained from focus groups of veterans and VA providers will be
      used to (a) evaluate the generic Neuro-QOL domains and items for relevance and
      appropriateness for use in deployment-related TBI and (b) identify new HRQOL domains and
      items specific to deployment-related TBI. [Objective #1] Phase 2: The generic and specific
      item banks will be field tested in a large sample of veterans with deployment-related TBI
      recruited from all 4 VA Polytrauma Rehabilitation Centers (PRCs). [Objective #2] Phase 3:
      Psychometric analyses, including item response theory (IRT) of field test data will be
      completed. The psychometric properties of the scale will be evaluated empirically. A short
      form will be developed, refining item sets and developing algorithms for future development
      of a computerized adaptive test (CAT). [Objectives #3 & 4]
    
  