
    
      Each participant will require (1) visit, which will last approximately 4-5 hours.

      At start of visit:

        1. Vitals are taken (temperature, heart rate, SpO2, respiration rate, blood pressure, Borg
           dyspnea score, Mmrc score) while participant is seated and using their normal oxygen
           prescription.

        2. Patient will remain seated during the following procedure with SpO2 and heart rate
           continuously being monitored.

      Pulsed Oxygen Control at Rest:

        1. Participant's oxygen will be turned off for 10 minutes as a washout period.

        2. Using the oxygen tank with the pulse regulator, the participant will be titrated to a
           pulse rate that maintains their SpO2 at an average of 95%.

           a. Increasing volumes of oxygen in 1 L/min increments every thirty seconds until an
           average of 95% SpO2 is maintained for 30 seconds.

        3. Once the participant is titrated to the correct amount of oxygen, they will remain on
           the oxygen for an additional 3 minutes

        4. Final oxygen flow rate, SpO2, Heart Rate, and Borg Dyspnea Score will be recorded in the
           last minute of the test.

           Mixed Continuous Air/Oxygen Efficacy at Rest:

        5. Participant's oxygen will be turned off for 10 minutes as a washout period.

        6. The participant will be delivered pulsed oxygen and high flow ambient air using the
           oxygen tank with the pulse regulator and Vapotherm setup, the participant will be
           titrated to a pulse rate that maintains their SpO2 at an average of 95%.

             1. High flow ambient air will be set to 15 L/min

             2. Increasing volumes of oxygen from in 1 L/min increments every thirty seconds until
                an average of 95% SpO2 is maintained for 30 seconds.

        7. Once the participant is titrated the correct amount of oxygen, they will remain on the
           oxygen for an additional 3 minutes.

        8. Final oxygen flow rate, SpO2, Heart Rate, and Borg Dyspnea Score will be recorded in the
           last minute of the test.

        9. Steps 5-8 are then repeated two more times for pulsed oxygen plus continuous flow
           ambient air at flow rates of 20 and 25 L/min.

           Mixed Pulsed Air/Oxygen Efficacy at Rest:

       10. Participant's oxygen will be turned off for 10 minutes as a washout period

       11. The participant will be delivered the out-of-phase pulsed oxygen and high flow ambient
           air using the oxygen tank with the pulse regulator and Vapotherm setup, the participant
           will be titrated to a pulse rate that maintains their SpO2 at an average of 95%

             1. High flow ambient air will be set to 15 L/min

             2. Increasing volumes of oxygen from in 1L/min increments every thirty seconds until
                an average of 95% SpO2 is maintained for 30 seconds.

       12. Once the participant is titrated the correct amount of oxygen, they will remain on the
           oxygen for an additional 3 minutes

       13. Final oxygen flow rate, SpO2, Heart Rate, and Borg Dyspnea Score will be recorded in the
           last minute of the test.

       14. Steps 10-13 are then repeated two more times for out-of phase pulsed oxygen plus pulsed
           high flow ambient air at flow rates of 20 and 25 L/min.
    
  