
    
      Screening & End of 3-Week Run-in Period (Visit 1, Week 0) : Screening will be conducted by
      invitation to potentially eligible subjects. The study will be explained and written informed
      consent will be obtained from parents or patients (when 18 years of age or older) prior to
      conducting any study-related procedures. After written informed consent and patient assent
      (when <18 years of age) have been obtained, potential participants will undergo a history and
      physical exam. Girls of childbearing potential will have a urine pregnancy test performed at
      the time of the enrollment visit and the need for contraception for the entire duration of
      the study will be discussed. At this and all other study visits, participants/parents will
      meet with a diabetes care provider (i.e., a physician, nurse practitioner, or physician
      assistant) who will carry out a comprehensive review of diabetes management and review blood
      glucose and ketone records. The treatment regimen will be adjusted as clinically indicated
      during the initial screening visit and baseline data (including CGM and insulin dose data)
      will be collected in all participants during the 3-week run-in period of the study; HbA1c
      levels will be measured at the end of the 3-week baseline period in all eligible
      participants.

      Baseline data obtained at the screening or 3-week baseline visit will include:

        -  Demographic characteristics, including family income, highest parental education
           attained, and number of individuals in the home

        -  3-week data regarding CGM, insulin dose and Fitbit data

        -  Anthropometric measures (height, weight, BMI, vital signs) and physical exam

        -  Current diabetes care practices (frequency of self-monitored blood glucose (SMBG),
           insulin dosing, review of blood glucose values)

        -  Medical History: duration of diabetes, comorbidities, past medical history, social
           history, family history, medications, and allergies

        -  Additional diabetes history including current/past use of CGM, insulin pump, and other
           modes of diabetes technology

        -  Frequency of Emergency Department visits due to decompensated diabetes (i.e.,
           hyperglycemia, ketosis and DKA) over the past 6 months

        -  Baseline laboratory assessment including lipid panel and urine microalbumin

        -  Psychosocial Questionnaires will be administered

             1. Hypoglycemia Fear Survey (parent and child)

             2. Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index

             3. Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire (DTSQ, DTSQc), which includes eight
                items, six of which form a scale (scored 0-36) in which higher scores indicate
                greater treatment satisfaction

             4. Diabetes-specific emotional distress using Problem Areas in Diabetes scale

      After collection of all baseline data, eligible participants will be randomized to either the
      control or intervention group and receive instructions for the study. Participants will also
      be provided with a FitBit and instructed to wear this for the duration of the study to track
      activity levels. Participants in the intervention group will be required to upload their
      diabetes devices to Tidepool each week for the duration of the study. Tidepool is program
      used at Yale Pediatric Diabetes clinics as the current standard of care for uploading devices
      (pumps, CGMs, Bluetooth enabled pens) in our clinics and is HIPAA compliant. Participants may
      contact the Yale Diabetes Team for insulin dose adjustments or the study team at any point
      during the study if they have a question about the study.

      Visit 2 (Week 13) & Visit 3 (Week 26): At these visits, all participants will meet with a
      diabetes care provider who will carry out a comprehensive review of diabetes management and
      review blood glucose and insulin records. Diabetes devices will be downloaded, and glycemic
      trends and insulin dosing regimens will be reviewed. The treatment regimen will be adjusted
      as clinically indicated.

      After 26 weeks in the study, intervention group parents will be asked to participate in focus
      groups to discuss the study. These meetings will take place at the Yale Pediatric Diabetes
      Research Center.
    
  