
    
      The project involves 3 types of research studies :

      Study 1. This is a retrospective study where the Neuromarker analyses will be applied to a
      large existing database (n=656) containing sleep EEG recordings along with health and
      functional outcome measures, from Veterans with PTSD only (n=107), TBI only (n=126), both
      PTSD and TBI (n=87), depression only (n=80), and controls (no PTSD/TBI/Depression; n=256).

      Study 2. This is a prospective study with n=10 Veterans with PTSD and n=10 controls to
      evaluate potential improvement on the performance of the Neuromarkers using a dense array
      (64) EEG montage.

      Study 3. This is a prospective study with PTSD (n=50) at multiple times during the Veterans
      ongoing clinical treatment for PTSD. sleep EEG measures will be collected at pretreatment,
      after first session of therapy, immediately after completion of therapy, and at 3-month post
      therapy.

      Methodology:

      For retrospective Study 1, the investigators will evaluate the performance of the PTSD
      neuromarker, in terms of sensitivity/ specificity/accuracy, utilizing a database of n=656
      Veterans who have previously enrolled in the VA Portland Health Care System Sleep Laboratory
      Data Repository. The data repository contains sleep polysomnography (PSG) recordings (EEG and
      cardiorespiratory parameters), demographic information, medical history, and the following
      validated surveys (1) Epworth Sleepiness Scale, (2) NIH PROMIS, (3) Insomnia Severity Index,
      (4) Functional Outcomes of Sleep, (5) Patient Health Questionnaire, (6) PTSD symptoms
      checklist (PCL-5).

      For prospective study 1, the investigators will perform sleep-EEG studies in n=10 PTSD and
      n=10 control subjects using a 64 channel EEG montage and will compare the performance of the
      neuromarkers, in distinguishing PTSD from non-PTSD groups, with the accuracy of diagnosis
      using only six EEG electrodes as performed in Study 1.

      For prospective study 2, n=50 Veterans with PTSD symptoms undergoing the Veterans clinical
      treatment at the Bedford VA will be recruited and the following data will be acquired:
      Sleep-EEG, Demographic, Medical History, and Use of Medications forms, The Beck Depression
      Inventory, Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index, Quality of Life Enjoyment and Satisfaction
      Questionnaire-Short Form, NIH PROMIS, PCL-5, and Clinician-Administered PTSD Scale (CAPS-5).
      Primary independent variable will be changes in the Neuromarker and the dependent variables
      will consist of the functional and quality of life measures.
    
  