
    
      The purpose of this protocol is to develop and test new MRI techniques applicable to patients
      undergoing cardiovascular evaluation with the ultimate goal of translating the technical
      advances into improving clinical diagnosis and management of patients undergoing
      cardiovascular evaluation. Patients undergoing cardiovascular evaluation and healthy
      volunteers will be scanned under the protocol. We will evaluate new developments in
      non-contrast and contrast MRI of the heart and blood vessels and novel postprocessing
      methods.

      The use of the newer sequences will be used to improve clinical imaging workflow and disease
      diagnosis. We hope to use this protocol to clearly describe cardiovascular disease and
      associated problems using novel MRI methods and follow certain subsets of patients with
      disease as part of a natural history process. Inter-related physiologic systems may be
      phenotyped by MRI with characterization of disease associations between different organ
      systems.

      Additionally, information regarding gadolinium deposition of the brain will be gathered. The
      literature regarding deposition of gadolinium in the brain has a large void regarding
      information of prevalence of the phenomenon in healthy subjects. The National Institutes of
      Health has a large healthy subject pool who have participated in gadolinium contrast MRI
      studies. This pool of healthy subjects is not easily available at most clinical MRI centers,
      and thus, we are uniquely well-situated to be able to answer this outstanding question.

      For all objectives, MRI studies will be conducted in the NIH MRI systems located at the NIH
      Clinical Center in Bethesda, Maryland. These procedures may involve the intravenous
      administration of commercially available MR contrast media and exercise or pharmacologic
      stress testing. Results will be used to evaluate the performance of various research pulse
      sequences, gradient coils, and radiofrequency receiver coils on human subjects and will
      provide essential ground work for specific patient protocols, both diagnostic and
      therapeutic.
    
  