
    
      Although there are good reasons for women of reproductive age to participate in interventions
      that prevent cholera, cholera vaccination programs and studies have generally excluded
      pregnant women since there is little specific information on the safety of the vaccine during
      pregnancy. However, there are several biological reasons why inactivated OCVs are unlikely to
      have a harmful effect on fetal development. First, the bacteria in the vaccine are killed and
      do not replicate. Second, the vaccine antigens act locally on the gastrointestinal mucosa,
      are not absorbed, and do not enter the maternal or fetal circulation. Finally, the vaccines
      do not trigger systemic reactions (e.g., fever) associated with miscarriage in early
      pregnancy.According to the latest WHO position paper in relation to OCV, vaccination in
      countries where cholera is endemic may include groups that are particularly vulnerable to the
      severe forms of cholera, and for whom the vaccines are not contraindicated, such as pregnant
      women and HIV-infected individuals.

      While the World Health Organization (WHO) recommends vaccination for pregnant women, the
      package inserts for Dukoral® and ShancholTM are more cautious and suggests that the vaccines
      are not recommended for use in pregnant women. Even so, the ShancholTM package insert states
      that, "Administration of ShancholTM to pregnant women may be considered after careful
      evaluation of the benefits and risks in case of a medical emergency or an epidemic". In the
      most recent results published in 2012, pregnant women inadvertently vaccinated with Dukoral®
      during the mass vaccination campaign in Zanzibar in 2009 did not experience any harmful
      effects. On the other hand, there is no information on the safety of ShancholTM vaccine in
      pregnant women. New evidence is needed to inform decisions on the true safety of this vaccine
      in pregnancy. If it is safe, this vaccine will be a valuable tool in reducing the burden of
      cholera in a population that disproportionately suffers from this disease.

      On January 13, 2015, the President of the Republic of Malawi declared a state of disaster
      following the persistent rains that resulted in floods affecting 15 of the 28 districts in
      the country. The first confirmed case of cholera was reported in Malawi on February 11, 2015.
      As of 4 March 2015, Malawi had registered 72 cases with 2 deaths. To stop the outbreak of
      cholera, a cholera vaccination campaign program was carried out between 30 March 2015 and May
      3 2015 targeting the camps and the nearby communities in Nsanje District. This campaign
      provided two doses of vaccine to all age eligible people irrespective of pregnancy status.
      This study is designed to do a follow-up of only the pregnant women aiming at the following
      objectives:

      Specific Objective: To conduct surveillance of pregnant women to detect adverse pregnancy
      outcomes within communities in Nsanje District, Malawi that received oral cholera vaccine in
      a reactive vaccination campaign that started on 30 March 2015. Through household surveying
      and enrollment of pregnant women with monthly follow-up visits, the investigators will
      determine the cumulative incidence of adverse pregnancy outcomes among vaccinated and
      unvaccinated women in Nsanje and Chikwawa Districts, Malawi.
    
  