
    
      BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is a new and rapidly evolving
      treatment option for patients with severe degenerative aortic valve stenosis. Short- and
      mid-term results with transcatheter valve prostheses are promising in high-risk surgical
      patients, but long-term results are lacking. TAVI could potentially be an attractive
      minimally invasive treatment also for patients with moderate and low surgical risk, but no
      comparison has been made with the standard surgical treatment for aortic valve stenosis.

      AIM: To compare TAVI and surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in patients with severe
      aortic valve stenosis.

      POPULATION: All patients with severe degenerative aortic valve stenosis referred for elective
      or subacute aortic valve intervention will be screened for study eligibility. To be included
      subjects must be 70 years or older, anatomical and technical eligible for both interventions,
      expected to survive more than 1 year after the intervention, and able to provide written
      informed consent. Study exclusion criteria include isolated aortic valve regurgitation or
      other significant valve disease, coronary artery disease requiring revascularisation at the
      time of referral, previous open heart surgery, a myocardial infarction or percutaneous
      coronary intervention within the last year, a cerebral infarction within the previous 30
      days, severe renal -, pulmonary -, or infectious disease, and unstable preoperative
      condition.

      DESIGN: The project is a national multicenter randomized clinical trial. Patients fulfilling
      all inclusion- and no exclusion criteria will be randomized to either TAVI or SAVR.
      Randomization will be 1:1 with 140 subjects in each group and stratified according to centre,
      age (70-74 years vs 75 and older), and coronary co-morbidity not requiring revascularisation
      (yes vs no). Primary outcome will be assessed by a blinded adjudication committee. Patients
      screened but not included in the study will be followed yearly. Screening and inclusion will
      commence in December 2009. Inclusion is expected to last 2 to 3 years, and subjects will be
      followed for 10 years.

      INTERVENTIONS: Subjects randomized to TAVI will undergo percutaneous retrograde trans-femoral
      or trans-subclavian aortic valve implantation with the Medtronic CoreValve(TM)
      self-expandable bio-prosthesis. Before implantation a balloon dilatation of the aortic
      annulus will be performed. Subjects randomized to SAVR will undergo conventional surgical
      aortic valve replacement with a bio-prosthesis on cardiopulmonary bypass in normothermia with
      cold cardioplegia cardiac arrest. All interventions will be performed under general
      anaesthesia, and post-interventional medical and anticoagulation treatment will be uniform.

      END POINTS: The primary end point is a combined outcome measure consisting of death from any
      cause, myocardial infarction, and stroke one year after the intervention. Secondary end
      points are death from any cause, cardiac death, cardiac -, cerebral -, pulmonary -, and renal
      complications, prosthesis re-intervention, procedure success and - time, admission lengths,
      functional class, quality of life, prosthesis and left ventricular structure and function.
      Follow-up visits will be performed after 30 days, 3, 6 and 12 months, and yearly thereafter
      for a minimum of 10 years.
    
  