
    
      Infliximab, a monoclonal IgG1 antibody to the pro-inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis
      factor-alpha (TNF-α), was the first efficacious biological therapy for IBD. Infliximab
      dramatically improved the quality of life in IBD patients. Besides inducing and maintaining
      remission in refractory IBD patients, infliximab has achieved new treatment goals such as
      intestinal mucosal healing and a reduction in hospitalizations and surgeries on the
      long-term. However, up to 30% of IBD patients do not respond to this costly therapy and
      potentially harmful therapy, and in an extra 20-30% response is incomplete. The mechanism of
      resistance to infliximab is unknown and predictors of response to infliximab are currently
      lacking.

      The aim of this study was to investigate the mucosal gene expression defects associated with
      active Crohn's disease (CD)and ulcerative colitis (UC), and to study the effect of infliximab
      induced downregulation of inflammation and mucosal healing on these abnormalities, using
      whole genome gene expression microarray technology on endoscopic-derived intestinal mucosal
      biopsies from control individuals and patients with active IBD, and this before and after
      their first infliximab treatment.

      Sixty-one patients with inflammatory bowel disease, 19 with Crohn's colitis, 18 with Crohn's
      ileitis and 24 with UC, undergo a colonoscopy with biopsies before and 4-6 weeks after the
      first infliximab treatment. Response to infliximab was defined based on endoscopic and
      histologic findings. A control group of 12 individuals was also included.Total RNA was
      isolated from biopsies, labelled and hybridized to Affymetrix HGU133plus2.0 Array. Microarray
      data were analyzed using Bioconductor software and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis software.
      Quantitative real time RT-PCR and immunohistochemistry were used to confirm microarray data.
    
  