
    
      Myocardial infarction is a common presentation of coronary artery disease. The World Health
      Organization estimated in 2004, that 12.2% of worldwide deaths were from ischemic heart
      disease; with it being the leading cause of death in high- or middle-income countries and
      second only to lower respiratory infections in lower-income countries. Worldwide, more than 3
      million people have STEMIs and 4 million have NSTEMIs a year . STEMIs occur about twice as
      often in men as women .

      Myocardial infarction means that the tissue ischemia caused tissue death, as a result of
      diminished blood supply to a part of the heart muscles. The blood supply of the heart is
      coronary arteries (right and left). Proximal RCA occlusions were very often found among men
      with fatal pre-hospital MI; whereas left-sided coronary occlusions were significantly more
      frequent in hospital-admitted survivors of MI. Left-sided coronary occlusions may be
      associated with a more favorable pre-hospital phase of acute MI compared to proximal RCA
      occlusions .

      The right coronary artery (RCA) supplies the right ventricle, 25% to 35% of the left
      ventricle and SA node in 60% of people. Proximal RCA occlusion increases the risk of
      arrhythmia and shock leading to increase the mortality. Sinus bradycardia and cardiogenic
      shock accounts for the majorities of the mortalities of RCA occlusion.

      Sinus bradycardia is more frequent when the infarct-related artery is the RCA than other
      arteries involvement. Proximal occlusions of the RCA presented sinus bradycardia more than
      medial and distal occlusions.

      Mortality of cardiogenic shock due to right ventricular infarction (55%) was comparable to
      that due to left ventricular infarction (59%) in spite of patients being younger and a
      greater incidence of single vessel disease. The worse prognosis in patients with RV
      myocardial involvement may be related to the increased risk of life-threatening ventricular
      arrhythmias in these patients.

      Approximately one half of patients who present with signs and symptoms of acute inferior
      myocardial infarction have proximal occlusion of the dominant right coronary artery (RCA) and
      also show ECG signs of RV wall ischemia or infarction. Occlusion sufficiently proximal to
      cause RV free wall injury also frequently compromises the blood supply to the sinoatrial
      node, atrium and atrioventricular (AV) node, producing such effects as sinus bradycardia,
      atrial infarction, atrial fibrillation and AV block.

      The transthoracic echocardiography is the most common method to assess the function of the
      right ventricular function as it non-invasive, inexpensive and available in most of the
      hospitals. The presence of RV dysfunction on early echocardiography is an important predictor
      of an adverse prognosis, both short-and long-term, in STEMI patients.

      The Tissue Doppler Imaging method depicts myocardial motion (measured as tissue velocity) at
      specific locations in the heart. Tissue velocity indicates the rate at which a particular
      point in the myocardium moves toward or away from the transducer. Integration of velocity
      over time yields displacement or the absolute distance moved by that point.

      Evaluation of right ventricular function by echocardiography is challenging and often ignored
      in clinical practice. Tricuspid annular velocity correlates with right ventricular ejection
      fraction . Tricuspid annular excursion (tricuspid displacement) predicted 2-year survival in
      patients with pulmonary hypertension . Isovolumic acceleration, derived from tissue velocity,
      is a load-independent measure of contractility and correlates with right ventricular
      end-systolic elastance. This correlation is less pronounced in clinical studies . More recent
      experimental data suggest a weak relationship between isovolumic acceleration and regional
      contractility. Systolic velocity and strain best correlated with invasively determined right
      ventricular stroke volume and dynamically tracked changes in right ventricular function
      during vasodilator infusion. Strain rates and strain quantitate regional right ventricular
      systolic function in various pathologies
    
  