
    
      Obesity is associated with the development of metabolic diseases including type 2 diabetes
      and immune disorders. Obesity also leads to reduced lifespan and accelerated cellular
      processes similar to those of aging. On the other hand, aging is accompanied by the
      accumulation of visceral fat and the metabolic complications associated to obesity. Both
      obesity and aging have been identified as chronic, low-grade inflammation disorders. The
      inflammation in aging has been considered as a risk factor for the development of most of
      age-related diseases, and therefore for morbidity and mortality in the elderly. However, the
      specific mechanisms leading to inflammation in aging remain largely unknown.

      Resolution of inflammation is an active process which involves production of several series
      of specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators such lipoxins, resolvin, protectins and maresin.
      The hypothesis of this trial is that the chronic inflammation associated to obesity and aging
      could be the result of an impaired production of these specialized pro-resolutive lipid
      mediators, mainly in adipose tissue. On the other hand, the investigators also propose that
      altered transcriptional pattern might be responsible for the development of the inflammation
      associated with the pathophysiology of obesity and aging. Therefore the first general aim of
      the current project will be to characterize the mechanisms involved in the unresolved chronic
      inflammation that arises during obesity and aging.

      Because n-3 PUFAs (polyunsaturated fatty acids) serve as substrates for the synthesis of
      specialized pro-resolving lipid mediators and are important transcriptional regulators, the
      investigators propose that dietary supplementation with n-3 PUFAs, alone or in combination
      with regular physical exercise could promote the resolution of local and systemic
      inflammation and the subsequent metabolic disorders associated to obesity and aging. A trial
      in overweight/obese postmenopausal women will be carried out to characterize the potential
      beneficial effects of regular administration of a DHA-rich dietary supplement and/or a
      progressive resistance training (PRT) program on weight and fat mass loss, insulin
      sensitivity, inflammatory markers and gene/miRNA/lipidomic/metabolomic profile in serum
      and/or adipose tissue. Moreover, changes in gut microbiota will be also addressed.
    
  