
    
      Twenty 'healthy' participants and 20 participants with moderate to severe bronchiectasis in a
      stable state were recruited. Three readings for pulmonary function (FEV1); and respiratory
      muscle strength (PImax;PEmax) were taken on two occasions 10-14 days apart according to a
      standardised protocol.

      A standard protocol and instructions for all measurements of respiratory strength were used.
      Measurements were made at the same time of day and with no change in medication. Before the
      subject undertook the respiratory muscle strength tests the assessor provided verbal
      explanations and demonstration of the procedure. The subject then had a practice run before
      values were recorded. Values were reported as positive numbers.

      Measurements were obtained by one of three assessors. Pretraining ensured that all assessors
      followed standardised methodology.

      Pulmonary function measures were conducted according to the ATS standards (ATS, 2002). The
      FEV1 percentage predicted value was reported as the ECCS scale. FEV1 had to remain within 10%
      to eliminate the possibility of a pulmonary exacerbation.

      Respiratory muscle strength measurements were conducted using a handheld mouth pressure
      meter, a one way inspiratory or expiratory valve, a single use bacterial filter, nose clips
      and a standard flanged mouthpiece (Micro Medical Ltd UK). The pressure gauge was calibrated
      with a small air leak (greater than 1mm in diameter) to reduce use of the buccal muscles. A
      hand held mouth pressure machine computed average pressures in cmH2O sustained over two
      seconds and a microprocessor displayed a digital result.PImax was measured near residual
      volume after maximal expiration. PEmax was measured near total lung capacity after a maximal
      inspiration. There was a minute's rest between each manoeuvre. Verbal encouragement was given
      to each participant to obtain maximal effort. Three technically acceptable readings for
      inspiratory and expiratory pressure measured were recorded.

      All participants gave written informed consent.
    
  