
    
      Back pain causes considerable suffering and is a major financial burden, costing the NHS an
      estimated £1.1 billion annually (Maniadakis and Gray 2000) and representing the second
      largest cause of absence from work (Young and Bhaumik, 2011). Chronic low back pain (CLBP),
      defined as pain lasting more than 12 weeks, is responsible for 80% of this cost (Department
      of Health, 2009). Physiotherapy is a common treatment for CLBP, with 1.26 million patients
      referred to NHS physiotherapists at a cost of £150 million per annum (Maniadakis and Gray,
      2000). Several forms of physiotherapy are recommended for CLBP, including exercises, manual
      therapy and back classes (NICE, 2009). The type of physiotherapy varies considerably in
      duration and content, despite evidence that different treatments have similar effects
      (Critchley et al, 2007). Most trials show no clear superiority for any treatment, with the
      majority leading to only moderate improvement (Artus et al 2010).

      A key focus of treatment is helping people with persistent CLBP to self-manage their
      condition and thus improve pain, disability and distress to ensure that an episode of low
      back pain does not result in long-term withdrawal from normal activities, including sickness
      absence from paid employment. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) has a good evidence base
      for the treatment of chronic pain (Eccleston et al, 2009; Hoffman et al, 2007; Scascighini et
      al, 2008) and the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy recognises that CBT can fall within a
      physiotherapist's scope of practice (Donaghy et al 2008). However, CBT-based treatments
      delivered by physiotherapist have only produced modest improvements in CLBP (Lamb et al.,
      2010) and it remains unclear how to best implement cognitive and behavioural approaches
      during physiotherapy interventions.

      One promising theory-based approach to chronic pain is a form of CBT called Acceptance and
      Commitment Therapy (ACT) (Hayes et al., 1999). The primary focus of ACT is on enhancing
      psychological flexibility and reducing struggle with pain. This involves helping people to
      accept their pain and related feelings, become more aware and less dominated by thoughts and
      beliefs about pain, and identify and follow directions in life that reflect their values
      (Vowles et al, 2011). A meta-analysis of ACT for chronic pain showed improvements in
      depression, anxiety, pain intensity, physical functioning and quality of life (Veehof et al,
      2011). It has good maintenance of treatment effects up to three years post treatment (Vowles
      et al 2011), important in a chronic relapsing and remitting condition like CLBP. This
      suggests that ACT-based interventions could be well suited to patients with CLBP. In all
      published studies to date, ACT has been delivered by psychologists or within
      multidisciplinary teams but there is very limited availability of clinical psychologists for
      CLBP and most patients referred to secondary care are seen by physiotherapists not
      psychologists (Maniadakis and Gray, 2000).

      This study aims to evaluate the efficacy of a novel physiotherapy intervention incorporating
      the newest and most promising form of CBT, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) against
      usual physiotherapy care. The investigators believe this will optimise outcome for patients,
      the NHS and society at large. The investigators have conducted a proof of concept feasibility
      study to develop a brief physiotherapist-delivered ACT-based intervention, 'PACT', consisting
      of two one hour sessions plus a follow-up phone call. The aim is to test PACT against usual
      physiotherapy care in a phase 2 trial. The main research question is whether PACT
      (physiotherapist delivered ACT-based treatment) is effective. The investigators hypothesise
      that the group receiving PACT will have improved function at 3 months compared to the
      treatment as usual group, and that this will be maintained at 12 months. The primary
      objective of this study is to evaluate the efficacy of PACT, a novel brief ACT-based
      physiotherapy intervention for chronic low back pain, at the primary end point of function at
      3 months follow-up.
    
  