
    
      STATISTICS

        1. Number of Participants:

           Investigators anticipate to recruit 1000 patients from at least 25-30 European Centers
           and prospectively collect data from 100 - 200 patients per year. Statistical analysis
           will be performed on the total number of participants. Based on the available
           literature, we anticipate an average cure rate of 50% for AUS and for male slings an
           average cure rate of 65% at the end of study.

           With an estimated sample size of 700 patients treated with Artificial Urethral Sphincter
           (AUS) and 300 patients with a male sling, and taking into account an attrition rate of
           10-15%, we will be able to detect a 50% cure rate with 6% on either side of the 95%
           Confidence Interval for AUS (proportion 0,50 with 95% Confidence Intervals: 0,44-0,56)
           and a 65% cure rate for patients treated with male slings (proportion 0,65 with 95%
           Confidence Intervals: 0,57-0,74).

        2. Statistical Analysis:

      No adjustment procedures or imputations of missing data will take place.

      2.1 Patient characteristics: Patient characteristics as age, weight, length, etc. will be
      summarized using descriptive statistics - the number of patients with non-missing data, mean,
      standard deviation, median, minimum and maximum will be presented for continuous outcomes,
      and the number and percentage of patients in each category will be presented for categorical
      outcomes. A subgroup analysis by Device subtype will be carried out.

      2.2 Primary endpoint analyses: Cure rate will be the main endpoint of the study, and is
      defined as urinary continence with no need for use of pads or the use of 1 light security
      pad. The cure rate after 10 years of study follow up will be calculated together with its 95%
      Confidence Intervals, for the total patient group as well as for each device subtype.

      2.3 Secondary endpoints analyses: Time being Incontinence-free will be a secondary endpoint
      of the study, and is defined as the interval from the date of regaining continence after
      surgery to the date of incontinence. Continence is defined as no pad use or one light
      security pad per 24 hours use. Patients who die will be censored at time of death. Overall
      time being incontinence-free will be presented using the Kaplan-Meier curve, for the total
      patient group as well as for each device subtype.

      Time being revision-free will be another endpoint of the study, and is defined as the
      interval from the date of surgery to the date of revision. Patients who die will be censored
      at time of death. Overall time being revision-free will be presented using the Kaplan-Meier
      curve, for the total patient group as well as for each device subtype.

      The results of questionnaires ICIQ Male LUTS Questionnaire SF and EQ-5D-5L will be analysed
      comparing baseline with 12 weeks post-surgery and the yearly follow up results for the whole
      group and for the device subgroups. Further, complications (and SADE's), pain and symptoms
      during and post-surgery and other post-operative data will be evaluated in the device
      subgroups.

      2.4 Prognostic factors: Univariable and multivariable analysis will be carried out to
      identify clinical and surgical variables that correlate with (in)continence or revisions for
      each of the device subtypes.

      STUDY CONDUCT CONSIDERATIONS

      A research co-coordinator will be available in each center for obtaining Ethics Committees
      (ECs) approval and to deliver logistics of patient screening, follow-up visits, data
      collection and data entry into the electronic Case Report Form (eCRF).

        1. Regulatory and Ethical Considerations:

           Prior to initiation of a study site, the research co-coordinator will obtain approval
           from the appropriate regulatory agency and ECs to conduct the study in accordance with
           applicable country-specific regulatory requirements. The study will be conducted in
           accordance with applicable subject privacy requirements.

        2. Recruitment and Consent:

      A patient information sheet and consent form will be available and translated in the local
      language. This form will state that data will be processed anonymously and handled according
      to local data protection laws. In case a patient is eligible, the physician will verbally
      inform the patient about this registry and its purpose. The patient will also receive a
      written patient information sheet in the local language explaining the registry. The patient
      will be given ample opportunity to ask any questions he might have. The patient will be given
      as much time as needed to consider his participation in this registry. If a patient agrees to
      participate, the informed consent form will be signed prior to registration of the patient
      data.

      ADMINISTRATIVE ASPECTS AND PUBLICATION

        1. Handling and Storage of Data and Documents:

           All items as described in the protocol will be entered into an eCRF. The physician will
           guarantee that all team members or other persons involved in the center will respect the
           confidentiality of any information concerning the registry patients. All parties
           involved in this registry will maintain strict confidentiality to assure that neither
           the person nor the family privacy of a patient participating in the registry is
           violated. Likewise, the appropriate measures shall be taken to avoid the access of
           non-authorized persons to the registry data. Data will be made anonymous and extracts of
           the anonymized data will be accessible for reporting and statistical analyses. The
           processing of the personal data on the patients taking part in this registry, and in
           particular regarding data concerning consent, shall comply with the local law on the
           privacy and with the European Directive on the Privacy of data (95/46/EC).

        2. Site Audit:

           Site audits will be conducted by the European Association of Urology Foundation for
           Urological Research (EAU RF) or another designated third party in approximately 5-10% of
           the sites. To avoid fraud, spot check monitoring and source data verification will be
           conducted to identify if a patient really exists and if the data entered in the database
           is retrieved from real patient files and has been transferred correctly.

        3. Project Database:

           For the purpose of the study, the data will be stored in a central database held by
           ESFFU under the umbrella of EAU RF. The investigator or a qualified employee will enter
           all relevant patient data into a web based electronic Data Capture system. Data checks,
           programmed in the data capture system, use predefined rules for range or consistency
           with other data fields in the registry. Data will also be checked for accuracy and
           correctness by data-managers of the EAU RF according to internal procedures. The site
           will be capable of modifying the data to assure accuracy with source documentation. At
           the end of the study, EAU RF will archive the study data in accordance with internal
           procedures. Specific instructions for use of the eCRF system will be included in the
           training material provided to the investigational site.

        4. Amendments:

           Amendments are changes made to the registry protocol. Amendments will be notified or
           submitted for approval to the Ethical Committee (EC) as required according to local law.

        5. Annual Progress Report:

           According to local requirements, the sponsor will submit a summary of the progress of
           the registry to the participating physicians and research coordinators for submission to
           the local ECs (if required) in each country once a year. Information will be provided on
           the date of inclusion of the first patient, numbers of patients included and numbers of
           patients that have completed the registry, issues, and amendments.

        6. End of Registry Report:

           According to local requirements, the sponsor or physician will notify the Competent
           Authority (CA), the Central Ethical Committee (CEC) and local ECs of the end of the
           study. The registry will end after such decision is taken by ESFFU and EAU RF. In case
           the registry is ended, the sponsor or physician will notify the CA/CEC and local ECs (if
           required), including the reasons for the premature termination. Within one year after
           the end of the registry, the sponsor will submit a final registry report with the
           results of the registry, including any publications/abstracts of the registry, to the
           CA/CEC and local EC (if required).

        7. Steering Committee:

      A Steering Committee was assembled, consisting of urologist key opinion leaders in the field
      of reconstructive surgery and physicians/scientists with clinical and methodological
      expertise. The Steering Committee is responsible for the assignment of National Coordinators.
      Each participating country has one National Coordinator who has been selected by the Steering
      Committee. The Steering Committee will convene once or twice a year.
    
  