
    
      The investigators will determine whether a self-directed COPD Action Plan for the management
      of COPD exacerbations can be implemented with trained community health workers (CHWs). The
      investigators hypothesise that COPD action plans with disease-specific education and support
      from a CHW will lead to improved quality of life and will be locally-appropriate, acceptable,
      and feasible to implement.

        1. Clinical Aim 1: Assess the clinical effectiveness of CHW-supported COPD Action Plans in
           LMICs by comparing change in disease-specific quality of life measures (SGRQ) at one
           year.

        2. Implementation Aim 1: Assess the appropriateness, acceptability, and feasibility of
           implementing a CHW-supported, self-directed COPD Action Plan for management of COPD
           exacerbations.

      The investigators will also determine whether a CHW-supported, self-directed COPD Action Plan
      is cost-effective, accounting for implementation realities. We hypothesise that COPD Action
      Plans are a cost-effective intervention, as measured by the incremental QALY.

        1. Clinical Aim 2: Assess the cost-effectiveness of COPD Action Plans in terms of
           health-related costs and health benefits and explore broader cost implications to
           productivity.

        2. Implementation Aim 2: Explore how the value of the COPD Action Plans is affected by both
           implementation factors that restrict optimal provision ('constraints') and sub-group
           differences, which have implications for equity.

      The final design of our intervention will be informed by formative work prior to commencement
      of the main study.

      Study fieldworkers will enroll and randomise 80 adults aged ≥40 years with GOLD GRADE B-D
      COPD at each of the following three countries in the catchment areas of existing community
      census areas in Bhaktapur (Nepal), Lima (Peru), and Nakaseke (Uganda). They will then be
      randomised via an online system into either a control (usual care) or intervention group.

      The intervention arm will receive a specific self-management plan for COPD facilitated by
      trained CHWs, who will then visit the participants monthly. The control group will receive
      basic COPD education and be reminded about the sites for their local health care providers.
      The primary effectiveness outcome for the study will be change in health-status (SGRQ)
      between baseline and 12 months, across the two groups. We will also examine the
      cost-effectiveness of self-management for individuals with COPD.

      The investigators will also examine the feasibility of implementing our self-management
      action plan intervention at scale.
    
  