
    
      1. Rationale:

           1.1. Sleep and the circadian rhythm: Sleep is usually considered to be a time of rest
           and recovery from the stress of daily life. It also plays a crucial role in the normal
           immune and endocrine systems. Studies showed that there is a link between sleep duration
           and a large variety of health issues, including obesity, diabetes mellitus, hypertension
           and depression. Furthermore, sleep deprivation has been linked to immunosuppression as
           well as alterations in normal wound healing, thermoregulation and upper airway muscles
           (leading to a blunted response to hypercapnia and hypoxia).

           Sleep is divided into 2 cycles: non-REM (NREM) sleep and REM sleep. NREM sleep is
           divided into 4 more stages (1, 2, 3 and 4). REM sleep is characterized by the presence
           of rapid ocular movements, and is commonly known as the phase during which dreams occur.
           Most individuals progress through the various stages, starting from NREM stage 1, to
           finally reach REM sleep. Usually, each sleep cycle lasts 90 minutes , with an average of
           4-5 cycles per night.

           During sleep, various hormonal changes occur, which shows the importance of sleep in the
           normal functioning of the body. Growth hormone and cortisol are released during sleep,
           and melatonin levels markedly increased at sleep initiation, with a decrease right
           before waking up. Circadian rhythms are normal fluctuations of the biological function,
           and are part of an endogenous 24 hour clock situation in the supra-chiasmatic nucleus
           (SCN) of the anterior hypothalamus, responsible for controlling the day/night variations
           of physiological and behavioral functions of the organism. These wake/sleep cycles are
           usually divided into an average of 8 hours of nocturnal sleep and 16 hours of
           wakefulness in humans.

           Circadian rhythms make cyclic environmental changes easier to adapt to, and influence a
           number of behaviors and physiological parameters. This is due to a genetic molecular
           clock which is present in most nucleated cells. This clock is composed of a group of
           transcription factors and regulators of transcription factors which exerce a
           retro-control over one another. Thus, protein of the molecular clock can have very
           important effects on the transcriptional activity and the metabolism, leading, directly
           or indirectly, to a variation of 50% of the total gene pool.

           1.2. Sleep disorders Sleep disorders are frequent, and impact the quantity and quality
           of sleep, leading to an increase in morbidity. Insomnia is generally defined as being a
           "sleep insatisfaction", and can be treated pharmacologically or non pharmacologically.
           Considering the side effects of the pharmacological approach, as well as the possible
           decrease over time of the latter's efficacy, elderly patients should initially receive a
           non pharmacological treatment (sleep hygiene, cognitive-behavioral therapy for insomnia)
           for several months before initiating a pharmacological treatment including
           benzodiazepines (BZP) (triazolam, estazolam, temazepam, flurazepam and quazepam),
           non-BZP hypnotics (zaleplon, zolpidem and eszopiclone), the recently approved suvorexant
           (an orexine receptor antagonist), and/or melatonin receptor agonists as well as anti
           depressors (doxepine).

           1.3. Sleep particularities in critical care patients Patients admitted in critical care
           units can be extremely vulnerable to circadian rhythm disturbances, because of the
           gravity of their underlying diseases, as well as environmental factors such as noise and
           frequent therapeutic/diagnostic interventions.

           Several factors could contribute to the sleep disturbances in these patients, mainly
           noise, interactions with them, mechanical ventilation, pain, drugs, artificial light,
           fatigue, stress delirium, altered physiology, as well as their severe disease.

           Several physiological profiles are also altered, such as arterial blood pressure, pulse,
           temperature, spontaneous motor activity, melatonin and cortisol levels. These sleep
           alterations are major sources of anxiety and stress during the ICU stay.

           Sleep studies in ICU patients have found:

             -  frequent arousals;

             -  sleep fragmentation;

             -  alteration in the circadian rhythm;

             -  a majority of NREM sleep stage 2 (N2);

             -  a reduction in sleep efficiency;

             -  a prolonged sleep latency;

             -  an absence or decrease in the NREM sleep stage 3 (N3);

             -  an absence or decrease in REM sleep Melatonin secretion is also altered in sedated
                patients as well as mechanically ventilated patients, as reported by certain
                studies. In severe sepsis patients, alterations in the urinary excretion of
                6-sulfatoxymelatonin (a melatonin metabolite) are noted, suggesting a role of
                sepsis, as well as concomitant drugs, in the pathogenesis of melatonin secretion.

           1.4. Melatonin Administration of melatonin affects sleep architecture and
           thermoregulation in humans, with a causal relationship existing between melatonin and
           somnolence, which could be induced by thermoregulation mechanisms. This confirms the
           hypothesis that the initiation of melatonin secretion could contribute to the increase
           of somnolence as well as the increase in sleep that happens as the evening goes on.

           The diurnal administration of exogenous melatonin (when it is absent endogenously)
           induces sleep in humans. The levels of endogenous melatonin decrease with age, which
           could lead certain elderly patients to complain of bad sleep quality.

           Human studies have shown that the exogenous administration of melatonin stimulates the
           induction and maintenance of sleep. The increase of neuronal activity in the SCN is
           secondary to an increase in the endogenous nocturnal melatonin secretion. The synthesis
           and secretion of melatonin are parallel to the sleep rhythm, and are necessary to
           regulate the sleep/wake cycle by inhibiting the part of the brain responsable for the
           wakefulness function of the hypothalamus.

           Various melatoninergic agonists are now available to treat sleep disorders:

             -  Ramelteon, for the treatment of insomnia due to difficult initiation of sleep;

             -  Agomelatin, for the treatment of depression and its associated sleep disorders;

             -  Tasimelteon, which seems to be effective for the treatment of the transitory
                insomnia due to jet lag The potential of melatonin as a hypnotic and chronobiotic
                agent makes its agonists good candidates for the induction of physiological sleep
                (in cases of insomnia and circadian rhythm alterations). They could also treat
                comorbid insomnia while having positive effects on a wide range of neurological,
                psychiatric, metabolic and cardiovascular disorders.

           Melatonin is perhaps one of the best approaches to sleep disorders, since it treats not
           only wake/sleep disorders, but also regulates the physiological rhythms, allowing for a
           better synchronized internal clock. It could be considered as a "soft and natural"
           treatment since it mimics the effects of a molecule which is already present in the
           human body.

           1.5. Pharmacogenetic of chronodisruption and its pharmacological treatment A certain
           number of well studied genes seem to be important to initiate and maintain the circadian
           rhythm, such as the CLOCK gene (Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput) which codes for
           proteins affecting the persistence and length of a circadian cycle; BMAL1 (Brain and
           Muscle AryL hydrocarbon receptor nuclear translocator-like) which is a transcription
           factor; PER1, PER2 and PER3 which are negative elements in the circadian transcription
           cycle, interacting with other regulator proteins by transporting them into the nucleus;
           CRY1 and CRY2 (CRYptochromes) which are also negative elements that inhibit the
           CLOCK-mediated transcription; and the orphan nuclear receptor RevErbA which plays an
           important role in the regulation of CLOCK and BMAL1's expression. The variations in the
           expression of all these genes can lead to variations in physiological functions and
           sleep architecture.

           1.6. Conclusion To this day, a small number of studies have evaluated the effect of
           melatonin on the modifications of the characteristics of sleep in critical care units,
           with mostly a small studied population. However, no study has been realized on a large
           population, nor has it evaluated the association between genetic factors and response to
           treatment, hence the originality of our study.

        2. Study Objectives

      Primary objectives:

        -  Modifications of the sleep characteristics in critical care patients

        -  Incidence of delirium

        -  Degree of agitation in patients

      Secondary objectives: evaluate the effect of gene polymorphism on:

        -  sleep characteristics

        -  response to melatonin

        -  critical care complications

        -  cognitive function when waking up/at critical care discharge

        -  respiratory function

        -  endocrine function

        -  cardiac function

        -  body temperature
    
  