
    
      This randomized prospective controlled trial was designed, conducted and reported in
      accordance with the standards of the CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials)
      statement. The approval of the Istanbul Bilgi University Clinical Investigations Ethics
      Committee was obtained, and the enrolled subjects signed a free and informed consent form.

      Trial design KT was applied once a week, 6 times in total. Exercises were performed for all
      patients for 5 weeks 5 days a week, 3 sets 15 repetitions each day. The exercise program
      included quadriceps set exercise, straight leg lifting, mini squat, stretching to hamstring
      and gastrosoleus muscle groups.

      Intervention KT application: KT application includes 2 stages. The banding in the first step
      is directed to the patellar tendon in order to absorb the load of the knee. The second step
      is directed directly on the medial plica to benefit from its analgesic effect. For the first
      step, an I-band is measured from the top of the patella to the tuberositas tibia. I-band is 6
      cm wide and 5 mm thick. This I-band is cut into Y-band. First, the part of the band above the
      patella is pasted with 10% tension. Then the patient's knee is flexed to maximum flexion and
      the tails of the band are pasted around the patella with 0% tension. The tails of the band
      are combined together on the tuberositas and completed. For the second step, 4 I-bands 8 cm
      long and 1.5 cm wide are prepared. The middle of the I-bands is attached to the medial plica
      with a 0% tension, giving a star shape.

      Participants The study was included 80 patients with diagnosed as MPS in the Orthopedics and
      Traumatology outpatient clinic of Bağcılar Training and Research Hospital. MPS was diagnosed
      by MRI imaging in patients with pain and MPP test in the patella anteromedial. The patients
      were divided into two groups, each comprising 50 patients. KT and exercise were given to the
      patients in the first group, and only exercise was given to the patients in the second group.
      The inclusion criteria included patients between the ages of 20 and 55 who were diagnosed as
      MPS by MPP test and MRI imaging and did not develop cartilage damage. Patients with meniscal
      tear, chondral injury or instability of the knee were excluded.

      Outcome measurements Measurements were performed twice before and after the treatment for all
      patients. Pain threshold with digital algometer, pain severity with visual analog scale
      (VAS), disability level with Lysholm Knee Scoring Scale, functional strength and dynamic
      balance of lower extremity with stairs up and down test, quality of life with Nottingham
      Health Profile (NHP) were evaluated before and after treatment.
    
  