
    
      The main objective of assisted reproduction technologies (ART) is to achieve a healthy live
      newborn. The selection of an euploid embryo using PGT-A, offers theoretical advantages
      including increased implantation rate, reduced abortion rate, and reduces the time to achieve
      an ongoing pregnancy.

      Certain advances in ART such as vitrification or improvement in culture media makes safer the
      PGT-A procedure. As a result of these improvements, embryo biopsy has been driven from
      blastomere to trophectoderm biopsy at blastocyst stage for preimplantional genetic testing
      for aneuploidy analysis (PGT-A 2.0) and it is now the method of choice for PGT-A in many
      centers. Trophectoderm biopsy presents advantages over the use of blastomere biopsy: 1. It
      allows obtaining around 6-10 cells without reducing the potential for pre-embryo development
      or its ability to implant. 2. Greater strength in the results, since it reduces false
      diagnoses associated with factors such as mosaicism. 3. It allows a combined study for
      monogenic mutations, aneuploidy screening and / or structural alterations.

      The frequency of inconclusive results in PGT-A varies depending on the embryonic stage used,
      with values of 9-10% of the total embryos analyzed for single blastomere biopsy and between
      2-6% when trophectoderm cells are biopsied.

      These inconclusive results, mainly in couples without euploid embryos available to transfer,
      cause them uncertainty and disappointment. In these situations, it is advisable to guide
      patients in making decisions about what to do with these pre-embryos through genetic
      counselling. Patients must decide if they wish to reject them, to transfer them without the
      certainty of a reliable diagnosis or to re-analyze them. Scientific literature reporting
      these types of inconclusive results and that give advice about its possible etiology are
      scarce. There is no clear evidence about the impact of double biopsy, double
      vitrification-warming or if transferring embryos with inconclusive results, is safe for
      achieving a healthy newborn. The objective of this review is to learn from the published
      studies about the safety of embryo re-analysis and its potential reproductive outcome when
      there are embryos with inconclusive results after PGT, in order to offer adequate counselling
      for patients.
    
  