
    
      Globally, 1.1 billion people lack a simple pair of reading glasses to correct impaired near
      vision, called presbyopia. Presbyopia can begin as early as age 30 years, commonly becomes
      functionally apparent by 40, and is essentially complete by 55 meaning that presbyopia is
      most common at the height of the working years. The global productivity loss due to
      uncorrected presbyopia has been estimated to exceed US$25 billion, and presbyopia is shown to
      be associated with significant impairment in activities of daily living. There is paucity in
      trial evidence of the impact on near vision spectacle correction on work productivity and
      workplace retention. The largest reported effect sizes among such trials (specifically for
      productivity) was the PROSPER trial, which showed that providing inexpensive near vision
      glasses increased the daily weight of tea picked among presbyopic, mostly-female Indian
      agricultural workers by more than 5 kg (21.7%) compared to those in the control group.

      Study Plan: The investigators will choose 1260 textile workers aged 30 years and above with
      uncorrected presbyopia who are employed by Shahi Exports Private Limited in Karnataka, India.
      They will be randomly assigned into one of two groups: a group receiving free reading glasses
      within one week of undergoing vision assessment ("Intervention") or a group receiving
      identical reading glasses at the end of the assessment period ("Control").The main study
      outcome will be the proportion of workers who continue working at the factories in the
      intervention group (as opposed to control). The investigators anticipate that the glasses
      intervention will increase retention by 20% in the Intervention group at 1 year.

      The study will also assess the workers' efficiency, why they have left employment, how
      satisfied and valued they felt at their work and how often they use their glasses for work.
      These other outcomes will help the investigators to better understand the causal pathway
      between vision and work retention. The investigators will also study the total cost of
      providing glasses per additional worker retain their employment.

      Research question: Will providing free glasses to presbyopic Indian textile workers increase
      work retention?

      Design: Investigator-masked, multi-center randomized controlled trial with a qualitative
      component

      Rationale: Although presbyopia is safely, effectively and inexpensively treated with glasses,
      rates of optical correction in LMICs are as low as 10%. The way in which firms manage workers
      has profound implications for performance by way of worker attendance, retention, and
      productivity. Similarly, worker engagement, and the extent to which workers feel valued, is a
      key determinant of firm performance. As the low-skill workforce in many developing countries
      transitions rapidly from agriculture to industrial work, employers struggle with high worker
      turnover due to poor working conditions, low pay, and restricted worker rights. Few trials
      have been published which address the question of whether healthcare interventions can
      improve work performance as well as workplace retention, especially among persons over the
      age of 40 in low and middle-income countries (LMICs). There is interest in understanding if
      these results obtained in an agricultural setting can be extended to other
      financially-important sectors.

      Methods: The investigators will choose 1260 textile workers aged 30 years and above with
      uncorrected presbyopia who are employed by Shahi Exports Private Limited in Karnataka, India.
      They will be randomly assigned into one of two groups: a group receiving free reading glasses
      within one week of undergoing vision assessment ("Intervention") or a group receiving
      identical reading glasses at the end of the assessment period ("Control").

      The main outcome 18 month later will be work retention; secondary outcomes are workers'
      efficiency, the reasons the workers left their employment, satisfaction and perceived
      self-valued at work and glasses wear adherence at work. Attitudes about presbyopia and
      spectacle use and intervention cost-effectiveness will be studied.
    
  