
    
      Photopheresis is FDA-approved as a device in the treatment of patients with cutaneous T-cell
      lymphoma. Using treatment schedules of once monthly treatment, with each treatment consisting
      of two consecutive days of photopheresis, initial response rates of 20-60% have been
      reported. However, in publications, for those who attained a complete response, median time
      to response was 11 months (range 5 to 14 months). Response has been shown to correlate with
      intact immune function in patients with normal CD8+ cell prior to therapy. The mechanism of
      activity of photopheresis in cutaneous T-cell lymphoma while not fully understood involves
      apoptosis of malignant tumor cells. Modifications in the original scheduling of
      photopheresis, with shorter cycles of 2 or 3 weeks, have met with success. Several centers
      have been using an accelerated delivery schedule of treatments, treating patients every 2
      weeks.

      Bexarotene was FDA approved for patients with CTCL. It is an RXR selective retinoid.
      Retinoids can serve as physiologic rather than cytotoxic drugs to arrest or reverse the
      process of carcinogenesis. There is a growing body of evidence that supports a role for
      retinoids in the induction of apoptosis. In the two, completed Phase II-III studies that
      formed the basis of approval (approved dose is 300mg/m2/day) of bexarotene capsules, 193
      patients with previously treated CTCL were administered bexarotene capsules. Response rates
      were in the order of 50% for the 300mg/2/day, however, 79% of patients had hyperlipidemia.

      This study will therefore primarily examine the safety and tolerability of using increasing
      doses of bexarotene in combination with photopheresis. As a secondary endpoint, we will
      attempt to establish whether bexarotene can upregulate the immune response and therefore
      potentially enhance the response rates to photopheresis in patients with CTCL.

      Six cohorts of patients will be treated:

      Dose level cohorts enrollment will be sequential with centralized dose assignment at Boston
      Medical Center

      To establish safety, a 30 day pause will occur between cohorts. During the 30 day waiting
      period, additional patients will be able to enter the open cohort, provided that there is no
      grade 3 or 4 toxicity in the 3 patients already entered into the cohort. Once the 30 day
      period has ended, new patients will be able to enter the next cohort.

      Cohort 1 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 75mg po per day with food for
      7 days prior to beginning photopheresis(Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when photopheresis
      begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2 consecutive days the
      first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently with photopheresis
      for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature discontinuation for
      toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Cohort 2 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 150 mg po per day with food
      for 7 days prior to beginning photopheresis (Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when
      photopheresis begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2
      consecutive days the first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently
      with photopheresis for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature
      discontinuation for toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Cohort 3 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 225 mg po per day with food
      for 7 days prior to beginning photopheresis (Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when
      photopheresis begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2
      consecutive days the first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently
      with photopheresis for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature
      discontinuation for toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Cohort 4 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 300 mg po per day with food
      for 7 days prior to beginning photopheresis (Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when
      photopheresis begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2
      consecutive days the first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently
      with photopheresis for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature
      discontinuation for toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Cohort 5 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 375 mg po per day with food
      for 7 days prior to beginning photopheresis (Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when
      photopheresis begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2
      consecutive days the first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently
      with photopheresis for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature
      discontinuation for toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Cohort 6 (3 patients): Bexarotene will be given at the dose of 450 mg po per day with food
      for 7 days prior to beginning photopheresis (Day -6 to 0, day 1 being the day when
      photopheresis begins on first day of cycle 1). Photopheresis will be performed on 2
      consecutive days the first 2 days of each 21 day cycle. Bexarotene will be given concurrently
      with photopheresis for 4 cycles. The duration of the study is 3 months with premature
      discontinuation for toxicity at the discretion of the investigator, or progressive disease.

      Toxicity will be assessed using the National Cancer Institute common Toxicity Criteria at the
      beginning of each 21 day cycle. Assessments will be every 3 weeks and at the final follow-up
      visit.

      All patients will undergo a skin biopsy from lesional skin prior to entry to confirm active
      disease. A portion of the biopsy will be used for immunohistochemical studies to identify
      populations of activated lymphocytes in the skin and to identify apoptotic markers (TUNNEL
      METHOD). A skin biopsy will be subsequently obtained after 7 days of bexarotene, and at the
      end of the study. A portion of each skin biopsy will be used for immunohistochemical studies
      to identify populations of activated lymphocytes in the skin (TGF-B and Fas on malignant T
      cells) and to identify apoptotic markers (TUNNEL method)

      All patients will undergo baseline studies of immune function, including a FACS analysis of
      circulating lymphocyte populations to identify activation antigens on T-lymphocytes, as well
      as in vitro assays of T-cell function such as proliferation assays and cytokine production by
      cultured T-cells. These studies will be repeated after the second and fourth. For these
      assays, one green top tube will be drawn on day 1 before photopheresis and on day 2 at the
      completion of therapy. One serum tube (one red top) will be drawn on days 1 and 2 and serum
      will be stored at -20° until the assays are performed.

      In summary, the following research skin biopsies and labs will be obtained:

      Baseline (Day -6): one green top and one red top Baseline (Day -6): skin biopsy from lesional
      skin

      Day 1 of cycle 1: skin biopsy from lesional skin

      Cycles 2 and 4: Day 1: one green top and one red top Day 2 one green top and one red top

      End of cycle 4: skin biopsy from lesional skin

      In addition to the following evaluations, the BASELINE visit will include a history with
      patient demographic. At the baseline, tri-weekly, and final visits, the following information
      will be collected:

        -  Patient weight.

        -  Serum chemistries, including LDH, LFTS, albumin, uric acid, Ca, Phos, Mg, Cholesterol,
           Triglycerides, Thyroid function (T4, TSH)

        -  CBC differential, Sezary count if applicable

        -  ECOG score.

        -  Skin assessment (previously published weighted skin score) and a description of other
           symptoms attributed to CTCL, and at the final visit, an overall assessment

        -  Names and doses of all concomitant medications

        -  Quality of Life assessment (Skindex-29 and FACT-G)

      The investigator will also evaluate patient's response by organ system involvement, with an
      overall assessment, as follows:

        -  Complete Response (CR): Resolution of all manifestations of CTCL lasting one month.

        -  Partial Response (PR): A 50% improvement of the sum total of all disease (CTCL) lasting
           one month.

        -  No Change (NC): Failure to meet criteria for either response or progressive disease.

        -  Progression: a 25% or more progression of existing disease or the appearance of any new
           disease (disease worsening).

        -  Flare: After an initial response (either CR or PR), an increase in the manifestation of
           CTCL requiring additional treatment.
    
  