
    
      Sleep disturbance is common in patients with renal disease. According to previous studies, it
      occurs in more than 50% of chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients and those undergoing
      dialysis. 1, 2 Insomnia, restless legs syndrome (RLS), daytime sleepiness, and sleep apnea
      syndrome are common complaints; such sleep disturbances significantly affect the quality of
      life, overall morbidity, hospitalization, and mortality. 3-5 The main remedy for sleep
      disturbances, hypnotics, have notable side effects such as daytime sleepiness, psychological
      dependence, and drug-to-drug interactions, which make these drugs less than an optimal
      therapy. 6 Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), the most widely used psychological
      intervention for insomnia, combines cognitive strategies such as stimulus control and
      relaxation training and has been proven to be effective for chronic insomnia in the elderly,
      cancer patients, and chronic pain sufferers7, 8. In most published articles CBT has been
      reported be superior to pharmacological and other behavioral therapies.9 In our previous
      investigation10, we found that the CBT was effective in PD patients with sleep disturbance
      presented with declined of Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) and Fatigue Severity Scale
      (FSS); furthermore, the inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1β, IL-18, TNF-α also declined
      after CBT in those insomnias PD patients. In previous studies, changes in cytokine release
      correlated with insomnia in patients undergoing hemodialysis11 or with breast cancer.12
      Nevertheless, the effectiveness of CBT of sleep disturbance in insomnias HD patients is still
      not known.

      In this study, we investigated the effectiveness of CBT for treatment of HD patients with
      insomnia by assessing changes in sleep quality subjectively through self-report
      questionnaires. The purpose of this study was to identify new therapeutic options for sleep
      disorders beyond hypnotics in HD patients. Because the association of sleep disturbance,
      oxidative stress and autonomic dysfunction in general population and patient with sleep apnea
      were demonstrated in previous investigations, we also investigate the possible impacts of CBT
      on the oxidative stress, autonomic dysfunction in these patients.

      This study is designed to:

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of CBT for sleep disturbance in maintenance HD patients.

        2. To evaluate the possible impacts of CBT on inflammatory cytokines, oxidative stress and
           autonomic dysfunction in insomnias HD patients. .

        3. To compare the systemic inflammation, oxidative stress and autonomic dysfunction in HD
           patients with and without sleep disturbance.

      Study designs and methods Eighty ESRD patients undergoing maintenance hemodialysis (HD) for
      more than 6 months with subjective complaint of sleep disturbance and screening PSQI ≥ 5 will
      be recruited for the investigation. Besides, 40 ESRD patients undergoing HD for more than 6
      months without sleep disturbance will also be recruited as the population-base control group.
      Insomnias HD patients (N=80) will be randomized into interventional group (CBT group) and
      control group in 1:1 ratio in the following 6-week trial.

      All participants (N=120) will receive questionnaires including Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index
      (PSQI), Fatigue Severity Scale (FSS), Beck depression index (BDI) and the International Index
      of Erectile Function (IIEF) for men and the Index of Female Sexual Function (IFSF) and
      check-ups of baroreflex sensitivity (BRS) for autonomic dysfunction before the trial. Also,
      all of them will get fasting blood sampling at the initiation of trial in the morning before
      mid-week HD section for analysis of inflammatory cytokines (serum IL-1β, IL-18, and TNF-α
      levels) and oxidative stress (TBARS, Total antioxidant status and serum 8-OHdG). Participants
      with sleep disturbance will be randomized into CBT group and control group in 1:1 ratio and
      all of them receive sleep hygiene education before the trial. Participants who randomized
      into the CBT group will receive 6 1-hour weekly treatment sessions of CBT during the 6-week
      period. Participants who received hypnotics chronically before being recruited were
      maintained at the same dose of hypnotics during the therapy. After the 6-week trail, all
      participants will receive PSQI, FSS, BDI, IIEF, IFSF and BRS again and 2nd blood sampling for
      analysis of inflammatory cytokine and oxidative stress again. All the questionnaires, BRS and
      analyses of inflammatory cytokine and oxidative stress will be performed again 3 months after
      the trial for the long-term follow-up analysis. The details of investigation are demonstrated
      in Figure 1.
    
  