
    
      It is known that major abdominal surgery is associated with increased risk of morbidity and
      postoperative mortality. The complexity and the duration of the procedure as well as the
      failure to antagonize neuromuscular blocking agents at the end of surgical procedure are risk
      factors for postoperative complications.

      Muscle relaxation plays an important role that is to facilitate intubation and to allow a
      better surgical condition. For this reason it is necessary to maintain, during the surgery, a
      deep neuromuscular block.

      Deep block at the level of the adductor muscle of the thumb is obtained by measuring 1-2
      responses during post-tetanic stimulation (the so-called Post-Tetanic Count or PTC).

      The maintenance of a deep neuromuscular block requires further doses of neuromuscular
      blockers and, therefore, the need of long recovery times regardless of the drug used.

      Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of neuromuscular blocking and reversals commonly used
      in clinical practice can undergo significant changes due to the presence of alterations in
      organ function such as hepatic and renal insufficiency. In these patients we see more
      frequent adverse events such as prolonged neuromuscular blockade and postoperative residual
      curarization.

      In the literature it is considered suitable a recovery from neuromuscular block if the
      relationship between the fourth and first contraction during Train of Four (TOF) is greater
      than 0.9 (TOF-ratio> 0.9). This may take a long time so the reversal of blocking agents at
      the end of the surgical procedure is the solution to reduce this waiting period. The
      importance of an adequate recovery from neuromuscular block at the end of anesthesia is
      related to avoid postoperative residual paralysis (PORC) and reducing the risk of
      postoperative respiratory complications potentially fatal.

      Rocuronium is characterized by an increase in half-life and an increase in the recovery time
      of neuromuscular transmission (TOF ratio of 0.9) in cirrhotic patients compared to controls
      healthy people.

      To prevent residual neuromuscular blockade and all the complications that it brings with it
      it could be resorted the use of anti-cholinesterase drugs (neostigmine) to antagonize
      indirectly the action of non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents. Neostigmine works by
      increasing the availability of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction. The
      administration of neostigmine may however cause bronchospasm, abdominal pain, nausea, cardiac
      arrhythmias and can not be used if the neuromuscular blockade is deep. Recently the use of
      sugammadex, a new drug that can act as an antidote to a comparison of non-depolarizing muscle
      relaxants amino-steroidal (rocuronium, vecuronium) showed good clinical impact. This drug
      works by encapsulating the muscle relaxant molecule in the plasma with a high affinity and
      binding to the complex thus formed which is then eliminated by the kidney. Sugammadex is
      characterized by the absence of adverse effects at the recommended doses and may be
      administered at correct dosage, even at deep neuromuscular blockade.

      Several studies have shown that the recovery from neuromuscular blockade induced by
      rocuronium is significantly faster after administration of sugammadex compared with
      neostigmine both when used in moderate block levels and deep.

      In literature there are no data and studies that assessed the recovery time of neuromuscular
      transmission (TOF ratio> 0.9) with the use of sugammadex verus neostigmine in patients
      undergoing liver transplantation after rocuronium infusion.
    
  