
    
      Chronic migraine (occurring 15 or more days per month) is a disabling disorder that engenders
      significant personal suffering and healthcare costs. Frequently, individuals with chronic
      migraine also suffer from symptoms of insomnia, the regulation of which has been shown to
      improve migraine. A variety of effective and well-validated behavioral treatments exist to
      reduce symptoms of insomnia but have not been widely applied to migraine patients. The goal
      of this study is to pilot test and compare the efficacy of 2 different behavioral
      (non-medication) treatments for chronic migraine, one of which addresses insomnia symptoms
      and one of which addresses general lifestyle changes, on headache and sleep parameters.
      Patients will be adults (18-65) diagnosed with chronic migraine and insomnia at the Oxford
      Neurology Clinic when they present for routine medical appointments. They will be maintained
      on usual medical care and referred to the Psychological Services Center for collection of
      baseline data and administration of the behavioral interventions. At baseline participants
      will be administered a structured interview and questionnaires pertaining to headache
      symptoms, sleep problems, and depression/anxiety. They will keep a daily diary of headache
      variables for 2 weeks and wear an actigraph on their wrist during baseline. Patients will be
      randomly assigned to receive either the a treatment focused on modifying general lifestyle
      behaviors (Lifestyle Modification; a replication of the instructions from Calhoun and Ford,
      2007) or making changes to their sleep behaviors (Sleep Management) for 3 brief (20-30 min)
      sessions, spaced 2 weeks apart. Treatments will entail education/rationale about the
      intervention and a review of a set of instructions unique to each condition. Subsequent
      sessions will ensure compliance with the respective instructions. Daily monitoring of
      headache symptoms will continue throughout the trial. Participants will complete the
      aforementioned questionnaires at 2 posttreatment follow-up visits and wear the actigraph
      again for 2 week periods surrounding the 2 follow-up visits.
    
  