
    
      The objective of this exploratory project is to assess the feasibility of investigating the
      effect of silymarin, derived from the milk thistle plant, Silybum marianum, in preventing and
      reversing the complications of chronic infection with HCV and/or clearing HCV infections,
      thereby generating preliminary results to serve as the basis of a more definitive study.
      Allopathic therapeutic interventions have not proved promising, particularly with the
      genotype most commonly encountered in Egypt and they are prohibitively expensive in the
      developing world. Egypt has the highest prevalence of HCV infection in the world, averaging
      15-25% in rural communities. There are limited rigorous assessments of the dietary supplement
      milk thistle, but there is promise of salutary effect. The specific aims are to evaluate
      whether silymarin, the extract of milk thistle, can: (1) improves hepatic morbidity in
      subjects with chronic HCV hepatitis and/or cirrhosis; (2) prevent progression of liver
      disease in participants who have chronic HCV infections but who have normal liver enzyme
      levels; (3) help clear HCV infections; and (4) improves these participants' quality of life.
      Participants will be randomly assigned to receive silymarin or a vitamin supplement (below
      antioxidant levels). Participants will be recruited from a cohort of HCV-infected individuals
      currently enrolled in a large observational study in Egypt. Participants will receive the
      supplements daily for 18 months, with measures obtained every six months. Measures to be
      assessed will include: retention in the study, compliance with study assignment,
      self-described symptoms, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) levels, serum collagen markers,
      abdominal ultrasound, viral load and clearance, and quality of life (SF36 survey). It is
      hypothesized that silymarin will not lead to clearance of HCV infections but can prevent
      progression of liver disease in participants with chronic HCV hepatitis and, in some cases,
      reverse hepatic lesions that are already present, as well as improving the quality of life in
      individuals who use this dietary supplement. This exploratory project is anticipated to
      result in successful initiation of larger and more definitive studies of the effect of milk
      thistle on HCV infection. Evidence of beneficial effect of an inexpensive and benign herbal
      dietary supplement would have great impact on the large global population suffering from
      chronic HCV infection.
    
  