
    
      Aim 1: To successfully implement a morphine PK and individualized precision dosing decision
      aid into workflows of neonatal prescribing clinicians.

      This study will evaluate the steps required to successfully implement a population
      pharmacokinetic (PK) model-informed real-time decision support interface for the prescribing
      of neonatal pain and sedation medications. Currently, most opiate and benzodiazepine
      treatment is done by empirical dosing without any knowledge of drug concentrations, which can
      easily lead to under or over-dosing of medications. Our background data show that over 65% of
      infants who are placed on morphine experience blood concentrations well above the currently
      suggested target ranges. This project will incorporate PK model-informed dosing and
      eventually include real-time drug concentration information feedback directly into
      prescribers' workflows so that they can make a data-informed decision, thus allowing maximal
      therapeutic efficacy while minimizing the likelihood of adverse events. The expected outcomes
      are better clinical efficacy and safety with fewer side effects in the neonatal population.

      Study design Open label, prospective, quasi-experimental study that will use data collected
      during patients' Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU) hospitalization at Cincinnati Children's
      Medical Center (CCHMC).

      The study will use user-centered participatory design methods to establish the optimal means
      of incorporating this decision support into already existing workflows. These findings will
      allow us to implement the clinical decision support directly into clinical practice during
      the study period. During and following implementation, we will use a mixed methods approach
      through continually evaluating the effectiveness of the precision dosing application through
      technical analytics, real-time user feedback, and clinical data feedback. Technical process
      outcomes will consist of usage analysis statistics such as application access logs, time
      spent viewing the application, and technical error rates (e.g., failure of the application to
      launch or load data). Users will have the option to provide direct in-app feedback. Such
      feedback is necessary for successful agile software development and will be incorporated into
      regular revisions of the tool. In addition, we will use clinical data including subjective
      bedside pain and sedation assessments as well as objective morphine concentration data to
      help further refine the PK/PD models.

      Prospective evaluation of the decision support tool We will start using the tool to provide
      dosing guidance based on patient information and the morphine PK model predictions but
      without using morphine concentrations as feedback for 3-6 months. This is anticipated to be
      the time required to prospectively test the tool while putting in place the logistics for
      timed sampling and morphine concentration measurements in real-time. Only members of the
      study team will have access to the tool at this time. When the clinical team is discussing
      the morphine usage over the last 24 hours and before the pain/sedation plan is developed, the
      member of the study team that is reviewing the tool will introduce this information on
      rounds. Currently the NICU clinical pharmacist on the study team reviews NeoRelief during
      rounds to assess morphine doses being used and the estimated concentrations based on the
      model. The tool will be made available to the other members of the study team as part of the
      roll out. The model-based dosing suggestions are not meant to take the place of clinical
      judgement. It is impossible to take into account all of the unique variables that go in to
      developing a pain management plan for a patient. If the clinical team choses to deviate from
      the recommendations, the clinical pharmacists will make a note as to why the decision was
      made to deviate from the recommendation.

      Once the logistics of morphine concentration measurement and reporting by the mass
      spectrometry laboratory have been worked out, we will continue with the prospective
      evaluation of the decision support tool by now also taking into account morphine
      concentration measurement(s) as 'feedback' using remnant samples. This will allow for
      Bayesian estimation and prediction of a patient's individual PK profile. Again, since the
      goal is the incorporation of the tool into the workflow, only members of the study team will
      have access to the tool information. When the team is discussing the morphine usage over the
      last 24 hours and before the pain/sedation plan is developed this information will be
      introduced on rounds. This will provide us with an objective way to determine if it is being
      effectively incorporated into the workflow.

      Study population and inclusion criteria:

      Participants will be preterm and term neonates who receive intravenously (IV) administered
      morphine for 24 hours or more in the CCHMC NICU as part of standard clinical pain care
      management. Our target is a minimum of 200 evaluable research participants. All infants in
      the CCHMC NICU regardless of gender, race, or age are potential subjects. We anticipate that
      enrolled participants will be of mixed demographics. There will be no exclusions based on
      gender or ethnicity.

      Data Collection and Management:

      A central electronic database will be constructed for storing all study-related data. REDCap
      will be used as the database software and will be password protected. REDCap is a secure,
      web-based application for building and managing online surveys and databases and a resource
      of the Center for Clinical and Translational Science and Training provided to researchers
      affiliated with the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center. Access will be
      restricted to the primary investigator and designated study personnel.

      Demographic and Clinical Data: Patient demographic data and clinical data will be collected
      from the electronic medical record EPIC. Data to be collected will include:

        -  Patient ID

        -  Birth measurements - weight, length, head circumference

        -  Age - estimated gestational, chronological, corrected gestational, postmenstrual

        -  Diagnosis

        -  Post-operative complications, as applicable

        -  Date and time of morphine initiation

        -  Morphine dose and infusion rates

        -  Times and changes to morphine infusion rates

        -  Time and dose of any morphine boluses given

        -  Prior history of opiate and benzodiazepine exposure

        -  Concomitant medications and any other medication levels

        -  Medical conditions and diagnoses

        -  Laboratory values - Creatinine and transaminases

        -  Vital signs - heart rate, respiratory rate, blood pressure, and oxygen saturation

        -  NPASS scores: Along with physiologic indicators of pain (i.e., vital signs), behavioral
           indicators of pain will be collected using the Neonatal Pain Agitation and Sedation
           Scale. The NPASS is a validated pain scoring system that incorporates crying and
           irritability, behavioral state, facial expression, extremity tone, and vital signs (HR,
           RR, BP, SaO2) to assess neonatal pain and sedation that is consistently used in the
           CCHMC NICU.

        -  Withdrawal Assessment Tool - Version 1 (WAT-1) scoring for signs of withdrawal (if
           available); otherwise by collecting data on patients subjectively withdrawing, and/or
           requiring a taper as per the clinical team.

      The study will include the collection of discarded blood samples (remnant samples) from
      neonates who are already receiving morphine as part of their standard of care. This approach
      is successfully utilized in several 'POPS' studies (Pediatric Opportunistic Pharmacokinetic
      Studies as part of Pharmacokinetics of Understudied Drugs Administered to Children per
      Standard of Care program) conducted by the Pediatric Trials Network (http://pediatric
      trials.org/).

      Analysis Plan and Sample Size:

      Primary clinical outcomes will be a comparison of pre-implementation compared with
      post-implementation amounts of morphine given, as measured by number of PRN medications
      given, area under the morphine concentration time curve, and cumulative amount of morphine
      exposure above target concentration. Secondary outcomes will include an evaluation of
      usability of the application using the System Usability Scale, indicating the extent to which
      the tool is being used by those who have access and the extent to which it is effectively
      incorporated into rounds to provide effective and safe analgesia for neonates with
      effectiveness, efficiency, and satisfaction. After the initial development period, we will
      collect data obtained from 200 neonates for a minimum of 18 months for analysis of both the
      process and clinical outcomes.

      Aim 2. Characterize the morphine exposure-response relationship by prospective evaluation of
      dose requirements, morphine concentration, and pain parameters using PK and PD modeling.

      We will use validated approaches that have been supported by the U.S. Food and Drug
      Administration and European Medicines Agency to develop a population PK/PD model using
      nonlinear mixed effect analysis based on plasma concentrations of morphine and pain and
      sedation assessment scores and vital sign trends (PD data) in relation to the clinical
      procedure of study data enriched with retrospectively collected data. This methodology not
      only allows one to estimate the "typical" pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profile for the
      population but also will characterize between and within PK variability for each patient over
      time. Through a hierarchical modeling process, clinical characteristics can be identified to
      help account for some of the observed variabilities and ultimately result in improved patient
      specific dosing. This approach is particularly useful in identifying age related effects and
      given the general sparseness of blood samples, the population approach is well suited for
      studying pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics in pediatric populations. The model will
      include a description of the maturation of morphine metabolism and clearance based on
      postmenstrual age and time after birth as described in the literature. Model development and
      validation will be performed according to good modeling practices.

      Aim 3. Evaluate generalizability of the precision dosing platform by extending the platform
      to include a synergistic medication, midazolam.

      Development of midazolam module:

      The NeoRelief decision support application is a modular platform developed to be extended to
      other frequently used medications in the NICU such as midazolam. Published midazolam PK
      models will will be coded in and serve as the starting point for a fully functional decision
      support tool for precision dosing of midazolam. This process will be supported by the CCHMC
      IS team who integrated systems specifications and interphase requirements for secure data
      exchange between Epic and the morphine decision support platform.

      Analysis Plan and Sample Size The evaluation plan and measures will be the same as those
      enumerated for Specific Aim 1; (a) technical analytics including usage rates, time spent in
      the application, accessibility; (b) user feedback and usability testing; (c) clinical
      outcomes including doses of medication given, PRN doses administered, and cumulative dosing
      measurements. After the initial development period, we will collect data obtained from 50
      neonates for a minimum of 18 months for analysis of both the process and clinical outcomes.
    
  