
    
      Neck pain, which is common in population recently, is causing the huge burden in the global
      medical service system. Cervical myelopathy, that is induced by disc degeneration, is turning
      to be an alarming public health issue. The clinical manifestations of cervical myelopathy
      include neck/shoulder pain, numbness/weakness of four limbs, sensorimotor impairment, and
      sociopsychological dysfunction. However, most of the previous studies tend to justify
      patients, prognosis in a single dimension. The investigators realized that no standard
      protocol for management in patients with the variety of manifestation and severity of signs
      and symptoms.This study is purposed to integrate and analyze the finding in surgery
      selection, clinical manifestation, psychological consultation, compensatory patterns in the
      neuromusculoskeletal system, postural control, home exercise and biomechanical features.
      Then, the investigators will develop a complementary model in assessment and prediction of
      prognosis, and also an applicable standard guideline in the clinical setting. To achieve the
      expected target, the principal investigator will play the role as the main coordinator in the
      team. The 3-year plan is listed as below:

        1. In the first year, the patients will be recruited for projects from different
           co-investigators. The recruited participants will be allocated to different study group
           after assessment to ensure the most suitable intervention are offered to the
           participants.

        2. In the second year, the participants' recruitment will be continuing. The effectiveness
           previous treatment will be assessed. The study procedure will be adjusted based on pilot
           results.

      2. In the third year, the study finding of all co-investigators and results of the
      biomechanical analysis will be integrated to establish the model of prognosis prediction and
      clinical management guideline. This study will provide a complete clinical management
      guideline in cervical myelopathy, which is expected to be globally leading reference in the
      management of cervical myelopathy.
    
  