
    
      This study will be a prospective, randomized, double-blinded clinical trial of patients
      undergoing incision and drainage of abscesses in the ED of an urban, tertiary, academic
      medical center. Subjects will be randomized to one of two groups: 100% oxygen or 50/50
      O2/Nitrous oxide while undergoing standard incision and drainage of cutaneous abscess.

      Recruitment Methods

      The research associates as well as the heath care team (both residents and attending
      physicians) will screen patients who may need incision and drainage of abscesses in the ED
      and may qualify for the study. Research associates will use the Cerner/AeCIS System for
      screening, and they will be in charge of informed consent, enrollment, placement of the
      capnography monitor, as well as data collection. The health care team will be in charge of
      the local anesthesia and incision and drainage of abscess and all other management.

      Procedures Involved in the Research

      Initial medical assessment will be made in accordance with established clinical procedures,
      including the history, physical examination, and vital signs. If by clinical assessment the
      patient meets eligibility criteria, then they will be approached by a research associate for
      enrollment in the study. After informed consent is obtained and prior to starting the
      procedure, standard vital sign monitoring will be placed on the patient (electrocardiogram,
      non-invasive blood pressure monitoring, pulse oximetry, and capnography). The Capnostream 20
      ETCO2 monitor will be used as the primary device to measure ETCO2, with a nasal cannula
      capable of delivering supplemental oxygen and measuring ETCO2 (Oridion Medical, Needham, MA).

      The SEDARA gas mixer system [Linde Gas North America LLC] will be used as our primary nitrous
      oxide delivery device. It will mix and deliver nitrous oxide and oxygen in a 1:1 ratio, at a
      fixed concentration of 50%/50%. It uses a patient driven demand valve system that is hand
      held. This device provides a consistent, fixed 50%/50% blend of nitrous oxide (N2O) and
      oxygen (O2), eliminates the need to titrate, and provides fixed concentrations for controlled
      and consistent dosing. The device comparator detects dosing imbalance to protect against
      hypoxic mixtures, it cannot deliver nitrous gas without concurrent oxygen, and the device has
      an anti-asphyxia valve override. The on demand valve requires patient inspiration to trigger
      dosing and also allows option for 100% oxygen delivery through same delivery mask. This
      portable device scavenges exhaled waste gases for environmental safety, as well as a key
      mechanism that renders the system inoperable without it for security.

      After informed consent, the patient will fill out a pre procedure questionnaire and a 100 mm
      VAS baseline pain scale. The patient will be randomized to either the control group (100%
      oxygen) or treatment group (50/50) by using a randomization scheme generated using the web
      site Randomization.com (http://www.randomization.com). The treating physician will measure
      erythema and induration using a measuring tape, estimate the amount of fluctuance as small,
      moderate, or large, and note the location of the abscess. Once randomized, subjects will be
      given the mask for delivery of inhaled gas and instructed on its use, and the research
      associate will mark the time the patient began using the device. The SEDARA Gas Mixer will be
      only facing the research associate as to ensure blinding of study arm by provider and
      subject. The subject will be given nitrous oxide or oxygen for a minimum of 10 minutes prior
      to incision and drainage. The treating physician will then clean the abscess with
      chlorhexidine solution. The abscess will be incised with a single linear incision using a No.
      11 surgical scalpel, and a cotton tipped applicator will be used to break up loculations
      within the abscess cavity. The method of I&D, and decision to probe to break-up loculations
      will be standardized, but the degree of probing, depth, and decision to pack will be left to
      the discretion of the treating physician. Subjects pain will be assessed using the VAS at ten
      minutes after NO administration but before beginning I&D, immediately post I&D procedure, and
      ten minutes after procedure completion.

      The subject's clinical data (refer to data management) will be entered into a standardized
      data collection form. Study will end when the subjects recovers back to baseline. Vital signs
      will be flagged electronically when a physician intervenes for clinical respiratory
      depression. Respiratory depression will be defined as peripheral SaO2 below 92%, ETCO2 level
      above 50, a rise or decrease of 10% above or below baseline, the loss of the ETCO2 waveform
      for more than 15 seconds. Once the procedure is complete, and the patient is deemed back to
      their mental status baseline, they will fill out a post procedure satisfaction questionnaire.
      The physician will also fill out a post procedure questionnaire.
    
  