
    
      Pancreatic cyst are a frequent finding on cross-sectional imaging on general population. They
      are identified in up to 3% of the abdominal computed tomographies (CT) and 20% of magnetic
      resonance imaging (MRI) performed for other reasons but the risk of malignancy in pancreatic
      cysts discovered incidentally is low, representing 1-5% of the total malignant pancreatic
      neoplasms.

      Pancreatic cysts are a broad group of pancreatic lesions that can be divided into benign and
      premalignant or malignant lesions. Pseudocyst and serous cystic neoplasm (SCN) don´t have
      malignant potential while others like mucinous cysts are premalignant lesions. But not all
      mucinous neoplasms have the same risk of malignancy. According to recent publications
      mucinous cystic neoplasm (MCN) have a potential for malignancy of around 15%, main duct
      intrapapillary mucinous neoplasm (MD-IPMN) of 62% and branch duct IPMN (BD-IPMN) of 25%. The
      correct identification of these premalignant lesions will allow to optimize the treatment and
      follow-up of these patients, but in many cases it is difficult to accurately differentiate
      between different types of cysts and their risk of malignancy. The differentiation between
      lmucinous and non-mucinous cysts is suboptimal, with diagnostic accuracy for CT and MRI of
      61% and 50-73% with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). The endosonographic characteristics that
      have been related with malignancy are the size larger than 3 cm, the presence of a solid
      component, wall thickening, Wirsung dilation, abrupt change of the size of the main
      pancreatic duct with distal atrophy of the gland and the presence of lymphadenopathies.
      However, endosonographic characteristics are not sufficient as an individual predictor of
      malignancy.

      The puncture of the cyst and fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) with biochemical and
      cytological assessment is generally indicated to differentiate between cysts and to asses for
      malignancy. The determination of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and amylase have low
      specificity for the detection of malignancy and for mucinous cyst, and the cytological
      assessment is highly specific but lacks of sensibility (50%). So further methods are
      requested for an adequate detection of premalignant and malignant cyst.

      Contrast-enhanced harmonic endoscopic ultrasound uses an ultrasonographic contrast agent to
      visualize blood flow in fine vessels and may aid in the diagnosis of pancreatic cysts by
      enabling assessment of the vascularization of structures such as cyst walls, septa, or mural
      nodules. Furthermore it allows the correct differentiation between contrast-enhanced mural
      nodules, that predict for malignancy, from non-enhancing mucus clots.

      The molecular analysis of cyst fluid may detect mutations that are associated with
      premalignant cyst and with malignancy. Kirsten rat sarcoma (KRAS) gene has been related with
      mucinous cyst while von Hippel-Lindau gene (VHL) is present in serous cyst.

      This study evaluates the use of contrast-enhanced EUS and the molecular analysis for
      pancreatic cyst diagnosis and malignant detection, and if their use may modify cyst
      management.
    
  