
    
      Children with type 1 diabetes (DM1) can only be treated with subcutaneous insulin at the
      present time in Canada. It has been shown that intensive insulin treatment using at least
      three times daily (TID) insulin injections achieves superior blood glucose control with less
      long term complications of diabetes than conventional insulin treatment using once daily (OD)
      or twice daily (BID) insulin injections. However, many patients find it difficult to adhere
      to TID insulin injections since it is an invasive and painful therapy, which results in
      frequent insulin omission.

      This study is a randomized controlled open-labeled non-inferiority trial to compare the
      glycemic control as measured by HbA1c after 6 months of a BID insulin regimen using detemir
      insulin, or the currently used TID insulin with intermediate acting insulin (Novolin NPH or
      Humulin N). Patients will be randomized to either the active control group (standard TID
      regimen) or the treatment group (BID regimen with new long acting insulin analogue). A run-in
      period of 1 month will be used to facilitate the change in insulin regimen. Insulin doses
      will be adjusted by weekly phone contact with the research nurse for one month prior to
      baseline blood work. Patients will continue on the same diet and exercise routine as
      recommended by their usual diabetes team. They will also be seen every 3 months by the
      research nurse to review blood glucose, assess height and weight and arrange for blood work
      to be done in conjunction with their routine bloodwork. All patients will continue to be seen
      by their usual diabetologist, nurse, and dietician at their regularly scheduled clinic visits
      (every 3 months).

      Outcomes include: HA1c between groups at 6 months (surrogate marker of metabolic control for
      diabetes measured through a venous or capillary blood sample), frequency of adverse events
      (severe hypoglycemia, mild hypoglycemia, episodes of diabetic ketoacidosis, weight gain),
      diabetes quality of life for youth (DQOL).
    
  