
    
      Androgen deprivation has long been the principal means of controlling advanced prostate
      cancer, but it does not cure the disease and all patients ultimately progress if tumor is not
      eliminated with definitive local therapy. Neoadjuvant androgen deprivation prior to radical
      prostatectomy can downstage localized disease and reduce the likelihood of residual disease
      at the margins, but does not improve failure free survival. It has been demonstrated that
      despite androgen deprivation with luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists or
      orchiectomy, prostate tissue and prostate cancer maintain levels of androgens which are more
      than adequate to continue to stimulate the androgen receptor and downstream signaling. These
      levels of androgen may continue to allow both survival of tumor cells and induction of
      resistance by overexpression of receptor.

      The anti-insulin-like growth factor type I receptor (IGF-IR) antibody IMC-A12 blocks
      translocation of the androgen receptor to the nucleus, dramatically augmenting efficacy of
      androgen deprivation in human prostate xenograft models. The combination of androgen
      deprivation with IMC-A12 is anticipated to more effectively treat cancer within the prostate,
      optimizing local control, while potentially eliminating micrometastatic disease. We propose
      to test this hypothesis in this phase II study, administering neoadjuvant androgen
      deprivation therapy IMC-A12 prior to radical prostatectomy for patients with clinically
      localized, high risk prostate cancer for 3 months.

      Patients with clinically localized, and surgically resectable (cT1-T3) prostate cancer, at
      high risk for relapse who are candidates for radical prostatectomy will be treated with LHRH
      agonist and androgen receptor antagonist combined with IMC-A12, 10 mg/kg given intravenously
      every 14 days for 12 weeks. Patients will undergo biopsy of the prostate prior to treatment
      and radical prostatectomy 12 weeks after initiation of treatment.

      The primary endpoint of the study is to evaluate the ability of LHRH agonist with IMC-A12 to
      induce a complete pathologic remission

      Samples from the current study will be compared to control, untreated prostatectomy specimens
      from the Northwest Prostate SPORE Tissue Core and a concurrent set of specimens from patients
      treated with 12 weeks of combined androgen deprivation.
    
  