
    
      Participants Forty children (20 boys, 20 girls) were included in the study, and their
      demographic information was recorded. The participants were divided, using "randomizer.org"
      with a simple randomization method, into two different groups: the Virtual Reality or
      Activity Training (control) groups.

      Study Design All children were assessed at baseline and after eight weeks of treatment. The
      children in both groups were evaluated by the same physiotherapist who was blinded. The
      treatment was given by a different physiotherapist who has been working in the field of
      pediatric physiotherapy for ten years Interventions The participants were randomized into two
      groups. The first group was received conventional physiotherapy and virtual reality therapy
      for 60 minutes. The second group was received conventional physiotherapy and, activity
      training which the same movement patterns with virtual reality games for 60 minutes. Both
      treatments were given three times a week for eight weeks.

      The conventional physiotherapy interventions, including joint and muscle mobilization,
      strengthening, and stretching exercises by neurodevelopmental treatment principles and
      special for the needs of the child, was applied to both groups. The virtual reality therapy
      group received that simulate daily life and contain individual scenarios by using the USE-IT
      system for thirty minutes. USE-IT (Most Rehabilitation, Ankara, Turkey) is a 2D non-immersive
      virtual reality system that plays games on a 50-inches touchscreen. The children played "the
      matching, plumber, plumber, math, and car wash games" in accordance with their reaching map
      results. As the system detects not only hand but also object touch the real-life materials
      (cloths and hoses etc.) were used to stimulate grip and sense during games. The children in
      the activity training group received unilateral, bilateral, and bimanual activity training
      that supported manual skills for thirty minutes. Similar activity patterns were presented to
      the virtual reality group and activity training group.
    
  