
    
      Onychomycosis accounts for up to 30% of all superficial infections of skin and constitutes
      about a half of all nail abnormalities; affecting approximately 5% of population worldwide

      The prevalence of onychomycosis is determined by age, social class, occupation, climate,
      living environment and frequency of travel Despite being common dermatological presentation,
      the exact prevalence of onychomycosis remains largely unknown.

      Toenails are more commonly affected than fingernails due to slower rate of growth of the
      former, reduced blood supply and usual confinement in dark moist environments The infection
      is more common in adult males (particularly elderly > 60 yrs of age), diabetics,
      immunocompromised individuals (e.g. HIV positive), individuals with peripheral vascular
      (arterial) disease, previous tineapedis infection, history of trauma to the nail, or those
      with a family history of onychomycosis Dermatophytes whether pathogenic or saprophytes are
      the commonest causative nail invaders Dermatophytic onychomycosis can be divided into four
      major clinical types on the basis of their presenting clinical features; distal and lateral
      subungualonychomycosis (DLSO), proximal subungualonychomycosis (PSO), white superficial
      onychomycosis (WSO) and total dystrophic onychomycosis (TDO) , Among these,distal and lateral
      subungualonychomycosis( DLSO) is the most common form.

      Clinical diagnosis by physical examination alone can be inaccurate as many non infectious
      conditions that mimic onychomycosis like lichen planus, psoriasis need to be ruled out .
      Various laboratory techniques have been used to accurately diagnose onychomycosis, with
      microscopy by KOH and fungal culture being the most frequently used The histopathology of
      nail clippings can be utilized for diagnosing onychomycosis, with periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)
      stain that allows easy visualization of fungal hyphae . Digital dermoscopy, also called
      onychoscopy, is an easy and quick procedure that allows differential diagnosis of
      onychomycosis from the common nail dystrophies.

      Dystrophic nails can be a social impediment causing significant embarrassment that affects
      patient's self-esteem. In addition, thickened nails can be painful, interfere with the
      function of the nail unit and may cause discomfort in walking, standing and exercising.

      Though initially presenting as a cosmetic problem, it can eventually lead to permanent
      disfigurement of the nails and serve as a source of other fungal infections . Due to these
      significant effects specific questionnaire was designed and validated to assess quality of
      life in patients with onychomycosis

      Treatment is chosen depending on the modality of nail invasion, fungus species and the number
      of affected nails. Oral treatments are often limited by drug interactions, while topical
      antifungal lacquers have less efficacy . Surgery or nail debridement is another invasive
      treatment option in limited resistant cases .

      The use of griseofulvin and ketoconazole is problematic, as there are typically high relapse
      rates of 50-85%. In addition, treatment must be continued for a long duration with risky
      systemic side effects.

      Fluconazole, itraconazole and terbinafine are relatively safe antifungal drugs that have been
      widely used with improved treatment success, producing a mycological cure in more than 90% of
      fingernail infections and in about 80% of toenail infections
    
  