
    
      Much has been written about lateral epicondylitis/tennis elbow reflecting the existence of
      many treatments for the condition. However, there is no consensus as to which treatment gives
      the best results.

      Based on the latest meta-studies and reviews from the Cochrane Library, one may conclude that
      there is evidence of a short-term effect of topical or per oral NSAIDs. The same is true for
      manipulation and exercise. Corticosteroid injection has also been shown to have short-term
      effect, but not beyond 6 weeks. Ultrasound has a possible short-term effect based on one
      meta-analysis. Extra corporeal shock wave therapy does not seem to be effective. The
      treatment with acupuncture, orthosis, surgery or long-term NSAIDs has no support in the
      literature, and it is impossible to draw any conclusions about the effects or absence
      thereof. In fact, there is scant support for any long-term treatment in the literature.

      We have found two studies to be of special interest (see citations below). Both have been
      done in a primary care setting with one-year follow up. One study compares corticosteroid
      injection with physical therapy (ultrasound, manipulation and exercise) and a wait-and-see
      group. The other compares corticosteroid injection with naproxen orally and
      placebo-medication. Both conclude that corticosteroid injection is a safe and effective
      treatment as pain-relief during the first 6 weeks, and that the effect of this treatment is
      better than physical therapy, wait-and-see and naproxen orally within the same time-frame.
      Physical therapy in one study gives some, but not statistically significantly better
      long-term (one year) effect than wait-and-see treatment.

      There seems to be some indication that corticosteroid injection is a good alternative for the
      first 6 weeks. We find there is a good reason to investigate the long-term effects of
      physical therapy. At the same time, it would be interesting to see whether the good initial
      response from corticosteroid injection may be extended if combined with physiotherapy.

      This randomised, placebo-controlled study will be conducted in general practice in Ostfold
      County, Norway including patient aged 18-70 years with pain of recent onset from the lateral
      part of the elbow. After a treatment-period of 6 weeks, the patient is followed for a total
      of 12 months.

      Patients are recruited by interested general practitioners in the city of Sarpsborg and
      surroundings and remitted to two study-physicians who make the initial evaluation of
      inclusion- and exclusion criteria, as well as treatment, follow-up and outcome assessments
      during the whole study-period. The patients are treated by one of the two study-physicians in
      the 6-weeks treatment-period. From the 6. week, the patient sees the other physician, who is
      unaware of the allocated intervention, for further registration and assessment.
    
  