
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For each vaccine separately, to evaluate non-inferiority of one compared to two
      vaccination doses in the prevention of new HPV16/18 cervical HPV infections that persist 6+
      months in girls ages 12-16 years at vaccination.

      II. For each vaccine separately, to evaluate one dose of HPV vaccination compared to no
      vaccination in the protection against HPV16/18 cervical HPV infections that persist 6+ months
      in girls ages 12-16 years at vaccination; protection resultant from two HPV vaccine doses
      compared to no vaccination will also be investigated.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For each vaccine separately, to compare immunogenicity via measurement of serum antibodies
      between girls who received one and two doses of the HPV vaccines.

      II. For the nonavalent vaccine, demonstrate non-inferiority of one versus two doses in the
      prevention of any new vaccine-type HPV infection (i.e., aggregate HPV 16/18/31/33/45/52/58)
      that persist 6+ months (note: HPV6/11, the noncarcinogenic HPV types responsible for genital
      warts, will be investigated as an ancillary objective, per item 1, sub-item iv, below).

      III. For each vaccine separately, demonstrate non-inferiority of one versus two doses in the
      prevention of any new carcinogenic HPV cervical infection (vaccine and/or non-vaccine types)
      that persists 6+ months.

      IV. Conduct a cost and cost-effectiveness evaluation of HPV vaccination with one versus two
      doses of the nonavalent and bivalent vaccines in the setting of Costa Rica.

      ANCILLARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. For each vaccine separately, demonstrate non-inferiority of one versus two doses in the
      prevention of study endpoints (including but not limited to those listed below) including a
      comparison to unvaccinated girls:

      Ia. Any new HPV16, HPV18, or HPV16/18 infection (i.e., one-time detection). IIb. Any new
      carcinogenic-type HPV infection (i.e., one-time HPV detection of aggregate HPV vaccine and/or
      non-vaccine HPV types).

      Ic. Any new vaccine-type HPV infection (i.e., aggregate HPV 16/18/31/33/45/52/58).

      Id. Any new HPV6/11 infection (i.e., one-time detection). II. Compare HPV attack rate and
      immunogenicity of Merck nonavalent versus (vs.) GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) bivalent vaccines with
      respect to number of vaccine doses received in the prevention of six-month persistent
      HPV16/18 and any carcinogenic infections, and in the prevention of one-time detection of
      these types.

      III. Conditional on demonstrating inferiority of one versus two doses of the vaccine:

      IIIa. To evaluate inferiority of one versus two doses. IIIb. To evaluate reduction in the HPV
      attack rate of one and two doses compared to none by time (years 1 through 4).

      IV. Obtain participants authorization to passively track cervical pre-cancer, carcinoma in
      situ and cervical cancer outcomes through the national tumor registry, national cytology
      laboratory, social security registries, national cytology laboratory, and other resources
      after the trial ends (i.e., to continue indefinitely or until consent is rescinded).

      V. Establish a biobank including blood components (for example but not limited to serum, red
      blood cells, plasma, peripheral blood mononuclear cells), urine, oral and cervical swab
      samples collected from girls in the randomized trial and the epidemiologic HPV survey for
      futures analysis related to HPV infection, associated diseases, and effects of the vaccine.

      OUTLINE: There are two components to the study: (1) a controlled, randomized, double-blinded
      non-inferiority clinical trial to compare one-dose to two-dose vaccination among twenty
      thousand girls 12 to 16 years old; and (2) a concurrent epidemiologic survey for HPV status
      among four thousand unvaccinated women 17-20 years old. Trial participants are randomized to
      1 of 4 arms. Survey participants are assigned to Arm V.

      ARM I: Participants receive recombinant human papillomavirus nonavalent vaccine (Gardasil)
      intramuscularly (IM) at month 0 and diphtheria toxoid/tetanus toxoid/acellular pertussis
      vaccine adsorbed (DTaP) IM at month 6.

      ARM II: Participants receive recombinant human papillomavirus bivalent vaccine (Cervarix) IM
      at month 0 and DTaP IM at month 6.

      ARM III: Participants receive Gardasil IM at month 0 and 6.

      ARM IV: Participants receive Cervarix IM at month 0 and 6.

      After completion of study intervention, trial participants are followed up every 6 months for
      up to 4 years.

      ARM V: A concurrent epidemiologic survey for HPV status among unvaccinated women. Survey
      participants are followed for two study visits six months apart to determine their HPV DNA
      status, with no further follow-up. These women will be offered HPV vaccination (Cervarix) at
      the two study visits.
    
  