
    
      Cigarette smoking is the leading preventable cause of morbidity and mortality among adults in
      the United States. Smoking, and quitting smoking may be especially problematic for women. Our
      prior research has demonstrated that traditional aerobic exercise (e.g., brisk walking,
      bicycling) improves cessation outcomes among women. Exercise appears to reduce the effects of
      nicotine withdrawal and improves cessation outcomes by improving mood and reducing weight
      gain. yoga that shares many of the same properties of the traditional aerobic exercise that
      has been shown to be an efficacious adjunct to smoking cessation treatment. Moreover, some
      features of yoga, including a focus on breathing, meditation, stress reduction and enhanced
      mood are likely to have special relevance to smokers who are trying to quit. Thus, yoga may
      prove to be a more efficacious complimentary treatment for smoking cessation than traditional
      aerobic exercise.

      The goal of this proposal is to conduct an initial investigation of the efficacy of providing
      Yoga as an adjunct to cognitive behavioral treatment (CBT) for smoking cessation. Adult women
      smokers (n=72) will be recruited through newspaper advertisements and will be randomly
      assigned to either: (1) CBT plus Yoga , or (2) CBT plus contact control. All study
      participants will be given a sub-maximal exercise stress test to ensure that they are safe to
      exercise. Yoga sessions will be conducted twice weekly for 12 weeks, and will be lead by
      certified instructors in yoga. Smoking cessation sessions will be conducted once per week for
      12 weeks and will be lead by Masters or PhD level specialists in smoking cessation.
      Differences in post-treatment (12 week) cessation rates (7-day point prevalence abstinence)
      will provide data for estimates of effect size between conditions. This effect size estimate
      is necessary in order to calculate power estimates for a major clinical trial.
    
  