
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To assess the effect of gemcitabine hydrochloride and tanespimycin (17-AAG) on 6-month
      survival rate in patients with stage IV pancreatic adenocarcinoma.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall survival of these patients. II. To determine the time to disease
      progression (TTP) in these patients. III. To determine the confirmed response rate and
      duration of response in these patients.

      IV. To determine the time to treatment failure in these patients. V. To determine the adverse
      events in these patients.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the effects of treatment on molecular targets, such as CDK4, akt,
      phospho-akt, Hsp90, Hsp70, and CHK1, and correlate these with clinical endpoints, including
      survival at 6 months, TTP, response rate, and overall survival.

      II. To determine the effect of gemcitabine hydrochloride metabolizing enzyme genotype on
      toxicity, and clinical outcome.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study. Patients are stratified according to Eastern
      Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (0, 1, or 2). Patients are randomized to
      1 of 3 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride intravenously (IV) over 30 minutes on days
      1 and 8 and tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on day 9 of course one.

      ARM II: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on days 1 and 8 and
      tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on days 2 and 9 of course one.

      ARM III: Patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on day 8 and
      tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on days 1 and 9 of course one. Beginning with course two (and for
      all subsequent courses), all patients receive gemcitabine hydrochloride IV over 30 minutes on
      days 1 and 8 and tanespimycin IV over 1 hour on days 2 and 9.

      Treatment repeats every 3 weeks in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity. Blood samples are collected at baseline and periodically during treatment for
      pharmacogenetic studies. Tumor tissue samples that are available are also collected for
      laboratory studies. Samples are analyzed for number of circulating tumor cells, levels of
      intracellular targets (e.g., CDK4, akt, phospho-akt, Hsp90, Hsp70, and CHK1), single
      nucleotide DNA polymorphisms, and Vav1 expression. Samples are analyzed by reverse
      transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, immunofluorescence, and immunohistochemistry.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed periodically for up to 2 years.
    
  