
    
      Background The most common cause to pituitary insufficiency is the pituitary adenoma (PA). PA
      may be divided into hormone producing PAs and non-functioning PAs (NFPA). Normal pituitary
      tissue, as well as tissues from PAs, expresses somatostatin receptors (sst). Five subtypes of
      sst receptors has been characterized.

      Magnetic resonance tomography (MRI) presents anatomy, while in vivo diagnostics with
      somatostatin receptor scintigraphy (SRS) or position emission tomography (PET) reflect the
      functional properties of the tissue. The SRS have earlier been evaluated for diagnostics of
      pituitary diseases and has low discriminative ability to differ tumor tissue from normal
      pituitary tissue even though some secretory tumors and NFPA are seen. The superiority of the
      PET in diagnostics compared to the SRS is based on higher spatial resolution and a higher
      tumor to background ratio. Therefore it is of large interest to study Gallium 68 DOTATOC
      (Ga-PET) i small tumours that exhibit sst, such as in the pituitary, where high resolution is
      essential to discriminate from normal tissue and to evaluated residual tumor tissue
      postoperatively.

      Aim with the project

      To evaluate Ga-PET in the management of pituitary tumors and to seek the answer to the
      following questions:

        1. Is the method of value in primary diagnostics in PAs? Does Ga-PET contribute with more
           functional information than that given from an conventional MRI?

        2. Is the method of value in the follow-up, the detection of residual tumor tissue, and
           increase the possibility to differ scar tissue from true tumor?

        3. Can relapses of PA be detected earlier with Ga-PET than with conventional MRI?

        4. Are some of the sub-groups easier to detect that others??

        5. Can the pathological-anatomical findings and the immunochemical expression of sst be
           correlated to the PET findings?

        6. Can the treatment with somatostatin analogues be designed from the PET investigation and
           the sst analysis?

      Method The aim is to recruit 10 patients with acromegaly (GH-producing PA), 10 patients with
      Cushing's disease (ACTH-producing PA), 5 patients with TSH-producing PA (TSHoma) and 20
      patients with NFPA and to do Ga-PET before and after the pituitary surgery. In the Cushing
      patients, the TSHomas and in NFPA Ga-PET will also be dome after 3 years postoperatively to
      detect recurrences. At surgery, pituitary tissue is taken to investigate hormonal expression,
      sst and for further molecular genetic studies. At all PET occasions blood specimens from the
      patients are collected for future analyses. They will be kept in a freezer.

      If difficulties to separate the Ga-Pet up-take in tumors from normal pituitary tissue the
      tumor expression may be enhanced by a somatostatin injection before Ga-PET that suppresses
      normal tissue.

      The pituitary PET of pituitary tumours patients will be compared with the pituitary of
      patients with thyroid associated tumours performing PET according to the similar protocol in
      Another study

      Significance This study is a pilot study. Ga-PET has not been used in pituitary tumors but
      there is known from studies in patients with gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors that the
      pituitary is seen on GA-PET. This is a "proof of concept". It addresses some of the clinical
      problems in the management of pituitary tumors. If the questions addressed in this study will
      be answered in advantage for PET, PET may be a routine investigation and the patients may
      avoid invasive procedures and repeated MRI. In addition, the patients may have better
      information regarding cure or not. If not, the treatment may be tailored from the sst
      receptor expression. This is of great importance for the patients and for the health care
      system.
    
  