
    
      The cognitive impairment syndrome is defined as a decrease of the intellectual performance
      with respect to a previous step in time. The Cognitive impairment has to be considered as a
      functional alteration with a continuous and physiological evolution in which happen a set of
      different circumstances:

        -  A increasing and normal reduction, that appears after the age of sixty, also known as
           Age-associated memory impairment (AAMI)

        -  A mild cognitive impairment (MCI), with a recent and mild loss of memory, but higher to
           that expected because of patient's age and educational level.

        -  A severe pathological decrease of the mental abilities, also known as, depending on its
           characteristics: Severe cognitive impairment (SCI), senile dementia and Alzheimer's
           disease (1).

      In the next years it is expected that this disease will become one of the main health and
      aged-related problem in aged people.(2) Nowadays, there are 35,6 million people with any kind
      of dementia, and it is estimated that every year, 7,7 million of new patients are diagnosed.
      (3) The amount of people affected will probably duplicate every 20 years, if effective
      treatments to stop its evolution are not developed. The forecast estimate up to 81,1 million
      of patients in 2040, which make this disease in a XXI century real epidemic.(4)

      Before reaching the level of dementia, SCI or Alzheimer's disease, the patient will suffer a
      progressive mild cognitive impairment. In this level, the disease can be early diagnosed and
      it would be worth to act on it.

      Evidences of the Polyunsaturated oils use on the prevention and/or treatment of cognitive
      impairment.

      Polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) can help to improve the cognitive functions. Neuronal
      tissues, as the brain, retina and the neurone-covering membranes (myelin) include high levels
      of PUFA. (5) PUFA's act on the order transmission in the Nervous System. Population studies
      reported the beneficial effect of fish oil, with a high PUFA concentration, on the memory of
      patients suffering a mild cognitive impairment. (6) It can be also beneficial for Alzheimer's
      patients, as they are deficient in PUFA's. A diet rich in PUFA'S can improve the cognitive
      function on patients con cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. (6-8) Epidemiological
      studies suggest that oils rich in short chain PUFA, should play a beneficial role stopping
      the initial progression of Alzheimer's disease.

      The previous data confirm the possibility of a beneficial effect of the product to study (a
      mixture of vegetable oils, rich in triglyceride and lecithins) due to the common
      characteristic of the product with those PUFA's already marketed.
    
  