
    
      Investigation of Novel biomakers and Definition of the role of the microbiome In Graves'
      Orbitopathy (GO) (INDIGO)

      Background Graves' orbitopathy (GO), also known as thyroid eye disease, affects approximately
      3 million people in Europe with an estimated socioeconomic burden of 6.4 billion euros per
      annum. GO is a complication of Graves' disease which is an autoimmune disease and the
      commonest cause of an overactive thyroid gland. The treatment of GO remains unsatisfactory
      and the majority of patients report long-term impairment of quality of life. To improve the
      outcomes of people with GO and thus reduce long-term illness and cost to society, research is
      needed to address the identification of risk factors, develop a better understanding of the
      pathophysiology of the disease, devise approaches for early diagnosis during the pre-clinical
      stage of the disease, and create novel and safe interventions. The effects of gut derived
      antigens, from micro-organisms and nutrients, on the autoimmune response will be tested in
      the animal model by probiotic and "contra-biotic" intervention. In the Indigo interventional
      trial the investigators will add to the standard anti-thyroid drug treatment (ATD) a
      specifically designed probiotics (LAB4, Cultech Ltd., West Glamorgan, UK) to assess whether
      it is possible to modify the microbiome in GD patients and improve their immunological
      status.

      Primary objective:

      To modify the microbiome in GD patients to reduce pathogenic species and enrich its
      commensal, symbiotic components.

      Secondary objective:

      To decrease the anti-TSHr antibody titer and the concentration of IgG and IgA in GD patients.

      Experimental design The investigators are interested in inducing potential modifications of
      the gut microbioma and in obtaining a reduction of the anti-THSr antibody titer and of the
      total IgG and IgA concentrations, so as to prevent relapse and development or progression of
      eye disease. In particular, the expected, beneficial modification of the gut microbioma
      relates to a reduction at the end of treatment of at least 5% of the Firmicutes:Bacteroides
      ratio and 30% of the anti-TSHr antibody titer and of total IgG and IgA concentrations.

      Patients with a diagnosis of Graves' disease with or without OB will be randomized to receive
      either ATD plus LAB4 or ATD plus placebo for 6 months. LAB4 consists of 4 strains:

      Lactobacillus acidophilus CUL21 (NCIMB 30156) Lactobacillus acidophilus CUL60 (NCIMB 30157)
      Bifidobacterium bifidum CUL20 (NCIMB 30153) Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis CUL34
      (NCIMB 30172) and will be administered orally, twice a day during meals, for 6 months.
      Samples of blood (for serum and DNA)and, tears (Schirmer strips), nasal swabs and faeces will
      be collected at the first visit, before any treatment or within 4 weeks of anti-thyroid drug
      (ATD) therapy commenced by community physician. The same samples will be collected on the
      first occasion that euthyroidism has been restored on the usual block/replace or titration
      regimen used locally. The same samples will also be collected 6 months after cessation of
      treatment or at the point of relapse if that is sooner .

      High through-put analysis of microRNA (miRNA) in serum and proteomic analyses of tears and
      serum will be used to search for biomarkers predictive of eye disease progression . In
      addition, antibody responses will be analyzed to identify if microbial or food derived
      antigens are involved in triggering disease or associated with GO progression . Moreover, 16S
      RNA gene sequencing will serve to characterize the patients microbiomes to assess whether
      this information can be used to develop diagnostics for individuals at risk of GD and then of
      developing GO .
    
  