
    
      Background:

      The effectiveness of targeting lesions or a specific area for surgery, angiography,
      CT-guided, or ultrasound-guided biopsy, or ablation, currently may be limited by the
      visibility of a target during the procedure. Accurate therapeutic intervention may depend
      upon accurate device placement, which may be very difficult in certain settings, such as when
      a liver tumor only is visible for a brief moment in time during the transient arterial phase
      of a contrast injection, soon disappearing on dynamic imaging. Surgery, angiography, image
      guided therapies and diagnostic procedures could be vastly improved by enabling the use of
      pre-procedural imaging during the procedure [such as location of difficult to visualize or
      transiently visible targets]. Tracking devices allow the use of pre-operative imaging during
      the procedure. Having this information available could vastly improve targeting accuracy of
      surgery, angiography, CT-guided, or ultrasound-guided biopsy or ablation.

      A method of improving targeting could potentially benefit patients in the future by reducing
      total radiation exposure during CT scan or fluoroscopic monitoring of a biopsy, or decreasing
      certain surgical risks, although these are not specific subjects of this study. Various
      methods of device tracking have been used in the past throughout the 20th century in
      neurosurgery with the use of stereotactic frames for a similar purpose, to register
      pre-operative imaging to the patient during invasive procedures to guide treatment.

      Objectives:

      To define the clinical utility of electromagnetic tracking during interventional procedures
      in specific patient populations.

      Eligibility:

        1. All patients must have a pre-operative CT, MR, or PET scan performed at NIH.

        2. Age greater than 18 years.

        3. Patients must be actively enrolled on an NIH protocol and be scheduled for surgery,
           angiography, or CT- or ultrasound-guided biopsy.

      Design:

      This is an exploratory interventional study examining the use of a guidance system for
      navigating and monitoring devices like biopsy and ablation needles, ultrasound transducers,
      needle guides, guidewires, scalpels, and cauterization devices (herein referred to as
      device(s) ) for localization in relation to pre-operative images.There are 9 cohorts included
      in this protocol. The Open/Laparoscopic surgery and Angiography surgery cohorts are no longer
      open for accrual.

        1. Prostate biopsy

        2. Percutaneous biopsy for diagnostic correlation

        3. percutaneous ablation for needle placement compilations

        4. Open/Laparoscopic surgery

        5. Angiography

        6. Auto registration for biopsy

        7. Auto registration for ablation

        8. PET registration

        9. prostate biopsy on which to determine the predictive value and relative strength of each
           MRI sequence in predicting cancer at a specific prostate core location.

      The total accrual ceiling for this protocol is 3195 subjects.

      All cohorts open for accrual are using exploratory interventions to define the specific
      patient population where fusion used during interventional procedures may have clinical
      value, and to characterize that clinical value in a specific patient population, such as but
      not limited to patients with specific regions of the prostate targeted, specific prostate
      volumes, prior negative prostate biopsies, or PSA values within a specific range.
    
  