
    
      Although HIV-1 infection is characterized by progressive depletion of CD4+ T cells that
      eventually leads to clinically significant immunodeficiency, a chronic generalized immune
      activation is now being recognized to be the main driving force for T cell depletion, loss of
      anti-HIV-1 immunity and disease progression during chronic HIV-1 infection. In particular,
      this immune activation has been identified as a disease determinant independent of viral load
      or cell death in HIV-1 infection. A series of clinical evidences have indicated that
      activated CD8 T cells may attack body cells infected with viruses. Because of this, CD4 cells
      infected with HIV are frequently destroyed by CD8 cells.

      Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are the adult stem cells originating from the mesenchymal and
      connective tissue of bone marrow, adipose tissue, placenta, umbilical cord, cord blood,
      peripheral blood, liver, etc. These cells show immunomodulation, self-renewal, and
      multi-directional differentiation potential. In particular, MSCs have recently emerged as
      promising candidates for cell-based immunotherapy because they can modulate the immune
      response in various ways. A series of studies have indicated that secretion of dissoluble
      cytokines and direct contact with MSCs can block the development and functioning of
      antigen-presenting cells, inhibit the differentiation of B cells, and suppress the immune
      response of T cells and natural killer cells. The immunosuppressive effect of infused MSCs
      has been successfully employed in the treatment of acute severe graft-versus-host disease
      (GVHD). Thus, MSC may reduce inflammatory responses and promote tissue recovery in human
      diseases.

      The purpose of this study is to learn what dose of transfused MSC reduces the level of
      activation of CD8 cells in people infected with HIV. The decreased activation of CD8 cells
      may lead to a more CD4 T cell restoration in HIV infection. This study will also look at what
      dose of MSCs is tolerated and its safety in HIV- infected patients.

      Participants in this study will be randomly assigned to one of three treatment arms:

      Arm A:Participants will receive 48 weeks of low dose of MSC treatment followed by 48-week
      follow-up observation.

      Arm B:Participants will receive 48 weeks of high dose of MSC treatment followed by 48-week
      follow-up observation.

      Arm C: Participants will receive 48 weeks of saline placebo followed by 48-week follow-up
      observation.

      Study treatment will be given at 0, 4, 12, 24, 36 and 48 week since the onset of treatment.
      There will be an additional 48 weeks of follow-up for purposes of safety. After treatment has
      started, participants will be asked to come to the clinic on Weeks 4, 12, 24, 36, 48,60,72,84
      and 96. At each visit participants will receive enough study treatment to last until the next
      visit. Each visit will last between 2 and 3 hours. At most visits participants will have a
      physical exam, answer questions about any medications they are taking and how they are
      feeling, and have blood drawn for safety to assess CD4/CD8 cell counts and viral load. Some
      additional blood will also be stored for immunology testing. At some visits participants will
      be asked questions about their medication and medical history, have pupils dilated, have a
      hearing test, and have an electrocardiogram (EKG). Some visits will require participants to
      arrive fasting. Pregnancy tests may also be conducted if the participant is able to become
      pregnant or if pregnancy is suspected.
    
  