
    
      According to data released in 2014, in 2012 around 3.7 million people died prematurely in the
      world as a result of exposure to ambient air pollution ((WHO), 2014). Evidence has shown the
      negative short- and long-term effects of air pollution on both premature mortality and
      morbidity from cardiopulmonary disease (for an overview, see (Kelly & Fussell, 2015)). This
      is particularly a problem in London (Samoli et al., 2016), where levels of air pollution are
      quite worrying. In the UK monitoring networks measure the levels of different air pollutants,
      and these measurements are provided by the Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs
      (DEFRA) in the form of daily air quality indices (AQIs), together with separate health advice
      for at-risk groups and the general population. A recently published systematic review
      (D'Antoni, Smith, Auyeung, & Weinman, 2017) has found suboptimal adherence levels to health
      advice associated with air quality alerts, and identified several facilitators and barriers
      of adherence. Some of the facilitators included beliefs that air pollution can have negative
      health effects (i.e. perceived severity), outcome expectancies (e.g., beliefs that something
      can be done to reduce smog), beliefs about the health benefits of AQI adoption (i.e. response
      efficacy), and receiving advice from health care professionals. Barriers to adherence
      included: lack of understanding of the indices, being exposed to health messages that reduced
      both concern about air pollution and perceived susceptibility, as well as perceived lack of
      self-efficacy/locus of control, reliance on sensory cues and lack of time to make behavioural
      changes. The findings of this systematic review have informed the current research study,
      which aimed to improve the behavioural impact of existing air quality alerts. In particular,
      alternative health messages were developed based on the psychosocial factors identified in
      the systematic review. The purpose of the study was to test whether these theory and
      evidence-based alternative communication formats, compared to the official messages sent in
      association with the UK AQIs, maximise the behavioural impact of existing alert systems.

      Methods

      Design:

      This was a randomised control trail using a 2-way factorial design, with target population (2
      levels: general population vs. individuals with a pre-existing health condition) and message
      format (2 levels: usual message format vs. alternative format) as between-factors.
      Qualitative data were also collected to understand the reasons for actual adherence and
      non-adherence.

      - Theoretical framework and targeted psychosocial predictors:

      The COM-B model (Michie, van Stralen, & West, 2011) was used as a theoretical framework to
      guide in the understanding of the facilitators and barriers to behaviour change in response
      to air quality alerts. The control groups received usual air quality alerts and health advice
      based on the UK AQI messages, and the intervention groups received alternative health
      messages targeting knowledge about the health impact of exposure to air pollution, perceived
      severity of air pollution, perceived susceptibility, perceived efficacy of protective
      behaviours, self-efficacy, perceived negative consequences associated with protective
      behaviours, reliance on sensory cue, and action planning. In addition, study participants who
      reported having a pre-existent respiratory condition and who were randomly allocated in the
      intervention group, also received specific additional messages targeting beliefs about
      efficacy and side effects of inhalers, and medication self-efficacy.

      - Targeting message specificity:

      Specificity refers to the extent to which a message provides a detailed description of the
      recommended behaviour. A meta-analysis of 18 studies (O'Keefe, 1997) found that messages
      providing health recommendations with a more specific description seem to be significantly
      more persuasive than generic recommendations (r=.10, k=18, N=11,105). Participants in the
      control group received the usual UK AQI message format containing less specific
      recommendations (e.g. advice for at risk individuals in case of high air pollution: 'Adults
      and children with lung problems, and adults with heart problems, should reduce strenuous
      physical exertion, particularly outdoors'). On the other hand, the intervention group
      received more specific recommendations ('Adults and children with lung problems, adults with
      heart problems, and older people, should reduce levels and length of physical activity
      outdoors. Where possible, change: travel route or exercise location (e.g. use our app to find
      less polluted roads or parks) or time (e.g. mornings or less polluted times)').

      Control and intervention groups were compared in intended and actual behaviour change outcome
      measures. We predicted that the alternative format would be associated with higher behaviour
      change, compared to the usual format.
    
  