
    
      Several studies during the last years reported the involvement of anti-retinal autoantibodies
      in ocular disorders, such as retinal vasculitis, retinopathy, retinitis pigmentosa and also
      AMD. These studies support the growing evidence of an immunological involvement in the
      pathogenesis of AMD. In the planned trial it is planned to enroll 70 subjects, i.e. 50
      subjects with neovascular AMD and 20 healthy volunteers. The investigators will evaluate the
      change from Baseline (Visit 1) in BCVA score at Week 12 (visit 4) in the study eye of nAMD
      patients treated with Ranibizumab. AMD patients and healthy volunteers will be recruited at
      the Department of Ophthalmology of the University Medical Center, Johannes
      Gutenberg-University Mainz and included based on defined criteria. Neovascular AMD patients
      (group 1) will be accompanied for 6 months and blood samples will be collected at baseline
      and monthly until Visit 7 for analysis of antibody profiles. Ranibizumab is applied according
      to the manufacturer's recommendations and the "Stellungnahme der DOG, RG und BVA zu aktuellen
      therapeutischen Möglichkeiten bei der neovaskulären AMD" (December 2012). A loading dose of
      three injections within the first three months is followed by an individual therapy interval
      based on the clinical progress (PRN). Re-treatment after the upload of the three initial
      doses every 4 weeks will be performed in case of progression (PRN) based on the
      recommendations of the "Stellungnahme der DOG, RG und BVA zu aktuellen therapeutischen
      Möglichkeiten bei der neovasculären AMD" (December 2012). Healthy volunteers (group 2) will
      be enrolled and a blood sample will be collected once for analysis of antibody profiles.

      Beside the analysis of primary endpoint, the investigators propose to analyze in detail the
      following questions:

      Does the ranibizumab treatment have any effects on antibody profiles found in sera and do
      these changes correlate with the clinical course of the disease?

      Additionally, the patient group can be divided into two subgroups: AMD patients with newly
      diagnosed neovascular AMD, who have not received anti-VEGF-treatment so far (naïve subjects)
      and AMD patients with neovascular AMD, who have not received any anti-VEGF treatment 3 months
      prior to inclusion in the study. This separation may help to answer the question if it is
      possible to differentiate between ranibizumab responder and non-responder with the help of
      antibody profiles.
    
  