
    
      This is a randomized, placebo-controlled proof of concept study that will examine the
      investigational drug Rifaximin Soluble Solid Dispersion (SSD) ability to reduce gut
      microbiota and thereby reduce adipose inflammation and improve insulin resistance.

      Each subject enrolled will undergo a fat tolerance test with a high-fat meal, an oral glucose
      tolerance test, a fat biopsy, and a euglycemic clamp. Following their successful completion
      of those procedures subjects will be randomized to study treatment. That treatment will
      involve receiving the investigational drug,80 mg per day of rifaximin-soluble solid
      dispersion (SDD), or placebo for 12 weeks. All procedures will be performed on the Clinical
      Services Core of the CCTS. The initial visit will involve informed consent, and routine labs
      (comprehensive metabolic panel, lipid panel, TSH, CBC with platelets). These routine labs are
      for safety purposes and to rule out exclusionary disorders. A stool sample will also be
      collected and frozen for possible future analysis of bacterial microflora.

      Subjects will be asked to allow the principal investigator to bank blood and tissue samples
      collected during this study that are not used for other study-related tests. No additional
      blood or tissue samples will be collected. If the subject agrees to the banking of their
      blood and tissue samples they will be stored in the Principal Investigator's laboratory at
      the University of Kentucky for an indefinite period of time or until they are used up. Stored
      samples will be used for future research testing to learn about how to prevent, detect, or
      treat insulin resistance, metabolic syndrome, diabetes or other health problems.

      Each subject will undergo total body composition testing using a total body dual-energy x-ray
      absorptiometry (DXA) scan. The DXA scan measures the subject's bond density and body fat.
    
  