
    
      Study Objective: This study was designed to evaluate the feasibility of use of a Standardized
      Home Spirometry(SHS) Method using a Home Spirometry Monitoring Kit consisting of FDA-approved
      Blue-tooth Spirometry unit, Blue-tooth pulse oximeter and an Android-based Tablet with an
      embedded investigational home spirometry mobile medical software application for data and
      symptom survey collection and transmission over secure WiFi or cellular data transmission
      portal in HIPAA compliant fashion to an associated investigational IT dashboard application
      at the Central Monitoring Institute (CMI) Server at Washington University in St. Louis, to
      develop normal range values, to detect a variance (i.e., a value outside of that normal
      range), to evaluate a variance with a questionnaire, and to download all data to the CMI in a
      small pilot of healthy volunteers prior to evaluation and use on a larger scale for lung
      transplant recipients.

      The investigational IT application will monitor lung function but do nothing more than
      collect data. It will adjust monitoring frequency and trigger physician review of home
      spirometry results at a more frequent interval but will not be directly involved in decisions
      regarding diagnosis or treatment.

      Study Type: Non-randomized, single-arm, prospective cohort study

      Intervention:

        -  The Home Spirometry Monitoring System will consist of:

             -  FDA approved Blue tooth Spirometry unit

             -  FDA approved pulse oximeter

             -  An Android-based tablet with embedded investigational mobile medical software
                application for symptom survey/data collection and data processing and transmission

        -  WiFi or cellular connectivity to be used for data transmission and communication between
           an Android Pad and an associated Investigational server dashboard application at the
           Central Monitoring Institute

        -  Normal Volunteer Monitoring Data is sent in a HIPAA compliant fashion (data with
           date/time stamp and device ID only) to a Central Monitoring Institute (CMI) server
           maintained at Washington University in St. Louis

        -  Participants will undergo training to activate and use the Home Spirometry Monitoring
           System.

        -  Data evaluation by a pulmonologist within CMI:

             -  Trend analysis on a monthly basis and

             -  When a variance is detected with or without potentially associated symptoms.

             -  A monthly summary report

        -  Participants may undergo one Laboratory-based Spirometry Test (if practicable) and
           perform a test session using the standardized home spirometry method system at baseline.

        -  Participation may last up to one year.

      Standardized Home Spirometry testing interval at least weekly with an initial testing period
      of greater frequency to enable normal range calibration. Volunteers will require initial in
      center or remote training with the Standardized home spirometry method & performance of
      baseline home spirometry method testing and a (baseline) laboratory-based spirometry test (if
      practicable).

      Pre-Surveillance Phase: Daily home spirometry method measurements for 4 to 10 weeks to enable
      normal range calibration. Volunteers who have either a statistically significant (p-value
      <0.01) rate of change in FEV1 or a change in FEV1 rate of decline that exceeds an absolute
      value (+/-) of 30 mL/month using home spirometry based FEV1 values obtained during the normal
      range development period are not eligible to advance to the Surveillance Phase and may be
      discontinued from the study.

      Surveillance Phase: At least weekly home spirometry method measurements for two to ten months
      of participation. An FEV-1 (Forced Expiratory Volume in one second) variance is defined as an
      FEV-1 value that is outside the 95% CI (Confidence Interval) of the participant's normal
      FEV-1 reference range that was determined immediately after enrollment.

      If an FEV-1 variance is detected by the Android Pad, the IT application automatically
      requests that the participant complete a symptom survey. This information when used in
      combination with other data will result in initiation of the following actions:

      If an FEV-1 variance is categorized as being suspicious for acute medical illness by the CMI
      (i.e., with clinical symptoms consistent with upper or lower respiratory infection/CHF), the
      spirometry data and participant survey responses will trigger overview by the CMI laboratory
      staff and if deemed suspicious for acute medical illness results will be made accessible to
      the participant's designated health professionals. If critical values or clinical symptoms
      are obtained consistent with urgent compromise (e.g., evidence of hypoxemia or respiratory
      distress), the CMI (PFT (Pulmonary Function Testing) Laboratory staff pulmonologist) will
      make timely attempts to reach the participant or participant's health professionals. In this
      study, this is expected to be an exceedingly rare occurrence, and most likely would not occur
      at all. If acute medical illness has been ruled in, participant spirometry surveillance will
      be reinitiated after an appropriate period of treatment, which will be determined by the
      participant's managing physician who will notify CMI when the participant has recovered from
      their acute illness.

      Variance not suspicious for acute medical illness with no apparent clinical symptoms
      consistent with infection/CHF: if supplemental questionnaire or clinical data is not
      consistent with an acute medical illness, the following actions will be taken:

      Persistence Evaluation: Participants will be directed to obtain daily spirometric
      measurements along with repeated completion of the questionnaire for a total of 4 consecutive
      days CMI Pulmonology Review: Consistently low Spirometry values (persistence) will prompt
      early review of these values along with previous Spirometry history by CMI pulmonology staff.

      Random Symptom Surveys may also generate (in the absence of a variance) however only Symptom
      Surveys prompted by Variances will result in further action as described above.

      During the first two months (approximately) of Surveillance, Volunteers will be directed to
      intentionally induce variances, symptoms, incomplete connections/testing/survey, etc., in
      order to fully test and assess the functionality of the Mobile Medical Software neural
      pathways (IT app and Dashboard server) as directed by the study team. Volunteers will
      document test on a test log.

      The FDA issued a non-significant risk (NSR) device study letter on 12/3/2018 for the Home
      Spirometry Mobile Medical Software.
    
  