
    
      The study will enroll 20 eligible subjects who will receive NK cell infusion to test whether
      infusion of expanded activated NK cells can produce measurable clinical responses in patients
      with AML/MDS or T-ALL.The study aims to infuse a target dose of 10 x 107 CD56+ cells/kg,
      however, as the actual cell dose obtained will vary depending on the donor harvest, the
      accepted range for cell infusion will be 0.5-20 x 107 CD56+ cells/kg. On day -10, eligible
      donors (adult family member of recipient) will undergo apheresis once. A second apheresis
      procedure may be needed to obtain the required cell count from the donor. NK cells will be
      expanded in co-culture with irradiated (100 Gy) K562-mb15-41BBL cells in closed culture
      containers for 10 days. Prior to NK cell infusion on Day 0, recipients will undergo screening
      evaluations and will receive cyclophosphamide, Fludarabine, IL-2, and supportive medications
      (e.g. mesna). Cytokine regimen of IL-2 will be initiated on the evening of day -1 (dose 1 of
      6). IL-2 will be continued at a dose of 1 million units/m2 subcutaneously 3 times per week
      for 2 weeks (6 doses total). Post-infusion follow-up procedures for up to 1 year from the day
      of NK cell infusion include physical examination, Complete Blood Count, and
      metabolic/chemistry studies. The effects of NK cell infusion will also be determined by
      comparing MRD levels before and after treatment. MRD blood and bone marrow levels will be
      collected at baseline and at specified time points (until 1 year from the day of NK cell
      infusion). NK cell donors will be recruited from the family members of the patient recipient.
      Potential donors aged 21 years old will be consented and will undergo the required screening
      tests and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) typing. Since 20 eligible subjects will be enrolled
      as NK cell recipients, 20 donors will also be recruited for this study. Ineligible NK cell
      donors will have to be replaced.
    
  