
    
      Advancements in monitoring technology not only permit the accurate capture of sophisticated
      physical activity information but also enable the provision of bespoke multidimensional
      feedback. Personalised feedback, self-monitoring and goal-setting are techniques that have
      been shown to be very effective in supporting a change in behaviour through improved
      motivation and awareness. To date the feedback provided in physical activity interventions
      invariably focuses on just one aspect of the behaviour and has had mixed results. Pedometers
      for example with a sole focus on the number of steps one takes has been shown to be a
      reasonably effective form of instant feedback in the short-term but its effects are rarely
      sustained after the device is removed. Tailored information about the achievement of 30
      minutes of moderate to vigorous intensity activity is also only partially effective. One of
      the reasons might be that in focusing on just one aspect becomes prescriptive and doesn't
      allow individuals to explore the other important aspects that might be more aligned to their
      interests, needs and preferences. Having such narrow focused goals and information would
      likely frustrate rather than support an individual's needs for autonomy and competence, which
      is thought to be crucial in the adoption and maintenance of a new behaviour.

      In this research, we want to find out whether the provision of both instantaneous and
      multidimensional personalised feedback about the different health-harnessing aspects of
      physical activity is effective in supporting adults in making a meaningful change to their
      physical activity behaviour. The study will take a mixed methods approach which will involve
      two phases. Phase 1 will involve a 2 group randomised control trial that will examine the use
      of combined instantaneous and multidimensional feedback over a 6-week period with a further
      follow-up outcome assessment a further 6-weeks after the intervention has finished. The
      second phase will involve a short one-to-one semi structured interview with each intervention
      participant that will be designed to qualitatively explore the preferred features of the
      intervention that were most effective for motivating and supporting a change in behaviour
      and/or to understand why it wasn't effective if applicable. The qualitative interviews will
      take place after the 6-week follow-up assessments have been completed so not to influence the
      results of any outcome measures.
    
  