
    
      Health promotion is advocated worldwide as being an efficient strategy to enhance quality of
      life and control the increasing prevalence of non-communicable diseases. health promoting
      lifestyle has been linked to high prevalence of most non-communicable diseases. Efficient and
      effective health promoting lifestyle practices is beneficial in prevention and control of
      non-communicable diseases, as well as improving the quality of life. World Health
      Organization has established workplace and schools as priority settings for health promotion
      in the 21st century as locus of reaching large number of audience. Workplace and schools also
      offer an ideal settings and infrastructure to support the health promoting activities that
      will improve the quality of life of workers and students. Information and communication
      technologies (ICTs) has made the world a global village, both young and old engages in one
      form of ICTs or the other. This study aims to adopt operational research approach to design,
      develop and pilot-test Integrated Technology-Moderated Institutional Health Promotion Model
      (ITIHPM) that will enhance health promoting behaviour and lifestyle modification of staff in
      Nigeria universities.

      The objectives of the study are:

        1. To determine the health-promoting behaviour of NOUN staff;

        2. To assess the health status of NOUN staff;

        3. To examine factors that influence the health promoting lifestyle behaviour of NOUN
           staff;

        4. To assess institutional policies available to encourage NOUN staff to practise health
           -promoting lifestyles;

        5. To assess resources available in the institution that encourage health-promoting
           behavior;

        6. To examine protocols in place to ensure adoption of health-promoting behaviour and
           healthy lifestyle of NOUN staff;

        7. To determine technology-moderated applications/platforms that would be useful in
           promoting knowledge and skills acquisition for health-promoting behaviour and lifestyle
           modifications among NOUN staff; and

        8. To determine the impact of a technologically-based institutional health promotion model
           among NOUN staff.

      Who can participate? All staff that are on the university pay roll in the selected study
      centres, irrespective of their age.

      What does the study involve? Two study centres will be randomly selected from the six study
      centers selected during the first phase of the study. The two centres are randomly allocated
      into two groups two (experimental group and control group). The control group will receive
      tips on health promoting lifestyle practices, answer health promoting lifestyle profile
      questionnaire before giving the tips, have their weight, height, blood pressure, fasting
      blood sugar, abdominal circumference and hip circumference checked. The group will further
      answer the questionnaire and have their weight, height, blood pressure, fasting blood sugar,
      abdominal circumference and hip circumference checked at 6 weeks and at 12 weeks. While the
      experimental group will have four weeks training (educational package) on nutrition,
      exercise/physical activity, stress management, health responsibility, self-actualization and
      interpersonal relationship through seminar and symposium for 45-60 minutes 4 times in a week
      for the 4 weeks. At the beginning of the training database of all the participants will be
      created. This will include socio-demographic data and baseline health assessment that is
      related to the study (weight, height, blood pressure, fasting blood sugar, abdominal
      circumference and hip circumference). Participants will also answer questionnaire on health
      promoting lifestyle practice at the beginning of the training. The same procedure will be
      taken at week zero (immediately after the training), at 6 weeks and at 12 weeks. In the last
      two sections of the meeting, participants will be informed and intimate on the use of the
      software package and encourage them to ask questions. The participants will receive audio and
      video messages on health promoting lifestyle practices once in a week. The software
      application will be designed in a way that both the principal investigator and participants
      can interact at any time. The Technology-Moderated Institutional Health Promotion Model will
      also give opportunity to university staff to have assessed to a Community Health Nurse
      Specialist (health promotion expert) at every needed time. Four sessions of Focus Group
      Discussions among cohorts of staff will be conducted to identify barriers to healthy
      lifestyle practices using the developed model.

      Primary outcome measures

        1. Health promoting lifestyle practices of staff will be measured using health promoting
           lifestyle profile II at the beginning of the study.

        2. Effective and efficient Health promoting lifestyle practices of staff will be measured
           using health promoting lifestyle profile II and mobile software application at zero
           week, 6 weeks and 12 weeks

        3. Health status of staff will be measured using the following indicators: weight, height,
           blood pressure, fasting blood sugar, abdominal circumference and hip circumference at
           the beginning of the study, at zero week, 6 weeks and 12 weeks

        4. Resources available in the university that will enhance health promoting lifestyle
           practices will be measured using interview guide and checklists at the beginning of the
           study Secondary outcome measures

      1. Participants compliance to the intervention will be measured at 6 weeks and 12 weeks 2.
      Participants satisfaction with the intervention will be measured at 6 weeks and 12 weeks 3.
      Retention rate will be measured at 6 weeks and 12 weeks

      Inclusion criteria

        -  All staff of the university in the selected study centres

        -  Own a smartphone that can take the software application (experimental group) Target
           population The target number of participants in the pilot-testing phase is 185 Exclusion
           criteria Unwilling to participate in the study

        -  unable to use smartphone What are the possible benefits and risks of participating? We
           hope that the study will afford the participants the benefits of practicing health
           promoting lifestyle effectively and thereby help him/her to prevent non-communicable
           diseases (NCDs). In case the participant has been diagnosed with any NCDs, participating
           in this study will provide the individual with relevant information that will make
           him/her live a quality life. During the study if the health assessment reveals any
           deviation from normal, the individual will be referred to the school sickbay for
           appropriate treatment and the principal researcher will still follow the him/her up. The
           only risk anticipated in this study is that its demands the participants to be
           meticulous in adhering to all the health promotion activities, which are beneficial on
           the long to the participants.
    
  