
    
      Abstract.

      Background: Asthma prevalence, emergency visits, and hospitalizations have increased
      substantially, especially among young children and urban populations. Although inhaled
      corticosteroids (ICS) are the mainstay of treatment for persistent asthma, studies have
      demonstrated a low rate of ICS usage and primary care provider follow-up within a month of an
      Emergency Department (ED) visit. Furthermore, ICS usage and adherence with National Asthma
      Education and Prevention Program (NAEPP) recommendations is low even for children that
      follow-up with their primary care physician (PCP). In addition, other studies have
      demonstrated frequent symptoms, activity restriction, and missed school or work during the
      weeks following an ED visit. Prescribing ICS at ED discharge occurs uncommonly in the United
      States based on surveys and reviews of current practice. Adult studies have been inconclusive
      and the role of ICS after a pediatric emergency visit for asthma has not been studied. This
      study will assess the short-term outcomes of prescribing ICS to young children with
      persistent asthma symptoms after an emergency visit for asthma.

      Objective: To determine whether a prescription for ICS added to standard asthma ED discharge
      therapy to young children with persistent asthma increases adherence to NAEPP guidelines for
      ICS usage at 2 months follow up and improves short-term symptoms and quality of life for
      patient and caregiver.

      Methods: Randomized control trial of children 1- 8yo of age with persistent asthma being
      discharged after an emergency visit for asthma. Subjects will be randomized to receive
      standard therapy of oral corticosteroid, albuterol, and education versus standard care plus a
      prescription for budesonide once daily. A questionnaire will be administered at baseline,
      with follow-up telephone interviews conducted at 2 weeks and 2 months. Pharmacy verification
      of refill of a second prescription of ICS will be the primary outcome. Asthma symptoms and
      quality of life will be assessed as secondary outcomes.
    
  