
    
      Travelers are at risk of acquiring infectious diseases. Previous studies have estimated that
      about 11% of travelers develop fever during or shortly after their trip abroad. Influenza has
      been shown to be one of the most important cause of fever amongst travelers. A
      sero-epidemiological survey showed that 27 of 211 patients (12.8%) with fever during or after
      a trip abroad developed antibodies against the influenza virus. Another study showed that 13%
      of travellers, who consulted after return with flu-like symptoms, had PCR or culture-proven
      influenza. The incidence of influenza in travellers varies according to the seasons, but
      cases can be seen year round. In tropical countries transmission is year-long and in the
      southern hemisphere the flu epidemics occur during the summer of the northern hemisphere.

      In most hospitals no confirmatory test for influenza is routinely done. For special cases a
      PCR or viral culture can be requested, but the results are only available after 48 hours for
      the PCR and after several days for the culture. It is suspected that the inability to confirm
      the diagnosis of flu contributes to the request of a greater number of useless investigations
      and inappropriate use of anti-infective treatments.

      Rapid diagnostic tests are easy to use, relatively cheap and they yield a result within a
      clinically relevant time frame (30 minutes). For the detection of influenza there are a
      variety of rapid diagnostic tests on the market. The reported sensitivities and specificities
      are quite variable, but the new generations report median sensitivities of 70 - 75% and
      median specificities between 90 and 95%. The rapid tests are considered most useful in
      patient populations with a significant proportion of influenza cases. The WHO encourages to
      use rapid diagnostic tests for influenza in returning travelers with fever, considering that
      this patient population is at significant risk of acquiring influenza during their trip.

      The aim of this study is to evaluate if rapid flu tests influence the medical management of
      returning travelers with fever
    
  