
    
      Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common cancer among men. Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT)
      is the standard treatment for advanced and metastatic PCa and nearly 400,000 men remain on
      androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) for advanced PCa in the U.S. Unfortunately, ADT also
      induces a decrease in muscle mass and function, known as sarcopenia, a condition that leads
      to decreased endurance, increased fatigue, falls, poor health-related quality of life
      (HR-QOL) and increased mortality. The mechanisms underlying the development of ADT-induced
      sarcopenia are incompletely understood and remain a significant barrier to the development of
      therapies for this condition. Mitochondria play an essential role in generating the adenosine
      triphosphate (ATP) needed for muscle contraction and abnormalities in mitochondria function
      have been reported in animal models of sarcopenia. The extent to which mitochondrial
      dysfunction mediates ADT-induced sarcopenia and muscle dysfunction is not known.

      The overall goal of this proposal is to establish the role of mitochondrial dysfunction on
      ADT-induced sarcopenia in patients with PCa. The investigators hypothesize that ADT in men
      with PCa will induce mitochondrial dysfunction leading to sarcopenia.

      Improving scientific understanding of the mechanisms underlying sarcopenia following ADT will
      enable investigators to develop new treatments and novel biomarkers for this disease. Given
      that there are no available therapies for sarcopenia, this is clinically very relevant. The
      near-term impact of this proposal will be to elucidate the extent to which mitochondrial
      dysfunction mediates the development of sarcopenia in veterans and non-veterans with prostate
      cancer undergoing ADT, and to evaluate the potential for these measurements at baseline to
      serve as early predictors of disease. The outcomes that will be directly attributed to the
      results of the proposed research include baseline and changes in muscle mass and performance,
      in-vivo and ex-vivo mitochondrial function, and patient reported outcomes (PROs) including
      fatigue and HR-QOL. The investigators expect that these efforts will have a major impact on
      the goal of reducing morbidity associated with prostate cancer, and improving HR-QOL by
      filling the gap in the knowledge of the mechanisms causing ADT-induced sarcopenia in PCa. The
      mechanisms identified in this grant will be the target of future interventional clinical
      trials.

      The proposed project will address one of the PCRP overarching challenges and focus areas:
      "Survivorship including psychosocial impact on the patient". If the investigators prove the
      hypothesis that mitochondrial dysfunction plays a significant role in the development of
      sarcopenia, fatigue and poor HR-QOL in veterans and non-veterans with prostate cancer, the
      multidisciplinary team that has been assembled will build on these findings and test
      interventions currently undergoing clinical development to target mitochondria dysfunction in
      this population.
    
  