
    
      1. Many studies, including our own, have shown that colorectal cancer (CRC) is related to
           changes in the microbiome of the colon

             1. Certain bacterial phyla are more frequently presented in CRC

             2. Bacterial diversity is reduced in CRC

             3. Co-occurrence of bacterial phyla and exclusion are identified in CRC

             4. Besides bacteriome, viromes have been found associated with CRC

             5. These changes in the pattern may actually be used for diagnosis and prognosticate
                purposes.

        2. However, there are limitations in most studies and questions remained unanswered

             1. Most studies used stool sample and data of tissue (tumor and adjacent normal
                tissues) may not be available

             2. Most studies take adenoma and CRC as one condition, without differentiating the
                findings according to tumor location

             3. Most studies have separate bacteria, virus and fungi. There is a lack of data on
                their interaction

             4. Most studies have identified either microbiome without correlating them with the
                genomic of the host

        3. We know that not all CRC are the same. It has been known that rectal and colonic cancer
           are not the same. Furthermore, proximal (right) CRC and distal (left) CRC may not be the
           same.

             1. Studies have shown compare to L-CRC, patients with R-CRC are older, more female
                (Iaocopetta B et al. Int J Cancer 2002)

             2. Studies have also shown that the genomic make up of L-CRC and R-CRC are different.
                R-CRC are more likely to have family cancer syndrome (HNPCC), mostly diploid, less
                frequent to have loss heterozygosity, less TP53 mutations and more MSI and CIMP,
                and the gene expression are different (Glebov et al. Cancer Epi, Biomarker and
                Prevention 2003)

             3. The response to therapy might also be different in the L-CRC compare to R-CRC

             4. Recent studies show that the clinico-pathological and molecular features of
                early-onset (<50 years) CRC varies according to tumor location. (Peres J et al. Am
                J Cancer Res 2015). In the R-CRC in this group, germline mutation is more common
                (MLH1, MSH2, MSH6, PMS2 and EPCAM). Adenomas tend to be larger, flatter and more
                likely to have high-grade dysplasia and villous histology

             5. Recent studies have also shown that the clinic-pathological and molecular feature
                of in the late-onset CRC (70-80 years) varies with tumor location (Brandariz et al.
                Oncotarget 2018). There are more sporadic MSI, more BRAF mutation and the
                adenoma/CRC are likely to be mucinous.

        4. Studies comparing the microbiome of L-CRC vs R-CRC has not been many. There is some
           early data showing that the microbiome in the left vs right colon are different.

      The aim of this study is to investigate the microbiome (including bacteriome, virome, and
      fungome) of adenoma/CRC comparing the left (distal to splenic flexure) vs right side
      (proximal to splenic flexure) of the colon.
    
  