
    
      The University of North Carolina will test the effectiveness of the Center for Disease
      Control and Prevention's AFIX model, physician-to-physician engagement, and both strategies
      in combination, for increasing HPV vaccination coverage among adolescents in primary care
      clinics. AFIX (Assessment, Feedback, Incentives and eXchange) consists of brief quality
      improvement consultations that immunization specialists from state health departments deliver
      to vaccine providers in primary care settings. Using immunization registry data, the
      specialist evaluates the clinic's vaccination coverage and delivers education on best
      practices to improve coverage. Physician-to-physician (P2P) engagement consists of physician
      educators providing feedback about clinics' current HPV vaccination coverage and in-depth
      training about how to make strong and effective HPV vaccination recommendations to primary
      care providers via remote webinar consultations. Physician educators will also use
      immunization registry data to provide feedback on clinics' vaccine coverage. The
      investigators will compare changes in HPV vaccination coverage before and after intervention
      for high-volume primary care clinics in four study conditions: AFIX consultations delivered
      in-person by state health department immunization specialists (AFIX group),
      physician-to-physician consultations delivered remotely by trained physician educators (P2P
      group), both AFIX and P2P consultations in combination (AFIX + P2P group), or no HPV quality
      improvement intervention (control group). In each state, 30 clinics will be randomly assigned
      to each study arm, for a total of 120 clinics per state, or 360 clinics overall. As a
      secondary endpoint, we proposed to evaluate the impact of intervention "booster" visits
      delivered at 12-months post-intervention. However, the CDC has recently changed the AFIX
      program so that the desired comparison is no longer possible. Therefore, we have eliminated
      booster visits. This change does not affect our primary endpoint. The primary objective of
      this study is to compare the change in coverage for HPV vaccine initiation among 11-12 year
      old patients, from baseline to 12-month follow-up. Secondarily, the study will compare the
      change in coverage for other vaccines, age groups and time periods.
    
  