
    
      The results from the KRAM Study are used as baseline for this intervention. In the KRAM study
      all adult citizens (18+ years) in 13 Danish municipalities were invited by letter to take
      part in an internet based questionnaire concerning socio-demography, life style, and other
      health aspects. Furthermore, a random sample of the citizens was invited to participate in a
      health examination. A total of 76.484 of the invited 538.497 citizens filled in the entire or
      partially the questionnaire and 18.065 of the invited 180.103 citizens completed the health
      examination. The examination included the following measurements: Blood pressure, height,
      weight, fat percentage, blood samples, pulmonary function, bone mineral density, muscle
      strength, balance test, and aerobic fitness.

      Intervention The intervention was carried out in three of the 13 municipalities (Silkeborg,
      Frederiksberg, and Varde). Participants with a low aerobic fitness (defined for men and women
      in different age groups) or those who reported being sedentary or light physically active in
      leisure time were - after they had accomplished the health examination - invited to
      participate in the intervention. Participants were not included if they participated in other
      interventions initiated in relation with the KRAM Study or if they were pregnant. All
      participants gave informed consent. The protocol was approved by the Scientific Ethical
      Committee B for the Capital Region of Denmark (H-B-2008-097).

      The participants were randomly assigned to either a pedometer group or a control group by
      drawing a sealed envelope with a unique randomizing number. The participants in the pedometer
      group received a pedometer (Yamax Digi-Walker SW-200), a book with a pedometer program, a
      handout with a summary of the pedometer program, and a calendar for registration of daily
      steps. The aim of the program is to guide people to use a pedometer and increase their steps
      with 20 % each week until they reach their goal. During the trial period, they were asked to
      reset the pedometer every morning and to wear it during the entire day. In the evening, they
      should take the pedometer off and register the total number of steps in the calendar. After
      three, six, and nine weeks, the participants in the pedometer group got a mail to encourage
      them to keep using the pedometer and follow the program. Participants assigned to the control
      group received a leaflet from the National Board of Health in Denmark recommending all adults
      to be physical active for 30 minutes each day of moderate intensity.

      Follow up After 12 weeks, participants were invited by letter to answer a short
      questionnaire. Furthermore, they were invited to participate in a health examination
      including the measurements of blood pressure, weight, fat percentage, and aerobic fitness.
      The researchers who performed the examinations were blinded to group assignment.
    
  