
    
      Title Prevention of oral mucositis after using oral topical vitamin E versus voriconazole and
      levofloxacin in pediatric cancer patients receiving chemotherapy.

      Title registration:

      The study is to be registered on ClinicalTrials.gov/

      Protocol version:

      Version (1)

      Funding:

      Self-funding Roles and responsibilities

      Principle investigator:

      Samah omer Mekki B.D.S, Faculty of Dentistry, Khartoum College of Medical Sciences, Sudan
      (2011) Will make case selection, methodology, instructions and patient recall. Then write the
      thesis and perform a master table for the results.

      Main supervisor: Prof.Dr. Mahmoud Hamdy.

        -  Professor of Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo
           University.

        -  Prof.Dr. Mahmoud Hamdy will supervise all procedures and sort out any foreseen or
           existing problem. He will initially consult with a statistician for developing the study
           design, statistical analysis, results presentation design and interpretation.

      Assistant supervisor: Dr. Nada Wassef.

        -  Lecturer of Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health, Faculty of Dentistry, Cairo
           University.

        -  The assistant supervisor will supervise clinical steps and findings revise and edit the
           draft of thesis.

      Assistant supervisor: Dr. Asmaa Mohammed Hamoda

        -  Lecturer of Pediatric oncology, National cancer institute, Cairo university.

        -  Will validate diagnosis of selected cases to ensure that only indicated case are
           included in the study, clinical evaluation of post intervention findings and follow up.
           Revise, edit the first draft of thesis.

      Trial sponsor:

      Department of Pediatric oncology, National Cancer Institute, Cairo university.

      Role of study sponsor:

      Provide access to children receiving Chemotherapy.

      Committees:

      National Cancer Institute Committees:

      1- Research Plan committee. 2- Department Board committee. 3-Ethics Committee. 4-Institute
      Board.

      Department of Pediatric Dentistry, Faculty of Dentistry- Cairo University:

        1. Department Board.

        2. Research Plane Committee.

        3. Evidence Based Committee, Faculty of Dentistry - Cairo University.

        4. Ethics Committee, Faculty of Dentistry - Cairo University.

        5. Higher Education and Research Committee.

        6. Faculty Board.

           Research question:

           Is topical oral vitamin E application more effective in prevention of oral mucositis in
           pediatric cancer patients receiving chemotherapy compared to Voriconazole and
           Levofloxacin as standard protocol? Choice of comparators Aim of The Study The aim of the
           present study is to assess the prevention of oral mucositis after using oral topical
           vitamin E versus voriconazole and levofloxacin in pediatric cancer patients receiving
           chemotherapy.

           Hypothesis Objectives of The Study

           • Primary objective: To evaluate the Effectiveness of Vitamin E versus Voriconazole and
           Levofloxacin in prevention of chemotherapy induced oral mucositis in pediatric cancer
           patients.

           • Secondary objective: To evaluate the role of Vitamin E in prevention of chemotherapy
           induced oral mucositis in pediatric patients with cancer.

           Trial design:

           - A Randomized clinical trial.

           PICOS (P) Population: Children with cancer receiving chemotherapy. (I) Intervention:
           Topical vitamin "E" application. (C) Control: Voriconazole and Levofloxacin application.
           (O) Outcome: Outcome measure Outcome measuring Outcome measuring unit

           Primary outcome:

           Patient reported mucositis Children's International Mucositis Evaluation Scale (ChIMES).
           (Jacobs et al., 2013) (Appendix A)

           Score (0-5)

           Secondary outcome:

           Clinical assessment of mucositis Oral mucositis WHO Toxicity System (Dos Reis et al.,
           2016) (Appendix B) Score (0-4)

           - Study (S): A Randomized clinical trial.

           Search strategy:

           - Keywords: -. Vitamin E, Chemotherapy, Oral Mucositis, Voriconazole, Levofloxacin
           Children and Cancer.

             -  Date of search: 01\3\2018

             -  Following databases were searched:

                *PubMed database. *Hand searching (Google scholars).

                * The Cochrane Library.

                • The search was limited to English articles only. Electronic and manual searches
                were performed

                  -  Inclusion criteria for Articles:

                     a. Articles written in English language only. b. Articles including oral
                     mucositis. c. Randomized clinical trials, systematic reviews and
                     meta-analysis.

                  -  Exclusion criteria for Articles:

                       1. Articles including other Vitamin than Vitamin E.

                       2. Articles with treatment approaches.

           Methods

           Study setting:

             -  The study will be conducted in Department of Pediatric Oncology, National Cancer
                Institute.

             -  Data for this particular study will be collected at Pediatric Department, National
                Cancer Institute.

           Participants:

           Eligibility criteria:

           Inclusion criteria:

           All children fulfilling the following criteria will be included:

        1. Patients with healthy and intact oral mucosa.

        2. Patients diagnosed with Acute Myeloid leukemias for the first time or during
           consolidation cycle.

        3. Both male and female patients undergoing chemotherapy at in and Out patient units of
           Pediatric Oncology department.

        4. Age of patient ranging (6- 18) years old.

        5. Legal representatives of patient must be able to read, understand and provide informed
           consent to participate in the trial.

        6. Patients with no history of dental discomfort related to cold or hot food or beverage
           intake.

        7. Patients receiving chemotherapeutic regimen known to cause oral mucositis (e.g.
           Cytarabine and Etoposide).

      Exclusion criteria:

      Exclusion criteria included the presence of any of the following:

        1. Administration of antiviral or antifungal therapy and/or any other treatment for oral
           mucositis before enrollment in the study.

        2. Presence of advanced or severe periodontitis (pocket depth more than 6mm).

        3. Patients who are scheduled for radiotherapy as part of their treatment. Intervention

      Diagnosis:

        1. Diagnostic chart (Appendix C) will be filled with personal, medical and dental history.

        2. The Intraoral examination will be made using mask, gloves, sterile gauze and wooden
           tongue depressors.

        3. Patients who agreed to participate in the study will watch a video explaining how to
           perform oral hygiene.

           Intervention Group (Vitamin E) - The parents will be instructed to empty the oil
           contained within 100 IU soft gelatinous capsule which is equivalent to 100 mg of vitamin
           "E" (Pharco Pharmaceuticals, Egypt).

           - The capsule will be emptied into the child's oral cavity twice daily by piercing it
           with sterile wrapped needles.

           - Parents will be instructed to wear plastic gloves during these procedures.

             -  For older children, the patients will be instructed to chew the vitamin "E" capsule
                and keep the oil in their mouth for few minutes then swallow it.

             -  These procedures will be done on the day of chemotherapy infusion and 5 days after.

             -  Follow up for the patient will be done at 7th, 14th and 21st day of chemotherapy
                infusion.

           Control Group:

           Standard protocol will be used (Voriconazole and Levofloxacin). Criteria for
           discontinuing intervention In case of any signs of allergy to vitamin E, the treatment
           will be terminated and the patient will be treated and excluded from the study.

           Strategies to improve adherence to intervention Face to face settings with the patients
           and their parents to stress on the importance of follow up. This will take place during
           the study period and during recruitment.

           Participants Timeline:

           Time point Enrollment Allocation Close out 0 7th 14th 21st Diagnostic chart and Intra
           oral examination X Application of Interventions X Follow up X x X

           Postoperative instructions

        1. Patients are instructed to maintain oral hygiene care as tolerated using soft toothbrush
           and dental floss.

        2. Lip lubrication (Vaseline or Cocoa butter) is instructed to be used.

        3. Sugar free gums are advised to enhance oral moistness.

        4. Avoidance of certain foods as acidic juices and spicy foods.

           Sample size:

           The aim of this study is to evaluate Prevention of Oral Mucositis After Using Oral
           Topical Vitamin E Versus Voriconazole and Levofloxacin in Pediatric Cancer Patients
           Receiving Chemotherapy. According previous researches and books as Isaac and Michael
           (1995) 10-30 participants will be satisfactory.

           Recruitment strategy:

           Pediatric Cancer patients attending in and Out Pediatric Oncology Units at the National
           Cancer Institute in Cairo, seeking chemotherapy. Patients will be enrolled in the study
           if they are compatible with the eligibility criteria.

           Randomization & allocation concealment:

           A) Sequence generation:

           - Computer sequence generated random numbers will be used.

           - Randomization is done by computer software www.random.com.

           - The sequence generates 2 codes (A & B).

           - Each code stands for either intervention or control.

           - The table with the numbers will be with the assistant supervisor.

           B) Allocation concealment mechanism:

           - A telephone call to the assistant supervisor will be done to know the group of the
           patient.

           C) Implementation:

             -  Sequence will be generated by the assistant supervisor and provided through a
                telephone call.

           Bias:

        1. Selection bias: is reduced by randomization using random number generator and allocation
           concealment.

        2. Performance bias: One operator will perform the trial with a standardized method for all
           patients.

        3. Detection: All outcomes will be detected.

        4. Reporting: All outcomes will be reported.

      Blinding:

      - Blinding for outcome assessor and the statistician

      Data management:

      Data will be stored on the investigator's personal computer, secured with a password with
      backup for the data on Google Drive, on hard copy and backup external hard drive.

      Monitoring:

      The study work results will be monitored regularly by the supervisors.

      Statistical method:

      Data will be analyzed using IBM SPSS advanced statistics (Statistical Package for Social
      Sciences), version 24 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL). Numerical data will be described as mean and
      stander deviation or median and range. Categorical data will be described as number and
      percentage. Data will be explored for normality using Kolmogrov-Smirnv test and Shapiro-Wilk
      test. Comparisons between two groups for normally distributed numeric variable will be done
      using the student's test while for non normally distributed numeric variables will be done by
      the Mann-Whitney U test, Comparisons between categorical variables will be performed using
      the chi square test A p-value less than or equal to 0.05 will be considered statistically
      significant. All tests will be two tailed.

      Harms:

      Vitamin E is considered to have a very low allergic effect and is generally well-tolerated.

      Auditing:

      Auditing of the study design will be done by the Evidence Based Committee - Faculty of
      Dentistry - Cairo University.

      Research Ethics Approval:

      This study protocol and the informed consent form will be reviewed by the Ethics Committee of
      Scientific Research -National Cancer Institute and Faculty of Dentistry- Cairo University.

      Protocol Amendments:

      Any modifications to the protocol which may impact the conduct of the study, potential
      benefit of the patient or may affect patient safety, including changes of study objectives,
      study design, sample sizes, study procedures, or significant administrative aspect will
      require a formal amendment to the protocol. Such amendment will be agreed upon by the Council
      of Pediatric Dentistry and Dental Public Health Department.

      Consent and assent:

      Researcher will discuss the trial with legal guardian of each participating patient.

        -  Verbal assent will be taken orally from participating child.

        -  Written consent will be taken from the legal guardian of each participating child
           willing to participate in the trial. All consent forms will be translated into Arabic.

      Confidentiality:

      All study-related information will be stored securely. All participant information will be
      stored in locked file cabinets in areas with limited access.

      Declaration of interests:

      The study will be self-funded by investigator and carried out on patients from in or
      outpatient clinic in Pediatric Cancer Department, National Cancer Institute, Cairo.

      Access to data:

      Supervisors will be given access to the data sets. All data sets will be password protected.

      post-trial care: - Preventive measures as oral hygiene measures will be offered for all
      participants.

      Dissemination policy:

      - Study results will be published as partial fulfillment of the requirements for Master
      degree in Pediatric Dentistry.

        -  Topics suggested for publication will be circulated to the authors.

        -  Thesis defense after completion of the study will be done in public with external
           judges.
    
  