
    
      Brain oscillations are ubiquitous in the human brain and have been implicated in cognitive
      and behavioral states defined in precisely tuned neural networks. In neurodegenerative
      disorders, neurodegeneration is accompanied by changes in oscillatory activity leading to the
      emerging concept of neurological and psychiatric disorders as "oscillopathies". Alzheimer's
      disease, which accounts for the vast majority of age-related dementias, is characterised by a
      prominent disruption of oscillations in the gamma frequency band. The restoration of gamma
      oscillations by neural entrainment in animal models of Alzheimer's disease have shown a
      remarkable decrease in the pathological burden of amyloid and tau via increased microglial
      activity, resulting in a significant increase of cognitive performances.

      Transcranial alternating current brain stimulation (tACS), is a neurophysiological method of
      non-invasive modulation of the excitability of the central nervous system that is having an
      increasingly numerous spectrum of potential therapeutic applications. Recent studies have
      demonstrated the effectiveness of this method in modulating the natural frequencies of
      cerebral oscillation, underlying multiple cognitive processes such as verbal memory,
      perception and working memory.

      On the basis of these premises, the treatment with gamma tACS is proposed in patients
      affected by Alzheimer's disease.

      In this randomized, double-blind, sham-controlled, cross-over study, the investigators will
      evaluate the modulators of response on cognitive measure to a single stimulation with gamma
      tACS on the posterior parietal cortex in patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment due to
      Alzheimer's disease.

      Subjects will be randomized in two groups, one receiving a single treatment with gamma tACS
      (40 Hz) first and the other receiving sham stimulation. After one week the treatments will be
      exchanged. Patients will be evaluated with neuropsychological tests and neurophysiological
      measures of cholinergic transmission. Modulators of response, including cognitive reserve,
      baseline impairment, apo-E genotype, MRI measures of atrophy and connectivity, electric field
      modelling, will be considered.
    
  