
    
      Study design:

      This is a triple-blind, parallel, placebo-controlled, randomized clinical trial.

      Sample size:

      The sample size was calculated to observe a difference of 15% in insulin sensitivity based on
      two outcomes: glucose rate of appearance (Ra) and glucose rate of disappearance (Rd) obtained
      from the hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic glucose clamp to measure the liver and skeletal muscle
      insulin sensitivity.

      The calculation was done considering a probability of type I error (α) of 5%, with a power of
      90% and adding an extra 20% for potential losses at follow-up.

      The estimated sample size for the study is 24 subjects, 12 per group.

      Randomization:

      The participants will be randomly assigned to one of the two groups (sucralose or placebo)
      using the website Randomization.com (http://www.randomization.com) with a balanced block
      design of 4 blocks with 6 subjects each. The random allocation sequence will be done by an
      external researcher.

      Intervention:

      The intervention will consist of capsules filled with pure sucralose or placebo (cornstarch)
      accordingly to the group assignment. Each capsule will contain 90 mg of sucralose or placebo.
      Participants will be asked to consume one capsule in each meal (three per day) in order to
      achieve an ingestion of 270 mg of sucralose or placebo, this quantity corresponds
      approximately to the 30% of the acceptable daily intake (ADI) of sucralose for a lean person.
      This was calculated based on the ADI established by the joint Food and Agriculture
      Organization of the United Nations (FAO)/World Health Organization (WHO) expert committee on
      food additives (JECFA) of 15 mg per kg of body weight per day of sucralose.

      The use of identical capsules will allow the blinding, the capsules will be deposited in
      bottles numbered sequentially according to the enrollment process and neither the
      participants nor the researches will know the content of the capsules or the group assigned.

      Visit 1

      An oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) will be performed in order to confirm that participants
      do not have diabetes or prediabetes. Fasting insulin, lipid profile and glycated hemoglobin
      will be measured. Also, anthropometry (weight, height, waist and hip circumference), blood
      pressure and heart rate will be documented. Body composition will be evaluated with dual
      X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) already available in the Research Unit and bioelectrical
      impedance. Physical activity will be registered with the questionnaire from the University of
      Laval that measure energy expenditure in Kcal per day. A format for three-day food intake
      record will be given to be prospectively registered by participants.

      Visit 2

      The first hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic glucose clamp (HEGC) will be done in this visit.
      Tracers will be administrated during the first 3.5 hours. The first phase of the HEGC will
      use an insulin infusion of 14 milliunits (mU)/m2 of BSA/min to evaluate hepatic insulin
      sensitivity. The second phase of the HEGC will use an insulin infusion of 50 mU/m2 of body
      surface area (BSA)/min to evaluate skeletal muscle insulin sensitivity. Each phase has an
      approximately duration of two to three hours.

      Visit 3

      The three-day food record will be requested and reviewed to evaluate food consumption habits.
      A mixed meal tolerance test will be performed over two hours. The meal will consist of 523
      kcal (49% carbohydrates, 17% protein, 34% lipids). Blood samples will be collected at 0, 30,
      60, 90 and 120 minutes to measure glucose, insulin and glucagon-like peptide type 1 (GLP-1)
      concentrations. Also, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), C-reactive protein (CRP), interleukin 6
      (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) concentrations will be measured at the basal
      time. Ten minutes before the test participants will consume a capsule containing either
      sucralose or placebo (120 mg).

      Participants will proportionate the first stool sample to evaluate gut microbiota.

      The researchers will proportionate the bottle with capsules that each participant will
      consume during the intervention period (30 ± 2 days) in this visit. Also, each participant
      will be asked to record on the adherence format if they consumed the capsule at breakfast,
      lunch and dinner each day of the intervention period and to record any symptom related to
      capsules ingestion. Another format to record three-day food consumption again will be given.

      Visit 4

      The second HEGC will be done in this visit following the same procedure as explained in visit
      2. Participants will proportionate the second stool sample to evaluate changes in gut
      microbiota. Also, the physical activity questionnaire will be applied again and the second
      3-day food record will be obtained to evaluate changes in physical activity and food habits,
      respectively.

      Visit 5

      The second mixed meal tolerance test will be performed following the same procedures as visit
      3. Participants will be asked to return the empty bottles to quantify adherence to the
      intervention. In addition adherence and symptoms formats will be collected.

      Visit 6

      Participants will be asked to assist one month after visit 5 to make a final evaluation of
      fasting glucose, insulin and lipid profile concentrations. The physical activity
      questionnaire will be applied again and a third 3-day food record will be collected to
      evaluate changes in physical activity and food habits, respectively.
    
  