
    
      With the gradual aging of Chinese population and continuous development of economy and
      society, the incidence of cardiovascular disease and the number of patients have increased
      rapidly. The National Heart Center has reported that the number of patients with clinically
      diagnosed cardiovascular disease in China has reached 290 million in 2016 (240 million in
      2014). Cardiovascular disease is the most common cause of death in humans. Left ventricular
      systolic function plays an important role in the treatment and prognosis of patients with
      myocardial diseases. Early sensitive detection of left ventricular systolic function, timely
      treatment and early evaluation of the therapeutic effect can greatly reduce the death of
      patients with myocardial diseases rate.

      At present, the left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF), measured by the two-plane Simpson
      method in clinical, is one of the methods to evaluating left ventricular systolic function.
      It is especially suitable for patients with geometric deformation of the left ventricle, but
      some early heart failure patients' LVEF is still in the normal range, whose systolic function
      has been reduced, but. In recent years, 2D longitudinal strain is one of the indicators for
      evaluating left ventricular systolic function. The researchers believe that 70% of cardiac
      function is obtained by longitudinal movement of myocardium , which can be used as a good
      indicator for identifying myocardial diseases. However, both the two-plane Simpson method and
      the 2D longitudinal strain require good sound transmission conditions and good image quality.
      You can clearly see the endocardium and epicardium. Not all of patients in the clinic can get
      better image.

      Basic and clinical studies and clinical statistics show that tissue motion tracking of mitral
      annular displacement (TMAD) is not affected by image quality and can effectively evaluate
      left ventricular systolic function. It can measure the mitral valve annulus displacement by
      marking the mitral valve annulus point and the reference point, which can quickly and
      accurately evaluate the left ventricular longitudinal contraction function.
    
  