
    
      To implement a new model of chronic disease management, we will build on our existing
      electronic health record and integrated data systems to develop an advanced health IT
      application called the "Medication Metronome" to enable providers to schedule future
      laboratory tests related to a specific set of medications (for glycemic, cholesterol, and
      blood pressure management). As these lab test dates become due, the Medication Metronome
      system will remind patients via letter and inform providers when the tests remain "missing."
      The goal of this intervention is to implement an efficient, visit-independent system to
      ensure that patients are rapidly and safely brought to evidence-based treatment goals and to
      prevent delays in planned laboratory monitoring. This study has the following aims:

      Aim 1: To develop the Medication Metronome system. This work involves health IT development
      and evaluation of design prototypes to create a system that supports timely medication
      intensification, improves safety, and meets both patient and provider needs.

      Aim 2: To conduct a randomized controlled trial of the Medication Metronome system. We will
      use three target chronic conditions to test different elements of the system. We hypothesize
      that use of the Medication Metronome system will lead to:

      H2a. More effective HbA1c control among patients with type 2 diabetes prescribed hypoglycemic
      medicines; H2b. Safer medication management among patients with hypertension prescribed
      thiazide diuretics, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, or angiotensin II receptor
      blockers; H2c. Both more effective LDL-cholesterol control and safer monitoring for hepatitis
      among patients with hyperlipidemia prescribed HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors.

      Aim 3: To evaluate the impact of the Medication Metronome visit-independent care model on the
      content of office-based visits. Time spent addressing different clinical care domains will be
      assessed using audiotape-based content analysis in a subset of selected office visits.

      Summary: We will implement, and rigorously evaluate a health IT-supported model of
      visit-independent medication management designed to enable safer and more effective chronic
      disease care. We will also carefully investigate the impact of this system on primary care
      visits. The broader goal of this work is to support health delivery redesign that fosters
      patient-centered primary care by combining visit-independent medication management with more
      productive visit-based patient-provider interactions.
    
  