
    
      Antipsychotic agents have, for a long time, been used to alleviate the severe behavioral
      problems associated with manic episodes. Risperidone, widely used in the treatment of
      schizophrenia, has been shown to be effective in the treatment of manic and mixed episodes
      associated with bipolar disorders. This is a randomized, double-blind study to evaluate the
      effectiveness and safety of risperidone compared with placebo in the treatment of patients
      with bipolar disorder who are experiencing a manic or mixed episode. Patients who are
      voluntarily hospitalized at the time of study enrollment (for treatment of the manic episode)
      receive study medication to be taken orally, once a day. Patients receive placebo or
      risperidone at a starting dose of 3 mg, with gradual dose increases or decreases at the
      investigator's discretion within the daily dosing range of 1 to 6 mg to achieve optimal
      effectiveness, while minimizing any intolerance to the drug. Treatment with risperidone or
      placebo tablets continues for 3 weeks. The primary measure of efficacy is the change from
      baseline to the end of treatment in the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS); Other efficacy
      assessments include the changes in: the Clinical Global Impression-Severity of Illness
      (CGI-S) scale; Global Assessment Scale (GAS), which assesses the patient's level of
      functioning; and the Positive and Negative Syndromes Scale (PANSS), a scale for measuring
      psychotic symptoms. Safety assessments include the incidence of adverse events throughout the
      study; measurement of vital signs (temperature, pulse, blood pressure) and evaluation of the
      presence and severity of extrapyramidal symptoms by the Extrapyramidal Symptom Rating Scale
      (ESRS) at specified intervals; and clinical laboratory tests (hematology, biochemistry,
      urinalysis) at the start and end of the study. The study hypothesis is that daily treatment
      with risperidone is more effective than placebo, as measured by Young Mania Rating Scale
      scores, in the treatment of the manic phase of Bipolar I Disorder. Risperidone oral tablets,
      1 mg, taken once daily in the evening; dose of 3 mg on Day 1; dose range of 2 - 4 mg on Day
      2; dose range 1 - 5 mg on Day 3; dose range 1 - 6 mg on Days 4 - 21. Doses may be increased
      or decreased at investigator's discretion.
    
  