
    
      MRI scans will be performed at three time points. The time points will be 1-2 weeks prior to
      the start of treatment, between 4 and 5 weeks after the start of treatment (i.e., after the
      20th radiation treatment fraction and before the start of the 25th radiation treatment
      fraction), and 3-4 months after the completion of chemoRT. Scans acquired at the first and
      third time points will be clinically indicated (except for the spectroscopy scan) and ordered
      by the treating physician. The scan session corresponding to the second time point will be
      for research purposes. The investigators chose 4-5 weeks as the time point for predicting
      early response to chemoRT for the following reason. In a 7-week treatment regimen, an
      indicator tested at > 5 weeks would have limited predictive utility in the consideration of
      an alternative therapy, i.e., surgical intervention. However, an indicator measured at <= 5
      weeks (i.e., with enough time remaining to the end of therapy) might potentially inform the
      therapeutic course of action in future studies. If this pilot study demonstrates utility of
      advanced MR imaging techniques identified at 4-5 weeks, future studies could focus on the
      optimal timing for assessment of early response. The time point of 3-4 months is selected for
      assessing post-therapy response because it coincides with the clinical follow-up schedule (at
      which an image-based assessment of response is performed via a clinical exam and/or PET
      imaging) that determines the standard of care response.

      T1, T2, and T2* MRI scans will be performed to delineate head and neck tissues. DCE MRI scans
      will provide quantitative assessment of contrast uptake in tissues and tissue vasculature
      both during and at follow-up after completion of chemoRT. Contrast on images will be provided
      by a gadolinium-based contrast agent (GBCA). GBCA is FDA-approved and is routinely used in
      dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI scans. Further, contrast enhanced MRI is typically obtained on
      all cancer patients including head and neck cancer as part of routine clinical care.
      Diffusion MRI scans will provide information on the diffusion of water molecules in tumor,
      nodes and other head and neck tissues. MR spectroscopy scans will provide information on
      tissue metabolites. All scans acquired prior to the start of chemoRT will provide baseline
      maps against which functional maps acquired during and after completion of chemoRT will be
      compared to determine the relative change in anatomical, biophysical and biochemical
      parameters.

      Image anatomy and parameter maps will be correlated with dose maps derived from CT images by
      registering (fusing) MRI images with CT images acquired as part of standard of care and used
      for treatment planning of the subject's radiation treatment.
    
  