
    
      Kyphoplasty and Vertebroplasty:

      Kyphoplasty and vertebroplasty are types of surgery that are used to treat broken bones in
      the back, which may have been caused by cancer. Both procedures involve injecting a mixture
      of medical cement into the broken bone(s) in the back. The cement is designed to harden and
      become a permanent part of the bone, supporting the bone like an "internal cast" that brings
      it back to its original shape. The amount of cement will vary from person to person, but it
      could be, for example, anywhere from a fraction of a teaspoon to a full teaspoon.

      The main difference between the 2 procedures is that kyphoplasty involves the use of a small
      medical type of balloon, and vertebroplasty does not use balloons. Vertebroplasty also uses a
      slightly smaller needle to inject the cement.

      The Study Device:

      The Cavity SpineWand is a rod-shaped surgical tool that is designed to use a type of energy
      called plasma in order to destroy tissue at lower temperatures than other surgical methods.
      This may help to lessen damage to other nearby tissue.

      In this study, the Cavity SpineWand will be used to remove tissue (soft tissue, bone tissue,
      or both, but this will vary from person to person), including all or part of the cancerous
      tumors in the area of the broken bone(s). This is designed to make extra room for the cement
      to be injected, either during the vertebroplasty procedure or the kyphoplasty procedure.

      Screening Tests:

      Before you can receive treatment in this study, you will have "screening tests" to help the
      doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in this study. If you have had some of these
      tests done recently, they may not need to be repeated. This will be up to your study doctor.
      The following tests may be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and a computed tomography (CT)
           scan. These scans will show pictures of your broken back bone(s) and the tumor. Your
           doctor will use these pictures to plan your surgery.

      Women who are able to have children must have a negative urine pregnancy test.

      Doctors currently do not fully understand whether kyphoplasty or vertebroplasty is better for
      treating broken bones in the back. For this reason, and because this study involves randomly
      assigning participants to receive one or the other of these procedures, all participants must
      be eligible for both procedures in order to take part in this study.

      Treatment Groups:

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in the study, you will be assigned to a
      treatment group. In each phase of the study, there is an equal chance of being assigned to
      any of the treatment groups.

      If you are one of the first 20 patients enrolled in the study, you will be enrolled in Phase
      1. You will be randomly assigned (as in the flip of a coin) to 1 of 2 groups. Phase 1 Group 1
      will receive vertebroplasty, and Phase 1 Group 2 will receive kyphoplasty.

      If you are one of the next 60 patients to be enrolled, you will be enrolled in Phase 2. You
      will be randomly assigned (as in the toss of dice) to 1 of 4 groups. Phase 2 Group 1 will
      receive vertebroplasty, and Phase 2 Group 2 will receive vertebroplasty with the Cavity
      SpineWand. Phase 2 Group 3 will receive kyphoplasty, and Phase 2 Group 4 will receive
      kyphoplasty with the Cavity SpineWand.

      Study Tests/Procedures Before Surgery:

      Within about 2-4 weeks before surgery, you will have tests and procedures performed. If you
      had some of these tests done recently, they may not need to be repeated. The following
      procedures may be performed:

        -  Your medical history will be recorded.

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs (blood pressure,
           heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate).

        -  You will complete questionnaires that ask about the back pain and any drugs you are
           taking. In total, the questionnaires should take about 10-20 minutes to complete.

        -  You will be asked to walk 50 feet at your own pace while being timed to see how long it
           takes you. This is a routine test for comparing your walking function before and after
           surgery.

      You will sign a separate consent form for surgery and the drugs used during surgery. These
      drugs include antibiotics to help lower the risk of infection, drugs to control pain, local
      anesthesia to make the area of your back where you are having surgery feel numb, and a
      sedative to make you feel relaxed and sleepy. The risks of these drugs will be explained to
      you in detail at that time.

      Blood Test on the Day of Surgery:

      On the day of surgery, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn. This blood will be compared
      with the blood that is drawn after surgery, to see when after surgery the most tumor cells
      are found in the blood.

      Other Procedures Before Surgery:

      As is standard for these types of surgery, special "bone" needles will be placed into the
      broken bone(s) in your back. X-rays will be used to guide the needles into a safe position. A
      biopsy of the tumor in your back bone will be collected to check the diagnosis of cancer. To
      collect a biopsy, a small amount of tumor tissue is withdrawn through the bone needle.

      Surgical Procedures:

      If you are in Phase 2 Group 2 or Phase 2 Group 4, the Cavity SpineWand will be used to remove
      a small amount of tissue immediately before the kyphoplasty or vertebroplasty procedure.

      If you are in Phase 1 Group 2, Phase 2 Group 3, or Phase 2 Group 4, the kyphoplasty procedure
      will be done next. A small balloon will be placed into the area in your back where the tumor
      is located. Fluid will then be pumped through the tube in order to fill the balloon, which
      will create a hole in the back bone. After the balloon is deflated (closed) and removed, this
      hole will then be filled with cement. X-rays will be used to help place the cement safely.

      If you are in Phase 1 Group 1, Phase 2 Group 1, or Phase 2 Group 2, the vertebroplasty
      procedure will be done next (instead of the kyphoplasty). Cement will be injected into the
      back bone. X-rays will be used to help place the cement safely.

      No matter which treatment group you are in, if you have more than 1 broken back bone that
      needs treatment, the procedures described above will be repeated for a second broken bone,
      right after your first procedure. In other words, if you had vertebroplasty performed without
      the Cavity Spine Wand, that same procedure would be performed for the second bone. The
      procedure would only be repeated this 1 additional time, and not a third time.

      No matter which treatment you receive, the entire procedure should take about 2-3 hours. If
      you need to have the procedure repeated on a second broken bone, this additional procedure
      should add about 45 minutes to the 2-3 hours that the first procedure alone would have taken.

      Blood Testing for Phase 1 Participants:

      Phase 1 participants will have blood (about 1 tablespoon each time) drawn at 8 different
      times points in order to measure the number of tumor cells. This blood will be drawn at 10,
      30, and 60 minutes, and then at 2 hours, and between 6-8 hours, 10-18 hours, 20-28 hours, and
      7 days after the surgery.

      Blood Testing for Phase 2 Participants:

      Phase 2 participants will have blood (about 1 tablespoon each time) drawn at 4 different time
      points after surgery. The first and second blood draw will occur before 36 hours has passed.
      The third blood draw will be about 36 hours after the surgery, and the fourth blood draw will
      be about 7 days after the surgery. This blood will be tested to measure the number of tumor
      cells.

      Follow-Up Care:

      You will be asked to return for follow-up visits at 7 days after your surgery and again at 4
      weeks after your surgery. At these visits, the following tests and procedures will be
      performed:

        -  You will have a physical exam, including measurement of vital signs.

        -  You will complete the questionnaires that ask about the back pain and any drugs you are
           taking.

        -  You will be asked to walk a 50-foot distance, and your walk will be timed.

        -  At the Day 7 visit only, blood (about 1 tablespoon) will be drawn to measure the number
           of tumor cells.

        -  At the Week 4 visit only, you will be asked to complete a questionnaire that asks you to
           rate how satisfied you feel with the surgery. It should take about 10 minutes to
           complete.

      At 3 months after your surgery, the study staff will call you at home to ask about the back
      pain and any drugs you may be taking.

      Length of Study Participation:

      After the Month 3 follow-up phone call, your active participation in this study will be over.
      If it is determined after your surgery that the tumor in your back was not cancerous, you
      would still return for the follow-up visits as is standard, but you would not need to have
      the Day 7 blood test to measure the number of tumor cells.

      This is an investigational study. The vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty procedures are
      commercially available and FDA approved for the way they are being used in this study. The
      Cavity SpineWand is also commercially available and FDA approved for the way it is being used
      in this study. The research-specific part of this study is the blood testing to measure any
      increases in the number of cancer cells in the blood.

      Up to 100 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  