
    
      Over the next 20 years, the number of total hip arthroplasties (THAs) performed to alleviate
      pain and disability associated with osteoarthritis (OA) is expected to double to more than
      500,000/year. Most patients report improved health-related quality of life following surgery;
      however, deficits in physical function and quality of life persist. Specifically, Veterans
      with THA have a higher prevalence of severe activities of daily living (ADL) limitations and
      report severe physical health-related quality of life deficits. The increased THA
      utilization, combined with long-term functional deficits which increase heath care
      utilization, suggests a need for targeted rehabilitation strategies to improve physical
      function for Veterans after THA.

      Movement compensations are a biomarker of functional decline in a variety of older adult
      populations. For patients with THA, persistent movement compensations are seen in activities
      of daily living, such as level walking, sit-to-stand transitions, and stair climbing. These
      movement compensations likely stem from a combination of poor muscle strength and a failure
      to integrate available muscle strength into functional movement. Functional strength
      integration (FSI) during daily tasks refers to the ability of the body to produce stable,
      coordinated movements. At the hip joint, optimal FSI is largely dependent on the ability of
      hip abductor muscles to produce sufficient hip abduction moments to stabilize the pelvis
      during unilateral stance tasks. Thus, inability to integrate hip abductor muscle strength
      during functional tasks results in poor pelvic stability and movement compensations. Lack of
      FSI possibly explains the deficits in functional recovery after THA. However, current
      rehabilitation practices do not target the integration of strength and functional movement to
      resolve movement compensations.

      Rehabilitation emphasizing functional strength integration after THA has the potential to
      substantially improve postoperative physical function by remediating movement compensations
      with greater hip abductor strength and recruitment during function, providing greater pelvic
      control and better movement quality. Therefore, the investigators propose a randomized
      controlled trial of 100 participants to determine if an 8-week functional strength
      integration (FSI) program after THA improves physical function and muscle performance more
      than control intervention (CON) after unilateral THA. The secondary goal is to determine if
      FSI improves movement compensations during functional activity (walking and stair climbing).
      Eight weeks of intervention will be initiated 2 weeks after THA to allow for early tissue
      healing. Outcomes will be assessed pre-operatively (PRE); intervention mid-point (after 4
      weeks intervention; POST1); intervention end-point (after 8 weeks intervention; POST2)
      (primary endpoint); and late recovery (26 weeks after initiating rehabilitation; POST3).
    
  