
    
      This study will be conducted in 2 portions:

        1. Enrollment A, which will consist of 2 treatment periods as follows and will be conducted
           in subjects with otomycosis:

             1. A randomized, double-blind, parallel-group treatment period. This treatment period
                will be referred to as the "Randomization Period" and will be followed by:

             2. An optional, open-label treatment period with miconazole oil. This treatment period
                will be referred to as the "Optional Open-label Extension."

        2. Enrollment B will consist of open-label treatment with miconazole oil in subjects who
           will not be required to have signs and symptoms of otomycosis.

      The study will start with Enrollment A, with an estimated 220 male or female subjects with
      otomycosis. Subjects will be randomly assigned in a 1:1 ratio to receive miconazole oil or
      vehicle (placebo), for 14 days. The study drug will be administered as 5 drops per ear at ~30
      mg per drop instilled into the external ear canal of the ear(s) affected by otomycosis.

      In the Randomization Period, both the subject and the investigator and study staff are
      blinded to the contents of the study drug.

      At Screening/Baseline (Day 1), assessment of the signs and symptoms of otomycosis (pruritus,
      debris, visual examination for presence of fungal elements, and aural fullness), evaluation
      of medical history, pregnancy screening in female of childbearing potential, and, prior and
      concomitant medications, will be collected. Subjects with positive signs and symptoms of
      otomycosis and who meet all eligibility criteria will enter the study. Fungal culture of
      affected ear(s) will be taken, debris will be cleaned from the affected ear(s), and subject
      will be randomized and study drug dispensed. Treatment will be for 14 days. Day 8 On
      Treatment Visit will include clinical evaluation of otomycosis, cleaning of ear(s), and
      assessment of AEs and concomitant medications, and continue treatment up to Day 14. Day 15
      End of Treatment Visit will include clinical evaluation of otomycosis and fungal culture, AEs
      and concomitant medications assessed. Day 22 Test of Cure Visit is an assessment of clinical
      signs and symptoms of otomycosis and fungal culture, AEs and concomitant medications
      assessed, and urine pregnancy test performed in women of childbearing potential.

      The Optional Open-label Extension period will allow subjects to get miconazole oil for 14
      days. No unblinding of the subject's treatment in the Randomization Period will occur at this
      time.

      For Enrollment B, male or female subjects will be enrolled to receive miconazole oil to use
      for 14 days and will be evaluated for safety.
    
  