
    
      Infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) poses a growing threat to the health of
      women in childbearing years and occurs disproportionately among lower socioeconomic
      populations and minority women. Early identification of HIV infection and advances in
      antiretroviral therapies have begun to prolong the lives of infected individuals. However,
      women with HIV appear to have more rapid disease progression and shorter survival after
      diagnosis than men. Evidence is emerging that women are less likely to use health services,
      are more likely to present at clinical facilities with advanced disease, and are less likely
      to receive antiretroviral therapy.

      To date, little attention has focused on the prevention and management of symptoms
      experienced by women with HIV before they develop AIDS. The primary aim of this randomized
      clinical study was determine the efficacy of an HIV self-care and symptom management
      intervention designed to help low-income African American mothers with HIV. The study was
      based on the Maternal HIV Self-Care Symptom Management framework, which postulates that
      helping mothers to cope with their emotional responses to HIV diagnosis and to reframe their
      understanding of HIV from an immediate life-threatening illness to a chronic disease
      decreases emotional distress and improves health.

      One hundred and nine African American mothers, including 17 grandmothers who were primary
      caregivers for children, participated in the trial. Women were randomized to either the
      intervention or the control group. The intervention focused on the mother's responses to her
      HIV diagnosis and helped her understand, manage, and prevent selected HIV-related symptoms,
      using her concern about her child(ren) as a motivator. The intervention used a cognitive
      reframing educational approach based within a therapeutic relationship with an advanced
      practice nurse. The nurse provided a culturally sensitive milieu designed to help the woman
      feel safe in exploring her feelings and expressing her needs. Eight teaching modules provided
      basic information to improve knowledge about HIV and help the mother identify self-care
      strategies related to general health promotion. Data were collected using self-report
      measures assessing emotional distress and health.

      Mothers in the intervention group reported fewer feelings of stigma 6 months after the
      intervention ended than did mothers in the control group. Within the intervention group,
      there was a reduction in two aspects of affective state (depression/dejection and
      tension/anxiety) and in stigma. However, most outcomes did not differ significantly. There
      was no reduction in depressive symptoms, in other aspects of affective state, or in HIV
      worry. Mothers in the intervention group reported higher physical function scores 6 months
      after the intervention ended compared to control mothers. Other aspects of health-related
      quality of life, such as perception of health, health distress, energy/fatigue, and role
      function, did not improve. Within the intervention group, mothers reported fewer infections
      from enrollment to 1 month after the intervention ended. In contrast, mothers in the control
      group reported a decline in physical function and overall role function. There was a high
      drop-out for mothers in both groups. Analysis of enrollment data comparing the mothers who
      dropped out and mothers who remained in the study indicated that drop-out mothers had
      significantly higher scores on emotional distress variables and social conflict and lower
      perceptions of health, suggesting the need for a more targeted intervention with a stronger
      focus on mental health.
    
  