
    
      Ten asthmatic subjects (>18 years, both sexes) who have stable asthma will be recruited to
      undergo inhaled allergen and diluent challenges for a randomized, 2-way crossover study. The
      primary objective is to compare the development of LAR between allergen (known to cause EAR
      and LAR) and diluent control challenges (does not cause EAR and LAR) using the Solo®
      vibrating mesh nebulizer using a standardized inhaled allergen challenge. Subject will
      undergo an allergen challenge with the Solo® compared to two different controls; diluent
      inhalation (a negative control with saline inhalation that does not cause LAR), and versus
      allergen challenge with control Wright nebulizer (positive control using a nebulizer that is
      known to cause LAR). Up to 2 academic centres will participate in this study. The results of
      this study will examine if the Solo® vibrating mesh nebulizer is an adequate substitution for
      the Wright nebulizer.

      Screening

      Skin Prick test and Skin Prick test endpoint

      Randomization

      The washout time after each allergen/diluent challenge triad will be 3-5 weeks.

      Wright Nebulizer Allergen Inhalation triad will be conducted over 3 consecutive days.

      On day 1: Wright® MCT to determine methacholine PC20 for 1) eligibility, and 2) to calculate
      the predicted Wright® allergen PC20. If the participant meets eligibility criterion, they
      will undergo blood draw, sputum induction and breath analysis to measure baseline airway
      inflammation. Day 2: Wright® allergen challenge will be performed. Participants that
      demonstrate early asthmatic response (≥20% drop in FEV1 during the period10 min-2h
      post-allergen) and the late asthmatic response (≥15% drop in FEV1 during the period 3-7h
      post-allergen challenge) will be eligible to continue in the study. If the participant meets
      eligibility criterion, they will undergo blood draw, sputum induction and breath analysis to
      measure airway inflammation at 7h post-challenge. Day 3:Wright® MCT to determine the degree
      of allergen-induced airway hyperresponsiveness, and they will undergo blood draw, sputum
      induction and breath analysis to measure airway inflammation at 24h post-challenge.

      The order of the Solo® nebulizer allergen and diluent challenges will be conducted in a
      random order during the second and third triads. These challenge triads will be conducted
      over 3 consecutive days. Day 1: Solo® MCT to determine methacholine PD20 to calculate the
      predicted Solo® allergen PD20, followed by sputum induction to measure baseline airway
      inflammation. Day 2: Solo® allergen challenge or diluent challenge will be performed. Sputum
      induction will be conducted to measure airway inflammation at 7h post-challenge. Day 3: Solo®
      MCT to determine the degree of airway hyperresponsiveness at 24h post-allergen and
      post-diluent challenge, followed by sputum induction to measure airway inflammation at 24h
      post-challenge.
    
  