
    
      Critically ill patients admitted to the intensive care unit often have anemia from one or
      more of a number of possible causes including blood loss due to surgery or injury, frequent
      blood sampling, chronic diseases such as kidney failure or cancer or treatments being
      received, such as chemotherapy. Although the common treatment for anemia is red blood cell
      transfusion, the current guidelines for blood transfusions for children are based on
      available information regarding transfusions in adults. Since many characteristics specific
      to critically ill children may affect the way in which they respond to anemia and
      transfusion, additional information is needed to better define guidelines for the prevention
      and treatment of anemia in critically ill children. This is a multi-center study to collect
      information regarding the management of anemia in critically ill children. Information needed
      to evaluate anemia, blood loss and transfusions will be collected from the patients' hospital
      records. No blood draws or procedures will be required by this survey and no medication will
      be supplied by the study Sponsor. Each patient's treating physician will be responsible for
      all decisions regarding his/her clinical care and treatment during the study. Approximately
      1200 patients will be enrolled into this study, which is divided into 2 parts. During part 1,
      at least 400 patients who are newly admitted to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) will
      be enrolled, regardless of their length of stay in the PICU. During part 2, up to an
      additional 800 patients who are newly admitted into the PICU and have remained there for > =
      48 hours at the time of entry into the study will be enrolled. Information for each patient
      will be collected for up to 28 days or until time of discharge from the hospital or death of
      the patient, whichever occurs first. Blood loss will be reported for each day the patient
      remains in the PICU; information regarding the treatment of anemia, including number and
      reasons for transfusions will be collected for a maximum of 28 days, regardless of the length
      of stay in the PICU. Information collected at the time of discharge from the hospital will
      include date of discharge and whether or not the patient is receiving mechanical assistance
      to breathe. Several possible hypotheses are being generated in this study: 1) Blood loss due
      to procedures and routine laboratory tests may be a major cause of anemia and transfusions in
      critically ill children; 2) Determining significant causes of anemia and blood transfusions
      in children will allow for better future treatment of anemia; and 3) Pediatric patients who
      receive blood transfusions have more days on a ventilator (a machine that helps patients who
      cannot breathe on their own), longer stays in the PICU and decreased organ function. Since
      the study involves only collection of information, no treatment will be required by the
      Sponsor and no medication will be supplied by the Sponsor.
    
  