
    
      There is significant excess of cardiac mortality in patients with end stage renal failure
      (ESRF) - 15 to 20% relative increased risk of cardiac death compared to the normal
      population. 20-30% of patients on renal replacement therapy (RRT) die from a cardiac cause
      (UK Renal Registry Data, 2016). However, only 30% have macrovascular disease at the time of
      autopsy. There is therefore a significant component of cardiac morbidity and mortality in
      this population that is mediated by microvascular disease and cardiac fibrosis. This includes
      abnormal myocardial remodelling, increased ventricular stiffness and ventricular hypertrophy,
      with development of arrhythmia and cardiac failure as well as increased atherosclerotic
      disease burden. Renal replacement therapy in itself also induces a pro-inflammatory response
      in patients increasing cardiac risk and there is poor understanding as to how to mediate this
      risk.

      There is a lack of evidence in how to manage both patients and the RRT process to minimise
      the risk of patients developing cardiac disease. The mechanisms underlying this enhanced risk
      are not fully understood nor explained by traditional cardiovascular risk factors. The
      investigators propose to study the mechanism by which this might be mediated.

      The investigators have previously reported alterations in monocyte subset populations in CKD
      patients that importantly predict CVD events. Furthermore, the investigators have shown that
      dyslipidaemia influences monocyte/macrophage phenotypes. The investigators propose an
      important interaction exists between chronic inflammation in the uraemic state, dyslipidaemia
      and the formation of deleterious monocyte/macrophage phenotypes that accelerates
      atherosclerosis. Cardiac MRI has been used in recent years to accurately assess the degree of
      cardiac fibrosis in end stage renal failure.

      This clinical study builds on previous clinical and non-clinical studies at Imperial College
      London by unifying basic science, animal models and imaging studies into the clinical context
      of end stage renal failure. Increased understanding of the changes in cardiac function
      related to development of end stage renal failure and commencement on renal replacement
      therapy will provide significant and novel opportunities to optimise the management of
      patients in the pre-dialysis setting and prevent cardiovascular complications caused by long
      term renal replacement therapy.

      This clinical observational study will involve the recruitment of 30 participants from
      general nephrology services at Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust at CKD stage 4/5 with
      progressive decline in renal function (anticipated start on renal replacement therapy within
      6 months). Participants will be divided into two cohorts of haemodialysis and peritoneal
      dialysis to enable comparison between the renal replacement modalities. As part of
      participants recruitment they will undergo comprehensive medical assessment and will remain
      under the follow-up of the renal team at frequent intervals.

      Enrolled participants will undergo cardiac MRI imaging at three time points - First when
      initially recruited at CKD4/5, second at the point of commencement on renal replacement
      therapy (~6 months) and third after a further 6 months on renal replacement therapy. MRI
      results will be analysed at these time points for development of fibrotic and function
      change.

      In partnership with MRI imaging patients will have blood samples collected at the same time
      intervals for analysis of blood count, biochemical markers, monocyte and lipid phenotypes.
    
  