
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVE:

      * To reduce morbidity and early mortality in endometrial cancer (EC) survivors through
      obesity management.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

        -  To expand and refine a previous pilot study of a behavioral, lifestyle-change education
           intervention for use in overweight and obese patients in remission from endometrial
           carcinoma.

        -  To determine the potential effects and variation of each regimen in these patients.

        -  To explore potential mediators (self-efficacy, depression) and moderators (body mass
           index) of healthful dietary and exercise behaviors.

        -  To evaluate neuronal response to high-versus-low calorie visual food stimuli under
           fasted (hunger) and fed (satiated) states in brain regions of interest (hypothalamus,
           lateral orbitofrontal cortex, ventral striatum, insula) using blood oxygenation level
           dependent (BOLD) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) before and after a
           lifestyle (diet and exercise counseling) intervention or usual care in obese EC
           patients. We will also compare the neuronal responses in obese EC patients to those from
           normal weight subjects without cancer being seen at the same gynecologic clinic; and,
           explore modification of the neuronal signals by candidate genes and serum biomarkers in
           the hypothalamic pituitary-adrenal axis, serotonergic and inflammatory pathways.

      OUTLINE: Patients are stratified according to body mass index (25.0-39.9 vs ≥ 40) and
      randomized to 1 of 2 intervention arms.

        -  Arm I: Patients receive a lifestyle intervention, "Survivors of Uterine Cancer Empowered
           by Exercise and Healthy Diet (SUCCEED)", on a group and individual basis consisting of
           nutrition, exercise, and behavioral modification counseling from a physician,
           psychologist, registered dietitian, and physical therapist. Sixteen group sessions will
           be conducted (10 weekly, 6 bi-weekly) for 6 months. Weight and body mass index,
           satisfaction with study treatment, and exercise/activity logs are assessed weekly and
           biweekly. Patients receive additional feedback and support during the weeks not met in a
           group, including newsletters and telephone and e-mail contact.

        -  Arm II (control): Patients receive usual care informational brochures, but no lifestyle
           counseling, related to weight loss, physical activity, and nutrition.

      Patients undergo physician counseling sessions at baseline and 3, 6, and 12 months. Patients
      are assessed by weight, anthropometric measures, and body mass index; biomarkers; body
      composition by dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry/densitometry (DEXA); co-morbidities by the
      Charlson co-morbidity score; depression by the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI); eating
      patterns by the Three-Factor Eating Inventory (EI); exercise/physical activity by Leisure
      Score Index (LSI) and pedometer step count; nutrient intake by 24-hour recall; quality of
      life by the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General (FACT-G) and Short-form Medical
      Outcomes (SF-36); and self-efficacy by the Self-Efficacy Questionnaire (SEQ) and the Weight
      Efficacy Life-Style (WEL).
    
  