
    
      This is a prospective, randomized, parallel-group single centre trial in the Queen Mary
      Hospital and Fung Yiu King Hospital. Investigators aim to recruit 100 subjects who would be
      qualified for the Hospital Authority (HA)/ Centre for Health Protection (CHP) Mass
      Vaccination Program for Trivalent influenza vaccine (TIV). These patients include
      Institutionalized older adult patients at the age of 65 or above.

      After informed consent (allow patient one week to consider) subjects will be randomly
      assigned into 2 groups to receive the following vaccines: Group 1: the full-dose (1 dose)
      standard TIV (15ug hemagglutinin TIV) delivered intramuscularly using a conventional needle,
      Group 2: a full-dose (1 dose) intradermal injection (15ug hemagglutinin TIV) delivered with
      the Intanza 15 at day 0. All TIV vaccines used in this study will be either of Vaxigrip®
      (Group 1) or Intanza® Intradermal (Group 2), Sanofi-Pasteur and provided by the Hospital
      Authority or the University of Hong Kong. Baseline HI to the TIV will be measured at day 0.

      Patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria will be screened from the Community Geriatric
      Assessment Team (CGAT) of Fung Yiu King Hospital by the investigators. Before commencing,
      patients would be allowed to have one week to consider joining the study. Meanwhile,
      investigators would also take 5ml of serum from the participant to test for the baseline TIV
      antibody. Principal Investigator is experienced in administering intramuscular injections and
      he would be responsible for refilling the low-dose intradermal injection in a sterile
      technique. The microneedle device used in this study comprises an array of three 0.6 mm
      microneedles, made up of silicon crystal, and bonded to the tip of a plastic adapter, which
      can be mounted on any standard syringe. During injection, the microneedle device was lightly
      pushed against the shoulder so that the microneedles penetrated the outmost layer of skin.
      The entire vaccine dose will then be injected causing a blanched bleb to appear.
      Intramuscular injection of conventional full-dose vaccine is given in the usual way with the
      prefilled syringe. Principal Investigator will be responsible for subject bleeding, serum
      separation, storing in doublet copies, freezing and archiving, according to HKU protocols.

      MN and HI analysis (see below) shall be conducted by the HKU Laboratory according to the
      following protocols:

      Microneutralization antibody assay (MN) NT will be performed inside a type II Biosafety
      Cabinet in a Biosafety Containment level III facility. NT will be performed in 96-well
      microtiter plates seeded with MDCK cells. Two fold serial dilutions of paired serum (pre- and
      post-vaccination) will be tested in duplicates against 100 TCID50 of the following 3 viruses:
      A/California/7/2009 (H1N1)pdm09-like virus; an A/Victoria/361/2011 (H3N2)-like virus; and a
      B/Wisconsin/1/2010-like virus in the presence of L-1-tosylamide-2-phenylethyl chloromethyl
      ketone (TPCK)-treated trypsin (TPCK-trypsin; Sigma). A corresponding set of cell controls
      with sera but without virus inoculation will be used as controls. The cells will be scored
      for the inhibition of the cytopathic effect (CPE) at 72~96 hours. The titer of neutralization
      antibody is defined as the maximum dilution of serum at which the percentage of CPE is less
      than or equal to 50%.

      HI assay Serum samples will be tested for Hemagglutination inhibition (HI) antibody against
      the following: A/California/7/2009 (H1N1)pdm09-like virus; an A/Victoria/361/2011 (H3N2)-like
      virus; and a B/Wisconsin/1/2010-like virus using reference antigens (WHO influenza reagent
      kit provided by the World Health Organization influenza Collaborating Centre, CDC, Atlanta,
      Georgia, USA. HAI antibody assays will be performed by standard microtiter techniques after
      removal of non-specific inhibitors in serum with receptor destroying enzyme (RDE) (1:3),
      incubation overnight at 37 degree C followed by heat-inactivation at 56 degree C for 30
      minutes. All serum samples from each subject will be tested for each of the test antigens.
      Serial two-fold dilutions of RDE-treated serum from 1:10 will be titrated against 4
      hemagglutinin units of reference antigens using 0.25% turkey erythrocytes. A doublet backup
      of each serum sample would be prepared and frozen in two separately located freezers at -20ºC
      for potential future analysis and/or validation.

      Outcome measures:

      Primary outcome:

      a. Change from baseline (day 0 of vaccination )in neutralization antibody titre against
      influenza at day 21 and day 180 of vaccination

      Secondary outcomes:

      a. Adverse effects at day 0-7
    
  