
    
      Mass drug administration (MDA) of azithromycin has been shown to reduce under-5 mortality in
      some but not all sub-Saharan African settings. Because of the observed heterogeneity and
      possible effect modification by SMC or other co-interventions, further trials in new settings
      are needed in order to make evidence-based public health recommendations about the use of
      this treatment. The objectives of the LAKANA trial are:

        -  To evaluate the impact of two azithromycin MDA regimens on infant mortality and other
           health outcomes, when provided in a rural West-African high-mortality context with an
           ongoing seasonal malaria chemoprevention program.

        -  To evaluate the effect of alternative MDA frequencies on antimicrobial resistance (AMR)
           and host microbiota composition.

        -  To test hypotheses that azithromycin MDA eliminates malaria parasitaemia and reduces
           systemic and intestinal inflammation in asymptomatic children and to collect and store
           biological samples for assessing other possible mechanisms of azithromycin effect.

        -  To investigate the feasibility, acceptability and equity of alternative MDA strategies.

      The LAKANA trial will be conducted in 830 villages from 7-10 health districts in the Kayes,
      Kita and Koulikoro regions of Mali. LAKANA is a cluster-randomized, placebo-controlled,
      double-blinded, parallel-group, three-arm clinical trial, with adaptive design. Participating
      villages will be randomly allocated to three different intervention groups in a ratio of 3 :
      2 : 4 (control : azithromycin quarterly : azithromycin biannually). Within each participating
      village, consenting households will be visited quarterly (at 3-month intervals), nine times.
      At the first eight of these visits, 1-11-month-old eligible infants (age 29-364 days), for
      whom there is a consent for study drug provision, will be given a single dose of study drug
      (azithromycin mixture or respective placebo mixture).

      Mortality data will be collected, and mortality-related questions primarily answered using
      data from approximately 770 villages (clusters) (primary outcome sample). Mixed-effect
      Poisson regression model will be used to estimate the intervention effects on mortality, with
      random intercepts for the clusters. The investigators will explore effect modification by
      testing for interaction between the MDA intervention and the following variables:

        -  Infant age at the time of MDA (1-5 months vs 6-11 months)

        -  Infant weight-for-age at the time of MDA

        -  Infant sex

        -  Season of MDA dosing and time since the last SMC

        -  Cluster level coverage of SMC

        -  Cluster level baseline mortality (established at first census)

        -  Cluster and individual level coverage and number of administered azithromycin MDA doses

        -  District of residence

        -  Distance from the nearest health facility

        -  Household asset or income index

        -  Household WASH index

      The investigators will address the other study questions using a smaller separate secondary
      sample of 60 villages located around four selected health centers close to the city of Kita
      and 20 villages around two health facilities in Koulikoro.
    
  