
    
      Inhalation aztreonam (AZLI) is an aerosolized formulation of the monobactam antibiotic
      aztreonam with lysine as a synthetic substance in place of arginine. This substitution was
      made as arginine, which is in the intravenous (IV) formulation of aztreonam, can cause airway
      inflammation as seen in patients with cystic fibrosis when aerosolized. There have been
      several published studies on the efficacy and adverse effects of aerosolized aztreonam in CF
      patients. Two placebo-controlled studies of AZLI revealed a benefit in patients with CF and
      colonization with PsA. AIR-CF1 revealed that a 28-day course of AZLI given three times daily
      (TID) resulted in improved respiratory symptoms. They measured this improvement by using a
      cystic fibrosis questionnaire (CFQ-R), measuring forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV
      1), and measuring bacterial density in sputum. AIR-CF2 demonstrated that a 28-day course of
      AZLI followed by a 28-day course of Tobramycin Inhaled Solution (TIS) delayed the time to the
      need for additional inhaled or systemic anti-pseudomonal antibiotics. They also used the
      CFQ-R and measured FEV1 and found improvement in both when compared to placebo. In AIR-CF3,
      an open-label 18-month study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy of AZLI using a month
      on/month off cycle, and to observe long-term effects of the drug. This protocol found that
      AZLI did have a long-term suppressive effect on PsA as there was a persistent reduction in
      Pseudomonas CFUs from baseline each month of the study. As expected, the decreases in
      bacterial density were consistently occurring during on months; and during off months, the
      density increased toward baseline. Thrice-daily dosing appeared more efficacious than
      twice-daily dosing. This was attributed to the mode of action of aztreonam, as bacterial
      killing is dependent on time above the MIC (minimal inhibitory concentration). Adverse events
      include: cough, respiratory tract congestion, pharyngolaryngeal pain, nasal congestion,
      dyspnea, hemoptysis, rhinorrhea, wheezing, chest discomfort, crackles lung, pulmonary
      function testing decreased, non-cardiac chest pain, sinus congestion, sinus headache, dyspnea
      exacerbated, exertional dyspnea.

      Antibiotics currently on the market as inhaled antibiotics include tobramycin (TOBI),
      polymyxin E (Colistin), and aztreonam (Cayston). Studies of all of these have shown clinical
      benefits in those with Cystic Fibrosis. Given these findings, there is a growing interest in
      the use of inhaled antibiotics in other disease processes in which subjects become colonized
      with bacteria in the lower respiratory tract.

      The investigators propose a two-center, prospective, case control clinical trial on the use
      of inhaled aztreonam (AZLI) in pediatric patients ages 7-21 years with a tracheostomy who
      have had one of their previous 3 tracheostomy aspirate cultures positive for PsA. Their past
      history in the previous year of requirement for systemic antibiotics will be used for each
      subject as the historical control. A tracheostomy aspirate culture will be collected upon
      initiation of the study. The investigators will subsequently start the participants on AZLI
      on a one month on/one month off schedule. Tracheal aspirate cultures will continue to be
      collected quarterly (every 3 months), and the bacterial density will be used for analysis.
      Goal is to see if there is a decrease need for systemic antibiotics for PsA infection.
    
  