
    
      All stented coronary artery patients hospitalised for stable angina or an ACS requiring a
      further coronary angiogram (regardless of time since implantation or type of the initial
      stent) identified to have intrastent restenosis during coronary angiography will be included
      after being informed and obtaining their informed written consent.

        -  For cases of stable angina the OCT the will be performed immediately with insertion of
           the probe distal to the area being studied and then automatic retraction of the fibre
           during injection of the contrast medium.

        -  For ACS, the OCT will be performed immediately or on a deferred basis at the discretion
           of the operator.

        -  For critical lesions which prevent the OCT fibre passing across the lesion, "soft"
           predilatation with a 2 mm or smaller balloon is permitted.

        -  Practical conduct of the OCT:

             -  Pullback at baseline state and analysis of the stent with a 5 mm margin proximal
                and distal to the lesion.

             -  OCT analysis: under-deployment of the stent (expansion < 80% of the reference mean
                surface area), neoatherosclerosis with or without rupture, homogeneous or
                non-homogeneous hyperplasia, stent fracture and proximal or distal progression of
                the atherosclerosis.

             -  Final pullback in cases of a new angioplasty (balloon angioplasty, angioplasty with
                a coated balloon or stenting).

        -  The OCT investigations will be anonymised and registered in their original format with a
           view to centralised reading (Corelab ISIT, UMR 6284-CNRS, Clermont-Ferrand University).

        -  The angiography records will be submitted for reading by a panel blinded to the OCT for
           the purposes of demonstrating the added value of OCT in the fine details of diagnosis
           and the impact of a treatment decision. The angiograms will be reviewed in a centralised
           analytical laboratory, which will re-read the procedures blind.

        -  Patients will be followed up via telephone contact or visit one year after inclusion
           into the study to record any complications which have developed (possible myocardial
           infarction, reason, any new revascularisation of the target lesion or another artery and
           reason for this, any deaths and their causes).
    
  