
    
      Uveitis of Behçet's disease (BDU) is the most common form of ocular manifestations, which is
      also the leading cause of irreversible visual impairment. The aim of the study is to improve
      the treatment strategy of the disease as well as to reduce blindness.

      Monoclonal anti-TNF antibodies were recommended in 2018 recommendations for treating eye
      involvement affecting the posterior segment (level of evidence: IIA; strength of
      recommendation: B), Infliximab was mentioned for the treatment of initial or recurrent
      episode of acute sight-threatening uveitis.

      Golimumab （GOL）is a fully-humanized anti-TNF-α monoclonal antibody, retrospective study on
      non-infectious uveitis and BDU has obtained promising results.

      This single-center prospective study is to evaluate the efficacy and safety of GOL in the
      treatment of refractory BDU, to verify its effects on tapering the dose of corticosteroids,
      and to determine whether it can reduce BDU recurrence. We aim to enroll nine refractory BDU
      patients with acute onset posterior uveitis, with difficulty tapering corticosteroids while
      being treated with at least one of the commonly used immunosuppressants.

      All participants will receive GOL monthly for six months, oral immunosuppressants will remain
      unchanged. During follow-up, intraocular inflammation status, BCVA, as well as extraocular
      manifestations, will be recorded. The primary endpoints are the efficacy of the first dose of
      GOL, and the recurrence of uveitis after 12 months of treatment. Secondary endpoints other
      than intraocular inflammation will be achieved on each follow-up visit, as the quality of
      life improvements, side effects, recurrence of uveitis, and corticosteroids-tapering effects.

      On statistical analysis, the self-control treatment efficiency and recurrence rate difference
      will be determined using T-test of paired samples at a significance level of 0.05(2-sided).

      To ensure the interest of the participants, our study has been reviewed by the ethics
      committee, and drug clinical research liability insurance was prepared.
    
  