
    
      This protocol is a prospective, interventional, randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled
      longitudinal study designed to investigate the microbiomic and immunologic perturbations that
      lead to vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC) in women who receive antibiotics. VVC is the most
      common fungal infection affecting women. Although asymptomatic vaginal Candida colonization
      occurs in ~10-20% of healthy women, ~75% of women will experience at least one episode of
      symptomatic VVC during their lifetime. Nonetheless, the local mucosal factors that allow
      Candida to convert from a commensal organism to an opportunistic pathogen are not well
      defined. Antibiotic use (particularly beta-lactams) is a well-recognized risk factor for the
      development of VVC in healthy women, suggesting that alterations in the endogenous vaginal
      microbial flora results in deregulation of local mucosal anti-Candida immune responses.
      However, which commensal vaginal microbiota are important for protection against Candida
      infection, and the mechanism(s) whereby vaginal microbiota influence the local mucosal immune
      response against Candida, remain unknown.

      To address these questions, healthy women of reproductive age will receive a 10-day course of
      amoxicillin (a broad-spectrum, beta-lactam antibiotic) or a placeboand will undergo vaginal
      sampling for microbiomic and immunologic analyses before, during and after antibiotic
      administration over a 90-day period. The hypothesis of this study is that women who develop
      amoxicillin-associated VVC will have a characteristic microbiomic profile (as compared to
      women with absent or asymptomatic Candida colonization) with associated impairment in local
      mucosal anti-Candida immune responses. The aim of this study is to elucidate the vaginal
      microbiomic and immunologic perturbations that allow Candida to transition from commensal to
      pathogen in the context of antibiotic administration. A better understanding of the role of
      specific microbiota and mucosal immune factors in averting Candida infection may lead to the
      design of targeted preventive and/or therapeutic interventions against VVC.
    
  