
    
      Periodontitis is a bacterially induced inflammatory disease of the supporting tissues of the
      teeth. It is one of the major dental diseases that affect human populations worldwide and has
      a huge economic impact on national health care systems.The consequence of periodontitis is
      commonly the formation of intrabony defects.Intrabony defects are more amenable for
      regenerative procedures. Periodontal regeneration remains a fundamental therapeutic goal for
      the preservation of teeth through the restoration of health, function, and esthetics of the
      periodontium. Several treatment procedures like open flap debridement (OFD), autogenous bone
      replacement bone grafts (BRG), guided tissue regeneration (GTR), bioactive agents like EMD,
      rhPDGF-BB, laser assisted regeneration (LAR) have shown histologic proof of principle that
      the periodontal ligament apparatus can be regenerated in human studies. Intrabony defects
      with the depth of >3 mm and radiographic defect angle ≤ 25 are amenable for periodontal
      regeneration. DFDBA has stood the test of time and has shown consistent good quality patient
      oriented evidence in achieving periodontal regeneration with long term stability. GTR
      techniques have shown added advantage of space maintenance, clot stability, guided cell
      population, epithelial cell occlusion and the combination therapies. Periodontal regeneration
      with GTR and BRG demonstrates better results as compared with GTR alone. More recently in the
      realm of reconstructive biology, the concept of Tissue engineering (TE) has been introduced
      which utilizes mechanical, cellular or biologic mediators to facilitate
      reconstruction/regeneration of a particular tissue.

      The combination of this novel biologic membrane AM and the already established BRG-DFDBA can
      be an added advantage in treatment of IBDs. To the best of the investigators knowledge only
      one clinical trial reports this combination therapy in the scientific literature. There is a
      need for further research in this area.
    
  