
    
      Physicians often order continuous cardiac monitoring (telemetry) for their patients in the
      hospital. Telemetry provides real-time heart rate and rhythm monitoring and can be useful for
      detecting arrhythmias and evaluating the response to cardiac therapies. Leads on the
      patient's chest detect the electrical signature of the heartbeat, relay the information to a
      box in the patient's shirt pocket, and this box relays the signal in real-time to a control
      room where technicians monitor for abnormalities. If a technician notes an abnormality he or
      she will contact the appropriate provider. Currently, physicians can order telemetry at UCSF
      Medical Center with or without providing an indication for its use. In addition, telemetry
      remains active until the provider discontinues it or the patient leaves the hospital. Studies
      at UCSF and hospitals nationwide demonstrate that telemetry is overused. Physicians either
      order it without a valid indication or they do not remember to discontinue it when the
      indication is no longer valid. Guidelines published by the American Heart Association provide
      clarity regarding what clinical conditions warrant telemetry and for how long. However,
      numerous studies demonstrate that physicians do not faithfully follow these guidelines. This
      led the American Board of Internal Medicine Foundation to urge physicians in Hospital
      Medicine to develop protocols governing the use of telemetry outside of the intensive care
      unit in a 2013 campaign called Choosing Wisely.

      The harms of telemetry overuse are myriad: 1) Frequent false or unimportant alarms lead to
      alarm fatigue and studies have documented patient harm when subsequent real alarms were
      ignored. False alarms also often necessitate a visit to the patient by the nurse and this
      distracts the nurse from other patients, 2) Monitoring patients without an active cardiac
      condition often reveals clinically unimportant abnormalities that obligate physicians to work
      them up, just by virtue of having seen them on monitor. The work-up then results in
      unnecessary cost and anxiety, 3) Leads on the patient's chest often fall off with movement
      and have to be replaced by the nurse. This discourages patients from getting more exercise
      while they are hospitalized, which is a risk factor for muscle atrophy, and getting enough
      sleep, which is a risk factor for delirium, 4) Telemetry is not available for all hospital
      beds at UCSF and even units where it is available have limitations for the types of
      arrhythmias they can monitor. Thus, telemetry monitoring for a patient who does not need it
      can prevent another patient from having timely access to a monitor-capable bed.

      In order to reduce unnecessary telemetry use, we propose to use a best-practice alert (BPA)
      delivered to physicians by the electronic medical record (Apex). We propose to study this BPA
      in a randomized trial. Physicians on the Medicine service would be randomized to either
      receive the BPA on their patients or not during a six month study period. We would examine
      both groups for the following outcomes: physician response to the alert, total hours of
      telemetry used, number of rapid response activations for arrhythmic events, and number of
      code blue events.
    
  