
    
      Patients will be enrolled within 24 hours of the point at which criteria are met for
      suspected VAP. Upon enrollment, the following variables will be recorded from the online
      medical record, and a Clinical Pulmonary Infection Score will be calculated.

        -  Demographics (height, weight, comorbidities)

        -  Ventilation parameters

        -  Infectious disease data during present admission (antibiotic history, culture data)

        -  Biochemical data (WBC count with differential, arterial blood gas)

        -  Microbiological data (UTA and BAL) - UTA data must have been collected within 24 hours
           of enrollment and BAL data within 12 hours of enrollment

        -  Radiological data (CXR or chest CT)

      Lung ultrasound will be performed within 24 hours of the point at which criteria are met for
      suspected VAP. Lung ultrasound will include examination of both lungs. Each hemithorax will
      be divided into three regions using anterior and posterior axillary lines as landmarks. Each
      of these regions will be further divided into upper and lower quadrants, yielding a total of
      6 quadrants per hemithorax. Examination will specifically identify the presence or absence of
      the following lung ultrasound findings: normal pleural A lines, non-coalescent B lines,
      coalescent B lines, consolidations (subpleural or lobar), and linear air bronchograms. A Lung
      Ultrasound Aeration Score will be calculated based on these findings. Ultrasonographic
      diagnosis of VAP will be defined based on the presence of subpleural consolidation, entire
      lobar consolidation, or air bronchogram within consolidation.

      The results of microbiological data will be followed up for confirmation of culture results.
      Cultures will be considered positive if ≥ 100,000 bacterial colony-forming units (cfu) are
      isolated.

      At day #28 of study enrollment, the patient's status will be documented (alive vs. deceased,
      inpatient vs. discharged).
    
  