
    
      1. Background The majority of sudden death cases have a cardiac origin and occur
           unexpectedly, often outside hospital. Attwood et al.[1] estimated the incidence of and
           survival from EMS-treated OHCA in Europe and found, for "all-rhythm" CA, an incidence of
           37.72 per 100,000 person-years. Survival was 10.7% in "all-rhythm" CA. If these results
           were applied to the European population, approximately 275,000 persons would experience
           an all-rhythm, EMS-treated OHCA, with 29,000 persons surviving to hospital discharge[1].

           To resuscitate a person, without neurological damage, various efforts, which are
           described as the four links in the chain of survival (early call, early CPR, early
           defibrillation and early advanced life support), have to be optimal[2]. During the last
           decade, the quality and continuity of chest compressions have been increasingly
           highlighted[3]. The reason is that blood flow and coronary perfusion during cardiac
           arrest are related to the quality and continuity of chest compressions[4]. A coronary
           perfusion pressure (CPP) above 15mmHg, at defibrillation, also appears to be necessary
           for the return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC)[5]. Consequently, different methods and
           devices to improve blood flow to the heart (coronary perfusion) and brain during CPR,
           such as different types of mechanical compressor and impedance threshold device[6-9],
           have been studied.

           The initial CPR guidelines[10-12] stated that the "elevation of the lower extremities
           may promote venous return and augment artificial circulation during external cardiac
           compression". However, in the 1992 guidelines[13], this statement was removed. The
           reason for this decision was a lack of clinical evidence. During the last five years,
           the debate on how PLR may improve the outcomes of the resuscitation manoeuvres in CPR
           has been re-opened.

           According to Préau et al.[14], the effect of PLR is equivalent to a rapid intravenous
           volume expander by shifting blood from the lower extremities towards the intra-thoracic
           compartment. A 45° leg elevation for four minutes increases right and left ventricular
           preload and, by definition, the stroke volume, if the heart is preload dependent[15].
           This makes PLR predictive of fluid responsiveness among patients with circulatory
           failure, e.g. sepsis and acute pancreatitis[14-17], and it has been recommended as part
           of haemodynamic monitoring in recent international recommendations[18]. Other
           researchers have also shown the benefit of using PLR to increase resistance to blood
           flow[19], thereby shifting fluid from the lower extremities to the central
           circulation[20, 21].

           The present study design is based on a pilot study recently conducted in Gothenburg,
           Sweden. This pilot study concluded that a 20° leg elevation during CPR improved the
           levels of end-tidal carbon dioxide (EtCO2) during CPR[22]. It has previously been
           concluded that EtCO2 correlates well with blood flow and that PLR induces an increase in
           descending aortic blood flow of at least 10% or in echocardiographic sub-aortic flow of
           at least 12%[23-26]. In other studies, EtCO2 has been shown to be quantitatively
           predictive of stroke volumes[27]. EtCO2 has also been described as an important value
           for predicting ROSC and CPR quality[22, 28, 29]. The resuscitation in the Gothenburg
           pilot study was performed using both manual and mechanical compressions made by LUCAS TM
           2 (Lund University Cardiac Assist System), but the effect of PLR appeared to be greater
           during manual compressions. It was only possible to speculate on the reason for this,
           but the EtCO2 value started from a higher level in the mechanical group. The possible
           reason for this could be the "active decompression" creating a larger preload.

           Dragoumanos et al.[30] found in their animal study that the coronary perfusion pressure
           (CPP) also increased when PLR was performed during CPR and auto-transfusion of the aorta
           by PLR was the explanation. It is unclear whether this mechanism can be transferred to
           humans. The literature also includes some case reports and letters advocating PLR during
           CPR[31, 32]. However, no studies showing that PLR during CPR will increase survival have
           been conducted.

        2. Method and design:

           A prospective, randomised, controlled trial in which all patients (>18 years) receiving
           out-of hospital CPR are randomised by envelope to be treated with either PLR or in a
           flat position. The ambulance crew use a special folding stool, which allows the legs to
           be elevated about 20 degrees.

           The PLR manoeuvre needs to be performed immediately (within five minutes) after the
           arrival of the first ambulance. Leg elevation has to be maintained while the patient
           receives chest compressions during CPR and has to be stopped when the patient has an
           ROSC or when a medical decision is made to interrupt these manoeuvres. PLR is to be
           performed at an angle of between 20 and 45 degrees (approximately 35 to 40 cm). An
           instruction video is produced for training prior to the study; the aim of using a
           specially designed folding stool is to standardise the intervention as much as possible.

           In the start-up phase between June 2013 and April 2014, the study has only been
           conducted in the City of Tarragona and the surrounding areas. In all, 13 mobile units
           (12 BLS and one ALS unit) will attend (attended) in the start-up phase. Since April
           2014, a further 56 units, the whole province, have been participating in the study. The
           study will continue for three years.

        3. Patient selection and randomization:

           Inclusion/exclusion Inclusion: All patients of both sexes who suffer an out-of-hospital
           cardiorespiratory arrest and require CPR and who are attended by the BLS and/or ALS
           units in the Tarragona area.

           Exclusion: Patients aged < 18 will be excluded from the study. Allocation concealment is
           ensured via opaque, numbered and sealed envelopes. The random allocation lists are
           generated by a web-based automated randomization system. To guarantee a numeric balance
           across conditions the randomisation will be performed separately in random permuted
           blocks of hundred. The allocation list will be kept in a remote secure location and an
           independent person randomly allocates the envelopes.

        4. Endpoints:

           Primary end-point: survival to one month Secondary end-point: survival to hospital
           admission to one month and to one year with acceptable cerebral performance
           classification (CPC) 1-2 [33]

        5. Evaluation of other result:

           Sub-group analysis: the result will also be analysed in relation to rhythm
           (shockable/non- shockable rhythm), age (more and less than 65 years), gender and
           ambulance delay (more and less than 10 minutes).

           Statistical analysis Group comparisons (PLR/flat position) will be performed using
           Fisher's non-parametric permutation test, the Mann-Whitney U test for continuous/ordered
           variables and Fisher's exact test for dichotomous variables.

           All tests will be two-tailed and p-values below 0.05 will be considered statistically
           significant.

        6. Study time: April 1, 2012 -Mars 31 2015 (Sweden) Jun 8, 2013 - Jun 2016 (Catalonia)
    
  