
    
      2.1. Study design

      The present cross-sectional study was conducted after approval from the local Ethics
      Committee (Ref. PER-ECL-PER-2017-08) and in accordance with the ethical principles outlined
      in the Declaration of Helsinki. It is reported according the Strengthening the Reporting of
      Observational Studies Epidemiology (STROBE) statement recommendations (von Elm et al., 2009).
      Selected subjects were informed about the aims of the research, and written consent was
      obtained before starting the study.

      2.2. Study population

      Patients visiting the Postgraduate Periodontology Clinic of the Faculty of Dentistry of the
      Universitat Internacional de Catalunya (Barcelona, Spain) from January 2018 to December 2019
      were consecutively enrolled in the study by one of the researchers (JV), if they met the
      criteria addressed later on in the form.

      2.3. Data collection

      Data collection comprised a patient interview and clinical and radiographic assessment.
      Initially, a previously trained examiner (MP) interviewed the patients and collected the
      following data:

        -  Age (years).

        -  Gender (female/male).

        -  Smoking habit: smoker, non-smoker or ex-smoker. In the case of smokers, the total amount
           of cigarettes per day was categorized as < 10 or more than 10 cigarettes per day.

        -  Systemic diseases: presence or absence.

        -  Diabetes mellitus: presence or absence. In the case of diabetic patients, glycemic
           control was assessed on the basis of a previous blood test.

        -  Body mass index (BMI): recorded as weight (kg)/ height (m)2.

        -  Dietary habits: assessed by the Mediterranean Diet Score (MDS) questionnaire
           (Martínez-González et al., 2012) and classified as low adherence (score ≤ 5), medium
           adherence (score 6-9) or high adherence (score ≥10).

        -  Regular sugar consumption: yes or no. Sugar consumers were also asked about their level
           of sugar intake (low, medium, high).

        -  Nutrient or vitamin deficiencies: presence or absence.

        -  Oral dryness: patient perception of dry mouth (presence or absence).

        -  Educational level (EL): primary and secondary or professional and university.

        -  Oral hygiene measures: frequency of teeth brushing and interproximal hygiene.

        -  Supportive periodontal treatment (SPT): regular (≥ 2 times/year) or irregular (< 2
           times/year).

        -  Cause of tooth loss: caries, mobility, caries and mobility, and trauma/fracture.

      Any doubts coming from the questionnaire were solved by the examiner. A previously calibrated
      examiner (LG) conducted the intraoral examination (with a Cohen inter-agreement kappa index >
      85%). The exploration was conducted to assess the following parameters:

        -  Periodontal indexes: full mouth plaque score (FMPS) (O'Leary et al. 1972) and bleeding
           score (FMBS) (Ainamo & Bay 1975).

        -  History of periodontitis: assessed radiographically by the presence or absence of bone
           loss.

        -  Number of decayed, missing and filled teeth (DMFT) assessed by visual inspection and
           radiographic assessment following the ICDAS (Pitts & Ekstrand, 2013). All tooth surfaces
           were examined, but the observations were recorded per tooth.

        -  Probing pocket depth (PPD) (in mm), bleeding on probing (BoP) (yes/no), suppuration
           (SUP) (yes/no), keratinized mucosa (KM) (in mm) were all recorded at 6 sites per implant
           using a PCP UNC 15 probe (Hu-Friedy ®).

        -  Radiographic bone level (in mm) at mesial and distal to the implant site using the
           parallel cone technique.

        -  Implant position (anterior maxilla, anterior mandible, posterior maxilla, posterior
           mandible).

        -  Interproximal untreated caries or fillings adjacent to implants: yes/no. If these
           conditions were present, their location was recorded (mesial, distal or both).

      Patients presenting with caries or periodontal or peri-implant disease were referred to the
      corresponding clinical department within the Universitat Internacional de Catalunya for
      further evaluation and management.

      2.4. Outcome measures

      The main outcome measure of the study was the prevalence of dental caries and peri-implant
      disease.

      All other variables obtained from the questionnaire and clinical examination were regarded as
      secondary outcome measures.

      2.5. Sample size calculation

      A logit regression model used to associate the outcome diagnosis at the patient level and
      each exposure variable reached a statistical power of 82.5% in detecting odds ratio (OR) =
      2.5 as being significant in the recruited sample (n= 169), assuming a confidence level of
      95%. At the implant level, the power was 96.2% under the same previous conditions. Due to the
      multi-level design, the power had to be corrected. In this regard, assuming a moderate
      intra-subject correlation (ρ = 0.5), a power of 87.7% was estimated.

      2.6. Statistical analysis

      A descriptive analysis was carried out, with the calculation of absolute and relative
      frequencies (categorical variables) and the mean and standard deviation (SD) (continuous
      variables).

      At patient level, simple binary logistic regression models were estimated to study the
      association between the patient diagnosis (H versus M, and H versus PI) and each of the
      exposure variables. At implant level, simple binary logistic regression models were estimated
      using generalized estimating equations (GEEs). The models estimated odds ratio (OR) from the
      Wald chi-squared statistic. The GEE approach addressed intra-subject dependency between
      observations due to the multiplicity of implants per patient. Relevant exposure variables
      (p<0.10) were incorporated into a multiple logistic regression model at patient and implant
      level to obtain adjusted ORs. The SPPS version 21.0 statistical package (SPSS Inc., Chicago,
      IL, USA) was used throughout. The level of significance was 5% (α = 0.05).
    
  