
    
      In 2006, the World Health Organization provided a definition of sexual health stating that
      "for sexual health to be reached and maintained, the sexual rights of all persons must be
      respected and fulfilled". Sexual quality of life is now an admitted and relevant parameter of
      global health and global quality of life.

      The VICAN 2 (Vie après le CANcer 2 years after diagnosis) survey showed that 2/3 of the
      sexually active French breast cancer survivors reported impaired sexual health, persisting 2
      years after cancer diagnosis.

      The deterioration of sexual health is multifactorial: (1) psychological: body image, sexual
      identity; (2) physiological: sexual functionality, steps of the feminine sexual response; (3)
      familial, social and professional. The alteration of sexuality is mainly due to cancer
      treatments: surgery, radiotherapy, chemotherapy and endocrine therapy.

      Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. Hormonal therapy is one of the
      major treatments for hormone receptor positive breast tumors. It is prescribed to 70% of
      breast cancer patients. Hormonal therapy can be responsible for sexual dysfunction induced by
      hormonal changes. Extended adjuvant hormonal therapy over 5 years increases these adverse
      effects.

      According to the third "Plan Cancer" (2014-2019), sexual dysfunction prevention and screening
      must be systematic as an integral part of supportive care. Nevertheless, sexual quality of
      life remains too rarely considered.

      In this study, the investigator propose to evaluate sexual quality of life of women less than
      51 years old during the adjuvant endocrine therapy for localized breast cancer. The
      investigator also intend to collect the supportive measures or interventions used by women to
      overcome sexual dysfunction. Finally, this study aims to evaluate the need for sexual trouble
      specific management and acceptability of different methods.

      This project is a hot topic as the interest for oncosexuality is growing, and the need for
      specific management is increasing with still insufficient access to specific care.
    
  