
    
      The Randomized Evaluation of Patients with Stable Angina Comparing Utilization of Diagnostic
      Examinations (RESCUE) is a multi-center randomized, controlled trial responding to the need
      for comparative analysis of these imaging technologies and the role of OMT in clinical care.
      A total of 4300 patients will be randomized to CCTA or SPECT MPI/ICA for diagnostic
      assessment of angina at up to 80 institutions internationally. This study builds on the
      results of the COURAGE trial by comparing CCTA and SPECT MPI/ICA integrated into a care
      paradigm featuring initial treatment with OMT for patients diagnosed with CAD without
      significant disease in the left main coronary artery. Participants will be followed for a
      composite endpoint of MACE and cross-over to revascularization over a follow-up period up to
      two years (two to six time points depending on diagnostic results and time of enrollment into
      the trial). The primary endpoint of the study is a combined endpoint of occurrence of MACE
      and revascularization. We will calculate differences in the combined MACE/revascularization
      endpoint between the CCTA and SPECT MPI/ICA arms. Participant outcomes will be assessed by
      age, gender, comorbidity, and angina classification class at presentation. Several
      comparative-effectiveness analyses will be performed. We hypothesize that the CCTA arm will
      be associated with no increase in MACE or revascularization, decreased cost, reduced risks
      (e.g., less radiation exposure), additional insights into or alternate explanations of chest
      pain, and increased cost-effectiveness in comparison with SPECT MPI/ICA. Findings are
      expected to result in validation of an evolving new standard of care for patients with stable
      angina that takes advantage of CCTA and OMT to more cost-effectively drive appropriate care
      while reducing the need for invasive diagnosis and increased radiation exposure with SPECT
      MPI/ICA.
    
  