
    
      On March 11th 2020, WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic and on March 13th, the President
      of the United States declared the COVID-19 outbreak a "national emergency". In order to fight
      this pandemic, emergency measures have been implemented in different countries such as
      lockdown, social distancing and testing. It is known that these measures have differed among
      countries and due to the lack of tests worldwide, the real number of affected and/or
      immunized people remains largely unknown. In this context, the daily most important surrogate
      markers have been the numbers of infected hospitalized and deceased population. However,
      asymptomatic infections are not uncommon (representing up to 30% of infected cases) and the
      detection of this population seems crucial to prevent their potential transmission and to
      guide the development of measures to control the ongoing pandemic.

      This is a descriptive, prevalence study that aims to define the current contagious risk and
      immune status to SARS-CoV-2/COVID-19 infection in two reproduction health centers in the USA
      located in Utah and Massachusetts. Aiming for the better technical procedures available,
      different biological samples (nasopharyngeal swab, saliva, and blood sample) from each
      participant will be tested applying two different methodologies already approved by Health
      Authorities, and nowadays the most commonly used for the COVID-19 diagnose: Reverse
      Transcriptase - Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) for the analysis of the nasopharyngeal
      swabs and saliva samples and Immunoassay by serology for the blood serum analysis.

      A total of 400 participants, distributed equally between the two participant centers, are
      expected to be included in 2 months.The total expected duration of the study is 4 months for
      collecting, processing and analysing samples from participants (patients and clinical staff),
      although the participation in the study will entail just a single visit (coinciding with the
      same day of the samples collection). After that visit, no further interventions or follow-up
      directly related to this study will be required.

      Data exported from the clinical histories and source documents will be duly codified to
      protect the clinical and personal information of patients in accordance with the current
      legislation. This information will be exported to an electronic Case Report Form (eCRF) for
      its analysis. Given the exceptional situation that the world is facing with the COVID-19
      pandemic, U.S. authorities demand the report of all tested cases, so patient´s data will be
      communicated to the U.S. national health authorities when the result of the test is positive.
    
  