
    
      Difficulty with walking is one of the most common effects of stroke. Even after
      rehabilitation, a majority of stroke survivors have decreased speed, endurance, confidence,
      and quality of walking. Walking deficits can cause risks of falls, slow walking speed,
      increased effort of walking, and difficulties with activities of daily living. Restoration of
      walking ability can improve quality of life, and is perceived as a major goal of
      rehabilitation by stroke survivors. There has therefore been renewed interest in research
      toward developing novel gait rehabilitation treatments and improving existing treatments.
      FastFES is one such intervention, which improves walking post-stroke using a combination of
      fast treadmill training and functional electrical stimulation (FES).

      Ongoing research at the University of Delaware (R01NR010786) shows that a 12-week FastFES
      gait rehabilitation program improves walking function, activity, and community participation
      in stroke survivors.

      In order to facilitate implementation of the FastFES gait rehabilitation program in the
      clinical setting, there is a need to transition from the currently used stimulation system to
      a more portable stimulation system. The Study Device under evaluation is a pre-commercial
      prototype (developed by customKYnetics, Inc.) of a clinically viable portable electrical
      stimulation system that can deliver FES during gait using similar timing and parameters as
      are being used during FastFES gait rehabilitation training in the ongoing research.

      The main goal of the efficacy study is to demonstrate clinical efficacy of the customKYnetics
      FastFES prototype system for improving the gait of individuals with paresis secondary to
      stroke. Fifteen (15) post-stroke subjects who meet the inclusion/exclusion criteria will be
      recruited for participation in this prospective, non-randomized, non-blinded cohort
      interventional study.

      Training (intervention sessions) will be conducted 2-3 times per week for approximately 12
      weeks for a total of 36 total sessions. Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) to the ankle
      plantarflexor and dorsiflexor muscle groups will be delivered during the gait cycle using a
      variable frequency train (VFT) stimulation pattern. Stimulation will be coordinated to the
      gait cycle using data from a shoe-worn inertial sensor and proprietary real-time signal
      processing algorithm. Stimulation will be turned on and off in 1-minute increments during the
      training bouts to promote motor learning. The treadmill will be set to the patient's fastest
      comfortable walking speed. Each intervention session will conclude with a single overground
      walking session without FES.

      Outcome measures assessments will be performed at the following milestones: pre-intervention,
      after 18 training sessions, post-intervention, and at a 12-week follow-up. This Small
      Business Innovation Research (SBIR) funded efficacy study will mimic the study protocol used
      in the R01-funded randomized controlled trial (RCT). Outcomes from the SBIR cohort will be
      compared to non-concurrent (e.g., historical) control groups drawn from the R01-funded RCT.
      The main outcomes of this study will be: 1) validation of customKYnetics' prototype system
      for improving gait deficits; and 2) comparison of the outcome measures of patients who
      trained with the customKYnetics system with those from the 'fast treadmill walking with FES'
      arm intervention cohort in the RCT.
    
  