
    
      We, the investigators at Johns Hopkins University, propose to enroll and randomize 120
      opioid-dependent, HIV-infected participants, who receive care in the Johns Hopkins HIV Clinic
      to either:

        -  clinic-based care with buprenorphine (clinic-based BPN/NX arm); or

        -  case management and referral to an opioid treatment program for opioid agonist-based
           therapy (case management and referral arm).

      The study interventions and follow-up will last 12 months. Participants will be enrolled over
      a 3-year period. Participants who are assigned to the clinic-based BPN/NX arm will receive
      BPN/NX (Suboxone®), individual counseling from a nurse interventionist, and group therapy
      sessions. Participants who are assigned to the case management and referral arm will be
      enrolled in an established case management and adherence program in the Johns Hopkins HIV
      Clinic (Project LINK). LINK provides intensive case management, education, and support by a
      team that includes a social worker, a nurse, a pharmacist educator, and peer advocates. In
      addition to providing counseling and linkage to needed services, LINK will expedite intake at
      licensed opioid treatment programs that provide agonist-based therapy for opioid dependence.
      The clinic-based BPN intervention is a new strategy that was developed in a pilot project
      over the past 6 months. The case-management and referral arm represents standard-of-care in
      our clinic, which has been enhanced and codified for this trial. Study outcome visits will be
      performed at baseline, 1 month, 3 months, 6 months, 9 months, and 12 months.

      Comparisons:

        -  Retention to substance abuse treatment;

        -  Urine drug screens;

        -  Adherence to HIV primary care provider visits;

        -  Use of and adherence to highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART);

        -  HIV RNA levels and CD4 cell counts;

        -  HIV transmission risk behaviors (e.g., injection, sharing of drug paraphernalia, sexual
           behaviors);

        -  Costs and resource utilization.
    
  