
    
      Numerous studies demonstrate neuropsychological impairment in patients with chronic pain,
      particularely on measures assessing attentional capacity, processing speed and psychomotor
      speed. About 50% of the patients suffering from neuropathic pain are treated with
      anticonvulsants, as a treatment against serious pain complaints, and experience good pain
      relief. Gabapentin is one of the most prescribed anticonvulsants for the treatment of
      neuropathic pain. An important disadvantage of treatment with gabapentin could be the
      occurrence of side effects, such as somnolence and fatigue. These side effects can constitute
      a crucial problem for patients treated with gabapentin who must operate a motor vehicle or
      other dangerous machinery. However, pain affects cognition negatively, and possibly also
      driving. Therefore, another possibility is that treatment with gabapentin for these pain
      complaints can improve driving because the pain has less influence. Since driving is an
      activity of daily living that is important in maintaining independency in the community, such
      as access to employment and social activities, it is important to establish the effects of
      using gabapentin on these abilities. No studies have been conducted so far to investigate
      driving abilities of patients with neuropathic pain, treated with gabapentin.The aim of this
      study was to explore the effects of pain on the one hand and the effects of acute (Day 1) and
      subchronic (Day 15) treatment of pain with gabapentin (900, 1200, 1800 or 2400 mg) on the
      other hand on actual driving performance and several laboratory tests in patients with
      neuropathic pain. It was hypothesized that gabapentin might influence performance after acute
      but not after subchronic administration. This study is a two-period double-blind,
      placebo-controlled, cross-over randomised study.
    
  