
    
      Erlotinib is designed to block the activity of a protein called epidermal growth factor
      (EGFR). EGFR is found on the surface of many tumor cells that may control tumor growth and
      survival. This may stop tumors from growing.

      Before you can start treatment on this study, you will have "screening tests." These tests
      will help the doctor decide if you are eligible to take part in the study. You will have a
      FEV1 (breathing test). You will have a complete physical exam, including measurement of vital
      signs (blood pressure, heart rate, temperature, and breathing rate). Blood (about 2
      tablespoons) will be drawn for routine tests. You will have a computed tomography (CT) scan
      or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain to check the status of the disease. You will
      be required to have a positron emission tomography (PET) scan to locate the area of cancer
      outside the chest and lymph glands. You will have either a CT scan or an MRI to measure the
      size of the tumor(s). If there is positive finding of CT or MRI you will be taken off study.
      You will have an electrocardiogram (ECG -- a test that measures the electrical activity of
      the heart). If you have a significant history of cardiovascular disease, you will have a MUGA
      scan and echocardiogram to test your heart function. Women who are able to have children must
      have a negative urine or blood (about 2 teaspoons) pregnancy test before starting treatment.

      You will have PET scan 1 month after completion of consolidation chemotherapy.

      If you are found to be eligible to take part in this study, you will take erlotinib every day
      for 7 weeks (except on the days you receive chemotherapy). The erlotinib tablets should be
      taken at the same time each day, at least 1 hour before or 2 hours after a meal, with a small
      glass (about 7 ounces) of water. If you are unable to swallow tablets, you may dissolve the
      tablets in distilled water to drink.

      You will receive radiation every day (Monday through Friday) for 7 weeks. You will also
      receive chemotherapy through a needle in a vein once a week for 7 weeks. The chemotherapy
      will include carboplatin and paclitaxel. Receiving chemotherapy will take about 6 hours
      total.

      You will receive consolidation therapy on weeks 11-17.

      Treatment on this study will last 17 weeks. Once a week during that time, you will have blood
      (about 2 tablespoons) drawn for routine tests. You will also have a CT scan of the chest
      within about 4 weeks from beginning the study, 2 months after finishing therapy, and then
      every 6 months after that for 2 years. The CT scans are used to check the status of the
      disease.

      You will be taken off study if the disease gets worse or intolerable side effects occur. In
      this case, you would not receive erlotinib anymore but would continue standard chemotherapy
      and radiation therapy.

      You will be asked to come in to the clinic for follow-up visits to check on your recovery
      from treatment. The follow-up visits will be at the end of all treatment, 1 month after
      treatment, and then once a month for as long as your doctor feels it is necessary. Once your
      side effects have become less severe, you will be asked to come in to the clinic for
      follow-up visits every 3 months for 2 years, and then every 4 months for the following 2
      years after that. You will have a physical exam, and your medical history will be recorded.
      You will be asked about any side effects you may have. Blood (about 2 tablespoons) will be
      drawn for routine tests. You will have a PET scan.

      You have the right to leave the study at any time. If you choose to stop participating in
      this study, you should contact the study chair and/or research nurse. Your doctor may decide
      to take you off this study if your medical condition gets worse and/or you are unable to
      comply with study requirements.

      At the end of the study you will not be automatically notified of the research findings. If
      you wish to learn about the results, however, you may request them from the study chair.

      This is an investigational study. All three study drugs are commercially available.
      Carboplatin, and paclitaxel are FDA approved for the treatment of NSCLC, but their use in
      combination with erlotinib is not. Erlotinib is FDA approved for some uses, but it has not
      been approved by the FDA to treat lung cancer patients like yourself who have not yet
      undergone chemotherapy; however, the FDA has permitted its use in this research study.
      Carboplatin and paclitaxel are considered standard of care treatment and you would probably
      be treated with these drugs or similar drugs even if you decided not to be in the study. Up
      to 48 patients will take part in this study. All will be enrolled at M. D. Anderson.
    
  