
    
      Background: Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is a common adverse event of radical
      prostatectomy (RP) for localized prostate cancer and can dramatically impact quality of life.
      Management of SUI after RP is based on conservative measures and pelvic floor muscle
      training. In case of failure of this first line therapy, surgical treatment is required. In
      recent years, periurethral Pro-ACT balloons and retrourethral AdvanceXP male sling have been
      proven to be efficient to manage SUI after RP in case of mild to moderate symptoms. Pro-ACT
      balloons are placed under general anesthesia via a perineal approach, laterally to the
      membranous urethra under the bladder neck. This device results in an external compression of
      the urethra. Further adjustment of the compression is possible under local anesthesia since
      the balloons are linked to a subcutaneous titanium port. AdvanceXP male sling is placed under
      general anesthesia via a perineal approach, by transobturator route, and results in a
      suspension of the membranous urethra relocating the bladder neck. If multiple reports have
      claimed for the efficacy of these two devices, they have never been compared in a prospective
      comparative trial. Our aims were to compare the efficacy of the two devices and provide data
      about their cost effectiveness.

      Hypothesis: The study is based on the superiority hypothesis that Advance male slings is more
      efficacious than Pro-ACT balloons at one year follow-up.

      Objectives:

      The primary objective of this study is to compare the efficacy of the Advance retrourethral
      male sling and periurethral Pro-ACT balloons for post-prostatectomy stress urinary
      incontinence (SUI) management.

      The secondary objectives of this work are:

        -  Comprehensive medical evaluation of these two emerging devices in terms of efficiency
           using the usual criteria in the field of urinary incontinence

        -  Complete evaluation of the side effects of the two techniques

        -  Evaluation of the quality of life

        -  Cost-effectiveness study of the device (Total cost over one year of each of the two
           techniques, differential cost-effectiveness ratio (cost adjusted by QALY), differential
           cost-effectiveness ratio in terms adjusted to success rate, recommendations that can be
           made for assessing the potential coverage by the French healthcare system

      Population: The study concerns patients presenting SUI following radical prostatectomy for
      prostate cancer. Patients must be older than 18, without cancer recurrence, and must present
      pure SUI on urodynamics (without detrusor overactivity), and mild to moderate incontinence
      (24hour pad-test < 300g). Every patient showing urethral stricture at preoperative cystoscopy
      is excluded from the study.

      Study design: This is a prospective, randomized, multicentric (9 tertiary reference centers),
      comparative trial of the two devices (with a superiority hypothesis). The study begins with a
      12 months inclusion period. The total number of subjects required is 240. At the end of the
      inclusion process, a randomization in two arms is carried out. Follow-up consists in 4 visits
      at 1, 3, 6 and 12 months, with data collection (pad use, uroflowmetry, quality of life
      validated questionnaires ICIQ-SF and EQ-5D, 24-hr pad test, patient satisfaction with PGI-I
      and report of any secondary effect). Statistical evaluation is carried out at the end of the
      follow-up, in intent to treat.

      Medical evaluation:

      The main criterion of the study is failure of the treatment, defined by reduction of less
      than 50% of incontinence on 24-hr pad test, explantation of the device or implantation of a
      new surgical device for SUI management in the year after operation.

      Secondary criteria are focused on efficacy and tolerance and evaluated during follow-up at 1,
      3, 6 and 12 months on the following criteria:

        -  pad usage per day

        -  quantitative reduction of the 24hr-pad test

        -  complications (infection, erosion, hematoma, acute urinary retention)

        -  number of re-interventions or re-admissions during follow-up

        -  quality of life measured by the ICIQ-SF questionnaire

        -  patient satisfaction by the PGI-I questionnaire The statistical evaluation on the main
           criterion will be carried out by the chi-square test. Variables with a known predictive
           value on efficiency (radiation therapy, severity of incontinence) will be studied by
           logistic regression then multivariate analysis. The results will be adjusted on the
           centers (multicentric study). The quantitative variables will be compared by
           Mann-Whitney test.

      Economic evaluation: The economic evaluation will be carried out according to the following
      manner:

        -  A study of the total cost over one year of each device, based on the data collected
           during the clinical trial and including all the events that required medical care
           (visits, complications, reinterventions, readmissions), but also the cost of pads (not
           supported by healthcare system, and only supported by the patient).

        -  From this study led on cost and of the collection of quality of life data, the cost of
           each device will be adjusted to quality of life (QALY evaluation)

        -  A cost effectiveness study will also be lead, by adjusting cost to success rate of each
           technique

        -  Proposals will be made to state at which level the two devices should be covered by the
           healthcare system.
    
  