
    
      The goal of this study is to compare the PC/SMART and PMEA treated circuits against each
      other and the current clinical standard (untreated) circuit with regard to blood component
      damage during CPB.

      Specific Aims SA1: To determine if the surface modified circuits decrease platelet
      activation, platelet sequestration, and fibrinolysis during pediatric cardiac surgery using
      CPB.

      Hypothesis 1: Use of a surface modified circuit will attenuate the CPB related decrease in
      platelet count, diminish platelet dysfunction as measured by thromboelastography (TEG), and
      decrease fibrinolysis as measured by fibrin-split product levels and TEG.

      SA2: To determine whether the use of surface modified circuits during pediatric cardiac
      surgery results in a clinically relevant decrease in post-operative coagulopathy as measured
      by post-operative bleeding and blood product use.

      Hypothesis 2: The use of surface modified circuits will result in improved function of the
      coagulation system yielding less post-operative bleeding and thus fewer blood product
      transfusions.

      Methods The study will be a prospective, randomized trial in which a total of 90 patients
      (5-10 kgs) undergoing first time cardiac surgery using CPB at Egleston Hospital will be
      randomized into 3 groups. Group 1 will be the control group for whom the current standard
      unmodified CPB circuit will be used. Group 2 will undergo surgery using the PC/SMART modified
      CPB circuit (Cobe Cardiovascular Inc, Arvada, CO). Group 3 will undergo surgery using the
      PMEA modified circuit (Terumo Corporation, Tokyo, Japan).

      Hypothesis 1 will be tested using the following assays:

      Total platelet count Hematocrit Prothrombin time (PT) Activated thromboplastin time (aPTT)
      Fibrin split-product level D-dimer level thromboglobulin level (ELISA assay)
      Thromboelastography (TEG) using heparinase (to eliminate heparin effect) both with and
      without REOPRO (a GPIIb/IIIa platelet inhibitor) to measure the relative contributions of
      platelet function and fibrinogen activity to clot formation

      Performed at the following time-points:

      T1 = after induction of anesthesia, prior to CPB T2 = 5 minutes after the initiation of CPB
      T3 = at the end of re-warming (end of CPB) T4 = post-bypass (five minutes after protamine
      administration) T5 = within 24 hours after surgery (TEG will not be collected at this time)

      Hypothesis 2 will be tested by quantifying chest-tube drainage and blood product
      administration (red blood cells, platelets, fresh frozen plasma, and cryoprecipitate) over
      the first 12 hours after weaning off of CPB.
    
  