
    
      The main objective of the research is to evaluate the prognostic performance of qSOFA, NEWS
      and MEDS scores in patients over 65 years of age presenting to the emergency department with
      a diagnosis of infection made by the emergency physician in charge.

      The main judgment criterion is intra-hospital mortality. Secondary criteria for judgement are
      admission to intensive care or intensive care (continuous monitoring unit), length of
      hospital stay, length of stay in the emergency room, door-to-antibiotic time. A comparison of
      score performance will be carried out between the population aged over 65 years old and the
      rest of the population.

        1. EXPECTED FALLOUT.

           Early recognition of patients with potentially severe sepsis and adaptation to
           monitoring appropriate to severity will enable patients to be identified and managed
           more quickly from the time of assessment by the emergency reception and referral nurse.
           In this way, these patients can be integrated into a dedicated line of care enabling
           early antibiotic therapy, vascular filling and support by vasopressor amines if
           necessary.

           Older people present a particularly fragile population with physiological peculiarities.
           It is necessary to validate these prognostic scores in this segment of the population.

        2. EXPERIMENTAL PLAN.

           4.1 Design of the study. This study will be a monocentric, prospective,
           non-interventional study. The patients recruited will be those who's the emergency
           doctor in charge suspects an infection, either through clinical examination or
           complementary examinations (radiological, microbiological). The diagnosis of bacterial
           infection will be re-evaluated remotely by 2 experts once the follow-up phase is
           completed. In case of discrepancies, a consensus will be reached between the 2 experts.
           Patients with no confirmed infection will be excluded from the study. Investigators also
           exclude pregnant women, minors, patients under legal protection, or patients refusing to
           participate, prisoners and patients with localized infections without general
           repercussions (abscess, cystitis, angina). For each patient included, the reception and
           orientation nurse assisted by the emergency doctor will have to fill in the parameters
           needed to calculate qSOFA score, the NEWS score and the MEDS score on admission.

           The main judgment criterion is intra-hospital mortality at 28 days. Patients still
           hospitalized after D28 will be considered still alive. Secondary endpoints will be
           admission to intensive care (resuscitation/continuous monitoring unit) for more than 72
           hours, length of hospital stay, length of stay in intensive care, door-to-antibiotic
           time and a composite endpoint of mortality or admission to intensive care for more than
           72 hours.

           4.2 Criteria for inclusion: Adult patient presenting to the adult emergency department
           with suspected infection by the reception and orientation nurse or diagnosed by the
           emergency physician.

           One subgroup is composed of patients aged 65 years and over, a second subgroup is
           composed of patients aged 18 to 64 years.

           4.3 Exclusion criteria: Underage patients, vulnerable persons (legal protection)
           Pregnant women Prisoner Infection not confirmed after review of the files by the experts
           Localized infection without general repercussions: abscess, angina, cystitis. Patient's
           opposition to participating in the study

           Inclusion period: 6 months Follow-up period: 28 days Place of study: emergency
           department of the Tours CHRU (University Hospital Centre)

        3. BENEFIT/RISK

           The study provides a reminder to practitioners of the international recommendations for
           sepsis management based on the Surviving Sepsis Campaign. It can thus be expected to
           improve the time taken by patients to receive antibiotic therapy and potentially improve
           the triage of these patients.

           There is no risk expected by this study since there is no change in practices. The
           objective of this study is to evaluate prognostic performance of scores without
           intervention on patient management.

        4. STATISTICAL ANALYSES

      Numerical variables will be expressed as average and 95% confidence interval, and categorical
      variables will be expressed as number and percentage. In the case of missing variables for
      scores, investigators assume that the values are within normal values. To achieve the
      performance of the qSOFA, NEWS and MEDS scores in predicting the main judgement criterion,
      investigators will calculate the diagnostic performance (sensitivity, specificity, positive
      and negative predictive values) for a qSOFA greater than or equal to 2, a NEWS ≥ 5 and a MEDS
      greater than or equal to 12. Investigators will construct a ROC curve and calculate an area
      under the curve for each score. The scores will be compared with each other in the population
      over 65 years old. Each score will also be compared between the population over 65 and the
      population 18-64.

      A p value of less than 0.05 is considered significant. The analyses are performed using R
      software version 3.6.2.
    
  