
    
      The overall goal of this study is to test a novel communication-based intervention aimed at
      decreasing rates of prescribing antibiotics for ARTI in children. We propose a randomized
      controlled trial involving a sample of 34 primary care pediatricians drawn from 8 practices
      in the Puget Sound Pediatric Research Network (PSPRN). Our research design incorporates a
      novel physician intervention that teaches the importance of specific physician communication
      behaviors. The primary physician outcomes for the study will be changes in the utilization of
      communication behaviors as reported by parents, and antibiotic prescribing rates for children
      presenting with ARTI symptoms. The primary parent outcome measure for the study will be
      satisfaction with care. Changes in the primary outcomes for the intervention physicians will
      be compared to changes in these outcomes for control physicians. The trial has five specific
      aims and five major hypotheses.

        1. To evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed intervention in achieving its stated goals
           of changing physician communication behaviors.

             -  We hypothesize that physicians in the intervention group will have increased
                reported use of desirable communication behaviors and decreased reported use of
                undesirable communication behaviors relative to control group physicians.

        2. To determine the antibiotic prescribing rates for children aged 6 months to 10 years
           presenting with ARTI symptoms and assess how these rates change as a function of the
           intervention.

             -  We hypothesize that physicians in the intervention group will decrease antibiotic
                prescribing rates for ARTI relative to the control group physicians.

        3. To determine visit-specific satisfaction levels for parents of children seen by study
           physicians and assess how satisfaction levels change as a function of the intervention.

             -  We hypothesize that parents who take their children to physicians in the
                intervention group will report increased satisfaction with care, relative to
                control group physicians.

        4. To identify the factors (e.g., physician communication behaviors) that mediate the
           relationships between physicians being in the intervention group, decreased antibiotic
           prescribing, and increased parent satisfaction with care.

             -  We hypothesize that increased use of desirable communication behaviors and
                decreased use of undesirable communication behaviors will partially mediate the
                relationships between being an intervention group physician, decreased
                inappropriate prescribing, and increased parent satisfaction with care.

        5. To perform a validation study of the Physician Communication Behavior Inventory (PCBI)
           survey items. Using a standardized approach, specific physician communication behaviors
           will be coded through review of 100 video taped physician-parent encounters. The
           behaviors coded will be compared to parent responses on the PCBI surveys from these
           encounters.

             -  We hypothesize that parent reports of physician communication behaviors on the PCBI
                will be highly correlated with actual physician communication behaviors coded from
                video tape data.
    
  