
    
      Following a screening visit to establish study eligibility, eligible consenting subjects will
      be randomized 1:1 to one of the two treatment arms (switch to unboosted ATZ or continue
      ritonavir-boosted ATZ). Randomized open-label treatment will commence following study
      procedures at baseline. Participants will be assessed at baseline and at weeks 4, 8, 12, 24,
      36, and 48. On-study evaluations will include assessment of adverse clinical events and
      medication changes; blood tests for HIV viral load, CD4 cell count, standard safety
      parameters, fasting lipids and glucose, and pregnancy testing (if applicable); and urine
      tests for urinalysis and albumin to creatinine ratio. In addition, a serum sample will be
      stored at each visit for possible future testing. A timed plasma sample for measurement of
      pre-dose trough ATZ levels will be obtained once per subject at 4-8 weeks. Quality of life
      will be assessed by completion of the MOS-HIV questionnaire at baseline and every 12 weeks.
      Adherence will be assessed based on prescription refill data.

      In case of protocol-defined virologic failure, a plasma sample for ATZ trough level will be
      collected, and genotypic resistance testing will be performed on plasma samples with viral
      load >250 copies/mL. Subjects with confirmed virologic failure will be asked to come to the
      clinic and will have their HIV treatment changed to a more effective regimen, selected based
      on the results of genotypic testing, as soon as possible.

      The anticipated rate of confirmed virologic failure in the control arm is no more than 15%
      over the 48 weeks of the study. Once at least 20 subjects have been assigned to the
      experimental (switch) treatment arm, if the observed confirmed virologic failure rate in the
      experimental arm is greater than twice this rate, i.e. >30%, at any time during the study,
      the study will be stopped. At this time, subjects in the experimental arm will be reassessed
      as soon as possible and will resume ritonavir-boosted atazanavir or other effective HIV
      therapy as appropriate. The failure rate will be reassessed at a minimum after each 20
      subjects are enrolled into the experimental (switch) arm.
    
  