
    
      Chronic exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS) is a major health concern for public housing
      residents. While the prevalence of adult cigarette smoking in the United States has declined
      to 15.1% in 2015, recent data show that 34% of public housing residents still smoke. A
      federal rule issued by HUD now requires Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) to adopt a smoke-free
      policy to reduce SHS exposure. However, no evidence-based approaches are available to support
      post-adoption implementation by PHAs to ensure that the rule yields optimal benefits for
      residents. This research gap also applies to the larger population of affordable housing
      properties that are likely to adopt smoke-free rules in the future. The focus of this
      research is the development of evidence-based approaches to implement smoke-free policies to
      reduce harms associated with exposure to secondhand smoke (SHS).

      The investigators will use six key implementation strategies identified in earlier research
      on the experiences of early-adopter PHAs. The investigators will partner with a for-profit
      affordable housing management company that recently expanded its portfolio with the
      acquisition of 55 affordable housing properties in Pennsylvania, Ohio, West Virginia,
      Virginia and Kentucky. This provides a unique opportunity to address the implementation
      research gap, because these properties are in geographic locations where the smoking rate is
      close to twice the national smoking rate. The for-profit affordable housing management
      company has committed to adopting a smoke-free policy in these properties, to go into effect
      in early 2020.

      Using an established implementation science framework to guide the approach, the
      investigators will work with property managers and staff of properties located in five
      high-smoking states to strategically incorporate the six implementation strategies to reduce
      SHS exposure among affordable housing residents. The findings will provide accessible,
      practical, and effective evidence for property managers and staff to support ongoing efforts
      to optimize the impact of a smoke-free residential policy. The investigators will test this
      approach in a geographic region with high smoking rates and a disproportionate burden of
      tobacco-related mortality, covering western Pennsylvania, southern Ohio, West Virginia,
      Virginia and Kentucky.
    
  