
    
      The trial is a phase IV randomised factorial design controlled trial comparing carbamazepine,
      levetiracetam or active monitoring combined with or without sleep behaviour intervention. A
      factorial trial design has been used as this approach enables the efficient simultaneous
      investigation of AED (carbamazepine; levetiracetam; no AED) and sleep behaviour intervention
      (vs standard care) by including all participants in both analyses. In a factorial trial it is
      also possible to consider both the separate effects of each intervention and the benefits of
      receiving both interventions together (for example levetiracetam and sleep intervention).

      The CASTLE trial will take place in NHS out-patient paediatric epilepsy and general
      paediatric clinics in the United Kingdom (UK).

      Once consent has been obtained from the appropriate adult, and assent from the child if
      appropriate, by the delegated member of the research team the eligibility assessments will be
      completed, full eligibility confirmed (confirmation must be by a medically qualified doctor)
      and baseline data will be collected prior to randomisation.

      Randomisation will be performed via a web based tool accessed by research team at site. This
      system is generated centrally by the Clinical Trial Research Centre (CTRC) using a computer
      algorithm concealed from the investigators and research teams/trial management group. In
      order to balance the groups, minimisation for variables believed to influence disease outcome
      and end points will be built into the randomisation algorithm.

      Participants will be randomised to treatment with carbamazepine, levetiracetam or active
      monitoring. Where randomised to drug treatment, the randomised treatment should ideally begin
      on the day of randomisation or within 14 days of randomisation at the latest. Randomised
      treatment will continue for a minimum of 12 months and a maximum of 48 months. All treatments
      will be procured, prescribed and issued as per routine NHS practice.

      Clinical data capture will be in the form of paper copies of Case Report Forms (CRFs) that
      will be returned as an on-going process from each centre to the CTRC. Patient/parent reported
      data will be collected directly on paper at each outpatient visit with the exception of
      CANTAB, which will be collected on iPads at the centre.

      All trial documents (except raw Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) from NHS digital that will
      only be retained for 1 year) will be retained for 25 years from the End of Trial. The PI at
      each investigational centre must make arrangements to store the essential trial documents,
      (as defined in Essential Documents for the Conduct of a Clinical Trial (ICH E6, Guideline for
      Good Clinical Practice)) including the ISF, until the CTRC informs the investigator that the
      documents are no longer to be retained
    
  