
    
      Main study:

      Randomized Clinical Trial comparing Cross-sectoral Training Intervention for Patients with
      Intermittent Claudication with standard care.

      Patients will be randomized to the intervention or control group using a computer-generated
      block randomized allocation scheme.

      Sample size:

      The expected average base line value of maximal walking distance (MWD) has been set to 120 m
      and the investigators want to detect a 50% improvement (60 m). There is a wide variance in
      MWD in this patient group, and consequently the standard deviation (SD) is set at 100 m. With
      a 5% significance level and 80% power, it will thus be necessary to include 88 patients to
      detect an improvement of 60 m in MWD in the intervention group at 12-months follow-up,
      compared to the control group. Owing to the previously mentioned risk of comorbidities,
      combined with an expected loss to follow-up, a drop-out of 25% must be expected, wherefore
      the investigators plan is to include 118 patients in total (59 in each group).

      Baseline data:

      The following data will be collected at inclusion, before randomization:

      Demography (age, gender, housing, marital status, socioeconomic status, level of education)
      Height and weight will be combined to report body mass index (BMI) in kg/m^2, waist
      circumference, blood pressure.

      Cardiovascular risk factors, co-morbidity (Charlson Comorbidity Index), current medications,
      blood samples (biomarkers, cholesterol, HBa1C), based on consultation measurements.

      Lifestyle: Measured by self-reported smoking behavior, daily physical activity: minimum 30
      min. walking time daylit or other exercise activity, self-reported Diet Registration and
      alcohol consumption.

      Quality of life: Measured using the Vascu-Quality of Life questionnaire (VascuQol).

      Depression and anxiety measured with the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS).

      Assessment of patients' individual competencies for self-management is measured by using The
      Patient Activation Measure" (PAM13).

      Maximum walking distance (MWD) and pain-free walking distance (PWD) measured using the
      standardized Treadmill Walking Test, and Visual Analog Score for pain. Follow-up Treadmill
      Walking Test is performed by a research assistant for whom it is blinded if patients are in
      intervention or control group.

      Control group - standard care. Patients randomized to the control group will initially
      receive brief advice regarding exercise therapy (walking), smoking cessation, and preventive
      medical treatment with antiplatelet therapy and statin. Written information about medication,
      walking exercise, and a logbook for self-reporting of walking behavior is handed out to the
      IC patients in the outpatient clinic at the Department of Vascular Surgery, Rigshospitalet.

      The intervention group will initially receive individual brief advice regarding exercise
      therapy, smoking cessation advice/course offerings, and preventive medication with
      antiplatelet therapy and statin in the outpatient clinic at the Department of Vascular
      Surgery. Patients will receive written standard information and a pedometer and be asked to
      self-report walking behavior in a logbook.

      In the municipality the intervention group will participate in Supervised Exercise Training
      and education. This entails that patients will actively engage in groups of 8-10 in 24
      supervised physical exercise sessions, each lasting one hour with two weekly sessions.
      Physiotherapists in the training Centre will supervise participants' training. The exercises
      include varied forms of physical exercise.

      The physiotherapists will measure 6 minutes walking test and chair- stand- test prior to and
      at completion of the intervention and use the results as a part of an individual motivational
      interview with each patient after completion of the 24 training sessions. Furthermore,
      participants will be advised in group sessions by the principle investigator, in a 2-hour
      long session, about the pathophysiology of IC, medications, lifestyle factors, disease
      management, quality of life and how to cope with the disease. A clinical dietician will
      advise participants in a 2-hour long session about healthy diet and atherosclerosis. In
      addition, participants have access to a 2-4 hour long individual consultation with a
      dietician. After completion of exercise training, participants are offered personalized
      motivational follow-up text messages. Content, frequency and duration of the text messages
      are agreed upon individually for the next 8 months and will be reassessed at 3 and 6-months
      follow-up.

      Sub-study. Qualitative Study. Individual brief interview and questionnaire survey
      supplemented with focus group interviews of patients participating in the intervention group
      in the randomized clinical study. A protocol for the study will be drawn up in accordance
      with the "Consolidated Criteria for Reporting Qualitative Research" (COREQ).

      An interview guide will be developed prior to interviewing. The investigators expect to
      explore the following tentative issues: Patient experiences of the training and teaching
      sessions, factors facilitating or hindering lifestyle changes, how the use of pedometer,
      logbook and text messages influenced motivation/adherence, patient satisfaction with the
      intervention and suggestions for future rehabilitation programs.
    
  