
    
      Anemia is frequent in patients with myocardial infarction (MI). The antiplatelet and
      anticoagulant agents used for MI treatment increase the risk of bleeding, which in turn
      increases the risk of ischemia and mortality. Anemia is an independent predictor of cardiac
      events in this setting. In the "FAST-MI 2010" nationwide registry, the prevalence of anemia
      (defined as Hb <10g/dL) at admission was 3% and impacted mortality. Whether this risk can be
      overcome by transfusion is debated.

      In theory, transfusion should increase oxygen delivery to the myocardium. However, recent
      data suggest that oxygen delivery is not increased in patients receiving transfusion, that
      red blood cells are rapidly depleted of nitric oxide during storage and that, conversely,
      transfusion may increase platelet activation and aggregation and these consequences appear
      potentially even more deleterious in patients with cardiovascular disease. In the general
      population without cardiovascular disease of medical and surgical patients, the role of
      liberal vs restrictive transfusion strategies has been explored by a series of randomized
      trials, which have led to a consensus to withhold blood transfusions until a threshold of 7
      to 8 g/dl hemoglobin is reached.

      Among patients with myocardial infarction, however, both the deleterious consequences of
      anemia and the risks of transfusion may be greater, which leads to lingering uncertainty
      regarding the role of liberal vs restrictive transfusion strategies in this setting. The
      clinical data are observational and contradictory. Conversely, a large meta-analysis (>200
      000 patients) reported a higher risk of mortality and recurrent MI in MI patients who
      received transfusion. More recently, a careful observational study has shown that the
      majority of patients undergoing blood transfusion cannot be matched with non-transfused
      patients due to their markedly different clinical profiles, indicating that observational
      studies cannot reliable establish the benefits or risks of transfusion because they are
      hopelessly influenced by selection bias. These results strongly highlight the need for
      randomized trials to establish the role of transfusion during acute MI, a call for a
      randomized trial that has been echoed by several thought leaders in the field in recent
      years. Two small randomized trials (respectively 45 and 110 patients) comparing liberal vs.
      restrictive transfusion strategies in MI showed no clear difference in clinical outcomes but
      were both underpowered.

      The only guideline regarding management of anemia in this setting is from the European
      Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines on non-ST segment elevation - acute coronary syndrome
      (NSTE-ACS), which advise blood transfusion only if the hemodynamic status is compromised or
      the hemoglobin level is <7g/dL. As a result, there is wide variation in clinical practice.
      There is therefore equipoise regarding which transfusion strategy is best.

      Hypothesis:

      We hypothesize that a "restrictive" transfusion strategy (triggered by Hb <= 8 g/ dL) will be
      clinically non-inferior to a "liberal" transfusion strategy (triggered by Hb <= 10g/ dL) but
      will be less costly.

      Main objective:

      The main objective of the study is to compare cost-effectiveness of restrictive (triggered by
      Hb <= 8 g/ dL) vs liberal (triggered by Hb <= 10g/ dL) red blood transfusion strategies for
      patients with acute MI and anemia (7g /dL < Hb <= 10g / dL).

      Secondary objective(s):

        1. The key secondary objective is to perform cost-utility analyses at 30-days and 1 year.

        2. The main clinical objective will be to determine whether a restrictive transfusion
           strategy is clinically non-inferior to a liberal transfusion strategy in terms of major
           adverse cardiac events (MACE) at 30 days, defined as the composite of all-cause death,
           nonfatal stroke, nonfatal recurrent MI, and emergency revascularization prompted by
           ischemia.

      2. A tertiary objective will be to compare major adverse cardiac events (MACE) at 1 year,
      since the impact of transfusion strategies on MACE may be delayed, or conversely, an initial
      benefit of either strategy may become lost over the first year.
    
  