
    
      There is an unmet need for effective, efficient, and economical methods for conducting AD
      prevention trials. Traditional in-person visits to clinical assessment sites are time
      consuming and costly and may exclude some people from participation, such as those who are
      older, or are less mobile or with significant medical illnesses. These may be the people who
      are at greatest risk for cognitive decline, and also may be without financial resources for
      services such as transportation to a study site. Prevention trials require long observation
      periods and these same issues of health, resources, and transportation may cause significant
      drop out. These obstacles increase expense of clinical trials which require large sample
      sizes, costly clinical staff and long observation periods. Thus, home-based assessments may
      lead to more representative recruitment of those most at risk for decline, as well as better
      retention and reduced study costs.

      This is a randomized study of 600 participants, comparing three methods of test
      administration and data collection. Each enrolled participant will have an In-person
      (Standard) assessment (in the clinic or at home) prior to baseline.

      Participants will be classified as either normal or MCI (Mild Cognitive Impairment) and
      randomly assigned to an assessment method and to a frequency of assessment. Cognitive
      performance, self-rated cognitive complaint, functioning in daily life, affective symptoms,
      global change, quality of life and resource use will all be assessed in each method at each
      visit. The total time for the at-home assessments will be approximately 45 minutes. In
      addition, all participants will be provided a multi-vitamin to be taken twice a day, and a
      measure of medication adherence will be collected for each assessment method.

      Changes in certain cognitive measures may "trigger" an in-person assessment, in which
      participants may change from a categorization of normal or amnestic MCI, to non-amnestic MCI,
      impaired not MCI, or dementia (i.e., specifically Alzheimer's Disease or another dementia).
      We estimate that 12% of the study population will trigger over the 4 years of the study and
      will progress to a more impaired diagnostic category. In addition, a random sample of
      non-triggered cases (25%) will be selected for an in-person re-assessment during the 4 years
      of the protocol as a comparison for the trigger group. At the end of the 4-year study period
      all participants will undergo an in-person evaluation.
    
  