
    
      Study Population: Subjects enrolled into this study will undergo elective total laparoscopic
      hysterectomy for benign indications wherein dissection and transection of the uterine
      vasculature is indicated.

      Primary Variables: Percentage of subjects achieving hemostasis at the named vessel/pedicle
      (UA or UP) on the left side. Percentage of subjects achieving hemostasis at the named
      vessel/pedicle (UA or UP) on the right side.

      Definition: Hemostasis of the named vessel or pedicle is a dichotomous variable (i.e. yes or
      no). "Yes" is defined as the hemostatic transection of the uterine vasculature (left / right)
      with at least one use of the device in Advanced Hemostasis mode (a completed cycle with the
      second activation tone heard) without the use of additional hemostatic measures (i.e. tissue
      sealers, cautery devices, hemoclips, staples, sutures, fibrin sealants, etc.) other than the
      Harmonic ACE®+7 device.

      Note: Multiple applications of the Advanced Hemostasis mode and/or additional applications of
      the device in a maximum (MAX) or minimum (MIN) mode are allowed.

      Secondary Endpoints:

      Percentage of subjects achieving hemostasis at the OP on the left and/or right side.

      If the study procedure also includes the transection and sealing of one or both OPs,
      hemostasis of the left and/or right OP will also be recorded. Hemostasis of the OP is a
      dichotomous variable (i.e. yes or no). "Yes" is defined as the hemostatic transection of the
      ovarian vasculature (left and/or right) with at least one use of the device in Advanced
      Hemostasis mode (a completed cycle with the second activation tone heard) without the use of
      additional hemostatic measures (i.e. tissue sealers, cautery devices, hemoclips, staples,
      sutures, fibrin sealants, etc.).

      Note: Multiple applications of the Advanced Hemostasis mode or the device in a MAX or MIN
      mode are allowed.

      Exploratory endpoints include:

      Requirement for additional measures to obtain hemostasis on the named vessel/pedicle (UA or
      UP and/or OP) on the left and right side Use of other energy devices (tissue sealers, cautery
      devices) - Graded as yes or no; if "yes", the name and type, time of application (24 hour
      clock).

      Use of additional hemostatic products (e.g. hemoclips, staples, sutures, fibrin sealants) -
      Graded as yes or no; if "yes", the name and type, number/volume, and time of application (24
      hour clock).

      Complications associated with vaginal cuff healing including dehiscence or separation,
      infection, cellulitis, abscess, inflammation, and granulation associated with each suture
      used as part of the study.

      Adverse events attributed to the study device or procedure will be collected from time of
      surgery to Visit 4 (Approximately 4 to 6 weeks after study surgery or as per standard of care
      (SOC)).

      No formal sample size determination is required for this study. Approximately 40 subjects
      from the United States and the European Union are planned to be enrolled into this study.

      Global indication for use of the The Harmonic ACE®+7, 5mm Diameter Shears with Advanced
      Hemostasis:

      Indicated for soft tissue incisions when bleeding control and minimal thermal injury are
      desired. The instruments can be used as an adjunct to or substitute for electrosurgery,
      lasers and steel scalpels in general, plastic, pediatric, gynecologic, urologic, thoracic,
      exposure to orthopedic structures (such as spine and joint space), sealing and transection of
      lymphatic vessels, and other open and endoscopic procedures. The instruments allow for the
      coagulation of vessels up to and including 7mm in diameter, using the Advanced Hemostasis
      function.
    
  