
    
      Aims and background:

      Sleep is a universal biological process. Lack of, or insufficient sleep, has been associated
      with a range of diseases including obesity, cardiovascular disease, reduced cognition,
      impaired learning, and increased risk of motor vehicle accidents. Sleep is also associated
      with neuromolecular alterations in the brain, including reduced firing of arousal maintaining
      epinephrine and norepinephrine neurons.

      A novel molecular function of sleep known as the glymphatic system has recently been
      described in rodents. This system is specifically activated during non-rapid eye movement
      (NREM) sleep, and glymphatic flow appear strongly enhanced during sleep when compared to
      wakefulness. Moreover, it has been shown that adrenergic antagonists enhance glymphatic
      clearance and flow in rodents. This study aims at applying newly developed functional
      magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) protocols to investigate the extent of the glymphatic
      system non-invasively in humans.

      In order for us to quantify the change in glymphatic clearance between sleep and wakefulness,
      it is necessary to measure the glymphatic process in both vigilance states, requiring that
      volunteers nap in the MRI scanner. Moreover, to clarify causal relationships, this study will
      challenge the glymphatic system via adrenergic inhibition. To do so, the investigators will
      administer the adrenergic antagonist Carvedilol, which can cross the blood-brain barrier. The
      drug will be perorally administered before a nap in the MRI, in a double blind, placebo
      controlled manner. To assess sleep quality and function, cognitive testing will be performed
      before and after the nap in the MRI scanner. Moreover, to distinguish sleep and wakefulness,
      electroencephalographic (EEG) recordings will be performed during magnetic resonance
      (MR)-imaging. Because sleep is a strong homeostatic regulated process, sleep quality,
      duration and timing will be controlled by EEG monitoring, immediately prior to and during the
      study to ensure that data is intra- and inter-individually comparable.

      Hypotheses:

      Investigators hypothesis that the fMRI data collected awake and during a nap will be altered
      by the adrenergic treatment. Specifically, investigator propose the following hypotheses: 1.
      Sleep promotes cerebrospinal fluid pulsations (glymphatic flow) in the human brain, as
      measured with fMRI. 2. Challenging the sleep-homeostat by sleep deprivation promotes the fMRI
      glymphatic flow signal further. 3. The rate of glymphatic flow is expected to be proportional
      to simultaneously measured non-rapid eye movement EEG slow wave activity. 4: The adrenergic
      antagonist carvedilol will enhance glymphatic clearance and sleep intensity. 5. The fMRI
      determined glymphatic flow is associated with improved cognitive performance following sleep.
      6. Enhanced glymphatic flow is correlated with enhanced cognitive performance, including:
      assessments of visual attention, reaction time, paired-associative memory, working memory,
      emotional recognition and subjective ratings of sleepiness and mood.
    
  