
    
      There are a total of 3 study visits over the course of the 12 weeks of the study that will
      include procedures such as collection of their wound dressing, imaging, blood draw, and
      receiving the supplement (if in supplementation group). These visits will occur at weeks 0
      (consent signed and first distribution of supplements), 2, 3, and 12. At the initial visit
      the following will be recorded: birth year, gender, ethnicity, race, women of child bearing
      age: current form of birth control, negative or positive urine Hcg, current medications
      (medication, dose, frequency, diagnosis), allergies, past or present medical problems, height
      and weight, HbA1c value, wound site, wound etiology, Blood pressure, pulse, and if the
      subjects will be randomized into either the control or supplementation group. Subjects will
      return one week later for study visit one where their blood pressure and pulse will be
      recorded and will also have one of the following tests completed as a screen fail for the
      study: Transcutaneous Oxygen Measurement, Toe Pressure, or Ankle-Brachial Index Test. If the
      reading is inadequate then the subject will no longer participate in the study. Their wound
      vac sponge will be collected and imaging will be obtained. Subjects will return for study
      visit 2 where they will have their blood pressure and pulse recorded, will have a blood draw,
      wound vac sponge collected and wound imaging obtained. Subjects will be asked to return after
      12 weeks of supplementation and will have their blood pressure and pulse recorded and wound
      imaging obtained. Subjects will be asked to bring any empty packets of the supplement to each
      visit for compliance and will be given a new supply of supplements at the initial visit,
      visit 1 and 2. Note, if a subject is discontinued from the negative pressure therapy within 2
      weeks of consent then the subject will be dropped from the study.
    
  