
    
      Approximately 52,000 deaths occur from traumatic brain injury (TBI) every year. TBI is a
      major cause of disability, death, and economic cost to our society. When the brain
      experiences injury, there is direct damage to the brain tissue causing local bleeding and
      bruising. This is called the primary injury. Additional damage, called secondary brain
      injury, can occur as a result of swelling of the brain, lack of oxygen to the brain, lowered
      blood pressure, and the release of inflammatory mediators. The type and degree of insults are
      major determinants in the final neurologic outcome of the patient who has sustained a TBI.
      Management of TBI is aimed at the prevention and treatment of these secondary insults.

      The swelling of the brain following injury causes an increase in the pressure within the
      cranium. Increased pressure can reduce blood flow to parts of the brain, leading to further
      brain damage. An intracranial pressure (ICP) monitor measures the pressure surrounding the
      brain, and may be placed following traumatic brain injury to help evaluate swelling.

      Agitation of the patient or exposure to painful stimuli may significantly increase ICP, and
      therefore, the use of sedative agents is important in ICP management. A variety of
      pharmacological agents have been suggested to treat agitation in the TBI patient.
      Unfortunately, no optimal sedative regimen has been identified for use in this patient
      population. One prospect is dexmedetomidine (Precedex®), which is FDA-approved for short-term
      (≤24 hours) sedation in the intensive care unit. Currently, to our knowledge, dexmedetomidine
      has not been studied prospectively in adults with traumatic brain injury. The safety and
      efficacy of dexmedetomidine are therefore unknown in severe TBI. Propofol is employed as a
      first-line sedative agent in neurotrauma patients due to its favorable pharmacokinetic
      profile. However, some patients require prolonged infusions and high rates of propofol. This
      has been shown increase their risk for development of a severe propofol-related infusion
      syndrome, which can be fatal.

      Dexmedetomidine as an adjunct to existing conventional sedative therapy may help to
      facilitate decreasing the amount of other agents used, such as propofol. Therefore, the aim
      of this study is to assess the safety and feasibility of dexmedetomidine as an adjunct to
      conventional sedative therapy compared to conventional sedative therapy alone in patients
      with severe TBI.
    
  