
    
      In 2016, the research team piloted a 6-week intervention on expressive writing for resilience
      in a population of trauma survivors. Participants self-identified as having had a recent
      trauma or significant life upheaval, such as a divorce, major illness, job loss, or the death
      of a loved one. At 6 weeks, the investigators found that participants experienced
      significantly improved levels of resilience and lower levels of stress, rumination, and
      depression. These results added to a growing body of research indicating the potential for
      expressive writing to be a powerful healing modality for both psychological and physical
      well-being.

      The current COVID-19 pandemic presents the potential for trauma or significant life upheaval
      for nearly all members of the community and the world at large. Parents of children who are
      at home face unique challenges during this time. Social distancing guidelines, shelter in
      place protocols, school and business closures, travel restrictions, high levels of job loss,
      loss of childcare, and the looming threat of illness have disrupted daily routines, family
      life, and significantly altered life plans for many. Parents and caregivers who have
      unexpectedly lost childcare, are having to adjust to home schooling arrangements, and/or are
      having to end to heightened emotional needs in their children may experience this time as
      particularly difficult.

      Resilience is the capacity for individuals to adapt and recover in the face of trauma,
      adversity, or significant sources of stress. The current collective reality magnifies the
      need for accessible, low-cost, effective interventions to help people cultivate resilience
      and other dimensions of psychological well-being.

      In this study, the investigators seek to further the work the research team began in 2016
      with a 4-week, virtually-delivered expressive writing intervention designed to support
      parents in cultivating personal resilience and emotional wellness during the COVID-19
      pandemic.
    
  