
    
      Every year influenza infection causes significant morbidity and mortality in the general
      population making it a serious public health concern. Among those at highest risk for
      complications from infection are the immunocompromised. Effective influenza immunization that
      confers protection throughout the season is critical for lung transplant recipients because
      in addition to aggressive immunosuppressive therapy, infection directly affects the
      transplanted organ. Studies of influenza vaccine response rates in lung transplant patients
      show generally lower antibody concentrations, but acceptable influenza vaccine response rates
      compared with healthy individuals. However, little is known about the persistence of
      influenza vaccine-induced antibody concentration in either healthy or immunosuppressed
      populations.

      Influenza antibody concentrations persist at seroprotective levels (defined as antibody
      concentrations at least 40 hemagglutination units) up to a year post vaccination. However,
      the investigators could find no information regarding persistence beyond one year.

      It is hypothesized that the high rates of persisting influenza vaccine antibody in
      immunosuppressed lung transplant individuals would match the rates of persisting
      vaccine-antibody in healthy individuals.

      Influenza antibody concentrations against viruses no longer included in the vaccine were
      measured in serum by hemagglutination inhibition assay (HIA) annually (individual
      participants followed for 3 years). Samples were collected at 2-4 weeks post-vaccination.
      Seroprotection was defined as a titer of ≥ 1:40 and was compared between groups over the
      measured term using Fisher's exact tests.

      [This substudy that was originally registered to NCT00205270 and subsequently registered to
      its own NCT number for the purpose of clarity in linked results]
    
  