
    
      BACKGROUND:

      Elevated plasma homocyst(e)ine is a risk factor for vascular disease in middle-aged men.
      Supplementation with folate, and to some extent vitamins B12 and B6, can reduce plasma
      homocyst(e)ine levels. There is also evidence from in vitro studies that the adverse
      atherogenic or thrombotic effects of Lp(a) may be greatly enhanced by homocyst(e)ine. The
      high prevalence of low levels of folate and vitamins B12 and B6 among the elderly in the
      United States has led to the hypothesis that a substantial portion of cardiovascular
      morbidity and mortality among older persons could be prevented by increasing intake of these
      nutrients to reduce plasma levels of homocysteine. Little is known, however, regarding the
      relationship of homocysteine, folate, B vitamins, and Lp(a) to cardiovascular disease among
      the elderly, among whom CVD represents the leading cause of morbidity and mortality.

      DESIGN NARRATIVE:

      In this ancillary study to the prospective Cardiovascular Health Study (CHS), a case-cohort
      design was used to test hypotheses that the risk of myocardial infarction and/or stoke was
      associated with elevated plasma levels of homocysteine, and low plasma levels of folate,
      vitamins B12 and B6. Further, a determination was made whether elevated plasma levels of
      homocysteine and Lp(a) interacted to increase substantially the risk of myocardial infarction
      and/or stroke above that due to either factor alone. The sub-cohort was used to study the
      relationship between the factors under study and progression of sub-clinical atherosclerosis.
      For each case and sub-cohort member, an aliquot of fasting plasma drawn at baseline was
      analyzed for homocysteine, folate B12, and B6 concentrations. [Values of plasma Lp(a) were
      determined at baseline.] Results of these assays were combined with other CHS data to address
      the hypothesis that the risk of myocardial infarction and/or stroke was associated with
      elevated plasma levels of homocysteine, and low plasma levels of folate, vitamins B12 and B6.
    
  