
    
      The data of the participants who came to the sports center where is prepared for the diabetes
      patients in the hospital will be collected from the past registration files on the electronic
      system.

      Sociodemographic data, blood values and bio-impedance measurements of each patient are
      collected coming to the sports center, routinely.

      Patients who had missing data, patients who did not complete the 3-month exercise program
      were excluded from the analysis. All analyses were performed using the Statistical Package
      for the Social Sciences (SPSS) version 22. 0 for Windows. Data are expressed as mean ±
      standard deviation. The one-sample Kolmogorov-Smirnov test was performed to assess the
      distribution of data. Due to their distribution, numerical variables in different subjects
      were compared with the t-test or Mann-Whitney U test. Comparison of variables before and
      after the exercise program were compared by the paired t-test (parametric variable) or
      Wilcoxon test (non-parametric variable). Probability values were two-tailed, and a p-value of
      less than 0.05 was considered as significant.

      All assessments were performed in the clinic at baseline and end of the 3rd month. The blood
      samples were collected. The systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) were measured
      with an automatic arm BP monitor before and after every session. Body mass and body
      composition, including percent body fat, fat and fat-free mass, were determined using a
      bioelectric impedance system with the electrodes in contact with soles and heels of both
      feet. At the baseline and end of the third month, the same person repeated all assessments.

      Patients had recruited 3 sessions a week for 3 months (Monday/Wednesday/Friday). Every
      session consisted of aerobic exercise protocol and warm-up, cooldown period. Patients aerobic
      loading capacity was calculated before the every session using by Karvonen formula as
      submaximal loading.
    
  