
    
      Background: Chronic non-cancer pain and substance use disorders frequently co-occur in VA
      primary care and addictions treatment settings. The treatment for pain is complicated in
      veterans with a history of alcohol or drug misuse because of a potential for abuse and
      diversion of many prescription pain medications. Thus, treatment providers are left without
      successful and empirically-supported methods for treating the large number of patients with
      chronic pain who also have past or current substance use disorders. One potential strategy is
      to use cognitive-behavioral treatment (CBT) interventions to manage pain and decrease
      substance use abuse/misuse. Psychosocial interventions such as CBT have demonstrated efficacy
      for reducing pain and improving functioning in persons with a broad spectrum of pain-related
      problems. However, this form of treatment has not been explicitly tested in patients with
      co-occurring substance use disorders. Determining the effectiveness of a psychosocial
      intervention targeting both pain and substance use disorders would greatly increase the
      available treatment options for veterans with these conditions.

      Project Objectives: This project is designed to test the effect of a CBT intervention for
      patients with chronic pain who are already engaged in VA treatment for substance use
      disorders compared to an educational supportive condition on measures of pain intensity,
      pain-related disability and pain-tolerance. A set of secondary analyses will examine if group
      CBT compared to the educational supportive condition is associated with greater reductions in
      illicit substance use over the follow-up time period and whether during-treatment reductions
      in pain mediate the effect of treatment assignment on later substance use. Finally, a series
      of secondary analyses will explore whether the hypothesized mechanisms of action for the CBT
      intervention mediate the effect of this intervention on pain intensity and pain tolerance.

      Methods: The proposed study is a randomized controlled trial of group-based CBT compared to
      an educational supportive condition in patients currently receiving drug and alcohol
      treatment. At least 128 Veterans with alcohol or drug abuse or dependence and at least
      moderate pain currently treated in the Ann Arbor VA Substance Use Disorder treatment clinic
      will be assessed at baseline and then randomly assigned to one of these two conditions. These
      patients will be re-assessed at 3-months (i.e. immediately post treatment), 6-months and
      12-months. The primary outcomes will be pain intensity, pain-related disability and pain
      tolerance. Mixed model regression analyses will be used for all primary analyses to estimate
      between-group differences in changes in individual slopes over time. Finally, a series of
      secondary analyses will explore (a) whether the intervention influences post-treatment
      substance use, (b) if change in pain during treatment mediates the effect of the intervention
      on subsequent substance use and (c) whether the hypothesized mechanisms of action for the CBT
      intervention mediate the effect of this intervention on pain intensity and pain tolerance.
    
  