
    
      Postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the leading cause of maternal mortality in low-income
      countries and the primary cause of nearly one quarter of all maternal deaths globally (1). An
      estimated blood loss (EBL) in excess of 500 mL following a vaginal birth has often been used
      for the definition of PPH, but the average volume of blood lost at delivery can approach
      these amounts when actually measured rather than estimated (2). More than half of all
      maternal deaths occur within 24 hours of delivery, most commonly from excessive bleeding (3).
      Worldwide, 140,000 women succumb to postpartum hemorrhage each year. The most common
      antecedents to postpartum hemorrhage are uterine atony, placental disorders, and trauma
      during delivery. Improving maternal health worldwide is one of the WHO's 8 Millennium
      Developmental Goals. The prevention and treatment of PPH is an essential step towards the
      achievement of that goal (4).

      Estimates of blood loss at delivery are notoriously inaccurate, with under-estimation more
      common than over-estimation (5). Traditionally, the clinicians performing the vaginal
      delivery would estimate the blood loss by visually assessing the blood collected in the
      delivery drape drain and counting the number of lap sponges used thru out the delivery.
      Current detection and management of hemorrhage is heavily based on clinical judgment, which
      often leads to delay in recognition and intervention. Often, interventions such as fluid
      resuscitation and blood transfusion are not initiated until significant hemorrhage has
      already taken place. The traditional method for estimating blood loss is based on the
      clinician and nursing staff's subjective assessment that is severely limited by human error
      and the presence of large volumes of amniotic fluid (6).

      Early detection and treatment of this potentially life-threatening obstetric complication is
      of utmost importance in the field of obstetrics. Simulations and didactic training have been
      shown to improve visual estimations, but there are still poor associations between experience
      level and accuracy, and a significant decay in blood loss estimation skills over time (7).

      The Triton L&D system (Gauss Surgical, Inc., Menlo Park, CA) is an FDA-cleared mobile
      application on a tablet computer (iPad) that facilitates quantification of blood loss (QBL)
      by providing an easy to use process and user interface. Dry weights of all potential blood
      containing substrates are built-in to the device allowing batch weighing with automatic
      subtraction of dry weights. There is also a V-drape simulator accounting for collected fluids
      with automatic subtraction of a measured amount of amniotic fluid.

      QBL is not regularly used at UTMB. Although widely recommended, little data is available to
      support its use in the obstetrical population. We believe that gathering further evidence
      regarding its value is appropriate.

      Our hypothesis is that use of this device for QBL will enable clinicians to objectively
      measure blood loss in real-time.

      This study will be a prospective cohort study, in which we will evaluate two methods of
      evaluating blood loss during vaginal delivery (usual visual EBL assessment versus Device
      QBL). Of note, the subjects consented will be used as self-controls.
    
  