
    
      The identification of a single individual with a highly penetrant cancer susceptibility gene
      mutation can have far reaching implications for at-risk relatives in that other family
      members can engage in highly informative and predictive genetic testing for cancer
      predisposition. Family members who carry the familial cancer gene mutation are able to
      receive personalized cancer risk management based upon their positive test result, while
      those family members who test negative can generally be downgraded to follow cancer screening
      guidelines for the general population, barring additional familial or personal risk factors
      for developing cancer. Though crucial for stratifying and managing risks for relatives,
      familial testing, otherwise known as cascade testing, is not always successfully implemented
      within and across families. On a clinical basis the proband, also known as the index mutation
      carrier, is generally encouraged to share results with family members in order to promote
      their engagement in genetic counseling and testing. Despite the provision of results and a
      tailored letter for family members, hereditary cancer programs routinely face challenges with
      respect to communication of results within families and uptake of testing by relatives.
      Research on family communication and cascade testing substantiates this experience as
      previous studies have demonstrated suboptimal uptake of cascade testing in families, despite
      its importance for defining and managing cancer risk (Barsevicket al,2008; Daly et al, 2016).
      The purpose of our research study is to determine whether the provision of multiple
      communication tools and platforms will improve communication between probands and at-risk
      relatives, and if so, which communication method is the most useful to probands in
      communicating their results and to relatives in coming to a decision regarding genetic
      counseling and testing. Through the study, probands will be provided with a three-part
      toolkit that includes a letter, website, and a chatbot known as "GIA" (for"Genetic
      Information Assistant"). Though the challenges/barriers of cascade testing are
      well-documented, there are scant reports of follow-up with relatives. Our study allows direct
      contact with family members (by way of proband consent) to assess motivations and barriers to
      genetic testing by family members.
    
  