
    
      Problem statements:

      What is the difference in cost efficiency between a healthcare process with a physical
      therapist as primary assessor and a physician as primary assessor for patients with suspected
      KOA?

      Which effect does a clinical pathway with a physical therapist as primary assessor for
      patients with suspected knee osteoarthritis have on quality adjusted life years compared with
      a physician as primary assessor?

      What are the differences in costs between the two healthcare processes initiated by either a
      physiotherapist or a physician set against the differences in effects?

      Patient recruitment:

      Some data has already been collected for another clinical trial (ID: NCT03715764), which will
      be used in this study too. The patient recruitment is finished, while data collection
      regarding cost variables has not started yet.

      Patients were recruited from primary care centers and rehabilitation centers in southwestern
      Sweden.

      Screening procedure:

      Nurses and administration personnel at the recruitment units got information about the study
      and the screening protocol from the data collector and project leader. Each recruiting unit
      had a contact person that were responsible for the protocols and to contact the data
      collector when an eligible patient was found. It was regular contact between the project
      leader and the contact persons at the recruiting units. All screening protocols were sent to
      the data collector. All participants got orally and written information about the study from
      the data collector, and patients provided written informed consent.

      Randomization:

      A computer-generated list of random numbers was used, where participants were randomly
      assigned to being assessed, diagnosed and treated either by a physiotherapist or a physician
      first. The project coordinator managed the sequence generation, allocation concealment,
      enrolment and assignments of participants and kept the concealed randomization scheme and
      sequentially numbered, sealed envelopes in a locked cupboard (in the same building where the
      enrolment will be), only available for the project coordinator. The project coordinator
      revealed the allocation to the participant shortly after the baseline measurement and to the
      health care providers. Data collector, data analyst and statistician were blinded of
      allocation until completion of data collection for the primary outcome measures at the 12
      months follow up for the last recruited patient. Group allocation was revealed when analysing
      data for the other clinical trial (ID: NCT03715764).

      The project coordinator was not involved in the screening procedure nor the data collection,
      and was included among the healthcare providers in the study. The blinded data collector and
      analyst, whom is a physical therapist, were not involved in assessing, diagnosing and
      treating patients with knee osteoarthritis while the first study (ID: NCT03715764) was
      conducted.

      Data collection:

      Demographic data and measurements of HrQoL has already been collected for another clinical
      trial (ID: NCT03715764). These data will also be used for the cost-efficiency analysis.
      Demographic data were collected at baseline. Measurements of HrQoL were measured with EuroQol
      5 dimensions 3 levels (EQ5D-3L) and collected at baseline (before randomization), 3- , 6- and
      12 months follow ups.

      New data collection will be made for cost variables. Data regarding costs for the healthcare
      processes will be extracted from patient journals. The costs for visits to physical
      therapist, physician or other healthcare provider will be collected from the healthcare
      organization. The drug prices will be collected from the Swedish Association of Local
      Authorities and Regions for the time period the drugs were prescribed. Production loss due to
      sick-leave and health care visits will be valued according to mean gross salary (including
      taxes and social fees).

      Calculating total costs (number of contacts per patient * costs ) for:

        -  Physiotherapy contacts in primary care

        -  Physician contacts in primary care

        -  Referral to x-ray

        -  Referrals to other healthcare givers

        -  Drug prescription

        -  Sick-leave days

      Data management:

      All data will be coded and managed according to the General Data Protection Regulation. All
      data will be confidential and only authorized will have access to the patient registry. No
      individual information can be identified since the results will be presented at group level.
      Data will be saved for at least 10 years to enable audit.

      Sample size:

      A sample size of 50 patients per group will be necessary to detect a minimal clinical
      improvement of 0.121(SD 0.2) on the EQ5D-3L-index, given an anticipated dropout rate of 14%.
      The sample size calculation was calculated with a two-sided 5% significance level and a power
      of 80%.

      Statistical analysis plan:

      Data will be analyzed descriptively and presented as numbers and percent, mean and standard
      deviation or median and 25th to 75th percentiles. Statistical analysis will be made in SPSS
      Windows and the analysis will be applied with intention-to-treat (ITT).

      The economic evaluation will be developed together with a health economist. The method will
      be a cost-effectiveness analysis alongside the clinical trial comparing costs and effects for
      the two alternatives based on collected data from the trial. The EQ5D-3L measurements will be
      used for analyzing quality adjusted life years. The result will be presented as an
      incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) and a non-parametric bootstrapping will be
      conducted to demonstrate the uncertainties surrounding the ICER.
    
  