
    
      Up to 100 subjects are studied. All subjects are adults having no other severe chronic
      diseases. The subjects belong to four different groups:

        1. 30 18-50 year olds who start per oral immunotherapy treatment in severe egg allergy.

        2. 30 18-50 year olds who start per oral immunotherapy treatment in severe milk allergy.

        3. 30 18-50 year olds who start per oral immunotherapy treatment in severe nut allergy.

        4. 10 milk allergic 18-50 year olds that have been treated as pilot patients with milk
           hyposensitisation treatment.

      The diagnosis of milk or egg allergy is verified with positive history, skin prick test, egg,
      milk and nut allergen specific IgE antibodies. In addition, food allergy is verified with an
      allergen specific challenge test.

      Atopic subjects may have simultaneously other allergies. Intermittent mild asthma, and mild
      and moderate persistent asthma are tolerated and treatment with inhaled steroids and other
      asthma medication is allowed. Atopic subjects may have additional skin symptoms. Quality of
      life, anxiety and patient history data is collected by questionnaires. All patients undergo a
      spirometry with a bronchodilatation test, fractional exhaled nitric oxide and a methacholine
      challenge before and a year after oral immunotherapy. Those with test results diagnostic for
      asthma are treated with asthma medication before hyposensitisation treatment is started.

      Exclusion criteria: adults with instable cerebrovascular or heart disease, active autoimmune
      disease or cancer, or use of betablocker agents. In addition, poorly controlled asthma or
      FEV1 < 70% are not tolerated.

      In oral immunotherapy, increasing doses are given first observed, and then daily at home. If
      the subject does not tolerate a given dose and symptoms are mild, then that dose or the
      previously tolerated one is repeated, and the protocol proceeds as outlined. If the subject
      experiences significant symptoms, then the protocol is stopped, and the highest tolerated
      dose is used as the starting daily one.
    
  