
    
      The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of nutritional supplement co-enzyme Q10
      (CoQ10) on methylphenidate-treated ADHD children in a randomized, double-blinded,
      placebo-controlled prospective study. All eligible patients will undergo randomization and
      divided into 2 groups: a CoQ10-enriched snack and a placebo snack group. According to power
      calculation, total of 60 subjects are expected to participate in the study. After the
      screening of eligibility (up to 14 days), the study is divided into three phases:
      pre-treatment (first assessment) phase (up to 14 days), treatment phase 8 weeks of treatment,
      and post-treatment phase. Screening: each participant will undergo screening for protocol
      eligibility within 14 days (two weeks) of recruitment. Subjects who meet all the inclusion
      criteria and signed an approved informed consent (both parents and the child) will be
      enrolled.

      Pre-treatment period (1-st phase): for the purpose of the first assessment, participants'
      parents will receive Conner's questionnaire for filling by parents and teachers. The first
      nutritional assessment will be undertaken using 24-h recall assessment.

      Treatment period (2-st phase): randomization and treatment. After randomization to 2 groups,
      CoQ10 and placebo groups, the participants' parents will receive either CoQ10-enriched or
      placebo snack for 8 weeks (2 months) period. The participants and their parents will be
      instructed to consume the snack daily. During the study the subjects will manage with their
      methylphenidate treatment as indicated by their neurologist.

      Post-treatment assessment (3-rd phase): At the end of the study period, an additional
      assessment identical to this of the pre-treatment will be taken to evaluate subjects'
      response to the snacks.

      Statistical analysis (4-th phase): At the end of the study, statistical analysis will be
      undertaken. Statistical difference between two groups in their pre-treatment and
      post-treatment behavioral and nutritional response will serve as an evidence for the efficacy
      of the supplement being used. All data will be documented in patient charts and individual
      computerized case report form .

      The duration of the study is expected to be 2 years.
    
  