
    
      Participants and Methods:

      This is a single-center; open-label randomized controlled trial will be performed at a
      Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) in tertiary care hospital . On admission, patients will
      be evaluated through history, clinical examination, and investigation.Basic investigations
      will include complete blood count, serum electrolytes, blood gas analysis, serum creatinine
      and liver function tests. The severity of the clinical condition upon admission will be
      determined by calculation of pediatric Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (pSOFA) score and
      Pediatric Risk of Mortality (PRISM) at the end of the first 24 hours. Patients will be
      randomized to receive either early or late parenteral nutrition. Early parenteral nutrition
      will be given in the 1st 24 hours of admission while late parenteral nutrition will be
      initiated on 7th day of admission. Randomization will be performed by using computer
      generated random numbers.The patients and the treating physicians will be not blinded to the
      type of parenteral fluids given. For children with moderate/severe under-nutrition, early
      parenteral nutrition will start on the 1st day while late parenteral nutrition will on 4th
      day of admission. This difference in timing of feeding is based on the fact that malnourished
      children have limited energy reserves and insufficient nutrition for 6 days might be too long
      a period compared with the case of well-nourished children. Parenteral nutrition consists of
      glucose, protein, electrolytes (sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus), trace
      elements, water soluble vitamins, and amino acid solutions.Lipid emulsions will be given .
      The nutritional status of patients will be carefully assessed. The admission weight and
      length/height will be recorded and a patient will be deemed to have under-nutrition if weight
      for length z-score is ≤ -2 SD. For children > 36 months, weight/age z-score ≤ -2 SD is used ,
      instead, to define under-nutrition because measuring the height is difficult for critically
      ill children.
    
  