
    
      The Phase 1 segment of the study was designed to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD)
      of single-agent pomalidomide, which was to be determined in the first cycle of treatment.
      Following completion of the first cycle, participants were allowed to continue the study at
      their assigned dose of pomalidomide.

      Participants who developed progressive disease (PD) at any time, or who had not achieved at
      least a 25% reduction of serum myeloma (M)-protein levels (if measurable) and a 50% reduction
      of urine M-protein (if measurable) compared with baseline after completion of 4 cycles of
      pomalidomide, had the option to receive oral dexamethasone 40 mg on days 1, 8, 15, and 22 of
      each 28-day treatment cycle in addition to their current dose of pomalidomide. Participants
      with PD who chose not to add dexamethasone to pomalidomide therapy were to be discontinued
      from the study. Participants who chose to add dexamethasone were allowed to continue study
      treatment until PD developed again, unacceptable toxicity or participant withdrew consent, at
      which time they were to be discontinued.

      Based on results from the phase 1 portion, the Data Monitoring Committee confirmed 4 mg/day
      as MTD of pomalidomide. Therefore, the recommended starting dose of pomalidomide for Phase 2
      was 4 mg/day on Days 1-21 of each 28-day cycle. In the combination treatment arm, the
      starting dose of dexamethasone was 40 mg once per day. For subjects who were > 75 years of
      age, the starting dose of dexamethasone was 20 mg once per day. To prevent blood clots, all
      participants were to be given aspirin 81-100 mg daily (commercial supply) unless
      contraindicated. If contraindicated, another form of anti-thrombotic therapy was provided.

      Participants in the Phase II combination treatment arm could continue study treatment until
      PD developed, at which time they were to be discontinued. Participants in the single agent
      pomalidomide treatment arm who developed PD, confirmed by the IRAC, at any time had the
      option to receive oral dexamethasone in addition to their current dose of pomalidomide at the
      starting dose described above. Participants with PD who chose not to add dexamethasone to
      pomalidomide therapy were discontinued from study treatment. Participants who chose to add
      dexamethasone to pomalidomide therapy could continue study treatment until PD developed
      again, unacceptable toxicity or participant withdrew consent, at which point they were
      discontinued.

      Upon discontinuation from study treatment for PD or any other reason, participants were to be
      assessed two times per year, up to five years, for survival, second primary malignancy and
      subsequent anti-myeloma therapies.

      Two analyses were planned during the course of the Phase 2 segment: one interim analysis (at
      50% information of progression-free survival (PFS) events) and one final analysis. The Data
      Monitoring Commmittee recommended that Celgene personnel be unblinded based on the strength
      of the data. Subsequently, Celgene decided to file an application based on more current study
      data. The product was approved by the FDA in February 2013.

      Since no further analyses are required per protocol nor to support the marketing application,
      the study was amended to remove undue burden from patients who remain on active treatment by
      ending the treatment segments of this study and transferring all active patients tothe
      Long-term Follow-up Phase. These patients who continue to be treated with pomalidomide will
      be provided Pomalyst through the Celgene Patient Support Program (Pomalyst REMSTM) until
      disease progression, unacceptable toxicity, the investigator decides to change therapy or
      patient decision. Investigators will treat their patients according to the local standard of
      care and follow the assessments required for patients in the Long-term Follow-up Phase. These
      assessments include subsequent myeloma therapies, second primary malignancies and survival.

      The study continues. A final analysis will be performed when the study is completed and
      results reported as available.
    
  