
    
      Background: Dental caries has decreased in recent years, but is still the main oral health
      problem in developed and undeveloped industrialized countries. The purpose of this study is
      to evaluate clinical performance of resin-based composite Class I and II restorations in
      association with Biosilicate.

      Methods: Eighty patients with carious lesions will be receive restorations in premolars and
      molars, which will be randomly allocated in four experimental groups: G1 (Biosilicate,
      AdperSingle Bond 2 and IPS Empress Direct composite), G2 (Adper Single Bond 2 and IPS Empress
      Direct composite), G3 (Biosilicate, AdheSe and IPS Empress Direct composite) e G4 (AdheSE and
      IPS Empress Direct composite) To participate in the clinical trial, qualified subjects must
      meet for inclusion and exclusion criteria. Sixty-four (64) selected volunteers will be fully
      informed on the nature of the study and after had signed a Term of Acceptance defined by the
      Ethics Committee (FORP - USP), they will be invited to participate.

      Carious teeth will be cleaned with a pumice-water slurry and rubber cup to remove salivary
      pellicle and any bacterial plaque. As much as possible, local anesthesia will be. After
      caries removal (high and low-speed handpieces under abundant water irrigation), patients will
      be allocated randomly in the four experimental groups cited above. Final contouring and
      polishing of the restorations will be performed at the same appointment, using a fine-grit
      diamond bur (KG Sorensen), silicon carbide polisher (Viking Kit, KG Sorensen), silicone
      rubber tips (Viking Kit, KG Sorensen) flexible discs (Sof-Lex, 3M ESPE), and polishing pastes
      (Diamond Excel, FGM).

      Two trained and calibrated evaluators, fully blinded to the restorative techniques used, will
      be evaluating the restorations at baseline (one week after placement of restorations), after
      06, 12 and 18 months using FDI criteria. All restorations will be photographed at every
      evaluation point. Esthetic, Functional and Biological proprieties will be used as key
      parameters determining the overall clinical success. Data will be analyzed.
    
  