
    
      Excess sodium intake is associated with high blood pressure which is a leading risk for
      cardiovascular disease (CVD) in India. Drug therapies are highly effective interventions for
      blood pressure lowering and are recommended by local guidelines to reduce the risks of
      serious cardiovascular complications. Behavioural approaches to blood pressure control based
      upon sodium reduction are also recommended but there are no interventions proven effective
      and sustainable in India.

      Mean sodium intake in India is about 5g/day (equivalent to about 12.5g salt) which is more
      than double World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations. Reduced sodium, added potassium
      salt substitutes have favourable effects on blood pressure in settings where discretionary
      salt use is high, but have not been tested in India. Salt substitution is of particular
      interest because it has great potential for scaling in under-served and resource poor
      settings.

      This study will investigate the effects of salt substitution on blood pressure in rural areas
      where hypertension is a highly prevalent disease problem and additional, scalable and
      affordable blood pressure lowering interventions are required. Accordingly, the primary
      objective is to assess the effects of a reduced sodium, added potassium salt substitute
      compared to usual salt on systolic blood pressure (SBP) at 3-months follow-up. The secondary
      objectives are to determine effects on diastolic blood pressure (DBP), urinary sodium and
      potassium levels and to determine acceptability of the salt substitute among patients with
      hypertension.

      The study will be a double-blinded, randomized-controlled trial done in the villages of the
      Hyderabad district amongst adult volunteers with a self-reported history of hypertension. The
      main exclusion criteria will be known serous kidney disease or use of potassium containing
      medications by the individual or others living in the household. Written informed consent
      will be obtained from potential participants followed by baseline data collection. Eligible
      individuals will then be assigned at random to receive double-blind salt or salt substitute
      which will be used to replace all dietary salt required for cooking and seasoning in the
      household over the next 3-months. Follow-up will be at one and three months after
      randomisation for assessment of blood pressure and acceptability of the intervention, with
      urinary electrolytes measured at baseline and 3-months.

      The sample size will be 440 participants randomized in a 1:1 ratio to intervention or control
      which will provide more than 80% power (P=0.05) to detect a 5 mmHg or greater difference in
      SBP between randomized groups. This estimate assumes a mean of 140mmHg and a standard
      deviation of 20mmHg for SBP at baseline. We will seek to recruit comparable numbers of men
      and women. Analyses will be done using the principle of intention-to-treat and a repeated
      measures analysis of variance that incorporates baseline, 1-month and 3-month measures of SBP
      to maximize the efficiency of the analysis.
    
  