
    
      Preterm children present more cognitive impairments, psychological and behavioral problems,
      motor and coordination impairments than their term counterparts. These impairments may cause
      the difficulties of learning and adaptation at the school age when facing multiple and
      complicate environmental stimulations in preterm children. Accumulating data on early
      intervention for preterm infants in Eastern and Western countries have demonstrated short- to
      medium-term benefits on enhancing child neurodevelopment outcomes. However, rare studies have
      examined the effectiveness of early intervention for preterm infants and its underlying
      neural mechanism. To meet the contemporary concept of family centered care, we have developed
      a family-centered intervention program (FCIP) for preterm infants with very low birth weight
      (VLBW, birth weight <1,500 g) in Taiwan and have found short-term developmental benefit with
      respect to a usual care program (UCP) via a multi-centered, randomized controlled trial.
      Therefore, this three-year project is aimed to continuously follow-up the effectiveness of
      FCIP on child and parent outcomes in VLBW preterm infants at school age. A total of 275 VLBW
      preterm children (269 participants and 6 pilots) who had participated in our previous
      randomized controlled study and 45 term children will be assessed growth, health,
      neurobehavioral functions (cognition, language, motor and behaviors), electroencephalography
      and event-related potentials (in the resting state, cognitive inhibitory control and working
      memory procedures) and cognition/motor dual tasks at 7 years of age. Parents will be assessed
      for stress using the Parenting Stress Index/Long Form and quality of life with the World
      Health Organization Quality of Life- Brief Taiwan Version. The effect of early intervention
      for preterm children from the neonatal period to school age will provide important
      information to help medical professionals and public policy makers design effective
      intervention for Taiwanese preterm children. The continuous neurophysiological and
      neurobehavioral data are crucial for understanding the neurophysiological mechanisms
      underlying neurobehavioral changes following intervention.
    
  