
    
      Routine virologic and immunologic tests to monitor HIV-1 in infected individuals on highly
      active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) include CD4 T-cell enumeration, HIV-1 plasma viral
      load, and HIV-1 genotypic resistance testing at baseline for treatment-naive patients and
      following virologic failure during HAART.

      The CD4 T-cell count is a measurement of the number of T helper lymphocytes and, in
      conjunction with the CD4/cluster of differentiation 8 (CD8) ratio, are surrogate markers to
      evaluate the status of the immune system and used to monitor the progression and define
      stages of HIV disease in infected subjects either on or off treatment. An increasing or high
      CD4 count and CD4/CD8 ratio between 1 and 4 suggests control of virus replication as a result
      of HAART (or from inherent immune activity in untreated subjects) while a decreasing or low
      CD4 count and a CD4/CD8 ratio <1 suggests HAART failure and/or a deteriorating immune system.

      HIV-1 plasma viral load measures the number of HIV-1 RNA copies derived from virus particles
      in plasma. A detectable plasma viral load indicates HIV-1 replication while an undetectable
      plasma viral load suggests control of HIV-1 replication. Nevertheless, with the lower limit
      of detection of 50 copies HIV-1 RNA/mL for commercial assays, lower levels of plasma virus
      can remain undetected by these assays but detectable in approximately 70% patients on HAART
      using research assays with a cutoff of <50 copies HIV-1 RNA/ml. Such research based plasma
      viral load assays are never used for routine monitoring in the clinical care of infected
      subjects.

      While CD4 counts and HIV-1 plasma viral load are inextricably related in the context of HIV-1
      disease and currently the approved tests to determine HIV-1 response to HAART these assay
      have significant shortcoming for the effective treatment of HIV as defined below:

        -  CD4 counts and immune dysfunction. Increasing or high CD4 counts or normal CD4/CD8
           ratios as a result of HAART may not necessarily represent an uncompromised immune system
           but can represent a state of immune dysfunction as a result of immune activation from
           continued HIV replication.

        -  HIV Cellular reservoirs: Low levels of cell associated HIV replication undetected in
           plasma by standard plasma viral load assay. Cell associated HIV replication is
           determined by HIV polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from extracted and purified total cell
           associated RNA or in-situ hybridization to cell associated HIV-1 RNA in intact cells,
           and detected in approximately 62% to 80% patients on HAART with a plasma viral load of
           <50 copies HIV-1 RNA/mL. Targeted treatment, cell associated HIV drug efficacy, cell
           associated HIV resistance and identification of the cellular source of HIV can be
           determined by HIV cell reservoirs assays and not by plasma viral load.

        -  Functional immune response differences based on cell associated HIV-1 transcriptional
           activity and not undetectable plasma viral load. Immune responses in patients on HAART
           with chronic, low level HIV replication in circulating T lymphocytes and undetectable
           plasma viral load include significant in-vitro proliferation to HIV-1 p24 antigen, no
           significant response to recall antigen tetanus toxoid and higher responses to pathogen
           antigens compared to patients on HAART with undetectable HIV replication in memory T
           lymphocytes and undetectable plasma viral load.

        -  Adherence of plasma derived HIV-1 virions to erythrocytes. Erythrocytes sequester plasma
           associated HIV-1 virions in whole blood from some patients on HAART. While these
           patients have undetectable plasma viral load, the corresponding whole blood has viral
           load values ranging from 234 to 82,878 copies HIV-1 RNA/mL whole blood. These patients
           with detectable whole blood viral load but with undetectable plasma viral load display
           clinically advanced HIV infection.

        -  CD4 counts and inexplicable response to HAART. A decrease in CD4 counts with an
           undetectable plasma viral load may be explained by the sequestering of HIV plasma virus
           to erythrocytes or low levels of cell associated HIV replication.

        -  Defective/non-infectious virions: HIV-1 plasma viral load assays cannot be used to
           differentiate between infectious and non-infectious or defective virus particles as <0.2
           % circulating HIV-1 virions (or from 1:477 to 1: 117,803) are infectious. Consequently,
           those genotypic and phenotypic drug resistance assays, and HIV-1 tropism assays that
           utilize HIV-1 RNA derived from plasma virus HIV-1 RNA will generate results from mostly
           non-infectious or defective virus. Difference in nucleic acid sequences between
           infectious and non-infectious or defective virus has not been appropriately investigated
           in relation to diagnostic and monitoring tests. The implications of utilizing viral
           sequences from predominantly non-infectious or defective viral particles opposed to
           infectious virus particles for drug resistance and tropism tests in the clinical care of
           HIV infected patients is unknown.

      Consequently, increasing evidence demonstrates that CD4 counts and plasma viral load cannot
      be used to fully interpret the response of HIV to HAART. Moreover, mounting data proves that
      continued HIV-1 replication in the absence of detectable plasma viral load generates HIV and
      viral antigen resulting in immune activation thereby enabling HIV pathogenesis as
      demonstrated from increased levels of T cell turnover and proliferation, apoptosis of
      uninfected T cells as well as polyclonal B cell, natural killer (NK) cell and monocyte
      activation. Various cell based markers have been associated with HIV pathogenesis including
      immune activation markers Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA)-Cell Surface Receptor (DR) (HLA-DR),
      cluster of differentiation 38 (CD38), cluster of differentiation 69 (CD69), cluster of
      differentiation 71 (CD71), senescence marker cluster of differentiation 57 (CD57),
      proliferation marker Ki67 and apoptosis marker cluster of differentiation 95 (CD95) (FasR).
      Altogether these markers of HIV pathogenesis enable inflammatory responses, reseeding
      reservoirs, HIV-1 evolution and drug resistance, and non-opportunistic diseases with a
      gradual deterioration of the immune system.

      Immune function tests evaluate the functionality of a component of the immune system. They
      are generally in-vitro based assays and are designed to measure an outcome following exposure
      of lymphocytes to specific antigens or mitogens. The outcome may be the measurement of an
      immune stimulation marker such as secretion of gamma interferon, incorporation of tritiated
      thymidine into cellular genomic DNA as a result of a lymphoproliferative cell response to
      recall antigen and/or mitogen or, in the case of the in-vivo based Tuberculin Skin Test, the
      size of skin induration at the site of tuberculin purified protein derivative administration.

      Cellestis Limited - A Qiagen Company, has recently developed the QuantiFERON® Monitor (QFM or
      CST007) test based on the patented QuantiFERON® Technology to provide a measure of the
      cell-mediated immune function. It is an in vitro diagnostic test that uses a combination of
      stimulants to specifically stimulate different immune cells in the whole blood and measures
      the interferon-gamma released in the plasma by ELISA (Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay).
      Therefore, the aims of this study will address the utility of QFM in the HIV
      immunocompromised setting and as cell associated markers HIV pathogenesis influence immune
      function the HIV Viral Reservoir assay blood test will be included to better understand the
      level of immune function within and between cohorts.

      How long will it take? One visit for about 1 hour with Dr. Gatpolintan and his Clinical Study
      Coordinator to answer questions, then about 10 minutes for a blood draw (nine blocks from Dr.
      Gatpolintan' office).

      Study outcome measures (Correlation between QFM and CD4 counts and CD4/CD8 ratios) will be
      assessed, including data presentation, within an average period of 1 year after study subject
      enrollment.
    
  