
    
      All interventions regarding the placement and management of ESP and paravertebral blocks in
      this study are consistent with existing standard of care practices at UPMC and utilize
      protocols that are already in use. In addition, by nature of being included in a research
      study, patients are likely to receive closer monitoring for side-effects.

      Screening and enrollment: After approval by the institutional review board, all (American
      Society of Anesthesiology) ASA I-IV patients aged 18-85 years, weighing between 50 and 120 kg
      with unilateral rib fractures will be screened for enrollment. Sixty patients will be
      enrolled in this randomized prospective study with equal numbers in each arm of the trial.
      This study design is unblinded as we cannot blind patients nor observers as to the type of
      block performed (slightly different location). This is an accepted limitation of the study.
      No advertising will be used and no monetary compensation will be offered. The nature of the
      study, planned interventions, risks, benefits, and alternatives will be discussed in detail
      with the patients at the time of enrollment and prior to the patients' signing of a written
      consent form.

      Randomization: Patients will be enrolled into one of the study groups on the day of
      consultation in an alternating fashion. The study groups are defined as: Group I: Erector
      Spinae Plane Block (ESP) 30 patients Group II: Paravertebral Block (PVB) 30 patients.

      Day of Block: After written informed consent is confirmed, a research assistant will
      introduce the scoring system used for pain assessment (VAS), and demonstrate proper use of
      the incentive spirometer.

      All nerve blocks will be performed by an experienced member of UPMC's pain management
      service. Both nerve blocks can take between 10-60 minutes to perform. They will either occur
      in the ICU or on a monitored medicine floor.

      Paravertebral nerve block catheter placement and activation (PVB group only): Paravertebral
      catheters will be placed according to UPMC standard of care practices as outlined below:
      After an intravenous catheter has been established and standard monitors and oxygen applied,
      the patient will be placed in the sitting position. The patient will be administered
      appropriate sedation based on the discretion of the provider if needed to safely perform the
      procedure.

      Paravertebral technique: With the patient in a sitting position, the point of needle entry
      will be marked on the skin corresponding to paravertebral catheter placement. The thoracic
      spine level will be at the anatomic level corresponding to the ribs fractured. The needle
      entry sites will be 2.5 cm lateral to the midpoint of the spinous process of the
      corresponding thoracic vertebrae. The area will be prepped and draped in a sterile fashion,
      and 1% lidocaine infiltrated subcutaneously at each point of anticipated needle entry. For
      each of the catheter placement, a sterile gauge Tuohy needle will be introduced with
      ultrasound guidance towards the paravertebral space. After final needle placement, a hanging
      drop technique will be used to assess for interpleural placement while the patient inhales
      and exhales deeply. Next 5 mL of ropivicaine 0.5% will be injected incrementally through each
      needle after negative aspiration under ultrasound visualization, followed by insertion of the
      nerve block catheter to a depth 5 cm beyond the tip of the needle. An additional 20 mL of
      ropivicaine 0.5% will then be injected in 5 mL increments with negative aspiration in
      between, through each catheter yielding a total activation dose of 25 ml of ropivicaine 0.5%
      via each catheter. The catheters will be secured with Steri-strips and a transparent
      occlusive dressing. Vital signs will be monitored at regular intervals until the procedure is
      complete.

      Erector spinae catheter placement and activation (ESP group only): An erector spinae plane
      catheter will be placed according UPMC standard of care practices as outlined below: After an
      intravenous infusion has been established and standard monitors and oxygen applied, the
      patient will be placed in the sitting position. The patient will be administered appropriate
      sedation based on the discretion of the provider if needed to safely perform the procedure.

      ESP technique: With the patient in a sitting position, the point of needle entry will be
      marked on the skin corresponding to the appropriate vertebral level relative to the rib
      fractures. The area will be prepared and draped in a sterile fashion, and 1% lidocaine
      infiltrated subcutaneously at the point of anticipated needle entry. A sterile Tuohy needle
      will be introduced and advanced towards the corresponding transverse process. Hydrodissection
      will ensure that the proper plane is located. Once the erector spinae musculature is
      separated from the rib, 25ml of ropivicaine 0.5% will be introduced into the plane under
      ultrasound guidance. A catheter will be placed to a depth 5 cm beyond the tip of the needle.
      The catheter will be secured with Steri-strips and a transparent occlusive dressing. Vital
      signs will be monitored at regular intervals until the procedure is completed.

      Paravertebral infusions of Bupivicaine 0.0625% will be titrated to 12 ml/hr maximum for the
      patients in the paravertebral catheter group (Group PVB). Patients in the ESP group (ESP)
      will start a continuous infusion of Bupivicaine 0.0625% and titrate to 12 mL/hr maximum as
      needed for pain. The patients in both groups will also be given access to acetaminophen 1000
      mg every 6 hours IV or PO if there is no contraindication. Other adjuncts such as gabapentin,
      celebrex, ketamine, and opioid analgesics may be adjusted by the physicians involved based on
      the patients clinical condition. A PCA may be required for opioid pain medication
      administration initially, and will be continued until the patient is able to tolerate oral
      pain medication. Additional pain relief is available via nurse-administered 3 mL boluses of
      0.0625% bupivacaine via the catheter pumps.

      Post nerve block anesthesia protocol: Once on the floors, additional pain relief is available
      via nurse-administered 3 mL boluses of Bupivicaine via the catheter pumps given no more than
      hourly. All patients will be assessed daily by members of the acute interventional
      perioperative pain service. The infusion rates via the paravertebral and ESP catheters may be
      adjusted at the discretion of the pain service up to a rate of 12 mL/hr on each side
      (standard infusion rate used at UPMC-Presbyterian). All paravertebral ESP catheters will be
      stopped and removed as tolerated by the patient or post-procedure day #5, whichever occurs
      first. Additional pain medication will be available to all patients per standard of care.

      ICU (Intensive Care Unit): Patients will be admitted to an intensive care unit at the
      discretion of the emergency department. Patients who are intubated and sedated, and who are
      unable to participate medical decision making will not be accepted for this study. If a
      patient fits the inclusion criteria and is in the ICU, the nerve block will be placed and
      managed in the ICU as above for all other situations.

      Data will be collected daily from the patients until the nerve block is removed or 5 days
      post-procedure, whichever comes first.

      Discharge: The readiness for discharge will be determined by the primary team: This decision
      will likely include (1) return of respiratory function, (2) hemodynamic stability, (3)
      normothermia, (4) no clinical evidence of DVT/PE (Deep Vein Thrombosis/Pulmonary Embolism)
      which is untreated, (5) pain controlled by oral agents. In addition, actual length of
      hospital stay will be recorded. Nerve block will be performed and the catheters will be
      removed according to the ASRA (American Society of Regional Anesthesia and Pain Medicine)
      guidelines for regional anesthesia catheter placement and removal available on the ASRA
      website.
    
  