
    
      Skin wounds sometimes are difficult to heal by primary closure and often require tissue
      substitution by autologous grafting requiring harvesting of donor skin [1, 2]. The latter may
      cause morbidities such as risk of infection, discoloration, pain, and scarring of both donor
      and recipient areas [3].

      Full-thickness skin grafts (FTSG) are created when the entire dermis and epidermis are
      harvested. These grafts are typically used for acute full-thickness wounds where the wound
      can sustain and nourish the graft and improved cosmesis is important [4]. Split-thickness
      skin grafting (STSG) has been used to close large skin wounds, [5] and it involves the
      harvesting of the epidermis and upper dermis from a donor site. It is generally the preferred
      grafting method for restoring the structural integrity of chronic wounds, as the wound bed
      may not have the ability to support a FTSG [4]. Nevertheless, because deep dermal structures
      such sweat glands and hair follicles are not harvested, the STSG is functionally abnormal.
      Before the grafting process takes place, STSGs are commonly meshed and enlarged, increasing
      the coverage area and allowing fluid drainage. However, the meshing process produces a
      "fish-net" appearance of the grafted skin [1]. Other limitations include healing of the donor
      site, which often is delayed and leaves unappealing pigmentary changes and, at times, scar
      formation [4].

      Currently, engineered "off the shelf" grafts such as cadaveric skin, xenografts, and
      artificial skin substitutes are being used in the management of chronic, difficult to heal
      wounds. Skin substitutes work by providing cells, growth factors, and other key elements that
      promote healing while preventing extracellular matrix degradation [6]. However, these only
      offer transient wound coverage, and require secondary healing of the wound itself. Thus,
      autologous skin grafting continues to be necessary. Scar formation at the donor and grafted
      site remain most troublesome morbidities in autologous skin grafting. Scar tissue is stiff,
      dysfunctional, often painful, and tends to contract over time, producing skin irregularities
      [7].

      In contrast, skin remodeling is a process that substitutes missing tissue while preserving
      tissue architecture. While scarring is triggered by large-scale tissue damage, remodeling is
      stimulated by microscopic tissue damage [8]. This principle became clear when fractional
      photothermolysis (FP) was developed that is currently used for photoaged skin treatment and
      wound scars [8, 9]. In FP, laser microbeams are used to produce microscopic thermal injury
      per cm2 of skin surface, which causes very thin columns of tissue damage or ablation. It has
      been found that columns less than 500 µm in diameter heal promptly without scarring [1, 10].
      FP involves full-thickness (i.e. complete epidermis and dermis) tissue injury in which the
      epidermis closes within 1 day, and the dermal damage is fixed in around 2 weeks, followed by
      tissue remodeling without scarring [9].

      Because the experience with FP showed that millions of small, full-thickness columns of skin
      tissue can be removed without scarring, it was hypothesized that full-thickness microscopic
      skin tissue columns (MSTCs) could be harvested from healthy skin with insignificant donor
      site-morbidity and that these MSTCs could function as a graft to accelerate wound healing.

      To explore this, a prototype device was developed that can harvest hundreds of full-thickness
      columns of skin tissue (500 micrometer diameter) using single-needle, fluid-assisted
      harvesting technology. The harvested MSTCs can subsequently be placed directly onto a wound
      to aid in healing.

      With conventional full thickness grafts and split thickness grafts, the donor area requires
      sometimes a period of immobility, requiring attentive wound care and pain management [11].
      The ART may provide a more effective method of harvesting skin with minimal or no pain,
      healing rapidly with little scarring [1]. This can take place in an outpatient setting, with
      the use of only local anesthesia.
    
  