
    
      Small Cell Lung cancer (SCLC) is a highly aggressive tumor that accounts for about 15 percent
      of all lung cancer cases. SCLC disease progresses rapidly, and about 2/3 of the patients have
      extensive stage (ES-SCLC) at the time of diagnosis, with extremely poor prognosis. However,
      the overall survival (OS) of ES-SCLC patients was not significantly prolonged, with platinum
      combined with etoposide chemotherapy as the standard treatment. In recent years, the
      emergence of Immune checkpoint inhibitor (ICI) has made the treatment of ES-SCLC appear at
      the dawn. In Impower133 study, Atezolizumab combined with chemotherapy significantly
      prolonged OS(median OS 12.3 months vs 10.3 months, HR=0.70, 95%CI 0.54-0.91, P = 0.007).
      Durvalumab combined with chemotherapy (CASPIAN study) is the first study in 20 years in which
      the total survival time of ES-SCLC treated by first-line therapy is 13 months, and there is
      no significant increase in adverse reactions compared with chemotherapy. Therefore, in 2019,
      NCCN also recommended Atezolizumab or Durvalumab+ EC regimens as a category 1 preferred
      option for first-line treatment of ES-SCLC.

      Although THE TMB of SCLC is higher in solid tumors, the objective remission rate (ORR) of
      SCLC using PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors is slightly lower than that of non-small cell lung
      cancer, and frequent drug resistance becomes the bottleneck of treatment. Some recent studies
      have shown that anti-angiogenesis drugs can also reverse the immunosuppressive state of tumor
      microenvironment while anti-tumor therapy, and improve the efficacy of ICI, so as to play a
      synergistic role. Therefore, anti-angiogenesis therapy combined with immunotherapy is
      expected to be a new strategy for the treatment of SCLC. Amlotinib is a multi-target
      anti-angiogenic drug, which has been approved for third-line treatment of SCLC with mild
      adverse reactions. Anlotinib combined with Durvalumab may have a synergistic antitumor
      effect, but no studies have been reported so far. Therefore, on the basis of the CASPIAN
      research study, we designed the Durvalumab + chemotherapy + ernesto, first-line treatment for
      extensive stage small cell lung cancer with single arm, open, multicenter, phase II clinical
      research, expected in domestic five cancer center, into the group of 120 ES - SCLC patients
      with untreated, research Durvalumab + chemotherapy + ROM for efficacy and safety of Ann, and
      further explore the curative effect of predictive biomarkers.
    
  