
    
      Pancreatic cancer is the fourth most common cause of cancer death in the US. Because patients
      with pancreatic cancer rarely presents with disease specific symptoms until late in the
      course of the disease, identifying and developing surveillance strategies for early detection
      of asymptomatic pancreatic cancer is critical. EUS and fine needle aspirate (FNA) are
      currently the most accurate non-operative methods of establishing the presence or absence of
      pancreatic cancer.

      The CT findings of pancreatic cancer include an attenuation difference between the pancreatic
      mass and the surrounding pancreatic parenchyma, pancreatic ductal dilation and cutoff,
      disruption of the normal fatty marbling of the pancreatic parenchyma, rounding of the
      inferior margin of the posterior head of the pancreas, atrophy of the proximal gland, and
      signs of locally advanced or distant disease. In a case-controlled retrospective review of
      pancreatic cancers missed at CT prior to clinical presentation at the Mayo Clinic, Gangi et
      al found that CT findings definite or suspicious for pancreatic cancer were present in 50% of
      scans obtained up to 18 months before the clinical diagnosis of pancreatic cancer. Pancreatic
      duct dilation and cutoff were early CT findings indicating tumor presence, and were
      associated with near-perfect and substantial interobserver agreement. Consequently, early
      pancreatic neoplasms likely result in at least partial occlusion of the duct, leading to
      subsequent ductal dilation.

      We hypothesize that increased production of the pancreatic juice distends the otherwise small
      caliber pancreatic duct, and accentuate the secondary sign of pancreatic duct obstruction by
      a small pancreatic mass. The investigators will be able to take advantage of this physiologic
      effect of secretin, by obtaining multi-planar scans with isotropic resolution using a
      64-channel CT system.

      Secretin is a safe agent that increases pancreatic exocrine secretion. Intravenously
      administered secretin increases the pancreatic juice secretion, and magnetic resonance or CT
      scan obtained after secretin has been shown to improve visualization of the pancreatic duct.

      Day 1: Patient will fast 4 hours prior to the study. 1 L of water is given by mouth as an
      oral contrast material 30 minutes prior to the study. After placing an angiocath in the
      antecubital fossa, the patient will be placed in a supine position on the CT scanner.

      Secretin test dose will be given intravenously (0.2mcg (0.1ml). If no reaction is noted after
      one minute, then Secretin will be given intravenously (0.2 mcg/kg IV slowly over one minute).
      If an allergic reaction is noted, the patient will not have a CT scan performed as part of
      this study protocol, and that participant will be ineligible to participant with this study.
      Secretin bolus will be terminated if Systolic BP < 90mm/Hg is not corrected with IV fluids.

      Pre-contrast scan will be obtained with collimation of 0.6 x 64 mm and a pitch of 1.2 through
      the abdomen under deep inspiration. Images will be reconstructed with 1 mm slice thickness
      and 2 mm increment.

      Five minutes after administration of the intravenous Secretin, iodinated contrasted Omnipaque
      350 administered at 3-5ml/sec. Post-iodine-contrast scanning will be obtained with
      collimation of 0.6 x 64 mm and a pitch of 1.2 through the abdomen with scan delays of 40- and
      70-seconds. Total of 150 ml of intravenous iodinated contrast will be administered at the
      rate of 3 - 5 ml/ sec.

      For the 3 month (Day 2) and 18 month (Day 3) follow-up CT imaging:

      Patient will fast four hours before scan. 1 liter of water given orally 30 minutes prior to
      scan. An IV will be placed, and participant will have iodinated contrast (Omnipaque 350)
      administered at 3-5ml/sec. Post iodine scanning will be done with collimation of 0.6 x64mm
      and a pitch of 1.2 through the abdomen with scan delays of 40 and 70 seconds.

      For the optional CT scan for those who have initial positive CT:

      This exam is to be done only before endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). Patient will fast four hours
      before scan. 1 liter of water given orally 30 minutes prior to scan. An IV will be placed,
      and participant will have iodinated contrast (Omnipaque 350) administered at 3-5ml/sec. Post
      iodine scanning will be done with collimation of 0.6 x64mm and a pitch of 1.2 through the
      abdomen with scan delays of 40 and 70 seconds.

      Subjects will be followed up for 3-5 years to determine if they develop pancreatic cancer.
    
  