
    
      Purpose: The investigators are studying how phoneme distortion is effected by jaw
      disproportions in dentofacial disharmony (DFD) patients and whether speech improves after
      orthognathic surgery and orthodontic treatment. Spectral moment and tongue gestural analysis
      are being used to mechanistically determine how jaw position effects speech. The
      investigators hypothesize that skeletal open and underbites contribute to phoneme distortion
      and tongue gestural changes that improve following surgical correction of jaw position. All
      DFD patients are already seeking treatment from orthodontics and oral surgery. The study will
      observe how their speech changes before and after treatment. There is no randomization or
      intervention involved.

      Aim 1: Qualify the prevalence of auditory and visual speech distortions in the DFD
      population. Aim 2: Quantitatively evaluate the first spectral moment (kHz) of four
      articulating consonant sounds (/t/, /k/, /s/, and /?/ pronounced "sh"). Quantify and analyze
      the changes in speech distortions for orthognathic patients pre and post-operation. Aim 3:
      Evaluate tongue posture during speech with patients from Aim 2 pre and post-operation.

      Participants:

      Participants: Patients of the UNC dentofacial disharmony (DFD) clinic who have undergone
      orthognathic surgery for correction of jaw disharmonies.

      Procedures (methods):

      Patients will be recorded pronouncing a series of words highlighting a range of phonetic
      contrasts including --/s-sh/ and t-k/. words each presented on a screen using PowerPoint, 3
      times each with carrier phrases). Recordings include an acoustic feed, a profile video of the
      jaws plus lips, and ultrasound imaging of the tongue relative to the palate and jaws.
      Research staff will score audio recordings according to their spectral moments and ultrasound
      recordings according to tongue movement and associate findings with degree of dental
      discrepancy. Prospective recordings will be collected at three timepoints: 1-3 months prior
      to jaw surgery, 3-8 months and 9-15 months post-operation for 60 overbite, 60 openbite and 60
      underbite DFD patients. These time points were selected to co-occur with patients' surgical
      check-ups to ensure reliable data collection while minimizing confounding factors such as
      severe facial swelling and splint placement which occur immediately after surgery.
    
  