
    
      The pre- and post-operative functional assessment of patients' knees is of great interest for
      the practitioner, whether it is in his or her daily practice to determine the appropriate
      management of the patient, or to conduct clinical studies. The scores used are established in
      several languages to provide a uniformly accepted unit of measurement.

      A large number of functional knee scores already exist. These include scores for
      Lysholm-Tegner, International Knee Documentation Committee (IKDC) and Knee injury and
      Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS), but these can be difficult to apply in practice. daily
      due to their length, which may be too time-consuming for the clinician when consultations for
      example.

      Shoulder surgeons are familiar with the Simple Shoulder Value (SSV) score, which simply
      consists of asking the patient how much they value their shoulder on the day of the exam,
      compared to a normal shoulder in percentage terms. It has been shown to produce results that
      are close to Constant score or Rowe and American Shoulder Score and Elbow score Surgeons
      Score after shoulder surgery. It is, since its description, very much used in daily practice
      by shoulder surgeons because of its speed and simplicity of execution.

      No such assessment exists to our knowledge for the knee. The validation of a score of this
      type for the knee joint would allow the use of a new practical tool for a better patient
      management while saving the practitioner and the patient money. time in consultation.

      The investigators would like to propose a functional knee score similar to the ISS for the
      shoulder that would allow a self-assessment of the condition of a knee, compared to a normal
      knee in percentage terms.

      The hypothesis is that the SKV (Simple Knee Value) is a valid score giving results of
      equivalent to the various scores already used in the functional assessment of the knee in the
      different pathological situations in adult and paediatric populations
    
  