
    
      This study is an assessor-blinded randomised controlled trial. Alongside, a health economic
      study and a process evaluation study will be conducted. Participating patients will be
      allocated to either progressive exercise therapy and patient education or usual care at a 1:1
      ratio. The primary outcome is change in self-reported pain measured with Copenhagen Hip and
      Groin Outcome Score (HAGOS) from baseline to 6-month follow-up.

      The effectiveness of progressive exercise therapy and patient education compared with usual
      care will be reported in the primary trial paper, including the primary outcome and the
      following secondary outcomes: HAGOS symptoms, HAGOS function in daily living (ADL), HAGOS
      function in sport and recreation (sport/recreation), participation in physical activity
      (participation), quality of life (QOL), impact of hip disease with the Short Version of the
      international Hip Outcome Tool (iHOT-12), lower limb reach length (anterior, posteromedial,
      posterolateral), single-leg hip for distance (SLHD) test and hip muscle strength (flexion,
      extension and abduction).

      The primary aim of this trial is to investigate the effectiveness of randomisation to
      progressive exercise therapy and patient education compared with randomisation to usual care
      on changes in self-reported pain measured with HAGOS over a 6-month follow-up in patients
      with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO.

      The primary hypothesis: Patients randomised to progressive exercise therapy and patient
      education will improve at least 10 points more in HAGOS pain compared with those randomised
      to usual care over a 6-month follow-up.

      The secondary aims:

        -  To investigate the effectiveness of randomisation to progressive exercise therapy and
           patient education compared with randomisation to usual care on changes in HAGOS
           symptoms, HAGOS ADL, HAGOS sport/recreation, HAGOS participation, HAGOS QOL and iHOT-12
           over a 6-month follow-up in patients with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO.

        -  To investigate the effectiveness of randomisation to progressive exercise therapy and
           patient education compared with randomisation to usual care on changes in functional
           performance over a 6-month follow-up in patients with hip dysplasia, who are not
           candidates for PAO.

        -  To investigate the effectiveness of randomisation to progressive exercise therapy and
           patient education compared with randomisation to usual care on changes in hip flexion,
           extension and abduction strength over a 6-month follow-up in patients with hip
           dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO.

      A full trial protocol will be published and made publicly available. In continuous outcomes,
      between-group comparison from baseline to 6-month follow-up will be analysed with either an
      unpaired t-test or a mixed effect model with patient as a random factor and time and
      allocation group as fixed factors. In dichotomous outcomes, between-group comparison from
      baseline to 6-month follow-up will be analysed with the pseudo-observation method using
      cumulative risk difference as measure of association. Outcomes for the primary trial paper
      will be measured at baseline, 3- and 6-month follow-up and analysed using intention-to-treat
      analyses. In this paper, all collected outcomes will be listed, and it will be described that
      the below listed will be reported in other papers (i.e. health economic study and process
      evaluation study) and secondary papers.

      In the health economic study, the investigators aimed to evaluate the cost-utility and
      cost-effectiveness of randomisation to progressive exercise therapy and patient education
      compared with randomisation to usual care over a 12-month follow-up in patients with hip
      dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO. Outcomes for this paper wil be measured at
      baseline, 3-, 6-, 9- and 12-month follow-up.

      The Incremental Cost-effectiveness Ratio (ICER) will be calculated by dividing the difference
      in costs by the difference in effects (quality-adjusted life years and HAGOS pain). The
      investigators will use the method of bootstrapping to estimate the 95% confidence intervals
      around cost differences and the uncertainty surrounding the ICERs. Uncertainty will be shown
      in cost-effectiveness planes and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. Sensitivity
      analyses will be performed to test the robustness of the study results.

      In the process evaluation study, the investigators aimed to evaluate progressive exercise
      therapy and patient education in a process evaluation in terms of implementation, mechanics
      of impact and contextual factors.

      Delivery of the exercise therapy intervention and patient education will be evaluated in
      terms of implementation covering fidelity (i.e. quantify if intervention is delivered as
      intended), dose (quantify numbers of and time in supervised sessions and numbers of
      home-bases sessions), and reach (quantify pattern in uptake and adherence by baseline patient
      characteristics). Mechanics of impact will be evaluated in terms of experiences of
      interactions between the intervention providers, patients in the intervention group and the
      intervention, evaluated by interviewing 15-20 patients at baseline and at 6-month follow-up.
      Context will be evaluated in terms of any external influences.

      The below listed will be reported in secondary papers with a clear reference to the primary
      trial paper and trial registration, and it will hold "secondary analyses from a randomised
      controlled trial" in the title.

      1: By using instrumental-variable analysis with adherence as exposure and randomisation as an
      instrument, the investigators aimed to investigate the efficacy of progressive exercise
      therapy and patient education compared with usual care on changes in HAGOS subscales, changes
      in functional performance and changes in hip muscle strength over a 6-month follow-up in
      patients with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO. 2: The investigators aimed to
      investigate if muscle-tendon pain and pain sensitisation (temporal summation of pain and
      pressure pain threshold) modify the relationship between randomisation to exercise therapy
      and patient education compared with randomisation to usual care on changes in HAGOS
      subscales, functional performance and hip muscle strength over a 6-month follow-up in
      patients with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO.

      In addition, the investigators plan to evaluate the psychometric properties of HAGOS and
      iHOT-12 in patients with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates for PAO, and finally, the
      investigators plan to describe if hip osteoarthritis progresses over 5 and 10 years using the
      Tönnis osteoarthritis classification in patients with hip dysplasia, who are not candidates
      for PAO.
    
  