
    
      Parathyroid hormone, released from the parathyroid gland, plays an important role in keeping
      the ionized calcium in between the reference values in body. Precise control of ionized
      calcium is particularly necessary to ensure the optimal function of physiological processes
      such as providing intracellular signaling, performing neuromuscular functions and bone
      metabolism. When there is a decrease in the level of ionized calcium in the systemic
      circulation due to any reason, increased calcium concentration is maintained as a result of
      the increased absorption of calcium from the kidneys, bones and intestines into the blood via
      increased parathyroid hormone. An error caused by any of the components in this regulatory
      system may cause excessive parathyroid hormone release, causing primary, secondary or
      tertiary hyperparathyroidism. Primary hyperparathyroidism is a common endocrinological
      disorder, which is characterized by excessive release of parathyroid hormone, resulting in a
      defect in the regulation of calcium metabolism. Primary Hyperparathyroidism is the third most
      common endocrine disease and is the most common cause of hypercalcemia. Today, Primary
      Hyperparathyroidism is approximately 0.25-0.66% of the population and it is seen as 3: 1
      times more common in women than men. While the incidence of the disease increases with age,
      it increases dramatically after 50 years of age. The clinical presentation of Primary
      Hyperparathyroidism ranges from asymptomatic disease to the classical symptomatic disease of
      renal and / or musculoskeletal complications. Low plasma 25 Hydroxyvitamin D level; bone
      mineral density, muscle strength, preservation of postural stability and functional
      performance of the musculoskeletal functions such as disruption caused by the person's
      walking and balance activities are adversely affected.In addition, fatigue, pain, and body
      mass index, as a result of the increase in the functional capacity of the person is seriously
      reduced quality of life and psychosocial status is adversely affected. Although there are
      studies related to bone mineral density, muscle strength and function, instability, fatigue,
      etc., which are secondary to PHPT and cause a significant decrease in functional capacity,
      there is no study to investigate the effect of M. quadriceps Femoris ,which has a key role in
      the evaluation of functional capacity, muscle fatigue on the gait and balance parameters in
      the pre and post-treatment period in the literature. The aim of this case-control study is to
      investigate the effect of Quadriceps Femoris muscle fatigue protocol on gait, gait symmetry
      and balance parameters before and after parathyroidectomy in patients Primary
      Hyperparathyroidism and to compare that parameters of these individuals with healthy controls
      with similar demographic characteristics that included in the control group.
    
  