
    
      This study aims to determine the HEPLISAV-B hepatitis B vaccine efficacy in chronic
      lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and small lymphocytic lymphoma (SLL) lymphocytic patients that are
      treatment naive or receiving Bruton s-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (BTK-I) therapy. (Note: Since
      CLL and SLL are considered the same disease, CLL/SLL will be referred to as CLL hereafter,
      unless otherwise specified).

      Key Eligibility Criteria:

        1. Diagnosis of CLL

        2. Cohort 1: Treatment naive CLL or SLL patients

        3. Cohort 2: Subjects must be receiving ibrutinib monotherapy for at least 6 months prior
           to administration of the first vaccine dose

        4. Cohort 3: Subjects must be receiving acalabrutinib monotherapy for at least 6 months
           prior to administration of the first vaccine dose

        5. No known active or past hepatitis B infection

        6. No history of prior hepatitis B virus vaccination (approved or investigational)

        7. Age greater greater than or equal to 18 years.

        8. ECOG performance status of 0-1

      Design:

      Patients with CLL will enroll on the study for the purpose of determining the HEPLISAV-B
      vaccine efficacy in patients who are treatment naive ore receiving BTK-I therapy. A series of
      2 doses of HEPLISAV-B will be given on a 0- and 3- month schedule by intramuscular injection.
      Subjects will be followed at regular intervals and receive serologic response assessment
      following completion of the HEPLISAV-B vaccine series (6 months after the first vaccine

      administration).

      Study Objectives:

      Primary Objective:

      a) Determine the rate of hepatitis B seroprotective titer achievement (anti-HBs greater than
      or equal to 10mIU/mL) following completion of the HEPLISAV-B 2-dose vaccine series (6 months
      after the first vaccine administration) in the following populations:

        -  CLL patients who are treatment naive (n=54)

        -  CLL patients receiving treatment with ibrutinib (n=27)

        -  CLL patients receiving treatment with acalabrutinib (n=27)

      Secondary Objective:

      a) Determine the safety and tolerability of the HEPLISAV-B vaccine among CLL patients who are
      treatment naive or receiving BTK-Is (ibrutinib or acalabrutinib).
    
  