
    
      Population based case-control study:

      2 controls per case will be included, corresponding to the first 2 births without congenital
      anomalies, with same sex and same birth place, following the case.

      INVESTIGATION METHODOLOGY :

      All maternity in Brittany were proposed to participate. In each maternity, the referent
      practitioner informs the parents and includes the cases.

      For each case and control, meconium samples and a mother's lock are collected by nurses or
      midwives, medical data are collected from medical reports by the registry investigator, and a
      self-questionnaire is filled by the mother.

      Meconium samples are immediately stored in a freezer (-20°C), secondarily transported to a
      biological storage centre at the university hospital and then dispatched to specialised
      laboratories for toxicological analyses: INERIS (for solvents and pesticides) and Toxicology
      Unit, University hospital Rennes (for Alcohol).

      For dead fetuses (stillbirths or termination of pregnancy), meconium will be collected by the
      pathologist in charge of the autopsy, after parents' consent.

      Evaluation of exposure:

        -  direct evaluation: by toxicological analyses in meconium samples: Alcohol, Solvents and
           pesticides

        -  indirect evaluation: by maternal self-questionnaire including data on occupational and
           domestic exposures, hobbies, life habits…, precise address (for spatial location)

      Particular cases: mild congenital heart defects, genital anomalies and hip dislocation
      diagnosed later after birth (after the period oh meconium and before the age of one): these
      cases will be spotted through the Registry, there won't be any biological sample for them,
      but mothers will be contacted by main investigator and medical data and mother questionnaires
      will be collected. There won't be any control included for those cases included after birth.

      Associations between exposure risk factors (alcohol, solvents and pesticides) and the risk of
      congenital malformations will be estimated by a multivariate analysis.

        -  Exposure to solvents will be estimated by assay in meconium and by occupational
           questionnaire

        -  Exposure to alcohol will be estimated by assay of Ethylglucuronide et de Ethylsulfate in
           meconium.

        -  Exposure to pesticides will be estimated by assay in meconium, by questionnaire and by
           spatial location.
    
  