
    
      Golf-specific exercise programs have been shown to improve strength, flexibility, and balance
      in golfers (1) and golf-specific plyometric training programs have been shown to
      significantly improve club head speed and ball carry distance in skilled adolescent golfers
      (2). Further, leg power, upper body strength, and arm strength have positively correlated
      with golf performance measures; most notably measures of distance and total score (3). The
      purpose of this study is to assess the effect of a 10-week strength and power training
      program on the biomechanics of the golf swing and golf performance.

      Participants will have anthropometric data taken, including height, weight, and body
      composition.

      Golf swing biomechanics will be assessed utilizing high-speed motion analysis cameras and
      software available in the Motion Analysis Laboratory in the McLean Health Sciences Building.
      The participant will don garments that fit snug to the skin and light-sensitive reflective
      markers will be placed on the subject. The motion of the swing will be captured utilizing the
      14 camera Vicon Bonita 10 system with the Motion Monitor real-time Vicon plug-in. Club head
      speed will be assessed utilizing a Tracman 4 dual radar tracking system.

      Power output for participants will be measured by performing a countermovement vertical jump
      and a static vertical jump on the 4 Bertec non-conductive forceplate system.

      Strength assessments will be performed in the Nimocks Fitness Center by the Lead
      Investigator. Maximal strength will be assessed in the following lifts utilizing the
      parameters described by the National Strength and Conditioning Association (4): Back Squat;
      Flat Bench Press. Other maximal strength numbers for primary lifts involved in the program
      (Front Squat; Incline Bench; Power Cleans) will be prescribed as percentages of the tested
      lifts as follows: Maximal Front Squat = 80% of Maximal Back Squat; Maximal Incline Bench =
      80% of Maximal Flat Bench; Maximal Power Clean = 70% of Maximal Back Squat.
    
  