
    
      We will identify barriers and facilitators for the implementation of smoking cessation
      pharmacotherapies, tobacco prevention, doctor visits, youth and smoking, community held
      health priorities and barriers to research through:

        1. Multiple focus groups held within 2 communities with Aboriginal smokers and
           ex/non-smokers, and

        2. Focus groups with healthcare workers serving these communities, and

        3. Qualitative one-on-one interviews with key stakeholders in Aboriginal communities

        4. Qualitative one-on-one interviews with specialists/doctors working with Aboriginal
           patients

        5. Surveys with all participants mentioned above

        6. Surveys with specialist groups including members of tobacco related special interest
           groups of the Thoracic Society of Australia and New Zealand (TSANZ)

      Smoking cessation is one of the most important ways to improve the prognosis of patients with
      respiratory diseases. Despite being over represented in the burden of smoking related
      morbidity and mortality, very little methodologically rigorous research has been conducted to
      evaluate and/or enhance the uptake of smoking cessation pharmacotherapies and smoking
      prevention for Aboriginal Australians, as evident in our two recent (2012) Cochrane
      meta-analyses and through extensive consultation over the past two years with Aboriginal
      Elders, key stakeholders, researchers and experts throughout Australia. Moreover, many of the
      healthcare workers and some doctors on the frontline are reporting that they do not believe
      they have the skills or ability to offer smoking cessation/prevention initiatives to these
      patients, and perhaps more importantly, admit to the attitude of 'even if I did, it's not
      going to work, so why bother'.

      In light of this gap in knowledge, our project relates specifically to understanding and
      improving the lung health of Aboriginal Australians, the cohort with the greatest burden of
      disease and lowest life expectancy, through qualitative analyses. A total of 10 focus groups,
      30 one-on-one interviews and approximately 120 surveys (unless data saturation is reached
      sooner) will be carried out in collaboration with Aboriginal community involvement. The
      information obtained from these will provide an overall picture of the barriers and enablers
      from the perspectives of the various individuals involved, being:

        -  Aboriginal participants from urban, regional and rural cohorts (8 focus groups plus
           surveys)

        -  Aboriginal healthcare workers from urban, regional and rural cohorts (2 focus groups
           plus surveys)

        -  Respiratory consultants who see Aboriginal patients (10 one-on-one interviews plus
           surveys)

        -  Key stakeholders in Aboriginal health including Aboriginal liaison officers, Aboriginal
           health councils, Elders & influential figures in communities (10 one-on-one interviews
           plus surveys)

        -  Medical Consultants who see Aboriginal patients (2 one-on-one interviews plus surveys
           from each of the following disciplines: General Practitioners, cardiology, neurology,
           oncology and vascular; total of 10, or until data saturation)

      Triangulation will occur at multiple levels to improve credibility and dependability
      including: data collection (focus groups, interviews and surveys), investigators (minimum
      five investigators involved throughout various aspects of the study), data sources (multiple
      locations, communities and venues), analysis methods (Grounded theory and Triandis model of
      behavioural change).

      In addition a detailed audit trail will be kept and all focus groups and interviews will
      undergo feedback (confirmation of accuracy and interpretation) by participants.
      Quasi-statistics will also be employed as part of the analysis methods.
    
  