
    
      Elevation of the head and thorax, also known as Head-up cardiopulmonary resuscitation (HUP
      CPR), has been studied extensively in pigs in ventricular fibrillation (VF). HUP combined
      with active compression decompression and impedance threshold device (ACD+ITD) CPR improves
      vital organ perfusion and results in a doubling of cerebral perfusion when compared with the
      same method of CPR in the flat or horizontal plane. HUP CPR enhances the drainage of venous
      blood from the brain, lowers central venous pressures, reduces intracranial pressures during
      the decompression phase of CPR, redistributes blood flow through the lungs during CPR, and
      may reduce brain edema. These mechanisms collectively contribute to improved blood flow and
      less injury to the brain during CPR. These benefits are due in large part to the effects of
      gravity on the physiology of HUP CPR. Importantly, HUP CPR is dependent upon a means of
      generating enough forward flow to adequately pump blood "uphill" to the brain.

      Animal studies have shown that HUP CPR must be performed in a specific manner to be
      effective. For example, conventional standard CPR is insufficient, by itself, for effective
      HUP CPR. Additional means to enhance circulation are needed, such as concurrent use of the
      ITD and ACD CPR devices. ACD+ITD CPR alone has been shown to improve hemodynamics and
      survival with favorable neurologic outcome in several human randomized control trials. Animal
      studies have shown that HUP CPR is best with the combination of ACD+ITD CPR. Studies have
      shown that CPR must be initiated before elevating the head. Studies have also shown that HUP
      CPR is dependent upon the time it takes to elevate the head to the HUP. Elevation of the head
      and thorax should optimally take place over a 2-minute period of time from a flat position to
      the maximum head up elevation level in order to optimize cerebral perfusion pressures. Too
      rapid an elevation of the head and thorax can result in a reduction in cerebral arterial
      pressure when compared with flat CPR.

      In this proposed pilot study, CPR will be performed manually before the patient is placed on
      a controlled mechanical elevation device (Elegard, Minnesota Resuscitation Solutions LLC,
      USA). An ITD-16 (ResQPOD-16, Zoll, USA) will be placed on the patient's airway before the
      head is elevated. Automated CPR will be initiated as soon as feasible using a new automated
      CPR mechanical compression device that provides full active compression-decompression CPR
      (LUCAS-AD, Stryker, USA).

      The proposed feasibility clinical study will be the first ever to test the fully integrated
      system of ACD+ITD HUP CPR.
    
  