
    
      Participants:

      A power analysis was performed using G*Power 3.1 (F tests, analysis of variance [ANOVA]:
      repeated measure, within-between interaction, and a priori: compute required sample size). A
      result of 16 patients (treatment group = 8 and sham group = 8) was used to calculate an
      effect size (ES) of 0.27 for the pressure pain threshold of the knee after the intervention
      between groups. The power estimated for ANOVA for the two groups with a significance of 0.05
      revealed that a total sample size of 27 patients was necessary to obtain a power of 0.80.
      Considering a 20% attrition rate, a minimum of 18 patients needed to be recruited for the
      first phase in this study.

      Patients with knee OA who attended King Fahd Hospital of the University will be recruited for
      this study. Patients will be diagnosed at the orthopedic clinic and referred to the
      Department of Physiotherapy. Patients who are willing to participate in the study will be
      screened for their eligibility

      Ethical considerations:

      The study was approved by the Institutional Review Board (IRB) at the University of Dammam
      (IRB Number: IRB-2014-04-323). Eligible individuals for this study will be informed of the
      risks and benefits and will be asked to read and sign a written consent form.

      Participant confidentiality will be maintained by using a code instead of the participant's
      name on the data collection form. All data collection forms will be saved in a file and
      secured in a locker. Only the researcher and the supervisor had a key to open this locker.

      Statistical Analysis:

      Data will be analyzed using International Business Machines (IBM) Statistical Package for
      Social Sciences (SPSS) for windows (version 20.0), significance level was set at p < 0.05.

      In phase 1, patients characteristics between groups at baseline will be analyzed using an
      independent t-test. One way ANOVA with repeated measures will be used to analyze the
      differences for other parametric data, Bonferroni adjustment will be used to compare main
      effects. Post-hoc tests will be performed to reveal differences of within- between groups
      over time (baseline, immediately post intervention, and after 2 days of intervention). For
      Likert-scale WOMAC, the Mann-Whitney U test will be used to investigate between-group
      analysis. Whereas, the Wilcoxon test will be used for within-group analysis. Further analysis
      to reveal correlations between the outcome measures will be investigated using Pearson
      Correlation test.

      In phase 2, the groups are matched in age, gender, and BMI. The related t-test will be used
      to investigate differences between the groups.
    
  