
    
      This is a double-blinded randomized clinical trials, to determine the proportion of
      eradication of Helicobacter pylori infection using a triple therapy regimen for 10 days and
      14 days. The triple therapy regimen was a proton pump inhibitor (Rabeprazole 20 mg twice
      daily), Amoxicillin 1000 mg twice daily, and Clarithromycin 500 mg twice daily.

      Patients with dyspepsia and no improvement for at least 2 weeks with empiric therapy
      (lifestyle education, antacid, H2-antagonist, or proton pump inhibitor), are further
      investigated to determine the presence of Helicobacter pylori infection using invasive
      (Esophagoduodenoscopy/EGD) or non-invasive methods (Urea Breath Test/UBT).

      Patients with positive results on UBT or histology examination from EGD and fulfill inclusion
      and exclusion criteria are included as research subjects, then randomly assigned to determine
      the subject of the study into the sample of study entry in group 1 or group 2.

      All subjects will be required to fill out informed consent, demographic data, anthropometric
      measurements, and questionnaires.

      Research subjects will get triple therapy regimen for Helicobacter pylori infection in the
      form of Proton Pump Inhibitor (Rabeprazole 2 x 20 mg), Amoxicillin 2 x 1000 mg, and
      Clarithromycin 2 x 500 mg.

      Pharmacy will create two sets of regimens, in which one group of regimens contains triple
      therapy regimens for 10 days followed by the same regimen for 4 days, while another regimen
      group contains triple therapy regimens for 10 days Day followed by placebo for 4 days.
      Neither the researcher nor the study subjects knew the triple therapy regimen given to group
      1 and group 2 subjects, and only became known after the end of the study.

      All subjects will be monitored given drug consumption and evaluated regularity, complaints,
      and adverse effects arising for 14 days by researchers. The patient is given a control card
      to write down medication time and any possible complaints or side effects of drug allergic
      reactions, epigastric pain, headache, discomfort, and nausea / vomiting, and other side
      effects will be observed during the study. The patient will be determined whether the study
      will continue or not.

      After the therapy was completed, the subjects of the study will be re-examined as an
      evaluation of eradication success, at least 28 days after completion of triple therapy
      regimen.

      If UBT negative results obtained at the time of evaluation, the eradication is success, when
      positive UBT results are obtained at the time of evaluation, eradication is failed and the
      subjects are persistent with first-line therapy.

      Persistent patients are encouraged to undergo an EGD at Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital for the
      culture of Helicobacter pylori infection resistance. If the patient is not willing to be
      underwent EGD, then the patient is given second-line treatment regimen of Levofloxacin 2 x
      500 mg, Amoxicillin 2 x 1000 mg, and Rabeprazole 2 x 20mg.
    
  