
    
      The incidence of gall bladder and cystic duct stump stones has been reported to be 5% of
      patients after urgent cholecystectomy, and it is rare after elective operations . The
      incidence of incomplete gallbladder removal following laparoscopic cholecystectomy is 13.3% .
      Partial cholecystectomy may be resorted to in many conditions such as difficult dissection in
      Calot's triangle that can be hazardous to common bile duct and/or blood vessels. In such
      cases, many surgeons leave a part of the gall bladder in the manner described by author after
      removing all stones from the remaining cuff of the gallbladder To prevent the incidence of
      gallbladder remnant/cystic duct stump calculi, the cystic duct should be fully skeletonized
      till 1 cm from the common bile duct. Stones in the cystic duct should be milked back to the
      gallbladder before clipping Routine use of intraoperative cholangiography is not a must but
      when used it can be useful in detecting calculi in the cystic duct The diagnosis of cystic
      duct stump syndrome is always into the dilemma of post cholecystectomy syndromes and leads to
      delayed diagnosis. Cystic duct stump syndrome may be misdiagnosed with reflux esophagitis,
      peptic ulceration, irritable bowel syndrome or chronic pancreatitis hepatitis, mesenteric
      ischemia, diverticulitis, and organic or motor intestinal disorders.

      The imaging approach to post cholecystectomy syndrome includes ultrasonography, computed
      tomography (CT) scan, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), and magnetic
      resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP).

      The purpose of this study is to emphasis that laparoscopic completion cholecystectomy is the
      best surgical option for cystic duct stump and gall bladder remnant syndrome as regard safety
      to the patients...

      There may be gender specific risk factor for developing post-cholecystectomy syndrome, in
      present study; the incidence was 70% in females (14 cases) compared to 30% in males (6
      cases). This higher incidence in females was also reported , whom stated that the male to
      female ratio was 1:1.45.

      The symptoms of gall bladder syndrome may be nil or they can present with acute symptoms
      (biliary colic, acute cholecystitis or acute pancreatitis) or chronic symptoms (persistent
      right upper quadrant discomfort or pain, food intolerance, nausea or jaundice). The
      persistence of symptoms after cholecystectomy points to the possibility of a gallbladder
      remnant, especially when coupled with radiation of pain to the shoulder, food intolerance,
      nausea or jaundice . abdominal pain and persistent dyspepsia as the commonest presentation
      were stated by other study , while , reported that patients was referred to their institution
      without persistent symptoms after cholecystectomy .In the present study, most cases presented
      with right hypochondrial pain (18 cases) and asymptomatic cases are 2 cases and discovered
      accidently by ultrasonography for other unrelated symptoms.
    
  